The Minister for the Navy is no doubt aware that the United States Navy is using the hydrofoil with great success. Has the Minister given any consideration to equipping the Royal Australian Navy with this versatile craft? 

 - Mr Speaker, before I begin my speech, I wish to thank the honourable member for Lyne  (Mr Lucock)  for compressing and restricting the time of his speech. This will enable me to have the full exercise of my time. I am very conscious of the responsibility of making a first speech in this Parliament. Indeed, it is a somewhat awesome occasion for a new member with the reputations of monumental figures of past parliaments to remind one of the contributions made in debate and comment in this the national Parliament. 
Let me say immediately that I am honoured and delighted to be here as the newly elected member for Franklin, an, electorate that returns to the Labor Party after an absence of some 23 years. I would, like also to pay a tribute to my predecessor for a vigorous but very fair campaign. I still think that there ought to be some generosity in politics. 
Franklin returns to the Labor Party at a time when the electorate - indeed, the whole State of Tasmania - is faced with, very many difficult and varied problemsOne of its major problems is in the area of communication. It is this theme of communication that I would like to develop* later in this speech. As an island State,. Tasmania is not favoured with much of the advantage of, and the largesse that is. bestowed upon, mainland States. Tasmania, is almost wholly dependent upon sea communications for its economic survival. Its. very geographical isolation accentuates and' underlines this problem. It is in this respectthat many of my own electors and, indeed, the people of Tasmania feel that they areentitled to a more sympathetic and generous consideration than has been shown up to' this time. 
The difficulties being experienced by the primary producer - and here I referspecifically to the producers of apples and pears in my own electorate - are enormous. This electorate which produces two-thirds: of the fruit exports of Tasmania faces, insurmountable odds and problems because of the increasing uncertainty and the cost of sea communications. We are in effect totally at the mercy and, indeed, the whims, of overseas shipping companies. There is in Tasmania a feeling of resentment that we are being shabbily treated in this most important area of communication. Now, we do not ask for charity, but merely a fair deal, consistent with what is being granted to the other States. Because of our geographical isolation from the main tradingports of this nation, the primary producer - the apple and the pear grower - is entitled to some special consideration. The question - and a very important question - of containerisation, for example, is stilt unresolved as far as we are concerned. 
If the fruit industry in the electorate that I have the honour to represent is not only to prosper but indeed to survive, there must be a far more sympathetic and realistic approach here in the seat of the national Parliament. In the debate on the discussion of the matter of public importance so ably presented by the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  in this House last week, we were described by the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  as carrying 'a tale of gloom and panic into the electorate'; and that debate was subsequently gagged. I invite the Minister to ride into the Huon area of my electorate and repeat those words to the apple and pear growers of southern Tasmania. Again, I repeat, we have special problems as an island State, a State that has made and will continue to make a very substantial contribution to not only itself but to this entire nation. 
May I say very briefly,  Mr Speaker,  that we in Tasmania are most apprehensive and very disturbed at the continuing troubles that are plaguing the 'Empress of Australia'. We are indeed,  Sir. A  very substantial part of our tourist trade is being sacrificed, to say nothing of the inconvenience caused to so many people. I would urge the Government with all respect to take every possible action to see that Tasmania is not further penalised by this continuing festering sore that can do my State so much harm. 
Let me say,  Mr Speaker,  that, having been elected to this place, that in spite of the cascade of vituperation and the reams of ridicule heaped upon and hurled at the Leader of the Opposition, I am very proud indeed to be here to reinforce his crusading zeal and his humanitarian approach to many contemporary problems as he endeavours to put into practice the blueprint for a revitalised Australia as we enter the challenges and the rewards of the '70s. 
I wish to express myself to the broader issues and themes of communications. This indeed is the age of communication, the age of transmitting one point of view and indeed many points of view. To do this, as we approach the last part of the twentieth century, we have very powerful and persuasive media. I firmly believe that we are in a uniquely wonderful position to inform, to persuade and to influence opinions at home and abroad if we use the sophisticated technological know-how with which we have been provided. 

 Sir, democracy is a faith, not a formula, and freedom in expressing intelligent opinions can only protect democracy and democratic government. I make a plea in this speech for a greater use of our propaganda facilities and indeed an extension of them. A leading figure of the Italian renaissance once said that 'man is the measure of all things'. How true this is. It is this theme of many communicating with man, nation with nation, informing and, if you like, reforming, that I would like to develop. 
What are some of the methods at our disposal? Well, we have the national Press. We have radio. We have television. We have the cinema. Let me touch for a moment if I may on the Australian News and Information Bureau, an admirable organisation staffed by diligent and intelligent people who are doing a great job of work. But more could be done by the allocation of more money and resources. For the year 1968-69 the expenditure of this Bureau was $2,743,164, which represents approximately 23c per head of population per annum. That is not a very large amount of money. I am glad to see that the allocation for 1969-70 is more than $3m. But,  Mr Speaker,  with all due respect, is this yet enough to conduct what is perhaps the biggest sales promotion we have to undertake and that is the promotion and selling of this nation? I suggest that we could do more - very much more. 
Now I come to the field of television propaganda. For some extraordinary and inexplicable reason we lag behind the United Kingdom, the Republic of West Germany, France and Italy. All these countries provide free to television outlets in Australia magnificently produced and edited 16 millimeter programmes of between 12 and IS minutes duration, dealing with every facet of life and activity in those countries. If I may I will be specific and refer to such programmes as 'Italian Panorama', 'French Panorama', 'Deutschland Spiegel' and, of course, the British Commonwealth Office of Information programmes. Here - this is meant as a constructive suggestion - is an opportunity for the Government to make a concerted effort along the same lines. I have in mind that an imaginative distribution of programmes such as these might well have some appeal for the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Snedden).  The variety and quality of the programmes I have mentioned are both stimulating and provoking. We have in this country the talent, the imagination and the resourcefulness to do the same. As a former professional broadcaster, I believe that technically we have achieved an excellence that is unsurpassed anywhere in the world, but the quality must be improved and the volume must be increased. One of the great virtues of a democratic society is that there are no secrets; we give out the bad as well as the good. 
Let me turn now to the field of radio propaganda. Here over the past decade one has seen enormous changes in techniques, particularly with some of the commercial stations, although at times I must confess they have not been altogether pleasant to the ear. The Australian Broadcasting Commission is making a notable contribution by way of its dedicated and conscientious officers. I was delighted to see the establishment of the Darwin booster station for Radio Australia, which began regular transmission on 20th December of last year. For the information of honourable members who may not know, I point out that this station was established at Cox Peninsula near Darwin at a cost of $8m. It is the largest and most powerful complex on its kind in Australia and I commend the Department for this exciting new broadcasting venture which will increase our effectiveness as a free voice in South and South East Asia. These are examples of the vital role that we in this nation can play in the future development and pacification of this greatly troubled and turbulent area, of which we are very much a part. 
The Australian people today are perhaps better informed than they have been at any time in their history. The penetrative and persuasive power of television, the effectiveness of a sophisticated and developing radio technique and, of course, the daily Press have led to this result. These avenues of approach and the dissemination of opinions and points of view are making demands on political leaders as never before. Here, as a new member, I have the temerity to suggest that our leaders, both in the Government and on this side of the House, could be afforded time to comment, perhaps at the end of a parliamentary session, explaining to the people what has been done and how it has been done. I know there are many difficult problems to overcome, but I am certain that if we, as responsible members of this national Parliament, can convey to and be in touch with the people they will respond. We in this country have not yet begun to use television especially as a critical medium. We seem to be afraid of critical discussion. National leaders in Europe, the United Kingdom and the United States use the medium far more effectively in terms of both volume and time than we do in this country. These views are put forward for digestion and thought by our political leaders, for I firmly believe that twentieth century politics demand a twentieth century approach. 
Now, if I may, I turn to the broadcasting of proceedings of the Parliament. It would seem to me that the theory of broadcasting the proceedings of the Parliament is a splendid concept, but in practice it is a dismal failure. Some figures will show what I mean. The figures relate to New South Wales, but they will serve as a general guide. The rebroadcasting of question time, which follows the national news on ABC stations, enjoys an audience of some 14,000 listeners or something in the region of .07% in that State. Again on an average the audience listening to debates in the Parliament is only some 5,000 or .025%. These are figures for 1968 and I regret to say that the figures for 1969 reveal no increase in trend. This, I suggest, is a most disappointing state of affairs and we have to address ourselves to the reason or reasons for it. 
Perhaps the Committee on the Broadcasting of Parliamentary Proceedings might well look at this issue. My own observations, after many hours of monitoring broadcasts from this Parliament, suggest to me that the answer might well lie in our own hands and in our own performance. It might well be a feasible proposition to allow the ABC more editorial comment on the debates rather than require the continual broadcasting of the proceedings. Again this is a delicate and difficult situation, but one that I think is worthy of consideration. I am a very firm believer in information and communication. With the enormous poten- tial and possibilities at our disposal, the incredible technological progress that has benefited and will continue to benefit our society, it is encumbent upon us to use the resources with a sense of purpose, skill and with dignity. 
Now I want to turn to that vexed question of colour television. I think it is time that the Government made up its mind and was in a position to state with some clarity just what it proposes to do. There has been far too much procrastination on this mattter. I would like to remind the PostmasterGeneral  (Mr Hulme)  that in a statement in August 1967 he emphasised that, when the Government was ready and had made a firm decision about the introduction of colour television, he would give the industry 18 months clear notice. That, I repeat, was in August 1967; this is March 1970. Time marches on, but still Australia has no colour television. With the greatest respect in the world I suggest it is time the colour bar was taken out of television. 

 Mr Speaker, this Government has a magnificent record for rejecting reports that it does not approve, or cannot or will not understand. There was the Vincent report on television, a document completed in 1963, 7 years ago - almost a decade - and what has been done? Just why was the Senate Select Committee on the Encouragement of Australian Productions for Television set up? Its prime function, indeed its precise function, was the encouragement of Australian productions for television. Admittedly there have been some slight improvements but what has emerged in a practical and tangible form from the Vincent report? Which part or parts of that report have been given sinews? Which parts have been injected into the bloodstream of indigenous television production? Not very much at all. In fact, practically nothing. 
Drama in Australia always has been the poor relation of the arts. I refer the House to recommendation No. 47 appearing at page 170 of the Vincent report. This relates to the prdouction of films. The recommendation was: 
That the following assistance be made available to Australian companies engaged in producing films - 
By excluding from the taxable income of producing companies the profit resulting from sales of films overseas. 
By providing other tax concessions such as the fast write-off. 
By lifting sales tax completely from all pur chases of either materials or film stock and all products manufactured by film producers pertaining to film production other than final release prints. 
I am well aware that the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  has been reactivated and is giving some consideration to the Australian film industry but more needs to be done - a great deal more. But what really has been done apropos the Vincent report? What recommendations have been put into practice? This is the very question that many people in the industry are asking. What is the intention of the Government in this regard? Its intention is being questioned by writers, producers, actors and designers - the forgotten race of the Australian economic strata. For years we have allowed greatly talented people, creative people, to leave these shores, not only in dozens but in battalions, and we have done little or nothing to bring them back to this country where they want to create and to make some contribution to our cultural environment. I put the question: Are they any less important than mining companies or any other overseas investors? I suggest they are not. These people are disillusioned, dismayed and bewildered, as well they may be. 

 Mr Speaker, the encouragement, the development of the creative talent that we have is a responsibility that we all must share. I believe that if a nation is to be judged by posterity, if it is to be critically examined by historians, then the contribution we now make will be vital for the place we hold in an enlightened and cultural environment. Communication between men, whether by sound or picture, lifts us from the commonplace. We have it in our power, as I said earlier, to influence and persuade, to inform and to enlighten. We have the technological know-how; we have the talents and the creative energy. Let us use the talent and marshal the energy to provide information and communication with our fellow men. If we do this,  Mr Speaker,  we are serving our society, enriching our history and contributing not to the degradation and destruction of mankind but to his undoubted nobility. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Hallett)  adjourned. 
Sitting suspended from  6  to  8  p.m. 
-Will  the PostmasterGeneral state the Government's attitude to the transmission by the Australian Post Office of the journal 'Rhodesian Commentary' which is circulated to all honourable members including, presumably, the honourable member for Boothby who graces the front page of the current edition. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I was rather reluctant to enter the lists, if I can phrase it in that way, in this debate, but as a new member elected to this Parliament on 25th October last year I was then under the impression that I was coming to an honourable place to follow an honourable career, and to make an honourable contribution to contemporary society. 
I would suggest to the honourable gentleman on my left who has just interjected that perhaps he might be better served by looking after the interests of the party that sent him to this place, namely the party which represents primary industries. 
There have been many adjectives used in this debate on this extraordinary sort of double censure motion which I cannot accept at all. We have had expressions from the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr McEwen)  like 'anarchy' and 'anarchists'. We have had great talk about law and order. But let me, if I might do so, say that you cannot have it both ways. 
There, you see, is a manifestation of Liberal thinking. It would be, I think, fair to say that the man who established the Liberal Party, and who in fact created and led it with some distinction for a number of years, would be mortified to see the way that Party is traducing the democratic principles of the Parliament that he respected. I suggest that honourable members on the other side of the House give this some thought. 
However, it is very interesting, as I say, to hear some of the remarks that were made by the  Deputy  Prime Minister earlier tonight about anarchy, about law and order, or the disorder or the disregard for law. lt is extraordinary how these people use examples to suit themselves. I want to point out to the  Deputy  Prime Minister, and I only regret that he is not in this chamber at the moment, that only some weeks ago we witnessed anarchy in that radical thoroughfare of Melbourne, Collins Street, where 10,000 farmers demonstrated against the inequality and the inactivity of this Government and its policy. Was that anarchy? Was that a demonstration? Was that holding up the traffic in the streets? Was this disorder? The right honourable gentleman should get his priorities right. If it is good enough for the  Deputy  Prime Minister to suggest that what happened here was a legitimate protest against the denial, the abrogation of the job that we as members are sent here to do, then it is good enough to suggest that those 10,000 farmers were making a similar logical protest. That is the point I wish to make. lt is not easy for a new member in this House to come here and engage in a debate of this type. We are elected to this place by electors - in my own case I was elected by 38,500 electors. They send me to this House to do a job of work as best I can. One of the principles of democratic procedure in the Parliament is that we are allowed to do precisely that. It is an extraordinary situation that ever since this new Parliament assembled on that abortive day on 25th November 1969 the gag has been applied consistently. We address ourselves to the reason why it has been applied. It has been applied because the Government, rebuffed at the polls on 25th October, realised that for the first time in a great many years a vibrant, an energetic, a presentable, an alternative government was really hot on its heels and breathing down its neck. The Government resents that fact. In fact, the Government resents the common sense of the vast majority of the Australian public that returned the increased numbers of members to this side of the House. These are the points that have to be made. 
We are essentially here to legislate and we are not being given the chance or the opportunity to do so. This is the plain, simple fact of the matter. It is no good this Government thinking for one moment that it can govern by decree or by executive decree. I suggest with the greatest respect in the world to honourable members opposite that they know only too well of the dissent, of the disappointment and of the frustration that exist on their own back benches about executive government. They themselves have said that they are dissatisfied because they are not consulted on policy matters that affect them as a Party. Do we not have exactly the same responsibility? We are the legitimate Opposition in this Parliament. We are entitled to examine every piece of legislation that comes into this chamber and we are equally entitled to have a debate on any issue that comes into this chamber. 
My suggestion to the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  and the conclave of power that he has surrounded himself with is that if they wish to govern by executive decree by all means let them do so. But let them be honest enough to say that this is the proposition they want to put forward, because it will make it much simpler for all the elected members to return to their electorates where they can be doing useful work and not wasting the taxpayers' money by sitting in this chamber just aborting the very work of the democratic processes of elected government. If they want to govern by executive decree I suggest to them, with the greatest respect in the world, that they will then become only a public relations organisation, and this is not good enough. 
If they still continue to want to govern by executive decree let them do it, but let them hand out to all of us a Press statement on what they have decided is right for this nation, and we will return to our electorates and hand out that Press statement to our electors. There is no doubt in my mind at ali that, after having been here for a short time, the whole fabric of democratic government, as I understand it, is being eroded consistently and effectively by the Government, which talks in pompous terms about law and order when it knows very well that the plain, simple, political fact is that, no matter what they do, no matter whether we behave or misbehave, it can still gag anything we want to say. The Government has the numbers. It is a plain, political, single fact of life, and the Government knows it. 
 The honourable gentleman over here has just made a very original and intelligent remark. He would like me to grow up. I believe that is an horticulture expression. These are the extraordinary contributions to debate. 
My question without notice is directed to the Minister for Health. ask: Has the Minister in his meetings with representatives of the medical profession on the new health proposals discussed  in any way with them a common time for consultation in association with the common fee? Secondly, as indicated by the Minister, the most that a patient will pay for an operation will be $5. I further ask the Minister: Who receives that $5 having in mind that there may well be a surgeon in attendance, an anaesthetist or a radiologist? 
I thank the honourable member for Deakin  (Mr Jarman)  for his chronological summary of Australia's contribution to the cinematographic art. He made a splendid full length feature of it, and I offer no comment except to say that perhaps 'Gone to the Dogs' may well have been dedicated to the Liberal Party. Australia, someone said, is the country without  a  face. Part of the reason for this, of course, is the lack of a film industry of its own. It was stated in an article in Quadrant' written by Sylvia Lawson on the Australian film industry: 
The Australian Gim industry is not only the least productive in the world; it is also, in a sense, the most written about. Other countries talk about their films. We talk about our lack of them. 
I think that is perfectly true. It is very necessary to point out, in speaking to this measure, that at present Australians spend about ยง1 00m a year on going to the movies, and none of this goes to local industry. The Opposition, as mentioned by the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden),  is delighted that at long last we are to have a face, no matter how small or shy that face may be. I want to say right now that, although this may be a shy face and although it may be a small one, nonetheless hope springs eternal. As a practitioner in this industry for a number of years, I very sincerely congratulate the Government, or perhaps more specifically one should say the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton),  on bringing this Bill into the House. The honourable member for Oxley has dealt with its shortcomings and I think I would only be boring the House if I were to repeat these. lt does have some shortcomings, but I intend, if I may, to point out that the film as an art form is the only true art form to emerge in the 20th century. The cultural impact of film as an art form can be stimulating, provoking, satisfying and, above all, entertaining. This it has to be if it is to be a success in either the artistic field or the commercial field because - and let us be perfectly honest about this - unless a film will satisfy a certain artistic appetite and also be a box office success, any film industry is in great trouble. 
There are just one or two parts of the Bill on which I would like to comment. The Prime Minister said in his second reading speech, when speaking of the Australian Film Development Corporation: 
It may also, subject to ministerial approval, participate in the formation of a company for the distribution of Australian films. 
With all respect, here we have the cart before the horse, because as anybody who has been engaged in the film producing industry knows, before hiring actors or writing a script one has to be absolutely sure that the film will be distributed. It is of prime importance to make absolutely certain of an assured distribution before 1 foot of film is shot. If we are to set up this Corporation and then, almost as an afterthought, suggest that perhaps we could participate in the formation of a company for the distribution of the products we are making, I would suggest with all due respect that some very ill advice has been received. The Prime Minister also said: 
The Corporation will seek to encourage the production and distribution of Australian films of high quality.  1 have no dispute with this aspiration of high quality, but I would like to ask: Who determines what is a film of high quality? Experts have over the years been trying to determine this point. A film of high quality may indeed be a film that has high quality of scripting, high quality of acting or high quality of photography, but unless ail these are blended together as an artistic and acceptable commercial whole it is almost impossible to determine what is a film of high quality. We have to get our priorities right when we are trying to determine a question such as this. Indeed if anybody in the film industry could predetermine that a film would be of high quality and a box office success he certainly would not need the assistance of this Bill. I turn to a part of the second reading speech in which the Prime Minister said: 
Producers of films will still be expected to have a substantial equity in a film, and to show faith in their artistic and commercial judgment. . . 
Now I come back to the point 1 made a moment ago, that it is almost impossible in this industry to show faith in your commercial judgment, because this is not like making and selling a pound of sausages or any other product. Producers are relying upon human reaction to the product they have made. In my experience in this industry, nobody has been able to determine with any degree of certainty what the success or otherwise of a film will be. But I would not argue with that wording. I would agree, and I would hope that people would show faith in their artistic and commercial judgment. It is possible to show faith in your artistic judgment, but it certainly is not possible to show faith in your commercial judgment, and it does not necessarily follow that if your artistic judgment is right your commercial judgment will be right. In fact, it is quite the contrary. 
The Prime Minister also said: 
So we expect profits in money terms but at least as importantly we expect profits in human values.  1 have no argument with that at all. 1 think that we have to apply ourselves as realists to this, but if we intend to set up such an industry as envisaged in the Australian Film Development Corporation Bill, as I said a moment ago, it must of necessity make itself a paying proposition. If it does not the whole concept of the enterprise is doomed to failure. I was interested in the Prime Minister's remark that in other countries considerable investment in film production is forthcoming from banking and other financial organisations. I support what the Prime Minister said. I would very sincerely hope that banking institutions and other investment organisations would find not only that it is substantially profitable for them to invest in film production but also that they would be doing themselves as well as their shareholders, whoever they may be, a service. They would also be doing the nation a great service. I hope that a similar course will be followed here to that which has been followed in practically every other country. 
The Bill provides for the Australian Film Development Corporation to be made up of a  Chairman  and 4 other members who will be appointed for a period not exceeding 5 years. In my view, in any artistic enterprise - be it theatre, films, ballet or music - the arbitrary term of appointment of members can sometimes be dangerous. When we are dealing with the arts, as 1 said earlier, I think we must examine it on a totally different plane. To state arbitrarily that we will appoint a  Chairman  and 4 other members for a period not exceeding 5 years is, in my view, a mistake. What we should have in the creative field or the artistic field is a constant interchange of chairmen and members so that there is the constant inflow of new ideas that is so necessary to any creative field. This is not like a normal business or industrial enterprise, which has a certain pattern that is followed. Here when we are dealing with creative people the normal standards of business do not apply. 
It has been said, perhaps with some justification, that the sum of  Sim  is a fairly niggardly amount. I think this is probably true. I return to my original theme and that is, the fact that this Corporation has been established is in itself a splendid move and I applaud it on behalf of all the actors, writers, producers, designers and directors in this country. The situation here has been a bone of contention with many creative people in Australia for a number of years. As was pointed out by the honourable member for Deakin, we have had a mass exodus of creative people from Australia over the years. I can testify to the accuracy of that statement because I jointed the exodus from this country many years ago as a writer and an actor. I can well imagine the frustration that has been felt in Australia for many years. It has been quite impossible for any creative artist in this country, perhaps with one or two exceptions, to be assured not only of a reasonable living standard but also of continuity of work. Without continuity in artistic creation very grave problems arise. 
At this stage I would like to outline practical ways in which I think assistance can be given. I have here the report of th: Vincent Committee of nearly a decade ago which made certain recommendations. Paragraph 112 of that report referred to the assistance that should bc given to Australian companies engaged in producing films. It recommended assistance in the following ways. 
By excluding from the taxable income of producing companies the profit resulting from sales of films overseas. 
I commend this recommendation to the Government because it has great sense and sensibility and I think it would be of great assistance to film producers. Another recommendation in the Vincent report was this: 
By lifting sales tax completely from all purchases  of  either materials or film stock and  all  products  manufactured  by film producers pertaining  to  film  production  other than final release prints. 
The honourable member for Oxley touched on this point very lightly but I think it is worthy of further comment. Those two points from the Vincent report are pertinent to the Bill we are discussing today. 
When Lord Willis was out here - I forget exactly when it was - I had a conversation with him about the position not only of the Australian film industry but also of the Australian television industry, with particular emphasis on the position of writers in this country. I do not propose to take up the time of the House by giving a long, detailed account of the importance of writers, but I think it is generally agreed in the industry - certainly as far as television is concerned - that unless we create, maintain and encourage Australian writers to remain in this country and pay them a reasonable recompense for their creative talents, the prop on which the film and the television industries are based is doomed to failure. I think it is accepted now by many people that one of the great weaknesses of Australian indigenous drama, particularly as it pertains to television, has been in this area of writing. We should do whatever we can, although this is not specifically mentioned in the Bill, to encourage Australian writers to remain in this country and make their contribution to the film industry. 
The honourable member for Oxley intimated that we would be moving an amendment in the Committee stage. It is to the part of the Bill wc will seek to amend that I would like to turn my attention at this stage. It says that nobody with a pecuniary interest would be allowed to be a member of the board of this Corporation. I really do have some argument with this provision. I suggest to the Government that if it does this it will be in very grave danger of pulling the supports out from under a very worthwhile measure. It seems to me that if the Government says arbitrarily that anybody who has a pecuniary interest - and by 'pecuniary' I assume that it means some sort of monetary or financial interest in this industry - will be denied the opportunity to serve on this board, it will probably be robbing the board of a great deal of expertise that is needed. Who knows the business of the film industry better than those people who have been engaged in it and upon it for a number of years and who possibly have been able to make a profit out of it? I suggest to the Government with all respect that it give some further thought to this clause. 
To follow up this point - this may not be a very relevant analogy - it seems to me that, if we are to deny a conductor the right to be on the board of an opera house or to deny a film producer a place on this Corporation because he has some pecuniary interest in the industry, it is not only surprising but is not consistent with what I would have thought would be Liberal policy. If we arc going to deny this right to people with expertise, we will have much difficulty in attracting people who have the right sort of contribution to make to the Corporation. 
That may well be so, as the honourable member points out, but 1 am making this suggestion purely and simply as a constructive criticism because I want this particular Corporation to succeed for the reasons I have outlined. The mere fact that 1 am on the Opposition benches does not mean that 1 want to see it fail. 1 do nol want it to fail; I want it to succeed, and any suggestion that comes from this side that will make it succeed ought to be given due consideration by the Government. Honourable members may recall that in my maiden speech I laid some emphasis on the need for a better image - 1 hate that word, but there is no substitute for it - for Australia abroad. ] agree with the Prime Minister's summation of his second reading speech that this is one way whereby we may achieve a better image. The image of Australia abroad as a land of koala bears and gum trees no longer applies. The image we should try to establish abroad in the eyes of our neighbours and friends is of an Australia that is vibrant and artistically and culturally creative - a land that has a contribution to make in the realm of communications with other nations, whoever they may be. If we can create this image abroad we will have gone a long way towards achieving true and full nationhood. If by the establishment of a corporation such as is proposed we can encourage the making of films and the establishment of a film industry we may well achieve a better image abroad. 
In conclusion I refer to censorship. 1 do not know whether this has been considered, because I see no evidence of it in the Bill. Censorship is important and relevant, lt has been my experience overseas, perhaps not so much as in Australia, that if a producer hopes that a film will succeed he will inevitably run foul of Australian censorship laws. When I talk of censorship I do not advocate wild permissiveness. Of course, this is nol the occasion for a broad debate on censorship. But I do say. with the greatest respect, that we may find that a film pro duced wilh assistance provided by this Corporation may well be exhibited in New South Wales but banned in Victoria. 1 mean no disrespect to Victoria, but this is a real problem that could arise. Alternatively, the film could be shown in Tasmania and be banned in Queensland. A closer look must be had at censorship as it relates to the cinema, because in my view in film making the only way to reach the objective of an artistic and profitable exercise is to make sure that the film does not run foul of censorship. 1 hope that this does not occur, but with the peculiar censorship set up that we have in Australia at the moment there are bound to be problems. 1 hope that they can be averted. With all its shortcomings, I am quite certain that this legislation will be welcomed not only by the Australian people but by Australia's creative talent. The Opposition welcomes it because it will fill in an artistic void that has remained for far too long in this country. 
The Bill states quite categorically and quite specifically that members of the proposed Film Development Corporation will bc appointed from amongst persons of standing and varied experience. 1 have no argument with that. In fact J think that this is as it should be. But 1 cannot for the life of me accept that part of the legislation which will penalise people in a particularly sensitive and creative industry who have experience in that industry. 1 know that the Minister for the Navy  (Mr Killen)  has pointed out, very cogently, the reason why this particular clause was inserted in the Bill. To come back to the point that has been made, surely it follows that, if we are to set up a corporation to advise into which film making activities moneys will be channelled and if we then prevent anybody who has a pecuniary interest in that industry from being appointed, we are robbing the industry of the expertise that it needs. 
This is a very complicated industry, lt needs imagination, creative originality and - 1 am sure that this will appeal to our Liberal colleagues - a great deal of business acumen. If we are going to deny these people the opportunity of appointment to the Corporation by virtue of the fact that they possess business acumen and the ability to assess the creative originality of a film and its potential both commercial and artistic, then this seems to me to be a very odd attitude to take. The Corporation most certainly would need the best possible experience that it could obtain. I do not think that the amendment we are proposing is audacious. I think it is a very businesslike amendment. If we are going to establish a precedent, as has been done in the Bill, by denying representation on the Corporation to people  who are  possessed of expertise in an industry that is particularly difficult at the best of times, then the Opposition cannot agree with the proposition. We have said before that it is our sincere and honest desire that the Bill should go through and that the Corporation should become a living entity to provide the sort of stimulus that is needed for not a flagging industry but an almost non-existent industry. 
I come back to my original point. If the Government robs the film industry of the expertise that it so badly needs then, in the Opposition's view, it will destroy the whole proposition that it has sought to put forward. I ask all honourable members to accept the amendment because it in no way sets out to destroy the fabric that has been set up in the Bill. In fact, it would add quality to the Corporation and certainly the expertise and the business acumen that it will most certainly need. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. I ask: What was the basis of the representation made to the Federal Government by the Tasmanian State Government in regard to Commonwealth assistance for those fruit growers of my electorate who were severely hit by frost damage? Secondly, is it not a fact that the Commonwealth has given assistance to other primary industries  in  other States in similar circumstances? Thirdly, what was the reason for the Federal Government's refusal to help the Tasmanian grower? 
The Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  prefaced his remarks by reminding us, in a most good humoured and delightful way, that there would be a great deal of repetition. In fact there has been a great deal of repetition in this debate. The only comment I want to make on this point is that the truth never can be repeated too often. I do not intend to weary the House with a tedious repetition, however tantalising and attractive that proposition might be. 
The honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn)  quite clearly enunciated in the most positive terms that he was of the opinion that the Commonwealth had abrogated agreements and promises entered into in good faith so far as he was concerned. He made that statement in the House last Friday. The Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  this morning had the opportunity to rebut the honourable member's arguments, which were put so clearly and succinctly. I submit that the Prime Minister failed completely in the task that was set him. The honourable member for Farrer - the title honourable does not sit lightly upon his shoulders - clearly believes that an agreement was entered into. The six State Ministers for Mines clearly believe an agreement was entered into. One State Premier,  Mr Bethune,  from my own State of Tasmania, clearly believes an agreement was entered into. I propose to quote the remarks of the Premier about the statement made by the honourable member for Farrer in this House last week. I am quoting from the 'Mercury' of 12th May.  Mr Bethune  stated: 
This merely confirms the State Government's feeling that there has been a breach of faith by the Commonwealth. It confirms exactly what we have been saying. 
That remark was made by the Premier of Tasmania who received from this Federal Government, free, gratis, and without any strings attached, a grant of SI .5m to balance his budget. Could he be described as a hostile witness prepared to compound an untruth? I do not think so. 
Many top members of the Liberal Party clearly believe that an agreement was entered into. Many honourable members on the Government side of the chamber clearly believe an agreement was entered into. Honourable members on this side of the chamber believe the honourable member for Farrer when he says that it was his belief that an agreement was entered into. 
In the present political alignment of this nation the national Government is a coalition of the Liberal Party and the Australian Country Party. Every State in the Commonwealth is governed by parties of similar political persuasion. I think it fair to put this proposition: Are all these Liberal colleagues throughout the length and breadth of this nation now compounding an untruth? I reject this as a possibility and I think the House also will reject it as a possibility. Are we to have a situation in this nation where, when any agreement or discussion takes place between the Commonwealth on the one hand and the States on the other, it will be necessary to have in attendance legal advisers in their battalions, suitably equipped with technical devices to record all the proceedings? Does a man's word mean nothing any more? Does a Government's word mean nothing any more? As a mere juror I cannot accept this proposition and I cannot accept that this is an honourable way in which to conduct the business of the nation. I suggest that the people of this nation will reject it on the same terms. 
Everybody believes that an agreement was entered into. Many honourable members opposite clearly believe this. I repeat that it is both naive and, indeed, preposterous for the Prime Minister to say that all these people have been wrong in their sincerely held beliefs.  Sir, one  could develop protracted legalistic arguments; one could even engage in a prolonged semantic dissertation; but in the final analysis - this is what I want to underline - any government, not only this Government or some other government, must be a government with honour. Without honour there can be no confidence; without confidence there can be no respect. This is the very nub of the matter. 
Governments are never elected to govern without due regard for the honoured place they occupy in the hearts and minds of the people who have sent them here. If that honour is swept aside lightly, if that honour is submerged for political expediency, then that government has become dishonourable. The honourable member for Farrer clearly believes that the permissive society - these are his words - cannot, indeed must not, invade or be able to invade the precincts of government, for if it does an intolerable situation will inevitably arise. If we value the democratic process - I think we do and I hope we do - and if we accept the benefits that flow from that process, this being the very reason for the existence of this House, we must fight to preserve these values because without values and without honour our society is empty. Without truth in the Parliament this House becomes shallow. Without honour governments surely are worth nothing at all. 1 ask the House to support the amendment put by the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson). 
I address a question to the Minister representing the Acting Minister for Immigration, fs the Minister aware that in the first 3 months of this year 30,000-odd Americans, which represents an increase of over 30%, have made inquiries about the possibility of migrating to Australia? I ask the Minister: Through what Commonwealth agencies in the United States of America were these inquiries made? ls sufficient staff and information available to give a clear and accurate picture of conditions in Australia at present? If sufficient staff and data are not available will the Minister take steps to have them made available as a matter of urgency? 
asked the Minister for Health,  upon notice: 
Will he give consideration to the claim by chemists for an increase in the fee for dispensing national health service prescriptions. 
Is it a fact that the chemists' have not received an increase since 1961; if so, is the chemists' case therefore a strong one. 
Does he still maintain that there can be no review of chemists' remuneration until a new survey has been taken. 

 - Mr Speaker, since this Parliament reassembled, debate and counter debate have taken place with regard to the crisis facing primary industry in this country. Indeed, discussion of the crisis was promoted by the Opposition as a mater of public importance. I do not intend to weary the House with a recapitulation of the issues that have been discussed already. This morning 1 wish to speak of the continued and continuing delay in the implementation of the stabilisation scheme for the apple and pear industry which is so vital to that part of my electorate in which this industry flourishes and indeed vital to the State and the nation. 
The growers, the associations, the organisations and the commitees concerned - such as the Stale Fruit Board of Tasmania - have exhibited a quite remarkable patience with this Government. That patience, I suggest, is very fast running out. The first moves for a stabilisation scheme were begun in 1967. This is May 1970 and still no finality has been reached. Is it any wonder that my electors who are engaged in this industry are becoming restive and dissatisfied? I wish to quote and point out in some chronological order what has occurred in the past few months. 
In December of last year, the outline scheme incorporating the basic principles was submitted to the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony)  in anticipation, that negotiations between the Government and the industry would commence immediately. Secondly, notification was received that the Government would have to study the report of a survey by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics before there were discussions with the commitee concerned. .It was notified that the result of this survey would be available at the end of 1969 and. therefore, a meeting in January of this year was anticipated. 
On 28th January of this year, a meeting of that committee was informed that the Minister had arranged a study by Treasury officers of the likely cost of the scheme. He anticipated that the results of this study would be available in February and that he would be in a position to commence negotiations in the later half of that month. On 3rd March of this year, the committee met and reached decisions on administrative details regarding which the Minister required such action. The committee also received confirmation from the Attorney-General's Department that the legal aspects of the scheme on which some doubts had been raised in fact were quite in order. 
In March 1970 - and this is a most important aspect of this whole issue - the imposition of new regulations relating to import quotas by European Economic Community countries prompted inquiries in Canberra as to the progress that had been made on this matter. A stock reply was received that investigations were proceeding as expeditiously as possible. In April 1970, at the request of the State Fruit Board of Tasmania, the Tasmanian Minister for Agriculture sent a telegram to the Commonwealth Minister for Primary Industry urging him to meet the committee and to commence negotiations before his departure overseas. The reply received was to the effect that investigations were proceeding still. Indeed, while the Minister for Primary Industry was overseas, I put a question to the Acting Minister for Primary Industry, the Minister for the Interior  (Mr Nixon),  on this subject, to which he did not know the answer. 
This industry has played and will continue to play a very notable part in the economic stability not only of Tasmania but also, indeed, as 1 have said, of this nation as a whole. This industry has produced people of great initiative, people of great courage - and they have needed it - and people of extraordinary inventiveness because they have produced the world's finest product. They wish to continue to produce and to sell the world's finest product. But they can do so only if the Government will deal with the stabilisation scheme as a mater of the utmost urgency. I want to quote some statistics to illustrate the continuing decline of the industry in this part of my electorate. Population is one of the things we should all be vitally concerned with. In the Bruny Island area of the electorate in the year 1961 the population was 504. Now it is down to 410. These figures are taken from the Commonwealth Bureau of Census and Statistics, and there can be no argument with them. This area is in the very heart of the fruit growing areas. In the Huon area, which is affectionately known as the hub of the fruit growing district, in 1961 the population was 5,460. Now it is down to just over 5,000. In Port Cygnet the population in 1961 was 2,754. Now it has dropped to 2,400-odd. This represents over that period of time a loss of nearly 1,000 people in a vital primary industry area. It is of very great significance. 
The total number of orchards in southern Tasmania in the year 1964-65 was 1,080 and we had 413 small fruit holdings, a total of 1,493. For the year 1968-69 this figure has declined very dramatically. We now have only 885 orchards and 304 small fruit holdings, a total of 1,189. These are significant factors that reveal the dramatic problems facing this industry. The continuing decline cannot be allowed to continue. For the year 1964-65 the value of the total export of apples and pears from Tasmania was 513,815,000. There has been a steady decrease, but I will not bore the House by going right through the statistical table. For the year 1968-69 the figure was SI 2,23 1,000. We must remember that in the big year, 1965-66, the value of exports was S20,251,000. It can be readily seen from these figures that the decline is continuing. These figures highlight in the most dramatic way the startling crisis that has developed in this industry. It has had the most impossible burdens thrust upon it. 
The problems of Tasmania are many. It has the problem of shipping and freight rates which have always been intolerable. The final indignity this season was the imposition of higher rates for cartons, which was introduced at a time which to say the least was most inopportune, because the manufacturers enjoyed a considerable profit in their previous year. These are some of the burdens that my electors are being asked to carry, quite unfairly. They have been asked to carry them for far too long. The industry has co-operated in every way with the Minister's own Department and his officers. The Committee set up has been most punctilious in the carrying out of its duties and in its application to them. My own conclusion - I think this is supported by the industry and by the figures and statistics I have quoted - is that the Federal Government shows a great lack of appreciation of the urgent need for the stabilisation plan. I now ask the Minister to state clearly, precisely and categorically when this scheme will be implemented now all the facts are known. As the elected spokesman for the industry I have a right to advocate on their behalf to see that this protracted and frustrating delay is arrested now. I ask: Are all these people to go to the wall? Is this industry to languish in despair? If this is the Government's view - a government that proclaims an interest for people and their welfare - then its policy and approach to the problems of the people that I have talked about this morning are bankrupt. In conclusion I call on the Minister to move with alacrity and make an immediate announcement that the stabilisation scheme will be put into effect now. 
I ask the PostmasterGeneral a question about his Press statement of 27th May last. Does he agree with the  Chairman  of the Australian Broadcasting Commission,  Sir Robert  Madwick. who most emphatically denied that the ABC spent money carelessly in current affairs programmes? Does he support the Chairman's expressed view that he could not recall a previous occasion when a PostmasterGeneral had made such a charge? ls not a charge of this nature a grave reflection on the Commission's integrity? 
 A very intelligent remark. Will the Postmaster-General define what he means when he says that the ABC should have almost complete autonomy in programming? 
I address my question to the Postmaster-General. Does he recollect stating in his address to the Australian Broadcasting Commission Staff Association 1967 Federal Conference that programme development, programme organisation and gathering each new station into the fold was the task of the ABC and that the job had been done magnificently? In what manner has his administration of the ABC deteriorated so gravely in 2 short years that he now expresses concern about its performance? Will he please define what he means when he says that the Commission should have 'almost' complete autonomy in its programming? 
My question to the Minister for Shipping and Transport is supplementary to the questions which were asked of him by my colleagues the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition and the honourable member for Braddon. The Minister is no doubt aware of the intense feeling of the people of Tasmania with regard to the impost of a 121% freight increase on ships of the Australian National Line which trade between the mainland ports of Australia and Tasmania. I ask: Is the Minister aware of the fact that the whole economic fabric of Tasmania is now in jeopardy as a result of this increase because the State depends almost entirely on sea communications for its continued survival? Will he indicate, by reversing this decision, that the welfare of all the people of Tasmania is far more important than the profitable trading of the ANL? 
I, like my colleague the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford),  support the recommendation for a reduction in the number of members required to form a quorum. I find myself at variance with 3 gentlemen in this chamber for whom I have the greatest respect. I refer to the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner),  the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron),  and the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant).  1 respect them for different reasons, of course. 
Let me first of all deal with the point that was made by the honourable member for Adelaide. I think what we have decided in this Parliament - the word 'dynamism' was used last night in this debate - is that we have to play a more meaningful part in the discussions in this chamber. How best can we do this? The honourable member for Wills over-emphasised - I do not under-emphasise it - the importance of being here to vote on an issue. It seems to me as a new member of this Parliament that the more important function of a member is to be in possession of -the facts of particular legislation, to have digested that legislation intelligently, to have researched it and to have worked on it. This seems to me to be the most important thing. Do not let us fool ourselves. Many of us come into this chamber to vote when we do not have a clue in the world about what we are to vote on. This is very true. 
If we are to spend more time in the pursuit of digesting the legislation, in doing research work and in doing the hundred and one other things that are necessary in conducting the affairs of this House, surely this can be better achieved by the committee system that we are proposing and are in favour of. We would be doing a much better job working in the committees away from the chamber than we would be by traipsing in and out of the chamber all the time when somebody decided it would be rather amusing to call for a quorum and have the bells rung. The point I am making is that if we are to get down to the brass tacks of legislation and to develop the expertise that we need in contemporary politics we have to devote ourselves to a greater amount of research. With all due respect I suggest that only a committee system will enable us to bring that expertise into this chamber. 
I would like to turn to some of the remarks made by the honourable member for Bradfield prior to dinner. He referred to the mystical and magical qualities of the quorum. It is a traditional number but nobody has ever proved effectively that a particular number is desirable. The number is one-third of the members of this House. What is so mystical and magical about one-third? Why not one-fifth, which is the proposition before us? The honourable member for Bradfield said that there were certain historical and legendary associations of the Parliament. With that I agree. I have no argument with the romantic, legendary or historical side of this Parliament, but we are in the 1970s and because of the requirements of the 1970s we must bring ourselves into line with contemporary thinking and problems. We can do this only if we are prepared to change our approach to those problems. I have no argument with the statement that the House of Commons functions extraordinarily well, but that is not the point. But it has different problems and a different approach in its set-up and legislative process. 
The honourable member for Bradfield - again I do not criticise a gentleman for whom I have the greatest admiration - said that the House of Commons attracts candidates of greater calibre than we do in this Parliament because many of its candidates are what he termed part time candidates. The inference I draw from that is that most of the members in the House of Commons have a nice cushy job in the City of London and can afford to traipse into the House of Commons every now and again and devote a little bit of time to the affairs of the nation and of course, in consequence, the affairs of the world. My own view is that a parliamentarian in this chamber, because of the demands that are made on his time, must of necessity be a full time member.  A  man cannot be a part time representative in this Parliament, and no-one can be a part time representative in any other parliament, if he is to do his job effectively. 
You know as well as 1 do,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that today one has to have a knowledge of economics and of the vast spectrum of the requirements of contemporary politics. If anybody can perform the duties of a parliamentarian on a part time basis I have yet to see him do it effectively. This is the essence of all the arrangements that we would like to see. We would like to see the establishment of a committee system to enable us to devote more time to our research and to bring more expertise into this chamber. But we cannot do this if we are to be continually interrupted by what I would describe as the fatuous ringing of the bells to form a quorum. 
I refer now to a point made by the honourable member for Hindmarsh. This is the interpretation that I put on his remarks: He pointed out that if he or some other honourable member was making a very fine speech - a speech that was a great contribution - it was terribly disappointing if nobody was present in the House to hear that speech. I do not say that a basic requirement for a good speech is that the  speaker  must have a packed house to hear that speech. I have heard very good speeches in empty halls. No doubt I will hear such speeches again. I have heard very good speeches in this chamber when it has been almost totally devoid of any interested parties. But I do not say that an audience must be present and that the basic requirement of a quorum is to enable members to be called b here to hear what some member believes will be a very delightful, amusing and diverting contribution. This I do not think is relevant to the issue. 
I return to what I said at the beginning of my speech. I support the remarks made by the honourable member for Adelaide. I can only regret thatI am at variance with the honourable member for Bradfield, the honourable member for Wills and the honourable member for Hindmarsh. ButI do feel that these reforms, if they can be called reforms accurately, are necessary for the better government of the Parliament, for better representation and for a better contribution by representatives in this Parliament. I support the recommendation. 
Having to follow the honourable member for Evans  (Dr Mackay)  has left quite a deal of my speech in front of him which he has already delivered. I refer to that part of the honourable member's speech which made reference to the writings of Robin Day. I had intended to use one or two excerpts from this publication. As the honourable member for Evans has already used this material I will not bore the House with tedious repetition. 1 must say that I think a constant revision of the Broadcasting and Television Act is very necessary in this day and age when one now sees how this industry has expanded in so short a time. I want to deal with one or two aspects of the amendments proposed in the Bill. Let me say straight away that I applaud the PostmasterGeneral  (Mr Hulme)  for that section of the Bill which enables the financial limit of $40,000 and the period limit of 5 years on transactions of the Australian Broadcasting Commission to be lifted to a sum of $100,000 and a period of 10 years respectively. I think this is a very necessary amendment because, as I said a moment ago, great changes have taken place in the last few years in this industry. I think the amendment also allows the Australian 
Broadcasting Commission in this context lo be more readily aware of what is expected of it on a local scene. Of course, we have a national broadcasting system. But as such, if it does have failures - and indeed it does - I think some of them stem from the fact that rather too much authority and rather too much programme administration tends to eminate from Sydney or the capital city concerned. Certainly, as far as regional broadcasting and televising is concerned, in my own State of Tasmania I have felt for some time that perhaps a little more local involvement in what the people want locally might not be a bad thing, lt is the overriding sort of decision making that is made at head office - I think this is the affectionate term one uses - that is sometimes not in the best interest of a national broadcasting organisation. 
I should now like to deal with the question of ownership. One could quote statistics and figures to prove almost any argument that one wanted to prove. But if I may take the time of the House, I shall refer to that section of the Bil) which deals specifically with the problem of ownership. I believe the honourable member for Evans made a very good point when he said that we are in great danger of centralisation. I think this is what has happened in the commercial field. For instance, consider ATN in Sydney. The total issued share list of this television company is in the region of $1,494,118. John Fairfax and Sons Ltd, the proprietors of the 'Sydney Morning Herald' own over 1,06.1,000 of this station's shares. I could repeat that story right through all of the States of the Commonwealth, ft seems to me that ownership of a newspaper is not necessarily a qualification for controlling and running a television station. Indeed, the activities of both are widely different. Robin Day has made the criticism that a newspaper has its own editorial content and its own editorial column. I cannot remember any television station that is similarly placed. I think perhaps the time has come when we in this country might allow or might give consideration to a little more freedom and flexibility in the editorial scene or the editorial function of television stations. I think in my first speech in this chamber I made some comment on this point, and it is well worthy of consideration. ] should like to comment on one or two of the points made by the honourable member for Evans because I think they are relevant to the amendment before the House and indeed relevant to the whole industry. The first was on the question of bias. Bias is terribly difficult to determine, because what is bias to some may not be bias to others. The honourable member referred to guidlines for the Australian Broadcasting Commission. Presumably these guidelines would be established for the commercial networks as well. There is a great danger in establishing guidelines for any particular organisation, whether it be commercial or national. In the first instance who is to establish the guidelines? It may well be that a section of the Government parties objects to a particular presentation. Tt may well be that we on this side of the House will object to a particular presentation. 1 suggest that there will never be 100% agreement on the correct way in which that presentation ought to be made. It is almost impossible to arrive at a common area of agreement in this industry. I think it is very dangerous indeed to start talking about the establishment of guidelines to advise or to suggest to the ABC or any other organisation that it ought to present a programme in this particular way or in that particular way. 
My views on this subject are very well known: I have slated them before. I feel that in a democracy there is no place at all for political interference or for the establishment of guidelines either for television stations or for any other sector of the mass media. To do this sort of thing is to establish a governmental overlay on what it is thought the people ought to be consuming. That is never successful in any democracy. 1 return to the cost of programmes A question was addressed to the PostmasterGeneral in this House this afternoon and he answered it at some length, lt was an answer that had to be given in some length because this is a very involved and difficult situation. Country stations have great problems which are caused by the expense involved in buying programmes. 1 support the honourable member for Evans when he says that there ought to be some government investigation into country stations being afforded some consideration in the buying of expensive programmes. I say this for one very good reason. The PostmasterGeneral knows better than I do just how important it is to embrace people in isolated and country areas with the wonderful mass media. These people are somewhat less fortunate than people in the capital cities because their choice of programme is somewhat restricted and subsequently inhibited by the cost factor. 
I merely make the suggestion that some thought might well be given to pursuing or examining some proposition that would allow people in country areas to have access to such programmes at a reduced cost. How the mechanics of it would work I do not know at this stage. I think that some examination should be made, because these people live in an area of isolation where communication is very important. The problem confronting the television industry in this country at the moment is one of continuing difficulties for indigenous productions. I speak of the work of Australian producers, writers and actors. I know that the Postmaster-General is well aware of these difficulties. Indeed on Saturday night last he contributed a segment to the 'Four Courners' programme. There ought to be a very close examination of the industry as a whole, not a fragmented or segmented examination. The writers, the producers and the actors should come together with a proposition for the Government in relation to quotas. It is no good our accepting the fact that Australian local television productions today are too expensive to purchase. We have a duty to the people of this country, indeed to our own children, to provide them with a culture that is indigenous to this country. 
I can quote statistics to show the amount of exposure we give to programmes of Australian origin. The percentages are not very startling, in fact, they are rather the reverse. The latest available figures I have show that in the field of drama or adventure Australian programmes shown on the major commercial stations account for 1.1% of the total. The proportion of all programmes of Australian content is 0.5%. On the national stations the position is better, but in my view and in the view of many people engaged in the industry, it does not improve sufficiently for us to be inspired by it. The figures reveal that on the national networks the respective percentages are 2.2% and 1.1%. 
As my friend the honourable member for Riverina says, it would indeed be the lowest in the Western world, and the lowest in more ways than one. In the field of crime and suspense, Australian productions account for 1.3% of the total on the commercial stations and 0.4% on the national stations. I turn now to current affairs, the area in which this particular medium can be most powerfully persuasive. In all the western European countries, in the United States and in Canada a great deal more time is used by the national and political leaders in television discussion on current affairs programmes than we in this country have yet dreamed of. We seem to be afraid of exposing our policies and decision making to criticism. Today on the commercial stations current affairs programmes have an output of 2.5%, which is 1% of the total. On the ABC the proportion is at least 12%. In the field of the arts, on commercial stations the percentage of Australian productions is 0.3% and on the national stations it is 1.7%. That is the contribution we make to culture in this country on our own national and commercial television systems. It is no wonder that the artistic, creative people of this country - the writers, producers, directors and actors - are somewhat dismayed that in 1970 the outlook is deteriorating from what it was in the early 1960s. 
I do not intend to continue my remarks very much longer. I think that my points have been made. I commend the various amendments outlined by the PostmasterGeneral. I would like to think that one or two of the suggestions I have made to him, particularly with regard to country stations and the improvement of the local content or the quota, as it is commonly referred to, will receive some sympathetic consideration from the Government. Without any doubt at all, in the technical field we have reached a degree of excellence in television and in radio which is reached in few other countries. Unfortunately in the creative area we are lagging sadly behind. The time has well come when we should have an amalgamation of that technical excellence and our creative productivity - our inherent genius in creative productivity. If these 2 forces can be brought together then the television industry in Australia and the whole mass media of television will be something in which we can participate and of which we, as Australian people, can be proud. 

 Mr IRWIN (Mitchell) L5. 42]- Before I refer to the various provisions of the Bill 1 want to say how pleased I am that 1 am not receiving a mass of letters, such as I was receiving up until 6 months ago, about the presentation of programmes of a political nature bearing in one direction. At that time whenever I attended a public function 1 was asked: 'What are you going to do about the Australian Broadcasting Commission?' I am pleased that the position has altered because evidently the programmes now being exhibited meet with the approval of the general populace. As the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Sherry)  said, it is difficult to define bias, because such an interpretation differs according to thinking and standards. I am sorry that the copybook was blotted recently after the Returned Services League Congress at which, unfortunately, a proposal was put about the listing of Communists. We know that this would not be desirable or possible for various obvious reasons. However f took exception to a programme that followed this Congress. It must always be remembered that in Australia, perhaps more than in most countries, our fighting men and ex-servicemen have always been held in the highest esteem. It hurt me to see the serviceman being depicted as a lair with 2 cans of beer in his hands with a chap at a piano, hat on and pipe in his mouth, playing a parody from one of Gilbert and Sullivan's musical operettas. This was unfortunate because when a person insults an Australian serviceman he insults himself. I am sorry that this programme was presented because during the past 6 months seldom have T received any letters of complaint about programmes. 
The delegation that is proposed in the Bill conforms to general business practice. The proposal is most desirable. It seems that such an amendment should have been moved before now. Regarding the disposal of or purchase of property, I agree that the present limit of $40,000 is not realistic. 
In 10 years even the $100,000 proposed may not be sufficient. I feel that many people do not know the extent of concessions applying to licence fees. The Act is to be amended so that concessions will apply to the person who is in receipt of a Service pension, or a pension in respect of total and permanent incapacity, under the Repatriation Act 1920-1969, the Interim Forces Benefits Act 1947-1966, the Repatriation (Far East Strategic Reserve) Act 1956-1966, the Repatriation (Special Overseas Service) Act 1962-1968 or regulations in force under the Native Members of the Forces Benefits Act 1957-1968; or a pension under the Seamen's War Pensions and Allowances Act 1940-1969 corresponding with a pension in respect of total and permanent incapacity under the Repatriation Act 1920-1969. f trust that those people who are entitled to concessions and who have heard me speaking will ensure that they gain those concessions when they pay their licence fees. 
I do not say this critically, but it is unfortunate in some ways that instrumentalities like the Australian Broadcasting Commission which receive their revenue from the Government should not be more careful in expending that money, ft seems to me that there is an easy come easy go attitude in the ABC. It does not have to earn its income as do the commercial stations. lt gels its revenue from the Government and naturally with money received from this source it is the same old story - sufficient consideration is not given to expenditure, f point out that a team of photographers and others went to Tahiti at great expense to make a programme, lt was reported to me that the programme occupied a minute of viewing time. No commercial station would be able to do that and it is essential that the cost ratio be taken into consideration. Of course there are occasions when it is necessary for television teams to go to South East Asia to make programmes. A Minister may be visiting the area or some other matter of concern to Australia may arise which makes it important for a film to be produced there. In such circumstances costs should not determine whether such a film should be made. However before there is huge expenditure of money the cost and the value to Australian viewers should be considered. 
I am sure we all would like to see greater Australian content in our programmes. It must be remembered that we are a very young nation and that we are making our traditions and our history now. The greater the local content, having regard to our cultural background which, incidentally, is improving all the time, the better. I say without hesitation that our appreciation of culture has improved since we have had such a huge inflow of migrants from overseas. We are now taking a deeper interest in cultural affairs and have a better appreciation of the classics than we had before. As  a  result of the support that is being given to the arts and to culture we are able to see aspects of them displayed and featured more frequently than has been the case in the past. 
I turn now to television. Within the past week the manager of a country television station has stated that the most his station could attract in advertising was $2,000 an hour. He needed that amount to break even. Any programme which would attract only $2,000 an hour would be very minor and insignificant. There is a big difficulty to overcome but difficulties are there only to be overcome. Australian stations are Australian owned and it should be everyone's desire to produce Australian programmes comparable to those which can be purchased overseas. Such programmes would benefit Australia by building up interest in this country and by creating an Australian nationalism of which we all could be proud. I think the tendency is in that direction. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Armitage)  adjourned. 
Sitting suspended from 5.54 to 8 p.m. 
The Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  has introduced his first Budget; it could well be his last. As Shakespeare said: 'Though this be madness, yet there is method in it'. The Budget is a perfect reflection - indeed, it is an accurate mirror - of the paucity of policy which has emerged from a government which is a Waste land of imagination and a master of the mediocre. But let us not place all the blame on the Treasurer. He was, of course, the main character in the drama - and it is a drama as far as the people of Australia are concerned. But the stage manager of this disaster, the real hand behind this disaster, was that master of compassion, the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  - the man who is so sensitive to the needs of the elderly and pensioned peoples of our so-called affluent society; the man who made that now famous or . infamous remark to pensioners who had gathered outside this Parliament to request an increase in their miserable pittance: 'I suppose you want more dough?' Could any remark - it is an offensive and insensitive observation even for him - highlight in greater detail the contempt with which this man and his entire coterie of collaborators hold the people of Australia? Age, invalid and widow pensions are to be increased by 50c a week. This surely is an example of Liberalism gone mad. In the June quarter of this year the cost of living increased by almost $1. The national average increase in the cost of living for the year was 5%. 
The increase in pensions amounts to a little more than 3%. This is the reward meted out to people who have contributed so much to this so-called affluent society. We give 50c a week to these people who have helped to develop this nation - 50c a week to the people who, in the twilight of their years, deserve some consideration from the nation they have served so well. This is a disgrace. The Prime Minister and all other members of the coalition parties should hang their heads in shame. 
Let me read a quotation: 
Our aim is that those who have no other means are provided with enough to live on in a modest self-respecting way without requiring any other assistance from outside the pension. 
That statement was made in this house on 27th August 1968. The author was the Prime Minister. How soon he forgets. But it is heart-warming to read that the central committee of the Young Liberals in Victoria - an extraordinarily radical group - passed a motion urging the Commonwealth Government to give greater Budget relief to age pensioners. Here is direct confrontation between two divisions of the Liberal Party. 
What else emerges from this doomsday book of Liberal humanism? The tax on petrol will be increased by 3c a gallon. The tax on cigarettes will be increased by 3c a packet. Sales tax on cars and station wagons will be increased. Of course, as the Prime Minister has said, you do not always want to buy motor cars. Sales tax will be increased on television sets, radios and clothing. Here are high priority items singled out for an increase in sales tax - toilet and beauty preparations. How the women will love you for that. Postal and telephone charges will be increased. A tax will be imposed on wine. Again the Prime Minister has said: 'Do not drink wine'. Heady stuff! Radio licence fees have been increased. I could refer to many other items of increased charges but I will not condemn the house and the nation to a repetition of all of them. In regard to child endowment, that dark corner into which this Government refuses to shed any light, there has been no improvement. What distresses the Opposition is that all of the charges imposed in this Budget have a direct effect on the average working person and particularly the housewife. The. cost of her food and other commodities for everyday existence has spiralled upwards still further with no attempt to control it. The Government talks blithely about arbitration. I believe in arbitration but I also believe that the time has arrived when the people of this nation must be protected by some form of prices control. 
I turn now to the greatest feat of illusion yet performed by these magicians who sit opposite. There is to be a concession of 10% in personal income tax. What will be the real material benefit to those people who earn between $3,500 and $6,000 a year? These are the people whom the Budget is supposed to help. Does it help them? The answer must be in the negative. As the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  so eloquently illustrated on Tuesday night, the average wage earner with a taxable income of $3,000 will receive a reduction of $46 - less than $.1 a week. A man with an income of $10,000 will receive a reduction of $348 - almost $7 a week. Now we come to the cruncher - the Prime Minister's version of the middle income earner. That was his election phrase, not mine. A man on $16,000 will receive a reduction of $500 or $10 a week under this so-called equitable scheme. The mind boggles at the logic of this. Could there be any greater absurdity? As the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  so rightly pointed out, as usual you have started at the wrong end. Service pensions: What an illustrious record you have here. What humanity is revealed towards the men who have served so well. The whole field of social welfare is a monumental failure. Perhaps one cannot but feel some sympathy for the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  who saw and heard his aspirations in this Budget torn to tatters, but who philosophically accepted what was happening in his inimitable style by removing himself to a state of soporific torpor during the whole dreary recital of the Budget. Who can blame him? 
He slept. So did the nation. But it is waking up now. The Budget has been put together by a group of men who are dispirited and disillusioned, desperate and defeated, lacking in purpose and totally devoid of humanity. The whole sorry document reveals their anaemic approach to social services and social welfare. Indeed, the very words 'social welfare' are anathema to most members of the coalition. In this Budget they have done nothing to remove that impression. 
I want now to make some observations on other points of the Budget. The defence allocation is 3.1% greater than last year. Members of the Government cry out with regular monotony about their concern for the defence of this country. What have they done? One of the key items in their expenditure in this Budget ls $13m for the lease - I repeat, for the lease - of 24 Phantom aircraft. The Opposition was ridiculed when it suggested obtaining the Phantom in preference to that other mystical machine with its extraordinary capabilities, which has so far cost the Australian taxpayer $300m. It is the most expensive piece of equipment the parking stations have ever seen. After $300m, 3 Prime Ministers and almost a decade we are now to lease 24 substitute aircraft to protect us from that invisible enemy which threatened to over-run us so many years ago - on the eve of a Federal election. Such threats come only at election time. Is it any wonder the Government presents to the electors an almost Gilbertian image? The Government stands discredited - a government in retreat, a government in disorder. 
Let us now turn to this question of disorder - or rather, to be more specific, law and order, lt is notable that the  Deputy  Prime Minister, the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr McEwen),  and his heir apparent, the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Anthony),  have time and time again concerned themselves not with the tottering primary industry of Australia but with propping up their discredited and outworn policies by suddenly becoming the champions of foreign policy and defence. The  Deputy  Prime Minister has spoken on at least 2 occasions - the last time in this House on Tuesday afternoon - but did he speak on the crisis in rural industry? He did not. He spoke on defence and foreign affairs - this master of the world. But what of primary industry in which, one assumes, the Leader of the Country Party would have some interest? It is a reasonable assumption that he ought to be interested in farmers, their welfare and their future, although primary producers in my own State of Tasmania have formed other opinions. 
The welfare of primary industry has for too long been ignored by this Government and primary producers are to stage a protest march in Canberra. This is law and order. Mark that: Primary producers are going to stage a march in Canberra in order to protest against the policies of this coalition and its failure. Law and order. One can now visualise the scene in this hallowed capital, this sanctified ground of Parliament. One can visualise the  Deputy  Prime Minister, the Leader of the Country Party, the champion of primary industries, and the Minister for the Interior  (Mr Nixon),  complete with police photographers, recording a dossier on their traditional supporters outside this Parliament. What double standards these men have. Law and order has become their theme. The incredible paranoia, this almost psychopathic pre-occupation with law and order and Communism is a disgrace to the  Deputy  Prime Minister and his woolly minded followers. 
It is interesting to note that this self same gentleman, this disciple of law and order, has in fact sat down with Communists and negotiated trade agreements with them. What fatuous humbug for this man to protest and tilt at windmills. He openly promotes and fosters trade with Communist countries and has the temerity to incite this nation and this Parliament with speeches which would have done Lenin proud, lt would be interesting to note,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  just how many times that right honourable gentleman and his colleagues refer to mainland China - and 1 underline the word 'mainland' - where trade matters are concerned. But when they don the mantle of law and order and respectability it becomes Communist China. This is a devious and deceitful exercise in semantics which is being foisted on the Australian people. It is true that the devil can cite scripture for his purpose. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, I want to turn now to one or two points on primary industry because this is one of the great industries that is suffering at this time. What is going to happen to the proposition for a single wool selling authority? Will the procrastination continue and will the pressure pre vail? It is high time that this Government made some positive statement and showed some signs of activity before that industry as well goes to the wall. The apple and pear industry has been delivered a body blow. Where are the provisions in the Budget for this mystical and proposed stabilisation scheme? I certainly could not find any and neither could anybody else. My own State of Tasmania, my own electors of Franklin, have demonstrated a remarkable patience with this indolent Government on this particular question. In the grievance debate on 21st May this year I asked the Minister for Primary Industry to make an announcement. I now ask him again - and I will keep on asking: When is a stabilisation scheme to be introduced? Do we have to wait until this time next year when more families are bankrupt and when an industry that has served my people so well, and indeed the whole of this nation is finally finished? 
What we want to know now is this: ls this Government so drunk with continuity of office for 20 years that not even disaster will stir it? Disaster will not stir it; nothing will stir it except the people. The people might have that opportunity sooner than they expect and sooner than this Government wants. So far as the stabilisation scheme is concerned I. have been led to believe that the Minister for Primary Industry has to make some recommendation to the Australian Agricultural Council. Then the proposal has to go to the States. Has this in fact occurred? I pose the question again although that august gentleman, the Minister for Primary Industry, is absent from the chamber. I asked that question in May and I ask it again now. What is the real situation? The industry wants to know and it is entitled to know. 
I have spoken in this chamber on the need to preserve the complete independence of the Australian Broadcasting Commission and all other mass media. 1 have spoken on this question on 2 or 3 occasions and I intend to touch on it again. I repeat: There is no room in a democracy for political interference in any shape or form with the mass media. I have always been, and will remain, totally opposed to those honourable members on the Government side who seek to bring this about. The honourable member for Evans  (Dr 
Mackay) has indicated his views and has circulated what he terms - and oh, what a pleasant term this is - guidelines for the ABC. What an ill conceived presumption - guidelines for the ABC. . He and I know - and this Government knows, or should know - that this is only the beginning of the thin edge of the wedge. This was the  Dr Goebbels  technique in Germany in the mid-1930s. It was Lenin's technique in the Soviet Union. 
I remind the honourable member for Evans that I do not question his right to put his point of view but I seriously question its value. It pre-supposes that he and someone else are the high priests of what should or should not be said on television, radio or in the newspapers. I remind the honourable member and any other honourable members on the Government side of the House that they are following the footsteps of monstrous masters. Let me remind them that these are the essentials of free society: freedom of the Press; freedom of the radio; and freedom of television. Do not let us pay lip service to it. I have been a practitioner in this industry for more than 22 years, both in Australia and in the United Kingdom. I have been engaged in all forms of the media, as a writer and a broadcaster. I myself have felt the political pressure in this country when I stood as a Labor candidate for this House. But that does not matter to me. What I want to say is this: I am proud to have worked with my colleagues both in the Australian Broadcasting Commission and the commercial stations whose standards of integrity are unimpeachable and cannot be questioned. I will not now or ever be a party to putting any sort of muzzle on them. Guidelines indeed. What arrogance. What fear must beat in the breasts of honourable members even to contemplate such a move. I am sick and tired in this chamber of hearing a cascade of bias and vituperation against the public affairs programmes of the ABC because they dare to criticise someone in this chamber. If we can do our job as the elected representatives of this country none of us at any time ought to be hesitant or unable to acquit ourselves in this medium. We certainly ought not ever place demands upon producers and interviewers of these programmes to submit to a set of questions from people like ourselves, saying: T want you to answer this and answer that'. 
It does not happen on the BBC, I can assure the honourable member. My suggestion to all honourable members on this score is to leave the producers and interviewers of these programmes alone and let them get on with their own business. The business of this Parliament and the members of this Parliament is the welfare of the Australian people. I remind honourable members - certainly those honourable members on the other side of the House - that they would be far better served by working for the improvement of opportunities for Australian actors, writers and producers in the television industry rather than setting themselves up as watchdogs of public affairs programmes. These are the sort of things we ought to be doing. 
This Government has failed the people. On all fronts this Government is a monumental disaster. It is a government of mediocrity. Under this Government Australia has no place in the 1970s. Australia does not have the time for mediocrity. The nation will no longer tolerate indolence and ineptitude. This coalition Government is a rudderless ship awash in a political sea and the swell of public opinion will sweep the Government and its tawdry policies from office, and the sooner the better. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Customs and Excise. Is the Minister aware that duties are currently collected on imported filmed television programmes but not on imported videotaped television programmes? In view of the fact that videotaped programmes form a major proportion of imported television material, will the Minister state what steps he k prepared to take to ensure that this anomaly is removed and further, whether he is prepared to apply a substantial part of the duties collected on all imported television programmes to finance creative aspects of the depressed television industry in Australia? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Customs and Excise. It is supplementary to the question asked by the honourable member for Henty. The Minister in answering the question of the honourable member indicated that he was both aware and worried by the trade and smuggling in birds. As I understand that New Guinea and Papua do not come under the direct jurisdiction of his Department in the import and export of birds, I ask the Minister: Does he see this fact as a weak link in the desired and complete control of the trade in birds? Will he agree further that, if his Department were given this control, this extra feather might allow his Department to fly more effectively against this trade? 

 - Mr Speaker, may 1 seek your advice as a comparatively newly elected member of this chamber who is somewhat frustrated and disappointed? We have had a multiplicity of charges and counter-charges in the last 2 days. My question simply is this: Is this a forum of fantasy or a chamber of deliberations and intelligent debate? 
I ask the Minister for Immigration whether he has seen the Hobart newspaper report which says that an Australian citizen, Con  Patiniotis,  on holiday with his family in Greece was inducted into the Greek Army despite assurances from the Greek authorities that he would not have to serve. My understanding is that  Patiniotis  offered to pay the Greek equivalent of  $350,  which provides an optional exemption from military service. The payment of this amount was rejected by the Greek authorities. Will the Minister have this anomalous situation examined so that the rights of these citizens of Australia are protected and so that they may return to the land of their birth without confusion as to their true obligation and loyalties? 
by leave  -  I join with previous speakers in applauding the announcement of the establishment of commercial services in the 3 areas which were outlined by the Postmaster-General  (Mr Hulme).  However, 1 would like to ask the Minister one very quick question. He said that it is obvious that the areas will be capable of supporting only a minimum type commercial operation. T would like to ask: Is this in fact some departure from the accepted norm in a recommendation from the Australian Broadcasting Control Board? Could . the Postmaster-General explain to me what is meant precisely by 'a minimum type of commercial operation'? 
The Postmaster-General  (Mr Hulme)  in his explanation of why some of the estimates submitted by the Australian Broadcasting Commission in fact were reduced has given us certain reasons. I accept his explanation as it was given to us. At the same time, the Minister chided us, in quite a very pleasant way of course, to take a broader view of his Department and its activities and responsibilities. But he would realise that lime will not allow us to concur with that invitation. In the brief time that I do have available, I wish to talk about 2 points in this debate on the estimates of the Postmaster-General's Department. 1 refer first to the Twenty-second Annual Report for the year ended 30th June 1970 of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board. This report, was presented quite recently. I wish to make one or two comments relevant, I think, to what the honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland)  has said about the ABC and its responsibilities of objectivity, integrity and impartiality. 
Firstly, the report of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board is interesting at this time in the context of the cry for increased Australian content in television.. I do not think that anybody in this Committee would willingly deny the validity of the argument being presented. As the honourable member for Curtin has said, although in a somewhat different context, it is time for us in this country to create our own cultural image both here and abroad. The time has come, I think, when we have to accept the responsibility of transmitting abroad our own culture, our own point of view and, in fact, our own nationalism. 
The cry against increased content basically is expense. It is interesting to look at the figures in the Twenty-second Annual Report of the ABCB and to see that in 1968-69 of the 45 television stations in operation 37 made a profit. Only 8 television stations failed to do so. The reason why the great proportion of these television stations failed to make a profit, T suggest, is purely and simply a political reason, not an economic reason - that is, the granting of licences in areas where no such licences should ever be granted. The total net profit for the financial year 1968-69 of Australian commercial television stations is shown at page .10 of the Report as being $15,387,145. So, the profitability of these television stations is not really in doubt. 
An interesting development has occurred. T refer to page 25 of the Report. A commercial television station in Hobart, TVT Channel 6, and commercial television channel TNT9 in the north of the State have joined now with the Tasmanian Department of Education in transmitting educational programmes and teacher training telecasts. This move I applaud. I suggest with the greatest deftness in the world to the Postmaster-General that he may like to encourage an expansion of this idea. On page 104 of the same report it will be noticed that the Board is again engaged in a review of the Australian content requirement. The report says: 
It is apparent that this review will take longer than the Board had earlier expected but it is being carried out as quickly as possible having regard to the Board's very heavy programme of inquiries in various fields. 
I think due regard to and a general close scrutiny of all the cases put forward is in itself a very valuable move but I suggest that the Board be not overlong in reaching a decision on this very important matter. Let us go back to the historic document, the Vincent Committee report, which was produced some years ago. At page 1 it refers to television programmes and Australian content. In Part I of the report under the heading: 'Public Concern Over 
Television Programmes. Evidence of Public Concern', it said: 
There is much public concern over television programmes. This concern, as might be expected, comes mainly from the more informed or responsibly minded section of the community, and it is widespread. 
The disquiet is with programmes from both the Australian Broadcasting Commission and commercial television, although the greater weight of criticism is levied against commercial television. 
These points made many years ago in the Vincent Committee report are still valid today. There has been a great deal of procrastination and delay in truly implementing the conditions laid down when these gentlemen Originally applied for their licences. This is how it has been skirted in so many ways. I do not have time to go into all the facts that make the Australian quota system at the moment an unfair reflection of the volume of Australian television productions shown on television. If one looks at the survey conducted by the Australian Broadcasting Commission and reprinted in the 'Canberra Times' on Wednesday, 23rd September under the heading: 'Rating Objectively' it can be seen what is meant. The answer from the commercial stations is that people are not prepared to watch Australian television programmes. I do not accept this. Of course, this is completely negated by this survey because if one looks at it - I have not time to quote it all - it will be found that 60 per cent of the top rating programmes in this country are written, produced and acted by people here. The argument will not wash that people are not prepared to watch Australian television productions because 60 per cent of the top rating programmes are in fact indigenous. 
Let us turn to the ABC. The broad spectrum of the Commission's activities makes it a massive undertaking at any level. Let us take a brief glance at the diversity of its activities. They range from news, music, drama; documentaries; training for Asians, a worthwhile project; opera; school broadcasts; publishing; and, as an entrepreneur, visits by overseas artists, sustaining symphony orchestras, help for migrants, and the Washington Bureau link - the sorts of things the honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland)  has been talking about. I suggest honourable members in this House take a glance at the Commission's report. This is a very interesting document and highlights and exemplifies what I have said about the massive complex technological operation that is the Australian Broadcasting Commission. 
In conclusion might I sum up the 2 points I have made. It is simply not a question of whether we can afford an increased Australian television content. It is rather a question of whether we cannot afford it. The Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  has indicated quite properly some interest in indigenous productions. He has displayed both vocally and visually an interest in this country's nationalism. Surely the time has come for us to be energetically and actively concerned with our image and our culture because we are now a nation. Let us project that nationhood with pride in our creative and artistic talents. I have outlined, albeit economically, the complexity and immense responsibility of the Australian Broadcasting Commission. That this responsibility is accepted and discharged with integrity, professionalism and purpose is the complete answer to those lofty critics on the Government side who constantly criticise the activities of the ABC. I am very thankful to the Minister that he has not succumbed to the temptation to place any sort of political gag on it. This immense duty of the Commission is discharged. It has a duty to discharge; it has a duty to entertain, inform, educate and to transmit at home and abroad an account of the contemporary Australian scene. 
The Minister for Primary Industry will be aware that on a number of occasions in this House I have made representations to him about the parlous position of the Tasmanian apple and pear industry. I ask the Minister again: ls he in a position to tell me whether Cabinet has approved the suggested stabilisation scheme for Tasmania? If approval has been given, when will an announcement be made? If the scheme has not been approved can the growers look forward to receiving devaluation payments on the same basis as last season until an acceptable scheme for the industry has been approved? 
 I just want to make one or two observations on  the  estimates for the Prime Minister's Department, based specifically on the allocation for the arts for this year. I do not want to appear to be overly critical and I do not want to appear to be carping or to seem ungenerous in paying a tribute to the Government and to the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  for their interest in the performing arts, lt is very gratifying to see that the increase this year will be 45 per cent, making a total of $3,850,000 for assistance for the arts in this country in the year 1970-71. There are one or two figures that. I think are interesting and I would like to refer to them. Last year, for example, we had an appropriation of $247,000 for historical and other works of art, including the commissioning of portraits. I commend this appropriation and I hope that it will not be deleted in the coming years. I notice that the appropriation has been reduced to $205,000 which in fact is a decrease of $42,000 on last year. I hope that this decrease will not be the trend, in coming years. The assistance to Australian composers is always very pleasing to see. This year the appropriation is $24,600. 1 do not think it can be over-stressed that any national government, as this Government is, does have a responsibility towards the performing arts because, as I have said in this place on a number of occasions, one's development cannot always be measured only in material terms. 
One's national development and one's national image cannot always be seen only by the number of oil wells one sees or by the number of  mines one discovers  and subsequently develops. It is the artistic creative ability and the recognition of that in our nation that certainly in years to come will be perhaps one of the greatest land marks this society is capable of producing. The exact figure for assistance in this field this year is $1,166,000. 
As 1 said, I do not want to appear to be overly critical but I would like the Minister for the Army  (Mr Peacock),  who is sitting at the table, to make one or two notes of the points I want to make on specific priorities with regard to the allocation which, as I understand it, is made through the Australian Council for the Arts. I think 1 would not be incorrect in saying that the Australian Council for the Arts in fact acts as a manager in this case. For example, it has come to my notice that an outstanding music group in my own State of Tasmania, the Tasmanian String Quartet, did apply to the Prime Minister for a grant or for a subsidy of $5,000 towards their air fares to travel to Warsaw. If I may 1 will explain the reason for the application. 
Recently we had a visit to this country by the Warsaw Philharmonic Orchestra and the distinguished conductor of that orchestra invited the Tasmanian String Quartet to visit Warsaw to perform at the Contemporary Music Arte Festival in that city. Those honourable members who are familiar with this Contemporary Music Arts Festival will realise that an invitation of this type does not come easily, lt was a great tribute to the musicianship and the professional standing of the Tasmanian String Quartet that it was invited to perform at this very distinguished musical festival. The group applied to the Prime Minister's Department for a subsidy of $5,000 for the fares of the members. The Polish Government, through the Warsaw Philharmonic Orchestra, was prepared to subsidise the group, to pay all its expenses and. indeed, to arrange other concerts for it in that country. The request, unfortunately, was turned down on the basis, as I am led to believe, that it is Government policy in these matters to import artists and groups of this type and not to export them. This seems to be a strange priority. 
On the one hand, the Government provides assistance to organisations like the Melbourne Symphony Orchestra - and I do not criticise but applaud this - and the Australian Ballet yet when an invitation was extended to a distinguished group of Australian musicians to appear overseas the Government would not provide assistance because it was not its policy to encourage trips of this nature. This is most disappointing because I know of no other group of musicians in Australia which has ever received such an invitation. The invitation reflected great credit on the group and it would have been fitting had the Government acceded to the request and so enabled the group to accept the invitation. 
A very distinguished choir in Tasmania was invited to appear at the great Welsh National Eisteddfod. I believe it is the first Australian choir ever to receive such an invitation. Again an application was made to the Prime Minister's Department for some assistance. I am not in a position to say what that precise assistance was in terms of money, but the application was rejected. I find it extraordinary that  2  groups, both distinguished in their own fields - one thoroughly professional and the other certainly amateur - should be invited to  2  outstanding musical festivals abroad and yet the Government should miss out on a wonderful opportunity of benefiting from the propaganda that would have flowed from such tours. It would have been a unique opportunity for Australia to be represented abroad at these festivals and the groups would have gained tremendous experience from their visits. I have made these  2  points because I believed it right to do so. As I said when I commenced my remarks, I am not over-critical about this. 
I am delighted and do applaud the Government and the Prime Minister for this allocation. It reveals an awakening of the responsibility that any national parliament must have towards the performing arts. I hope that the policy will be continued and expanded. It is a policy that is gratefully received by Australian artists. 1 hope that the criticisms that I have made are answered by the Minister so that we can see what priorities are established in the allocation of funds to particular groups that may apply for them for overseas tours. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens respectfully showeth: 
That they are not gravely concerned that moral standards in the Australian community may be changing, particularly in regard to the community's willingness to treat adults within it as reasonable and responsible people who are capable of making up their own minds as to what may be perfectly acceptable or unacceptable material in books, magazines, plays, films and television and radio programmes, and particularly when this material depicts life in human society, .including language habits and sex habits and gives warning of the dangers of the use of violence and narcotic drugs; 
That they in fact welcome this change, having regard for the fact that it demonstrates an increasing tolerance of and respect for the rights of individuals to think their own way through their own lives, free from information-withholding restrictions which people of one religion or one standard of morals may seek to impose on either the majority or minority who do not hold the same views; 
That they question the simplistic view that nations 'perish' because of a so-called 'internal moral decay' unless such 'decay' is taken to include an increasing unwillingness to face the facts of life in open discussion and freedom of thought; 
That they welcome the statement by the honourable the Minister for Customs and Excise,  Mr Chipp,  that the concept of censorship is abhorrent to all men and women who believe in the basic freedoms and that, as a philosophy, it is evil and ought to be condemned - 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that honourable members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will seek to ensure that Commonwealth legislation bearing on films, literature and radio and television programmes is so framed and so administered as to give the maximum freedom to adults to choose what they will watch, read and listen to, even in the face of pressure from those who seek to impose their ideas and morals on others who do not share them. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
by leave- Perhaps the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Snedden)  will give me information about travelling expenses. I did not notice in the Bill any provision for travelling expenses if meetings are to be held in the various cities, as J would imagine they will from time to time? 

 Mr SNEDDEN (Bruce- Minister for Labour and National Service) - by leave - Travelling expenses are fixed in a different way to sitting fees and do not need to be included in the Bill. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
The honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr Brown)  has censured the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass)  and the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  with quite predictable vigour, listing them as those with whom he is in some disagreement. The genena! consensus in an enlightened community and society today is that censorship is anathema to most people but for very different reasons. I support the general principle that it is anathema to most people. It is, in fairly simple terms, an intrusion into and upon the freedom of the individual. The Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  has quite properly addressed himself to a very difficult, delicate and contentious issue. I think he has done so with profound good sense and I hope that this debate will contribute - I feel sure it will - some positive suggestions and observations in an atmosphere of candour and an absence of emotion. However, I am prepared to concede that this is an emotional issue with many people and they are perfectly entitled to feel emotional about it. 
I think we should address ourselves to some of the key points of censorship. The first question we might ask is: Does censorship maintain or improve the morals of the community? This is very questionable. Censorship certainly might protect the community but I am extremely dubious whether it improves the moral standards of the community. The whole broad spectrum of censorship nowadays is extremely complex, particularly with the advent of the most powerful persuader - television. From the United States of America there has been conclusive evidence of the effects of excessive violence on television - the effect on the human personality and the development of that personality. I think this applies particularly to children. My own personal view is that we would be failing if we refused to accept this observation which has been carefully collated and assessed. In effect, the censor of television must be the parent who has a responsibility to assist in the moulding of character and attitudes. But is this the normal definition of censorship? I think it is generally accepted that the average person's concept of a censor is of a rather ogre-like figure lurking behind some extraordinary office door who issues an edict that a person will walch this film or will not watch it, or that he will read that book or will not read that book. 
Whilst we may have talked a lot about censorship in the past, many people in the community have refused to become involved with censorship in a meaningful discussion of its merits or otherwise. That the community is now accepting this challenge of provocative discussion and intelligent deliberation is, I think, a step in the right direction. I am somewhat concerned about the status and qualifications of the person who says to me: 'You will not read this' or 'You will not see that'. It may well be that in his assessment part of a film might launch him into depravity but it does not necessarily follow that it will launch me into a similar state of excitement. It is in this area that I suggest the Minister might give serious thought to the appointment of those in this field who have suitable qualifications rather than those who adopt a policeman's attitude. I make a plea in particular for the legitimate film festival of which I have had some experience in the past. It is very frustrating for a director of international reputation and standing to find, after having been invited to submit a film to this country, that X number of feet have been cut from the film by some very insensitive censor, thus totally mining what is in fact a genuine work of art. 1 have always been rather puzzled about how our censors decide what is and what is not a work of art. If one could readily decide that question in the commercial sense one would never have a failure at the box office. If we allow this kind of insensitivity to continue in regard to international film festivals we will become the laughing stock of such festivals and of distributors. I well remember a magnificent British film 'Room at the Top' which was cut and hacked in such a way by the censor that most delicate and sensitive scenes of great beauty and tenderness were completely destroyed, lt is this kind of heavy handed treatment by people who have no conception of the entire context of the finished product that does so much damage particularly in the field of film censorship. I turn now to literature. Many people to whom I have spoken are taken aback at the fact that a court of law is the final arbiter on literary censorship. To me, this is foisting on the courts an onerous burden with which they are not equipped to deal nor indeed, I suspect, are they very happy to accept. 
In an all-embracing discussion of censorship there is a tendency to overlook what censorship means to different people. To many people censorship is an attack on obscenity. Then how do we define obscenity? I know many people who think that the Venus de Milo is obscene. There are many people who think that Shakespeare is obscene. There are certain passages in Hamlet's scene with Ophelia which could be considered obscene by some people. The porter's scene in Macbeth could be labelled 'dirty and obscene' by some people. If those passages are taken out of context there would be some valid reason for that assessment, but as an integral part of the poetry, as an essential element of the drama, they are necessary and in many instances poetic and beautiful. I have no regard and little sympathy for pornography and obscenity for their own sake. I would never advocate the distribution of filth for filth's sake or obscenity for obscenity's sake. The thought of people getting rich, as indeed they do, by the exploitation of dirt and filth is to me abhorred in the extreme. 
Are our present methods, our techniques, our assessments and our approach to the whole field of censorship the right ones? I do not think they are. We have inherited a 19th century technique to deal with a 20th century problem of attitudes, environment and circumstances. That those attitudes are changing there can be no doubt. Public willingness to debate the question, as we are doing right now, and the media's preoccupation with it are testimony to the mounting pressures of society to improve and streamline our approach to a very difficult and contentious contemporary issue. But the dangers of heavy handed censorship in the hands of the state are terrifying to contemplate. Nazi Germany ls the classic example, a story so well known that to repeat it would be tedious. The censorship imposed by the Soviet Union on the great novelists of the day is an historical fact of great sadness to all who are interested in the propagation of man's artistic and creative ability and freedom. These are the forms of censorship which I find repugnant. 
The creative spirit and genius of' man cannot and should not be inhibited, restrained or controlled by a monolithic state big brother. I am unconvinced by those who advocate the complete abandonment of all the standards that have been set up and must afford some protection to certain areas of our community, particularly children. I say that I am as yet unconvinced but I can be convinced if the argument is logical, well presented and coherent. In my contribution to this debate I am advocating a departure from the Dickensian attitude which has prevailed in the matter of censorship, and the emergence of an attitude which can assist me and others to bring an enlightened and contemporary attitude to a very old and urgent problem. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Trade and Industry. I preface the question by saying that as a result of recent talks with British Ministers about the proposed entry of Britain into the European Economic Community one was given the very clear impression that such entry posed little or no problem for the great rural industries of this country. In view of this prevailing opinion I ask the Minister: What guarantees and assurances have been sought on Australia's behalf by this Government? Is this a continuing representation? If it is a continuing representation, how has the current thinking prevailed in the ranks of the British Government? Finally, even at this eleventh hour will the Minister in his forthcoming tour point out with some vigour to the British Government that the rural industries of this country face grave danger, and in particular that the rural industries of my State of Tasmania, for example, could face ruin if Britain does join the EEC, which now seems very likely? 
I will not detain the Committee more than a few moments because most of what T want to say has already been stated cogently and eloquently earlier this evening. However, there are one or two points I want to contribute at this stage of the debate. The honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns explained with his customary clarity and precision the point of view of the Labor Party relating to tariffs. The honourable member for Braddon (Mr Davies)  followed a similar pattern earlier this evening. One imagines always that a discussion on tariffs involves a fairly austere exercise in percentages and statistics. But this is not the only answer. Also involved in consideration of tariffs and industry generally is the question of human beings. I say that because people are closely concerned with decisions made in this Parliament. 
Decentralisation is not only a theory advanced by the Government; it is also a desirable theory which meets with much support throughout Australia. However, let me turn to specifics in this issue. Earlier this evening discussion centred around an industry in southern Tasmania. It is the only industry of its type in Australasia and therefore must be regarded as making some contribution to the economic wellbeing of Australia. For that reason alone it deserves sympathetic consideration. One honourable member opposite - I will not argue with him on the point - questioned precisely what was meant by 'economic efficiency'. Many interpretations could be placed on this expression but there are times when economic efficiency, profitable enterprises and profitability must take second place to the needs of the community. 
The whole history of Australian Commonwealth Carbide Co. Ltd in Electrona in southern Tasmania is most interesting. It has experienced extraordinary difficulties in its fight to survive. It has suffered many unnatural disasters which have made its survival even more difficult. As the honourable member for Braddon said, the disastrous bushfires that swept most of southern Tasmania in 1967 had a great effect on the industry. In 1967, 1968, and 1969 the industry faced further operational problems. But it still is the largest producer of carbide in Australasia. The company employs about 200 people in a remote region. If one tried to calculate how many people would be affected if the industry failed it would be a reasonable assessment that the number would be anything from 600 to 800. The geographical location of the industry makes it vital that at this stage of Tasmania's development it be sustained and maintained. It is in the centre of the fruit growing area of Tasmania. As all honourable members know, the Tasmanian rural industry is experiencing many difficulties and facing many problems. If anything is done to add to the difficulties of the only industrial enterprise in that part of the State it will not only create problems for the people in that area but also adversely affect the State's economy as a whole. Parallel with the problems of the rural industry are certain difficulties with this industrial undertaking. I believe that this undertaking has a case for sympathetic consideration for assistance to enable it to be sustained and maintained to continue its economic contribution to Australia. One of the problems of an island State like Tasmania is that often the economic contribution it makes to Australia tends to be disregarded in the national' Parliament.  1  feel, and I am certain that many honourable members from both sides feel, that this is an industry which is essential to the economy of Tasmania. It is essential also to the economy of the nation, and on that basis alone it deserves support at all times. 
When the Parliament is debating tariffs and discussing industry generally it is important not only to think of the economic viabilty of an undertaking but also to have regard to the problems that are created for many people and their families if anything is done to disrupt that industry. If we do anything to exacerbate the economic difficulties which Tasmania is presently experiencing, the people of Tasmania certainly will not thank us. Not only for the economic reasons or for economic stability but also for the human interest involved and the great disruption that would take place, on these grounds alone I say that the proposals for the next  2  years on tariffs and protection for the carbide industry in southern Tasmania should be retained and maintained and should receive the sympathy of this Parliament. 
Wisdom dictates that I should not follow the same pattern as my honourable friend, the member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly),  in speaking to this Ministers of State Bill introduced by the Prime Minister  (Mr 
McMahon). I want to make a few observations on this proposition. Basically it is simple. It is to increase the Ministry by one. The Opposition, as was pointed out by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  and the honourable member for Grayndler, will oppose the proposition and will give its reasons for such opposition. In the first instance one must ask the question: Is it necessary? If it is necessary, why is it necessary? Is it to produce greater efficiency in the Government? Is it designed to give the Aboriginal people a greater sense of belonging, a greater sense of justice or a greater sense of possession? Is it to give a greater impetus to the performing arts of this country? Will the environment become more attractive and pleasurable? The answer must be in the negative. 
The Bill merely lumps together a number of essential responsibilities into a Ministry that might well be named the Ministry of the Conglomerate. We may well pose the question: Why is this being done? Why is this proposition before the House at this stage? One suggestion that commends itself is that the Prime Minister is anxious to prop up his own tenuous position within the Liberal Party by handing out a further portfolio to ensure support and to add to the strengthening of the McMahon line. I merely make the point; I do not supply the answer. Is the Bill designed as a mild rebuke to the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth),  who has had the responsibility for Aboriginal affairs? While we on this side of the House do not agree readily that he has done all that we would have liked him to do, he has at least exhibited in that office a remarkable humanity in a very sensitive area. Could it be that this is a censure of a senator in another place in the field of tourist activity? Again I merely pose the question. 
The whole proposition really has been conceived in haste and is an absurdity even for this Government. Let me list briefly the responsibilities that will be assumed by the new Minister if this fatuous proposal succeeds. In his second reading speech the Prime Minister stated:   it will assist honourable members if  I  list the functions which at this stage will be under the administration of the new Minister. 
I crave the indulgence of the House because they are fairly extensive. He stated: 
These are: 
Aboriginal affairs, including responsibility for the Council for Aboriginal Affairs and the Australian Institute of Aboriginal Studies. 
Activities relating to the environment, including responsibility for the Office of the Environment. 
Activities relating to the arts and letters, including responsibility for - 
Australian Council for the Arts 
Australian National Gallery 
Commonwealth Art Advisory Board 
Commonwealth Literary Fund 
Commonwealth Assistance to Australian Composers Advisory Board 
National Library of Australia 
Commonwealth Archives Office 
Australian War Memorial 
Activities relating to the production of Australian films, including responsibility for the Australian Film Development Corporation - 
Yet the story has not run its course. He continued: 
Grants to national organisations 
National Radiation Advisory Committee 
He then referred to responsibility for the Government Printing Office and the Commonwealth Advertising Division. Finally he referred to the field of tourism, including the activities of the Tourist Commission. Having read that, do honourable members seriously believe that the impetus that is necessary in all these fields, in these areas of activity, can flow effectively from one Minister? It is not possible. We of the Opposition say that it is incredible that it has been proposed. This Bill is a diminution of the Aboriginal question. It is a downgrading of the importance of the performing and the creative arts, which was recognised by the former Prime Minister before he was unceremoniously removed from that high office. 
Let me deal briefly with the four key areas of responsibility - Aboriginal affairs, the arts, the environment and tourism. In his second reading speech the Prime Minister said: 
The effect of the successful referendum in 1967 was to give the Commonwealth Parliament power to make laws in relation to the Aboriginals, as it already could for the people of any other race. Following the overwhelming vote of the people the then Prime Minister,  Mr Holt,  judged that initially the administration by the Commonwealth of Aboriginal Affairs should be within the Prime Minister's responsibility. 
The present Prime Minister, while recognising the virtue of that decision, is now about to abrogate that responsibility. Will this new Ministry give more effect and a more humane consideration to the question of Aboriginal affairs than was given by the Minister for Social Services? I turn now to the field of the arts. The Commonwealth is becoming increasingly involved with and is giving assistance in a wide variety of forms to the arts and I have never disagreed with this in the House. I have welcomed it. The Prime Minister went on to say: 
I  have no doubt that this  is  widely welcomed. 
Indeed it is. He continued: 
We ought to continue to develop in this field and we will 
This again was put forward by the Prime Minister with great initiative and great sensitivity. The very office of Prime Minister gave the performing arts of this country a certain prestige that a new ministry will certainly not have. I turn now to this question of the environment. The Prime Minister said: 
An office to bring together and generally to superintend the Commonwealth's work and responsibilities in the environmental field is a new initiative, and an important one. 
I will digress here for a moment to say that it is an important issue - so important that the British Government has appointed a Ministry for the Environment with no other responsibilities. As the Leader of the Opposition pointed out very cogently and quite clearly, the time has now arrived in this country when the whole environmental question is deserving of a single Ministry with the subsequent responsibility that this will bring about. 
I turn now to tourism which again will be lumped into this great amalgam of ministerial responsibility. If the Government is really serious about its aspirations to continue and to expand the field of tourism surely to goodness this taking away from the existing set-up is a negative step. I quote now from the 1969-70 annual report of the Australian Tourist Commission merely to give some statistical evidence of the importance of tourism to this country. The report said: 
The total visitor inflow of 387,197 earned for Australia $119min foreign exchange during 1969. 
Preliminary figures for the financial year 1969- 70 indicate that receipts for that year were some 8127m and that visitor inflow totalled about 415,000. 
Is it sensible - indeed is it practical - to entrust to the responsibility of one man all these various, diverse and sensitive activities with the large amount of money that is involved? The Opposition suggests that it is not. Let us look at the responsibility of the Federal Government in the field of arts, that is, the performing arts and the creative arts. It is necessary to understand that these are divided into certain areas of activity within the community. For example, the Arts Council of Australia is organised, generally speaking, on a State basis and receives support from the States and this Federal Government. The function of this Council is to encourage the arts by arranging tours in rural and metropolitan areas of opera, ballet, drama and music companies, and to arrange a wide variety of exhibitions in rural and metropolitan areas. Its financial success, as I have pointed out, rests largely with the State and Federal Governments. 
I turn now to the Australian Council for the Arts, which is a different body altogether. It distributes Commonwealth money and advises the Commonwealth Government as to which groups should be assisted financially. Its functions and its access to financial resources are, of course, far greater than that of the Arts Council. For example, its allocation for the financial year 1969-70 was almost $3m. Basically its function is to study and report on the state of the various arts in this country. To elaborate a little further on this aspect of its operations, we have, for instance, overseas tours by Australian ballet companies which bring enormous prestige to this country by their artistic success and their great performances. We have had tours overseas by symphany orchestras, namely the Sydney and Melbourne Symphony Orchestras. The Melbourne Orchestra received distinguished and successful critical acclaim in the United States. Briefly that is an outline of the functions of these  2  distinctly different groups, although they hope to achieve the same ends in the creative and the performing arts. 
It can be readily seen that in view of these diverse functions, this channelling of Commonwealth money is a realisation by the Commonwealth that it has a very important role to play in the promotion of the performing and the creative arts in this country. I cannot accept that a Ministry that is a kaleidoscope of tourism, the environment and of so many other extraordinary sorts of responsibilities will be able to carry out effectively and efficiently the contribution and the assistance to the arts that was enunciated by the former Prime Minister, now the Minister for Defence  (Mr Gorton).  The proposed new Minister will be responsible for the Australian Film Development Corporation which is to be set up under legislation passed through this Parliament last year. As everybody knows, the Corporation will begin with an initial capital of Sim. Its function is to excite the imagination of indigenous producers and creative artists in this country. It was launched by the former Prime Minister. I praised the legislation when it was introduced. Once more the new Prime Minister has divested himself of this responsibility - for what reason we do not know. That is best known to himself. 
It can be readily seen from the figures I have quoted this afternoon that to propose that all these tasks be placed on the shoulders of one man is an extraordinary presumption of Homeric strength and an Everestian intellectual capacity. But specifically in the field of the arts it is disappointing and it will be a great disappointment to the Australian artistic scene. It is a retrograde step and it will create an impotence when we are crying out for virility in this area. It has in my view denigrated the importance of the creative arts that are deserving of, that should have and will have under a Labor government, their own ministry. It highlights the lip service paid by this Prime Minister to the arts and, indeed, to the environment generally. By this action in a very cynical political fashion with one stroke the Prime Minister has displayed an insensitivity which has been promoted by specific and selfish political desire to rally support to his Prime Ministerial future. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, I hope that the House will reject this measure. I hope that the nation will note that not one member of the Government Parties - I repeat, not one member - thinks this legislation brought into the House by their newly elected Prime Minister of sufficient importance even to speak on it. There has been a very strange silence indeed from a usual vociferous chorus on most issues. The silence of the Government members is, I suggest, very significant. These measures advanced by the Prime Minister in no way accord the priorities to the arts, to Aboriginal affairs or to the environment consistent with the needs and the aspirations of the Australian people in this, the last term of the century. On those grounds I ask the House to reject this anachronistic proposal. 
I ask the PostmasterGeneral whether he has seen the report in which  Mr Bruce  Gyngell, a very distinguished commercial television executive, has described the Australian Broadcasting Commission's current affairs programme This Day Tonight' as the best contribution to Australian television. I ask the Minister whether it is a fact that a cut back in this programme is now contemplated. If this is so, why is this being done to a programme that enjoys popular support to the extent of an audience of almost 1.5 million? If this decision is to be made, is it not a reflection on the ability, integrity and capacity of officers of the Australian Broadcasting Commission not only to compete with their commercial competitors but to surpass them in this field of television programming in informing the Australian people with regard to very important issues? 
In what year was that? 
States law at that time. In August 1963  Sir Garfield  delivered the G. L. Wood memorial lecture at Melbourne University. Among other things he said with respect to resale price maintenance that it had 3 aspects: The reselling of a product at a price fixed by agreement .between the resellers; the reselling of a product at a price fixed' by agreement between resellers and the manufacturer of the product; and a concerted refusal by resellers of a product to buy from the manufacturer unless he withholds, -supplies from a reseller who is offering competitive prices or terms to the consumer. 
It is very clear that  Sir Garfield  Barwick on many occasions outlined his proposals for restrictive practices legislation and always included proposals to ban vertical resale price maintenance. He did so under the auspices of the Government, after  Mr Menzies  had put such proposals to the people at the 1961 election and after they had been outlined at the opening of the Parliament in 1960 and 1961. It may be said cynically that it &lt;was&gt; inevitable that the Government would have to do something about company legislation and something about restrictive practices legislation in view of the unanimous recommendations in 1958 and 1959 of the 1 Constitution Review Committee. Nevertheless, after  Sir Garfield  became Chief: Justice - and there were people who said at the time that this was a great loss to the cause of banning restrictive practices, because it was thought that the best poachers often proved to be the best gamekeepers - the next AttorneyGeneral, the present ; Treasurer  (Mr Snedden),  brought in a trade practices Bill which had no reference to vertical resale price maintenance. 
In opening the debate on behalf of the Opposition, I moved an amendment to deplore the omission from the Snedden Bill of the proposals that ..had been reiterated again and again by .Sic Garfield Barwick, and especially the omission, of resale price maintenance. I quoted ,. instances from reports,- subsequent to  Sir .  Garfield Barwick's proposals, by Professor Grant as a royal commissioner in Tasmania, and by another' royal commission " that had been appointed by the Western Australian Government in the interim, and also, from legislation on the subject had'-been introduced in the interim by  Mr Ed  ward. Heath of the 
Conservative Government of Great Britain. At that time, I made quite an issue of the omission, especially of resale price maintenance, from the 1965 Bill. In fact, the Bill had been tabled in the House about a year before, and many persons, particularly the financial editor of the 'Sydney Morning Herald', had pointed out the enormity of this omission, its economic impact, and the fact that there were not the difficulties constitutionally in passing these proposals in regard to vertical resale price maintenance that there were in respect of many other aspects of. restrictive practices. 
 Nevertheless, every member of the Government Parties voted against the motion deploring the omission of this and other features of the Barwick proposals - the Menzies proposals. The present AttorneyGeneral  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  voted against them. Although he spoke in the debate, he did not mention resale price maintenance. He voted against the motion, drawing attention to it on the second reading. 
Mr.N. H. Bowen - You- appreciate that horizontal price maintenance' was included. 
Then, in Committee, I proposed to add to the Bill the very words of the Barwick proposals in relation to reseale price maintenance. I was giving honourable gentlemen on the Government side the opportunity to carry out their Leader's, promise to the people and to carry out the promises delivered at many learned and commercial gatherings by the former AttorneyGeneral, who is the present Chief Justice. But everybody on the Government side voted against the Barwick and Menzies proposals at that time. The present AttorneyGeneral voted against them, as did the honourable member for Bennelong, the honourable member for Henty, the present Prime Minister and the new Treasurer, who was the then . Attorney-General. In fact, the then Attorney-General, who is the present Treasurer, used this argument for rejecting the Barwick proposals on this point:  -Another point made by the Deputy Leader of the Opposition in his proposed amendment was that resale price maintenance has not been covered. In its collective sense it is covered. What is not covered is the individual will of a particular person who says: 'I want all my articles to be sold at a certain price.' - That individual is not assisted by the legislation to enforce that price, but if the price is not. observed he has the capacity to withhold supplies from' the person who is selling at the lesser price. I' think this is consistent with the philosophy of the Bill. 
The present Treasurer, who was then the Attorney-General, also said: 
The Government decided not to include individual resale price maintenance because it involves a situation where competitive forces are at work. 
The phrase appealed to .him, because he repeated it. He said: 
Individual resale price maintenance is not examinable because competitive forces are at work. 
I have gone through the history of the matter because the Barwick proposals were the 'old-fashioned and cumbersome' proposals which the present Prime Minister now ridicules. In fact, it. is a very late conversion that he has had to the cause of banning resale price maintenance. Let the public recall that the Barwick proposals, which were put thoroughly and exhaustively to the people - which  Mr Menzies,  as he then was, put to the people at an election - have been described by the present Prime Minister as old-fashioned and cumbersome. 
I have only one matter of detail in the Bill on which I wish to speak. There is still one escape clause. The provisions in the Bill relating to the so-called practice of 'loss-leadering' represent a real flaw and open the way for manipulation by suppliers to. evade the provisions of the Bill. 
The Attorney-General, in his speech justified the exemption of action against loss-leadering in the following terms: 
A re-seller engages in loss-leadering if he sells particular goods at a loss to attract custom or to promote his business in some way. The result of his so doing may well be to give the public an impression that the goods in question are of inferior quality, and this could be detrimental to the marketing prospects of the supplier. 
As against this view, one authority, Professor Yamey, has pointed out in a publication of the United Kingdom Institute of Economic Affairs that loss-leadering postulates  a  poor view of the competence of shoppers. Professor Yamey says that, while some retailers use loss-leaders with the intention of trapping the unwary, many  more  use it as a form of advertisement - which benefits shoppers directly - without the intention of deceiving them. 
 Professor- Yamey argues that, even if it is assumed that the continuation of loss-leader practices is harmful to some consumers, the elimination of price competition . is worse. However, resale price maintenance cannot eliminate loss-leader tactics using brand goods unless it covers all brand goods; and even then some classes of unbranded goods can be used to  defend  the same tactics. That view is expressed by not only Professor  Varney  but also in a detailed report , of the Canadian Restrictive Trade Practices Commission on loss leader selling in 1955. The Commission recommended that no action should be taken against lost leadering. It said that evidence indicated that cases of lost leadering were clearly insufficient to warrant legislation. The scepticism of Professor Yamey and the Canadians is well justified. The possible ambiguities are an interpretation of the section relating to lost leadering, giving the supplier too much power to misinterpret normal competitive practices as lost leadering. This section provides scope for circumvention of the intent of the legislation. 
There are many other shortcomings in this legislation. There are many invitations to smart operators to continue their exploitation of the public. Nevertheless, to move amendments to this legislation would delay it. We do not propose to vote against the legislation or to delay it. This is consistent with the Labor Party's attitude that it will support any improvement in the law on this subject. It will not resist - improvements because they are not perfect or because they are not contemporary with the laws in comparable countries. We have throughout the history of this legislation and the proposals supported bans on restrictive practices. This was our attitude in the Joint Select Committee on Constitutional Review. This was our attitude throughout the period when  Sir Garfield  Barwick was AttorneyGeneral. It was our attitude when the next Attorney-General introduced the legislation. It has also been the attitude of the Labor Party in the Federal Parliament and in the State parliaments ever since. 
The original proposal, as both  Sir Garfield  Barwick and  Mr Menzies,  as he then was, told the Parliament, the people and learned gatherings, was that the cooperation of the States would be sought. The operation of the States was never forthcoming except from Labor governments. The only companion legislation which has been passed was passed by the Tasmanian Labor Government, and, to everybody's surprise, it went through the Legislative Council as well as the Legislative Assembly in Tasmania. 
My question is addressed to the Postmaster-General. I preface it by indicating that many people in Tasmania were disappointed at the restricted television coverage of the Apollo XV moon mission. I ask: Will the honourable gentleman indicate whether some change in the PostmasterGeneral's Department's attitude with regard to the cost of the use of the Bass Strait coaxial cable link will receive his sympathetic consideration? The PostmasterGeneral will be well aware that the rate is based on a radial mile and that, on this basis, the transmission of programmes of national and international significance would cost the commercial television station in Hobart approximately $1,500 for each programme of one hour's duration, which would be out of the question economically. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, in this debate I want to support fully the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam).  It is an amendment which cogently and precisely highlights the paucity of thought and the pedestrian technique of a document which was delivered by the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  but which in fact was framed by the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  because of his insatiable desire to remove the last vestige of influence of the former Prime Minister, the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton).  The present Prime Minister had to eliminate all of the Gortonesque image.  His  actions of the past few months have almost completed his ruthless decimation of former colleagues. Indeed, the present Prime Minister might well be dubbed the political Plantagenet of the 20th century. 
Let us examine some facets of this document that we are current debating. Income tax has risen. This is in direct contradiction of the promise made by the former Prime Minister. Radio and television licence fees are to be increased. There are rises in postal and telephone charges. There are increases in the price of petrol. The cost of the so-called free prescriptions has been increased by 50c. Company tax is up by 5c in $1. These are the bald unpalatable facts that now face the great majority of wage and salary earners of this nation. Clearly the Government believes that the Treasurer is a better and more efficient custodian of the people's money than are the people themselves. Surely an extraordinary exercise in Liberal logic and philosophy! 
This Budget was conceived as an instrument to beat inflation but in all likelihood it will achieve the opposite effect and give birth to a Frankenstein that this Government will be unable to control. Already the effects of this Budget have been and are still being felt throughout the community. I pose the question: Does this Government, even in its saner moments, seriously suppose that the miserly increase of $1.25 to pensioners will not be eroded even before they receive it in October? Many hundreds of thousands of pensioners will not receive it at all. This was never announced or spelt out in the Budget Speech by the Treasurer. It was revealed only after sharp questioning by honourable members on this side. This is a piece of political deception unworthy even of this Government. 
To return to the problem of costs, our prices certainly will not wait until October. The spiral has already commenced. What extraordinary naivety this Government displays when it comes to the control of costs! It is never so reluctant when it comes to the control of wages. The plain simple fact is that pensioners and people on fixed incomes, such as superannuated persons, have become the whipping posts of this Government's policy year after year. It merely highlights the increasing need for a national superannuation scheme. Here one must have some sympathy for the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  - a man who has displayed some humanitarian instincts in this area but whose efforts have been thwarted by the Liberal juggernaut. He realises, however late, and concurs with the Opposition that pensioners and superannuated persons must at least be considered as first class citizens who are deserving of consideration and who should have their plight recognised with regard to the movements in the spiralling cost factor. 
Let me now turn to the very contentious area of education. This is one of the areas in which the Government is particularly vulnerable. It is vulnerable because it refuses to put its priorities in order - indeed if it has any priorities. What ramifications does this Budget have for the education scene in Tasmania? According to Press reports the Tasmanian authorities 'have been left hanging in the air' - a singularly undignified position. Let us look at the situation that exists in some of the poorer parish schools. This is an area of desperation. There is a small parish school in my electorate of Franklin. I would like to reveal its present situation - one which has certainly not been brought about by the great majority of parents who are in the main hard working people. They work hard for their school. I know how hard they work because I have been with them on many occasions in their fund-raising activities. The Sisters and lay preachers are utterly devoted to educating the children in this school. 
The financial plight of this school is staggering. It owes more than $100,000 in loan and interest repayments. This is an impossible situation - a monstrous situation in a so-called affluent society with which the Prime Minister is so smugly satisfied. This school will simply not survive. Only tonight I was informed that a number of Catholic schools in Tasmania will close because of the lack of finance. The real reason for this lack of finance is the inability or the refusal of this Government to put its priorities in order. One might well ask what has happened to the nationwide survey on education. It is to be hoped that this mysterious and reluctant document will be resurrected and presented to this Parliament with the same degree of alacrity with which the Minister for Education and Science  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  was restored to the family of Cabinet. 
Every Australian - I emphasise the words 'every Australian' - has a right to be fully and comprehensively educated without discrimination. For goodness sake let us have an end to Liberal humbug and evasiveness in the priority sphere of education. This nation now more than ever before needs the rich resources of human talent. Let us have the imagination and the energy to marshal that talent. The Leader of the Opposition has on many occasions spelt out the Opposition's policy on education. I will not repeat it but it is a pity that the Government cannot do the same. But I suppose it is reasonable to ask whether the Government has a policy at all on education. 
I now turn to the White Paper outlining the increased charges in the PostmasterGeneral's Department, lt is here that the impost has been most savage. There is hardly an area within the ambit of the activities of this Department which will not affect every man. woman and child in this country. If the Government is really serious in its oft stated policy of decentralisation - I am recalling the comments of the honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd)  - what will be the result of this Budget in the countryside? Efficient, streamlined and reasonable postal and telephone charges are absolutely essential in rural areas. These services are not a luxury. They are certainly not a luxury to my own constituents in rural areas. They are a necessity and these people should not be forced to forego them. With the current crisis in the rural areas of the electorate of Franklin these charges will merely exacerbate the situation. 
I want to deal with the Post Office costs with regard to the use of the coaxial cable service to Tasmania. I am following the points I was making during question time a week or so ago. The scale of charges operates on a system of so much per radial mile. The rate between the hours of 6 p.m. and 12 midnight from Monday to Sunday for relaying a one hour programme from Melbourne to Hobart would cost the commercial station in Hobart $1,600. This is a revenue-producing facility and it is absurd that it should be too expensive to use. The cost in the United States works out at 55c a mile per hour. The cost of tails, that is links, between the Post Office and the transmitting stations are extra. In the case of TVT in Hobart it costs $4,100 per annum for rental alone. I draw the Postmaster-General's attention to page 7 of the report of the Australian Broadcasting Commission for this year and I. ask him to charged for the use of coaxial and satellite study the comment on excessive prices television telecasts. 
In the time remaining to me in this debate 1 want to deal with the provision announced in this Budget for the arts. In the Treasurer's Budget Speech it rated 4 lines on page 14. I commend the brevity of the statement for the consideration of honourable members. I want to make it perfectly clear that I am not criticising the newly appointed Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts; quite the contrary. I wish him well. However, I repeat the criticism I made in this House when this multi-purpose Ministry was announced by the Prime Minister. It is an absurdity to include the important portfolio of the Arts - here I speak in the broadest terms - with that of Aboriginal Affairs, the Environment, Tourism and the multiplicity of activities for which this Minister is responsible. It is more than absurd; it is totally ludicrous. The former Prime Minister at least broke new ground. He attached great significance to the arts. The very office of Prime Minister added a prestigious dimension to the arts. The present structure merely adds to the diminution of artistic activity which is essential to our way of life and the quality of that life. 1 refer very briefly to the absence in this Budget of any announcement appropos of the national film and tele vision school. That seems to have evaporated into thin air. Of course, this was another concept of the former Prime Minister. The Australian Film Development Corporation legislation, introduced by the right honourable member for Higgins is a case in point. I should like to quote what the New South Wales State Government has up its political sleeve and I commend this to the Minister. The quote is from the 'Nation' of 21st August and is headed: 'Australian film - the three-pronged attack' and reads as follows: 
The Commonwealth's efforts to get an Australian film industry off the ground are on the point of being undermined by the New South Wales' State Government. In the past year, the Commonwealth has spent several hundred thousand dollars sponsoring experimental films, and its Australian Film Development Corporation, initially capitalised at one million dollars, started operations. ... Of this three-pronged attack on local film making- 
These are the proposals of the New South Wales Government - the proposal to amend the 'Australian quota' legislation in New South Wales, which constitutes about a third of the country's film market, has alarmed local makers the most. These amendments threaten to come on top of a continued nonenforcement of the existing provisions. 
Ironically, the announcement of the activities of the New South Wales Government was released not in this country but in London. With the concurrence of honourable members I incorporate in Hansard extracts from this article. 
In deference to your wishes,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  I withdraw the remark. But it certainly is a clear indication of the absence of temperament that makes the right honourable gentleman unlit to lead this nation.  His  disastrous sortie into piscatorial prose to describe the Leader of the Opposition being played like a trout by  Mr Chou  En-lai was answered superbly by the  Deputy  Leader of the Oppos tion  (Mr Barnard)  when he described the Prime Minister as a 'stunned mullet'. He has been like a fish out of water ever since. The Government that he so tenuously leads is in disorder and disarray. It is discredited on all fronts. He is a monumental disaster for his Party and, worst of all, for this nation. The Prime Minister is adept in the art of concealing that which is not worth finding. He has thrust himself into power in a most devious and ruthless fashion. He has neither the capability nor the capacity to lead this nation as it goes forward to an exciting, stimulating and rewarding future. Australia has no place at this time for a leader of his undoubted and proven mediocrity.  His  own Party cannot afford him. The Parliament cannot afford him. The electorate must reject him. The people of Australia have not deserved such incompetence. This nation simply cannot afford to be wedded to a calamity. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of . . . electors of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
that the United Nations General Assembly Resolution 2603 XXIV A (December 1969) declares that the Geneva Protocol of 1925, which Australia has ratified, prohibits the use in international armed conflict of any chemical agents of warfare - chemical substances whether gaseous, liquid or solid - employed for their direct toxic effects on man, animals or plants; 
that the World Health Organisation Report (January 1970) confirms the above definition of chemical agents of warfare; 
that the Australian Government does not accept this definition, but holds that the Geneva Protocol does not prevent the use in war of certain toxic chemical substances in the form of herbicides, defoliants and 'riotcontrol' agents. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray: 
that the Parliament take note of the concensus of international political, scientific and humanitarian opinion; and 
that Honourable Members urge upon the Government the desirability of revising its interpretation of the Geneva Protocol, and declaring that it regards all chemical substances employed for their toxic effects on man, animals or plants as being included in the prohibitions laid down by that Protocol. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received- 
 Due to the lateness of the hour and the fact that we have had a fairly wide ranging debate on this Bill I will restrict my comments and take only about 5 minutes to refer to one or two matters in which I am particularly interested. The PostmasterGeneral  (Sir Alan Hulme)  in his second reading speech listed 3 reasons why it is necessary to increase charges made by the Post Office. He included the development of the Darwin booster station for Radio Australia. That is an excellent project and I have no argument with it. He also included the extension of television translator services to the lesser populated country areas and that is the aspect with which I wish to deal, because it is one that interests me greatly. 
I do not want to do an injustice to any honourable member who has spoken in this debate, but I think it was the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)  who referred to translator television services. There appears to be a misconception about the problems of clarity and quality of programmes emanating from translator services. They are related not so much to distance as to the terrain over which the signal is transmitted. For example, high powered television transmission at Hobart is unable to produce a satisfactory picture in some areas only 5 or 6 miles away, due to the nature of the terrain. On the other hand it quite often happens that transmission from Melbourne television stations is received with great clarity and detail in northern Tasmania. That underlines the point I wish to make, that it is not a question of distance but of terrain. 
I want to deal more specifically tonight with a problem in my electorate, in a rural area in the southern part of Tasmania. 1 am referring to the area which includes Dover, Cygnet and Geeveston. I wish to thank the Postmaster-General for his courtesy in dealing with representations T have made to him over the past few months. I concede that it is a difficult area of rugged terrain, but commercial and national television services have been operating in southern Tasmania for over 10 years and the people in that particular part of my electorate feel, I think with some justification, that they should be considered for an adequate television service, particularly by commercial stations. They are not receiving this service at the moment. 
We have made representations, to which I have already alluded, to the PostmasterGeneral. Of course, the problem here is the lack of technicians available to the Broadcasting Control Board to carry out the necessary field work. I merely want to underline again the importance of providing people in rural and isolated areas with the same facilities as are provided in the metropolitan areas and the capital cities. This is a facility to which they are entitled. It is a facility for which they have to pay. Under this Bill they will have to pay extra money, and they are entitled to the same quality of picture and the same quality of entertainment as are provided to the people in the capital cities. So 1 urge the Postmaster-General to consider this position in relation to that part of my electorate in which these people have been denied an adequate television service for well over 10 years. 
I conclude with a brief comment on the financial structure as it is within the PostmasterGeneral's Department, with reference to the finances of the Australian Broadcasting Commission. The inhibitions and strictures imposed on the Australian Broadcasting Commission to project in any detail and with any imagination its programme requirements into the future are the result of the present financial structure or the budgetary techniques. No great commercial enterprise - indeed, the Australian Broadcasting Commission is no exception - can possibly make a projection of programme requirements and programme commitments, both in quality and in quantity, with the present financial stricture of having to work within the framework of budgetary announcements every year. [ suggest to the Postmaster-General, and indeed to the Government as a whole, that it might be well worth considering that as we have this vast enterprise of the Australian Broadcasting Commission which is required by legislation to provide not only entertainment but also a very broad range of requirements for contemporary consumption it would be well worth while to consider coming to some alternative arrangement of financial allocation to enable the Commission to carry out its functions. At the moment it is restricted and inhibited because it can make no long term projection in relation to planning, policy matters and programming. In conclusion I pay a tribute to the officers and the various members of the Australian Broadcasting Commission for carrying out with great integrity and with great skill the very difficult task that they perform in spite of the immense opposition both inside and outside this chamber. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be omitted  (Mr Crean's amendment)  stand part of the question. 
Has the Prime Minister received a communication from the Premier of Tasmania asking the Common wealth Government to establish a single national fruit marketing authority? If the Commonwealth is not prepared to establish such an authority will it give financial support so that such a scheme can be established by the Tasmanian Government? Finally, when does the Prime Minister expect to be in a position to indicate what the Commonwealth's decision is likely to be? 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I want to make a comment about a remark made by the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles).  It was made with his customary charm. He said, in accusing the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson),  that people in his State would not accept the proposition being put forward by the honourable member for Dawson. I would remind the honourable member for Angas that he should familiarise himself with a statement made by his own State Premier. 
Despite the interjection of the honourable member for Angas, his State Premier has indicated that in the long term he would support the proposition put forward by the Premier of Tasmania for a single national marketing authority. That disposes of that. In supporting the amendment moved by the honourable member for Dawson I do so with the desire not to impede or to obstruct the legislation before the House, but rather as one motivated by a very deep concern for the future of this industry which affects thousands of people in my own State and more particularly in my own electorate. Indeed, it affects the whole economy of the State of Tasmania and the future of the welfare of so many of the people of that State. The Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  in his second reading speech on 19th August 1971 summed up the aims of the Bill, I think, in the final paragraph when he said: 
I said earlier that this stabilisation scheme will not solve all the industry's problems. However I believe it is a fair and just scheme and will give the industry considerable assistance. 
We of the Opposition very sincerely hope that in fact the Minister's hopes will be realised. We might at this stage ask: Why is this Bill necessary? What problems have brought about the current crisis? Let there be no mistake - it is a crisis. But tonight I want to deal in the main with 2 points in particular that I think are germane to the issues involved. The first is the marketing of the product and the second is the recurring cost structure, with particular regard to freights. Of course first of all there is the cost of commodities such as chemical spray materials which I shall mention later. Let me first of all deal with marketing techniques or rather the absence of marketing techniques. 
The overwhelming majority of growers in Tasmania have now realised and acted upon the realisation that an apple and pear marketing authority is their prime hope of survival. 
It is indeed their only hope, as my good friend from Riverina interjects. The growers have been well aware of the fragmentation of marketing and they have presented sound and concise suggestions for development and organisation of the marketing techniques. They have had representatives in New Zealand looking at the obvious advantages enjoyed by that country. They have co-operated admirably with the Tasmanian State Government in the inquiry conducted by the Grant Committee which was referred to by my colleague, the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Duthie).  They have urged the implementation of the Committee's recommendation for the establishment of a single marketing authority. Let me repeat that the great and overwhelming majority of the growers in the industry have urged the Tasmanian Government to implement the recommendation of the Grant report. 
Predictably, the Tasmanian Government has stubbornly refused to act upon this. So it can be seen quite clearly that the industry is very well aware of the difficulties and has acted and is continuing to act in a responsible manner. Therefore it is somewhat surprising and, I think, distressing to hear that the Minister in Hobart only on Monday of last week offered the growers a rather gratuitous piece of advice. He said to them: 'You put your house in order.* This is precisely what they are attempting to do. The very real tragedy is that this industry is dominated by a contingent of exporters who call the tune season after season. It is very interesting to note that the Australian Apple and Pear Board announced over the weekend that it will issue only one export licence for the State of Tasmania. This has been referred to by previous speakers. It is a very radical move. It may well be successful. We hope it is. 
The precise details are as yet unknown and therefore it would be premature to make any detailed comment on it. But I have been informed as late as this evening that the Australian Apple and Pear Board has confirmed that this decision is unanimous and will operate. But it can be clearly demonstrated that the existing marketing system has failed - and failed abysmally. The growers recognise this fact and they have acted accordingly. In my view, they have acted correctly and acted courageously. The examples of New Zealand, South Africa and British Columbia are there for all of us to see. It is time we took note of their success and of our own continuing failures and weaknesses in marketing techniques. 
I turn briefly now to the question of freights. The very geographical isolation of Tasmania has always rendered it vulnerable to the whims and the fancies of the overseas shipping companies. Freight is perhaps the highest single cost factor involved in the export of apples and pears. The final indignity was perpetrated last week when, in a take it or leave it, gun at the head attitude, it was conveyed to the industry that unless a 24 per cent increase in freight rates was forthcoming the shipping lines would have nothing to do with it. This matter, as I understand it, is unresolved. I would urge the Minister and the Government to act decisively and responsibly with regard to this blatant piece of economic blackmail, because that is precisely what it is. 
Tasmania does not enjoy and has never enjoyed the largesse bestowed upon the mainland States in the field of road and rail subsidies. 1 make an appeal in this speech for a total freight freeze for the Tasmanian fruit industry and, if not a freight freeze, then a subsidy to protect the economy and welfare of the Tasmanian people. Other States have enjoyed this privilege. Why should Tasmania be left out and isolated? Tasmania is vulnerable and becomes more so with each succeeding day. The performance of the Tasmanian industry with regard to its loading rates is excellent, lt has one of the best records in the nation. There is an industrial harmony during the season that should be a model for the rest of the nation. Here I think it apppropriate to quote a letter which demonstrates that very point. It is a letter from the acting  chairman  of the State Fruit Board of Tasmania,  Mr Clark,  to the secretary of the Hobart branch of the Waterside Workers Federation, which appeared in the 'Australian' last week. I would like honourable gentlemen on the other side of the House to listen to this, because so often in this House we hear about the outrageous behaviour of the trade unions with regard to primary industry.  Mr Clark  said that Tasmanian loading rates were the highest in Australia for fruit cargoes. He went on to say: 
The industry achieved an average loading rate throughout Australia of 13,064 bushels, thus becoming entitled to a 7c per bushel rebate. 
The interesting thing is that southern Tasmania again topped the list with a daily rate of 15,156 bushels.  Mr Clark  went on to express his appreciation in writing to the Waterside Workers Federation for its co-operation. This point must be mentioned because it clearly demonstrates that all facets of the industry are conscious, are well aware, that the prosperity of the State is paramount, and they act in a totally responsible fashion. We all know of the great many problems that confront the industry. They are many and manifold. In 1967 the disastrous bushfires caused havoc in this particular industry. Now some of the growers are finding that the repayment of fire loans is creating tremendous problems for them. I would like to suggest that the Federal Government write off these fire loans. On top of the hail and frost damage the growers in Franklin have no hope at all of meeting this crippling extra burden. 
I want to turn now to the very human problems involved - the depopulation of many areas, the pressures on families, the dislocation, the frustrations and the uncertainties that will emerge if we continue to denude the rural areas. The figures I have are not up to date because it is impossible to get the immediate figures; but they do give a very clear indication of what is happening in that part of the electorate In the Huon area which, as the Minister and many honourable members will be well aware, is the heart of the fruit growing area of Franklin and indeed of southern Tasmania, the population stood at 5,460 in 1961. It is now down below 5,000. In Cygnet the population has dropped to about 2,400. In the general area, in a period of 9 years, the loss from this industry alone is well over 1,000 people and is continuing daily. It is not a single, isolated effect that occurs. It is not merely a fruit grower leaving. It is the effect it has throughout the economy. The butcher, the baker and the candlestick maker all are affected when this mass migration continues to occur within the rural sector. This trend is accelerating. 
In talking with people in the electorate in the last few days, I could see and appreciate the heartbreak of a great industry being destroyed by external forces and circumstances. On this very problem of depopulation this Government has long proclaimed on numerous occasions its belief in decentralisation. We now have the spectre of rural ghost towns, of agricultural wastelands, as people are being forced to the great city environments, not of their own volition but because of Government ineptitude in policy. Is this the legacy of Liberal-Country Party rule? Is this the great vision of decentralisation, when people are forced out of an industry they have created with their own vigour, their own intelligence, and their own capability and capacity, to an environment that they do not want and an environment that is incapable of supporting them? 
The apple and pear industry in Tasmania has made a very great contribution to the welfare of this nation, and the people in that industry want the opportunity to continue to do just that - and they have every right to continue. They are people of immense courage and determination, and they are people of undoubted skill. They have produced the world's best product and they have a right to sell it. They have a right to sell it because twothirds of the world at the moment is underfed and is crying out for food. It seems to me to be a most paradoxical and ludicrous situation that here we are denuding the rural areas, telling people not to produce, when in point of fact in 2 or 3 years time we may be saying precisely the opposite. 
Perhaps less than that. Growers in the towns in my electorate will and can produce the goods if this national Parliament and this national Government give the visionary leadership that is so vital. Let me make one brief comment on the costs of chemical spray materials, for example, lt can be seen, by reading the relevant documents that are available, that in New Zealand growers pay up to 50 per cent less for their chemical spray materials than do my own growers in Franklin. Of course this is a situation that exacerbates an existing problem - one problem on top of another. I hope that the Government will move with some alacrity and that its mobility will be in evidence. I hope that there will be more alacrity in evidence than that displayed by the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  in this House last week when I asked him a question about the national marketing authority and he did not know anything about it. 
He lost the letter. He mislaid his mail. The Premier of Tasmania, I have no doubt, was not very happy with that little bit of delightful news and carelessness that he received from the Prime Minister. Time is no longer on the industry's side. I know from personal experience that this industry will respond and can respond. It is up to this Government to evoke that response with an understanding of and a sensitivity to this industry's problems. The industry needs decisive and determined action, and it needs such action now and not in the future. On that basis I support the amendment moved by the honourable member for Dawson. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Cope)Does the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented? 
Yes, I do. I am reluctant to join with my good friend from Maranoa  (Mr Corbett),  but I must put the record straight. In his speech the honourable member said that he was surprised that Tasmanian members and he included me specifically by naming my electorate opposed this legislation. May I direct his attention, in order to set the record straight, to my speech whichI delivered last night in which I said: 
In supporting the amendment moved by the honourable member for Dawson I do so with the desire notto impede or to obstruct the legislation before the House. . . . 
Further in my speech I quoted from the second reading speech delivered by the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair).  The Minister had stated: 
I said earlier that this stabilisation scheme will not solve all of the industry's problems. However I believe it is a fair and just scheme and will give the industry considerable assistance. 
Following that quotation, I said: 
We of the Opposition very sincerely hope  that  in fact the Minister's hopes will be realised. 
Merely to set the record straight I state that at no time have I indicated that I was opposing this legislation; I simply support the amendment moved by the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson). 
1 merely want to reinforce what the honourable member for Braddon  (Mr Davies)  has said with regard to escalating costs. I can assure the Minister for Primary Industry that this projection is not one of the Opposition's inventiveness but is the wish of the industry. I am quite certain that he would be prepared to accept that proposition. As the honourable member for Braddon has said, it is quite true that only last week I met almost 300 growers who were quite unanimous in seeking that the escalation clause be included in this Bill. I have some sympathy for the Minister who has made the explanation that, because of some constitutional constriction as applied by the Senate, he is unable to include the clause in the way indicated. I fail to recognise the validity of this argument or proposition. I can only put my own view on this. 
The Minister has been responsible for the introduction of the legislation into this chamber and it is quite absurd that he is not also endowed with the responsibility to make a variation or addition to the legislation. I find it very difficult to go into the electorate, with all due respect to the Minister, and give the electors - that is, the industry - the answer that the Minister has given us here in this chamber this afternoon. They will not understand the constitutional complexities. If they do not understand them then they will possibly reject the Minister's answer. Let me say merely that I reinforce the comments of the honourable member for Braddon in relation to the particular problem that we have. 
In conclusion let me put 2 questions l-"&gt; the Minister with regard to freights, because they are relevant to this clause. I would like the Minister to state, if he has the information available, what position currently prevails in the freight rate negotiations which were the subject of discussions last week? Can the Minister confirm that an American shipping consortium has offered to ship the Tasmanian apple and pear exports for the next season at the rates that prevailed last year? If he can give me some indication as to what level these discussions have reached we can then go out and tell the people that the escalation we are talking about is at least receiving prime consideration and we are hopeful that the problem can be resolved in a satisfactory way. 
I will not keep the House more than a couple of minutes. What has been said is, I think, very true. I draw the attention of the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  to the wording of the sub-clause which the Opposition seeks to have inserted after sub-clause (2.) of clause 11. It is: (2a.) The rate of a stabilisation payment provided for in the preceding sub-section, especially the figure of 4,400,000, will be reviewed each year prior to the establishment of the support price for that season. 
I suggest to the Minister that the word reviewed' is a soft word. It is a conciliatory word. It is not a fearsome demand. Its acceptance will not affect the legislation inherently. The amendment merely asks for a review. I think that this is a reasonable request to make. 
In supporting the amendment that has been moved by the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  I point out that the honourable member stated our case clearly and concisely. That case has been supported by the honourable member for Braddon  (Mr Davies)  and the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Duthie).  If the Minister for Primary Industry can detach himself from his conversation for just a brief second, I want to indicate to him that this word 'review' is not some sort of magical word which we on this side of the chamber have plucked out of the air. I shall read to him the resolution which was passed by the industry last week. It reads as follows: 
That whilst this conference- 
That is the conference of the Apple and Pear Growers Federation- strongly supports the industry authorities in their approach to the Federal Government seeking stabilisation scheme support of 80c per bushel on up to 7,500,000 bushels shipped at risk it is of the opinion that the stabilisation support price should be adjusted if necessary, to a figure in excess of 80c and sufficient to provide a coverage of additional costs including any increased overseas freight charges. 
The Opposition is not plucking this word review' out of the air. The industry itself is making the proposal. I suggest with all respect to the Minister that his own office would make demands upon him to consider the request of an industry even if he would not consider the request contained in the amendment moved by the Opposition. I suggest that if the Minister and the Government are not prepared to accept this amendment then they are in fact rebutting and rejecting the overwhelming desire of the industry in Tasmania for the very thing that we are proposing in the amendment. I strongly support the amendment. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts. I ask: Is it a fact that the recommendation of the film committee of the Australian Council for the Arts indicated that the capital cost of the establishment of a national television and film training school would be $400,000? If so, how was this figure arrived at? Is it also a fact that the annual running costs .were estimated by the same body as being $200,000? On whose advice was it producing this set of figures? Finally, has the Government received any communication from the Federation of Australian Commercial Television Stations indicating its total opposition to the establishment of such a school? 
May I congratulate the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  on his concise exposition of this subject. As a matter of fact, he has almost made my speech totally unnecessary but I reassure the House that there was no collusion between us. Time will not allow me to develop the theme that I wished to develop, the right honourable member has done a very expert job in that respect. I applauded the concept of this film and television school in this place when it was first announced and 1 still hope that it will become a living thing. I agree entirely with what the right honourable gentleman has said, but I want to know precisely what the Government intends to do. Does it intend to continue in the procrastination in which it is now indulging? 
In the question that 1 put to the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts  (Mr Howson)  this afternoon, I asked specifically had he had any communication from the Federation of Australian Commercial Television Stations. 1 would like to quote from the report of that organisation in 1969, because it is relevant. That report states at page 24: 
Commercial television licensees believe the school to be unnecessary, and would of course, strongly oppose any suggestion that the setting up of such a school, which they do not wantshould involve financial duties or levies imposed upon them. 
On the same page it states: 
Three members of the Australian Committee for the Australian Film and Television Training School have recently conducted an on the spot survey in several countries of the requirements for such a school. The ultimate recommendations to the Government will be studied with interest, but if those recommendations follow the lines already suggested by 5 of the 8 members pf the Committee, in their Australian Council for the Arts Committee capacity, this industry will continue its objections to the necessity for  a  school involving the training of television creative personnel. 
I want to relate this statement to a statement that the same organisation made just a short time before when the groundswell was developing for an increase in the Australian content in television, which I have continually advocated and will go on advocating. This same organisation in a contradictory statement said that it was unable to provide an increased local content because it did not have the technical expertise due to lack of training. But when it is given the opportunity to engage in this training that provides" the skill and expertise - and believe me expertise and skill are needed in this business - it says it is totally opposed to any school which will give it that skill. What an extraordinary statement to make. I will not deal any further with it because I want to turn now to the Film Development Corporation. 
When this proposal was announced by the right honourable member for Higgins in his capacity as Prime Minister - I will quote from his second reading speech because in this Budget there has been no allocation at all to the initial amount of $lm that was provided - he said: 
 This Bill will fulfil the Government's undertaking to assist the Australian film industry, lt provides for the establishment of an Australian Film Development Corporation which will administer a fund with an initial capita] of $lm. 
He continued: 
It may also, subject to ministerial approval, participate in the formation of a company for the distribution of Australian films. 
That is another very important point. He went on to say: 
A flourishing film industry in Australia will employ talented Australian writers, artists, directors, actors, musicians and technicians. 
That is a conclusion and an aspiration with which 1 entirely agree. 
What do we see the New South Wales Government doing? In that State the film quota has been set at 2.S per cent but it has never been observed. The New South Wales Government has admitted this. In fact, the last time the quota was strictly observed in New South Wales - and this is the State which has a population greater than any other - was back in the 1930s in the halycon days of Cinesound Productions, Dad and Dave and Dave Rudd. It has not been observed since then but now the New South Wales Government is proposing to reduce even further the quota that is required. This will immediately have the effect of torpedoing this Film Development Corporation legislation. It does not matter how good the films are or how much money you have spent on them, you have to ensure that you have distribution for the product. If you cannot get distribution in our most populous State, where will the situation end? 
Strangely enough this announcement of  a  reduction in the quota was made not in this country but in London by a  Mr Hay-  ward who formerly held an executive position in the Greater Union movie house chain which is half owned by the Rank Organisation of the United Kingdom, lt was reported that  Mr Hayward  had been carrying out investigations connected with the film industry on behalf of the Government of New South Wales and had been seen at Greater Unions' London office. It was also reported that he had recommended 2 amendments to the New South Wales quota provisions, and I want to underline these. The first was that 3 documentaries of at least 20 minutes each should be counted as one feature film. The second recommendation was that co-production films - here he was very vague about what he meant by co-production - should be taken into the quota. He did not spell out how such films should be counted and one possible interpretation is that they will be counted as fully equal to an Australian production. Our local film makers and other people connected with the industry are quite rightly very concerned with this, including John Mccallum who is producing some of our most efficient television and feature films. 
What disturbs me with regard to this Film Development Corporation is that in the main the grants awarded have been for television and not for feature films for the cinema which, I suggest, is contrary to the expectations of the right honourable member for Higgins when he introduced this Bill. The quota system in this country is really totally ineffective. It has hardly ever been observed. 1 suggest the time has come when it should be observed because if it is not, as I said earlier, the whole of this fine concept of using the very rich and diverse talents in this country will be entirely wasted. In conclusion, may I, say that I am very deeply concerned that the initiative and the enterprise and, indeed, the genuine concern which motivated the right honourable member for Higgins to launch this enterprise that I have all tpo. briefly mentioned seem to me to be in a state of total emasculation, if not total abandonment, and that, as far as I am concerned, is a grave blow to our creative and ' artistic capacity. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members ot the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That Lake Pedder, situated in the Lake Pedder National Park in South-West Tasmania, is threatened with inundation as part of the Gordon River hydro-electric power scheme. 
That an alternative scheme exists, which, if implemented would avoid inundation of this lake. 
That Lake Pedder and the surrounding wilderness area are of such beauty and scientific interest as to be of a value beyond monetary consideration. 
And that some unique species of flora and fauna will be in danger of extinction if this area is inundated. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Federal Government take immediate steps to act on behalf of all Australian people to preserve Lake Pedder in its natural state. All present and particularly future Australians will benefit by being able to escape from their usual environment to rebuild their physical and mental strength in this unspoilt wilderness area. And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned respectfully sheweth: 
That death from mass starvation and disease is occurring among Pakistan's refugees on a scale unprecedentedin modern history. 
That, as part of the world community, the Australian Government has an immediate responsibility for concerted action. 
That present Government aid to the refugees in India is meagre and shameful for a country of Australia's position and wealth. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled, should: 
Increase monetary aid for the refugees in India to at least $10,000,000 immediately and make provision for a further and extra grant for the victims of the famine in East Pakistan. 
Grant tax deductibility to donations of $2 and over to Australian voluntary agencies working with the refugee problem. 
Ensure that the Australian Government does all in its power to help bring about a political settlement which would be acceptable to the people of East Pakistan. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
My question is also directed to the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts. Did the Prime Minister in his statement on Tuesday night on the national film and television training school express the hope that the tabling of reports and other papers would ensure that 'the whole matter can be looked at fairly and squarely'? Did the Prime Minister omit to table the letter which the Minister received from the  Chairman  of the Interim Council setting out the Council's dissatisfaction with the reports of P.A. Management Consultants Pty Ltd? Did he omit to table the transcript of discussions between the Interim Council and P.A. Management Consultants and a supplementary report subsequently prepared by the consultants in collaboration with the Interim Council members? Will the Minister now, in conformity with the Prime Minister's hope, table this additional indispensable material? 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice:  (!) On what date (a) did he receive a letter from the Premier of Tasmania asking the Commonwealth Government to establish a single national fruit marketing authority and (b) was the letter referred to the Minister for Primary Industry. 
Has the Premier been advised of the action taken; if so, when. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That Lake Pedder, situated in the Lake Pedder National Park in south-west Tasmania, is threatened with inundation as part of the Gordon River hydro-electric power scheme.  That an alternative scheme exists, which, if implemented would avoid inundation of this lake. 
That Lake Pedder and the surrounding wilderness area is of such beauty and scientic interest as to be of a value beyond monetary consideration. 
And that some unique species of flora and fauna will be in danger of extinction if this area is inundated. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pi ay that the Federal Government take immediate steps to act on behalf of all Australian people to preserve Lake Pedder in its natural state. All present and particularly future Australians will benefit by being able to escape their usual environment to rebuild their physical and mental strength in this unspoilt wilderness area. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
At last the procrastination has been halted, even if only temporarily. I want to address myself to what I consider to be the nub of this whole issue. The Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  on assuming office made a declaration that in fact he was to be a Cabinet man and he has reinforced that statement from time to time. This particular letter was in the possession of the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts  (Mr Howson)  and the Cabinet when they met on 25th October. The question asked by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  on 14th October made no restriction in terms of time.It merely asked whether the Prime Minister would table all documents and reports relevant to the film and television training school to determine whether the Minister's figures were accurate. There was no restriction as to time; he was just asked to table all relevant documents and reports. The Minister had this letter in his possession, as he informed us in his statement, and yet this presumably was not discussed in Cabinet by the Prime Minister who on 26th October - the day after - made a long and detailed statement at 8 p.m. in this House on this very issue. 
It is totally inconceivable to me that this matter was not discussed in Cabinet on 25th October; I cannot accept any statement asserting that this was not discussed on 25th October because, as I mentioned, the Prime Minister came into this House on 26th October and said: 
I have stated the position in some detail and 1 have tabled reports and other papers so that the whole matter can be looked at fairly and squarely. 
That is what the Prime Minister said, yet on the day before he and the Minister had this letter in their possession, and they are asking me to believe that this was not discussed at Cabinet level. Subsequently, the 
Prime Minister came into this House and tabled all documents but this one which in fact was received on 20th October. 
This is an extraordinary situation. The Prime Minister is seeking to have honourable members, the nation and - it appears  -  the entire world, believe that he is a Cabinet man. What are we to believe? This letter was not tabled with the other papers in this Parliament at 8 o'clock on 26th October and that is the reason why I say that there has been too much procrastination on this issue. All the relevant documents should have been tabled at that time because they were in the Minister's possession. This is yet another classic example of a total breakdown of communication between Ministers and the Prime Minister. This is yet another example of the de-Gortonisation programme that is taking place with this project which was introduced by the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton),  which I supported in this House and which I will go on supporting. But I will not accept that this document which was in the hands of the Minister was not discussed in Cabinet and therefore it should have been tabled in this House at 8 o'clock on 26th October. 
Due to the restriction on time I shall have to confine my remarks today to just 2 or 3 areas that fall within the general responsibility of the Postmaster-General  (Sir Alan Hulme).  Firstly, I would like to have a look at the question of the appointment of commissioners to the Australian Broadcasting Commission. If 1 remember correctly, the Act provides that there will be 9 commissioners, and I think at least one of them has to be a female. I believe, further, that all States are represented on the Commission at the moment. But what 1 would like to determine is what criteria are applied when the selection of a commissioner is made. If my statistics are correct and current, the average age of our commissioners at the moment is about 61 years. Of course, I would not criticise them on this issue alone. Indeed, they may well be bringing a maturity and wisdom to their various offices but it does seem to me that the overriding qualification at the moment is rather restrictive. They are being drawn from the academic field, the community service field and, to some extent, from the business world. I suggest to the Minister that perhaps he would be generous enough to give some thought before he leaves his office to whether this is a good enough representation to control, to advise and to handle the very complex and expensive but very dedicated organisation of the ABC. It seems very strange to me that, for example, the latest appointee to the Commission is in fact a Victorian member of the Country Party with no particular distinction in the field of broadcasting. 
That in itself may be a very great distinction; I would not be prepared to debate that point with my colleague. But the essential point I am making is that I feel that perhaps the time has come when a general review of the appointment of commissioners to the ABC might well be considered with regard to the knowledge they would have of the broadcasting and television systems of the ABC. It seems to me fundamental that if we have this vast and complex organisation manned, of course, by very dedicated officers, it would be logical that certainly a percentage of those commissioners should have  a  very intimate knowledge of how the 
Commission functions as a broadcasting and communications system in this country. I make these observations not as criticism of the existing commissioners. As I say, they may be carrying out their tasks with great energy and dedication but I feel that now, when the communication systems of this nation are so sophisticated and important and have such an effect on contemporary thinking and contemporary affairs, the time might well be here when we should make a reassessment of the qualifications of the appointees to this organisation. 
I refer now to a certain apprehension I have - I have expressed it in this House before - about the exercise of some of the restraints placed on various members of the ABC particularly in the public affairs field. I have said before in this chamber that it would be most unwise for any government, of whatever political persuasion, to over-emphasise this curtailment of free expression as it is illustrated in public service and public affairs programmes. I know that there is a great deal of uncertainty among a great many of the staff members, particularly those associated with 'This Day Tonight' and 'Four Corners', over precisely what direction these programmes should take. I do not think anybody in this Parliament is entitled, or indeed equipped, to instruct these people who over a number of years have developed an expertise and a technique in interviewing bow they should or should not carry out their task. There are a great number of employees in the ABC who are very apprehensive at the moment, particularly those associated with 'This Day Tonight'. This is a programme that has established itself as perhaps ons of the most popular in this country. It is a forum for public debate and public disagreement. It is a forum for public discourse on the affairs that affect this nation and its people and therefore at no time should it be shackled by directives either from this Parliament or from outside influences. 
In my view programmes such as those I have mentioned will survive and go on from their present position of strength only by being penetrating and pertinent without being impertinent. I suggest that it would be a very great mistake for us to stultify, inhibit, restrict or in any way place an impost upon these programmes which would destroy this very essential public media. I speak with a number of years of experience in this field. I know how frustrating it is for any interviewer in the public affairs field to have to be continually looking over his shoulder and to be continually aware that however penetrating or objective he may be there is always the chance that he might tread on somebody's toes and be taken to task for doing so. As  I  have said, there is this feeling in the Commission at the moment. Various directives and memorandums have been sent out to certain people suggesting - I do not say instructing - that perhaps the line that they are adopting is not quite the right line for a certain sector of the community. I do not believe this is a healthy state of affairs. Let me at once absolve the Minister who I can see is looking at me rather apprehensively. I am not suggesting that these documents come from him. 
 One or two memorandums have been sent by the Programme Manager of the Commission,  Mr Hutchinson,  to Richard Carleton in Canberra as to how he should conduct interviews on the programme 'This Day Tonight' I do not think this is a very healthy attitude because today people want to know about contemporary issues in our society and about the political scene. The people have every right to know about them and they have every right to have all points of view presented. 
I have noted from reading an article dealing with FM broadcasting set out in the 23rd annual report of the Broadcasting Control Board that the Minister has set up a public inquiry into this matter. I know that the Minister is as concerned as I am to reach finality on the recommendations of that inquiry into FM broadcasting. This is a matter of great importance and it is, in my view, at the top of the priority list. I ask the Minister to give some indication when the recommendations of this inquiry might be put before the Parliament so that we can, if necessary, have a general debate on the findings. In view of the additional air space, if I can put it that way, being occupied by additional licensees, I think that this is a tremendously important area. 
Today we have to be very conscious of the situation in regard to the whole field of world copyright laws in relation to satellite telecasting. This is a matter to which I do not think we have given sufficient consideration and I think that we ought to have some regard to some of the problems which will certainly emerge as satellite telecasting expands in the very near future. 
1 present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That a migrant who has been a member of the Australian workforce for many years, has paid taxes and acquired Australian citizenship, and seeks to live the last years of his life in his native land or, if an invalid, wishes to see his relatives, is denied pension transferability. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray 
That the House of Representatives, in Parliament assembled, seek to have Australia adopt the principle followed by Britain, Italy, Greece, Malta, The Netherlands, France, Germany, Turkey, Canada and the United States of America, who already transfer the social entitlement of their citizens wherever they may choose to live. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
My question is addressed to the Prime Minister. Was he aware when he made his statement on the National Film and Television Training School of the existence of the letter from the  Chairman  of the Interim Council to the Minister for the Environment setting out the Council's dissatisfaction with the report of P.A. Management Consultants Pty Ltd? If so, why did he refer to the report of P.A. Management Consultants but not to the reservations of the Council on its conclusions? Will he agree that by failing to mention the Chairman's letter he created a misleading impression of the availability of jobs for film and television school graduates?. Will he now make a further statement setting this matter in its proper perspective? 
by leave-  Mr Deputy Speaker,  on behalf of the Opposition members of the House of Representatives Select Committee on Wildlife Conservation I wish merely to reinforce the remarks made by the honourable member for Henty  (Mr Fox)  with regard to the work of this Committee. Speaking on behalf of the Opposition, I wish to state that I was most impressed with the energy and the dedication of all members of the Parliamentary staff connected with this Committee. The subject of this interim report was a very difficult and emotive problem, but because of the increasing public awareness of this problem and of our unique wildlife, this subject deserves the fullest attention not only of this Parliament but also of all Australians. 
This Committee was, I believe, a splendid example of the Parliament and not parties working for the good of the nation as a whole. It worked for the common good of our environment. The continuing existence of our environment is an integral part of our society. As a member of this Committee, may I say that the dedication of all members and the harmony amongst them were to me very gratifying. I support the remarks of the honourable member for Henty. 
I  present the following petition: 
To the Honourable th.e  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That Lake Pedder, situated in the Lake Pedder National Park in South-West. Tasmania, is threatened with inundation as part, of the Gordon River hydro-electric power scheme. 
That an alternative scheme exists, which, if implemented would avoid inundation of this lake. 
That Lake Pedder and the surrounding wilderness area arc of such beauty and scientific interest as to be of a value beyond monetary consideration. 
And that some unique species of flora and fauna will be in danger of extinction if this area is inundated. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Federal Government take immediate steps to act on behalf of all Australian people to preserve Lake Pedder in its natural state. AH present and particularly future Australians will benefit by being able to escape from their usual environment to rebuild their physical and mental strength in this unspoilt wildneress area. And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
by leaveThe right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  has touched upon the relevant statistics with regard to the cost of the school and the number of graduates that would ultimately emerge when the school is established. Time, and indeed patience, might well be taxed if I repeated them. I find myself in some difficulty in speaking in this debate and in a state of perplexity and doubt as to the person to whom one should direct one's remarks. Is it to the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts  (Mr Howson)?  Is it to the council of Ministers headed by the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)?  Is it to the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood),  that sensitive gentleman who resides in another place? fs it to the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth),  a radical and sensitive man so close to the contemporary trends in our society? This is no easy assignment. This debate has all the ingredients of a second rate film because the question at the moment is: Who really is responsible for this complex and fragmented portfolio? On 24th November the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  said: 
The simple fact is that, because this matter was so sensitive, I thought it was desirable to appoint a group of Ministers lo handle it and to receive letters and correspondence direct . . . 
A very arduous task -  so that they would be able to prepare a speech for me and advise me as to the action that should be taken. They did this. Consequently, i divorced myself from the details as completely as  I  could. 1 wanted to rely upon the ministerial commif.ee which, i think- 
And 1 repeat for honourable members, T think'-  is under the chairmanship of my colleague, the Treasurer, and also has the Attorney-General on it. 
That was the Prime Minister's statement on 24th November. What an extraordinarily simplistic statement it was. This prodigious revelation was made by the right honourable gentleman, but what does it mean? What is the significance of it? It means that the Minister has been eclipsed. The Minister, appointed only a few months before, was deposed from his own environment by a group of Ministers. This was surely a massive humiliation andI extend my sympathy to the Minister for the invidious position in which he now finds himself. A Minister with a portfolio, but a Minister without authority; a Minister without direction, humiliated and humbled by his own Prime Minister. This is a ministry dismantled by a Prime Minister who has the creative vision of a computer. This, then, is the current situation, a situation almost without precedent, in which we find a council of Ministers supervising the Minister for the Arts in his first turbulent and confusing months of stewardship. 
Since 8th September when the Minister made a statement in the House - indeed, one of the few that he has made on this matter - the whole issue has been clouded in secrecy. In that statement the Minister outlined his reasons for the Government's deferment of the film and television project. It was because of the costs involved, that is, $7ยฝm over the next 5 years. Even if one accepts this figure, it would cost 11c or 12c per head of population per annum. This is the nub of the argument: Whether this school is worth while, whether it will be established on 60 acres or 8 acres, whether the consultants were right in their recommendation, and whether the Interim Council for a national film and television training school was satisfied with those recommendations. This is nothing but humbug. One cannot blame the consultants and one should not blame the Interim Council; certainly they have been constricted and inhibited to a very great degree by the shifts and indecisions by the Prime Minister who suddenly emerged on taking office earlier this year as the economic overlord of the arts in this country. 
One must confess to having some doubts as to the Minister's grasp of the situation which has been outlined precisely and most accurately by the right honourable member for Higgins. On 10th September in answer to a question from the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  about the possibility of losing the services of the eminent Professor Toeplitz, the Minister said, and it is recorded at page 1 112 of Hansard: 
I think that there is a fair chance we may not get the professor to whom the honourable gentleman referred because he is probably going to London. 
In fact, he was in residence at the La Trobe University in Victoria, the Minister's own State. 
Yes. I suppose one has to be generous in these matters. The professor was employed at the Latrobe University. On another occasion, in answer to a question I asked, the Minister said he did not know of the opposition of the Federation of Commercial Television Stations to the project. On yet another occasion he did not know the number of graduates which the school would produce. It must be admitted that the Minister was appointed to this portfolio only on 3 1st May, but even in a moment of excessive charity it could not be said that he has displayed an intimate knowledge or a comprehensive grasp of this portfolio. In response to my quest ion on 28th October a letter from  Mr Peter  Coleman to the Minister was at last tabled. It was not tabled on 26th October when the Prime Minister made his statement in this House. The letter clearly indicates the Council's unhappiness - indeed, its very justifiable suspicion. To use a colloquialism, it was getting the run around. This then is the brief narrative of the Minister's involvement inhis needlessly protracted dialogue. What does one hope to achieve? What do we anticipate will be the benefits that will flow from the establishment of the school? The right honourable member for Higgins has already touched briefly on this essential point. We would hope that an expertise, a technical excellence and, above all, a continuity of that excellence would be available for the nation to project its own image and the cultural energies of our own indigenous talent. 
Some 70 years after the emergence of this revolutionary art form - perhaps it would be conceded that the cinema is the only true art form of the twentieth century - we in this country are arguing whether this is an investment which is worth while, which will enrich our society and stretch and exercise the minds of our creative people. In a copy of the British Cinema, Sound and Television' of April this year, during the discussion with various members of the Film Training School in London, it was pointed out that in 5 years' time teenagers will have their own television sets and will play programmes as they play long playing records today. As a consequence the density of information and entertainment will have to be much higher and we will need new talent from established film schools to supply this demand. One dominant theme that emerges is that a film school can provide an environment for experimentation, development and a society of its own which does not conform to the society outside. Within this environment the boundaries of film and television communication or experience can be pushed forward and this to me seems an excellent idea. 
I want to touch very briefly on the concept that has been developed at the University of California in Los Angeles. At this University they have a total concept film and television school for teaching motion picture and television which was opened in 1967. This whole concept is established under one roof. There are sound studios, editing rooms, standard 16 mm and 35 mm projectors, and included in this pre-production school are halls, theatres, facilities for scenic design, presentation of music and sound effects, and complete libraries. The post-production facilities include 26 film editing rooms, 10 video tape editing rooms and sound transfer rooms. This school, which is probably the finest of its type in the world, even goes into the highly difficult and technical field of animated production. The recording studios are equipped for double system projection and the area will allow multiple track microphone recording of voice, music and sound effects. I wonder whether this Government has examined this project which is already a living entity in the United States. 
This is a very vital and creative industry. It is a dependent and thoughtful industry. It is from such a film and television school as the right honourable member for Higgins envisages and I support, that the creative talent will emerge and it is from the encouragement and stimulation of this creative activity that I suggest our society will bc enriched. Yet when this opportunity is presented to us we quibble on the cost of an acre here or an acre there, a graduate here or a graduate there. The communication of ideas through the medium of television and film is the most comprehen sive means of communication available to man. I want to turn now to some areas that are specifically embraced here. The Australian Film Development Corporation must be seen as the final creative entity that is so dependent upon the Australian film and television school. In the Budget this year, there was no further addition to the initial allocation of Sim made. when this Corporation was set up. One of the very great difficulties facing film makers in this country is that of distribution. For example, the producers of 'Stockade' which, incidentally, was backed by the Corporation, now find themselves in the extraordinary position of being offered uneconomic distribution deals by distributors. One can only conclude that distributors are not interested in the indigenous product and they are, in the main, controlled by overseas interests. 
I want to turn specifically to the statement made by the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  on 26th October when he announced on page 6 of that statement that the Government had decided to add 2 new members to the Interim Council, namely,  Mr Hector  Crawford and  Mr Len  Mauger.  Mr Crawford's  reputation is well known and  Mr Mauger's  reputation is equally well known. But for the life of me I cannot imagine - in fact it defies any logical explanation - why the Prime Minister should appoint these 2 men to the Interim Council when in point of fact both of them may well be opposed to the entire concept.  Mr Crawford  is on public record as saying that he considers the establishment of such a school an extravagance and unnecessary.  Mr Mauger,  as a senior executive of the Packer group of companies and the Channel 9 network, has never, as far as I am aware, expressed any warm enthusiasm about this project. Time simply will not allow me to pursue all of the statistical details at any great length, but I would like to suggest in conclusion that through this film and television training school we will create a professional talent and a creative ability. We have every opportunity to do so. 
We are one of the few nations in the world which do not do so. If we accept this challenge then we can emerge as a beacon of creative originality in this part of the world, for if this school is established it will be the only one of its kind in the Pacific area and will therefore be making a vital contribution to our own industry and our own people. It also will provide an opportunity for so many of our near neighbours and it will allow for the dissemination of our particular talents. I am appalled and ashamed that in this, the last half of the twentieth century, we are still confused and totally uncertain and unconvinced that we can project a maturity and a sophistication through this incredibly persuasive medium that can and will shape our attitudes. If this film and television school is scrapped or is emasculated because it was given birth by the right honourable member for Higgins it will be to this Government's eternal shame. Let us have an end to this indecision and uncertainty and create a worth while, tangible and productive stage for our artistic and creative talents. 
My question is directed to the Treasurer. Since the Prime Minister denied yesterday that  Sir Ian  McLennan had advised him of the decision of Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd to increase steel prices and since he said last night that the Government had not been told about the increase, will the Treasurer say when, where and from whom he learned that steel prices were to go up and the amount involved? Finally, why did he not think it appropriate to pass on whatever information was in his possession to the Premiers, whose interests were so extensively involved? 
I present the following petition: 
To the honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully sheweth: 
That the Australian Education Council's report on the needs of government education services has established serious deficiencies in education, the most important areas being a severe shortage of teachers, inadequate accommodation, and, as a result, oversized classes. 
That extra Federal finance is urgently required to save the government school system. 
That while the needs of the government schools are being neglected, large amounts of public money are being given, in various and numerous grants, to private schools. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to make emergency Federal finance available to the States for State school education, and divert the large sums of public money being spent on private schools, to the government school system for which the government is specifically responsible. And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I concur with the amendment moved by the honourable member for Lang  (Mr Stewart)  and support the point of view that he so adequately put to the House. In essence I find myself in somewhat the same state of uncertainty and harbouring the same sort of suspicion as my colleague and I ask myself: Why has this legislation to be dealt with so swiftly? One might well ask the reason for the alacrity with which this measure is currently being debated. It does arouse a certain suspicion in my mind because when I recapitulate on the past performance of this Government in the introduction of legislation it has always exhibited the speed we associate with a tortoise. But now we have amendments to the Act being dealt with in the utmost haste. One might well pose the question: Why? Let us look at the broad proposition contained in the second reading speech of the Postmaster-General  (Sir Alan Hulme).  I deal firstly with the clause which seeks to amend section 84 of the Broadcasting and Television Act to provide that a licence may be renewed for a period of not less than 6 months or more than 3 years on the basis that the normal licence period will be 3 years instead of 1 year after the initial introductory period for the new provisions has passed. I cannot find myself in any broad disagreement with this proposition except the suspicion that it is being deliberately brought forward at this stage for a purely political purpose. Further in his second reading speech the PostmasterGeneral said: 
Under the Act, as it now stands, the Austraiian Broadcasting Control Board ls required to make a report and recommendation to the Minister in respect of each application for the renewal of a licence. 
Later on the Postmaster-General said: 
Honourable members will, of course, be aware that the Act provides for the suspension and revocation of licences in specified circumstances. 
I might return to this comment more specifically later because it is intriguing to me to have information given to me on how often in fact this provision has been invoked. The honourable member for Lang touched upon this, and I think it is incumbent upon the Government through its instrument, the Australian Broadcasting Control Board, to reveal just how many transgressions there have been and what penalties have been invoked for those transgressions. The Postmaster-General in his second reading speech also said: 
In relation to the broadcasting and televising of addresses or statements of a political and current affairs nature, section 1 17 (4.) provides that where the address or statement is in excess of a hundred words, the name of the  speaker  and the author of an address or statement, where appropriate, shall be announced both before and after the address or statement. It has been represented that this provision has taken up a considerable amount of time- 
I think that this provision is eminently sensible and I concur fully with it. I have had persona] experience of it both out of the political sphere and in the political sphere. It is eminently good thinking based on good common sense and is long overdue. I would not argue against this particular amendment. 
The final part of the Postmaster-General's second reading speech deals with the provision regarding the keeping of a record of the name and address of the author of such statements so that they shall be fully effective. An amendment to this provision which the honourable member for Lang proposes to move is again, I think, eminently sensible and timely. It states, and I quote briefly, that a person who claims to have been defamed in a broadcasting or television programme shall be entitled, on request to the Commission or the licensee, as the case may be, and upon the payment of an adequate fee, to receive a record of such a programme. I think that all fair minded people will agree that that is an eminently sensible proposal. The one doubt I do have about this proposal, having been engaged in the industry myself for many years, is that it may well encourage the very substantial - if I can use the phrase without any disrespect - crackpot sector of the community to wish to have access to every utterance that is made both on radio and in television. I do not know how that is going to be contained, but I do know that it is a very real and distinct possibility. 
In broad terms the responsibility of licensees is in the field of programming. Over the years I have received a very great number of complaints from people inside and outside of my electorate who have had enough of the predictable Christmas-New Year fare of repeats ad nauseum on television. I think some responsible direction should be given now to station managers with regard to this critical and irritating area of continual repeats of programmes. I do not exclude the Australian Broadcasting Commission from my criticism in this respect. Over the years both the Australian Broadcasting Commission and the commercial licensees have been constantly and consistently guilty of showing repeats ad nauseum. Time will not allow me to go into the reason why this practice is perpetrated. I know perfectly well that basically it is for economic reasons. There is a great cry from station managers that their revenues drop off during the Christmas and New Year period. I do not argue with that, but I do think that they should display a greater sense of responsibility and maturity in their programming over the Christmas and New Year period. The arguments always advanced for repeating programmes at that time of the year are paradoxical to me. The common argument is that the television stations do not have an audience. That argument will not stand up to any scrutiny at all. 1 wish to deal now with the question of the quotas for Australian content in television generally. I have spoken on this matter on many occasions in this chamber. Events have proved that the existing legislation is not being strictly enforced. I offer no criticism of the Postmaster-General in saying that. Indeed, 1 have a great regard for him. That does not necessarily extend to his ministerial colleagues, but I do have a regard for the Minister in his position as Postmaster-General and I do not lay any personal blame on him in this respect. But the simple fact of the matter is that during the concentrated campaign last year for a greater Australian content in television some quite extraordinary statements were made by so-called responsible people. The honourable member for Lang has already quoted some of the comments made by the Manager of the Federation of Australian Commercial Television Stations,  Mr Arthur 
Cowan. I wish to repeat for the House's digestion a remark that he made during the period of time when there was strong advocacy for a greater Australian content. In the 'Australian' of 6th May last year he is reported as having said that television programmes which fail to attract reasonably sized audiences were contrary to the public interest. What an extraordinary observation that is. Precisely what does that gentleman mean? It was a totally irresponsible remark - even being generous to him. Was he in fact saying that ballet, opera, music and the diverse activities of the Australian Boradcasting Commission 
And, indeed, as the honourable member for Mitchell has said- 
I respect your ruling,  Mr Speaker,  but what I am attempting to establish is that, when he is granted a licence, a licensee has a responsibility to the viewing public and I think that that is relevant to the point I am making. 
I will accede to your ruling, sir. May I refer in passing on this question of programming to the enormous amount of moneys transmitted overseas for the buying of programmes from the United States of America and the United Kingdom. Again I will relate this matter to the argument I am advancing for a greater local content. In the year 1966-67 it was $12.5m; in 1967-68 it was $12.9m; and in 1970-71 it was $11. lm. That is an incredible amount of money which is going overseas and which, of course, necessarily results in a dropping off in employment for our own people. No other country in the world has been more prepared to tolerate such a massive assault on its own culture. This certainly does not occur in the United States of America, the United Kingdom or Canada. All of those countries have ensured that their television programmes, and the licensees through them, reflect and comment on and advance their own identities. I think that that is a perfectly legitimate aim and aspiration. I think the mass media has an obligation and a duty and the licensees have a duty to reflect the identity of this country, f am quite certain that nobody on the other side of the House would dispute that statement. Very few foreign programmes appear on American television. Britain in practice limits the imported shows to 12* per cent of its total content. Canada has specified that 60 per cent of the programmes seen in prime time shall be of Canadian or indigenous content. 
In the time I have at my disposal,  Mr Speaker,  I wish to make a special plea to the licensee of Channel 6 in Tasmania, which came into operation under stage 2 of the development of television programmes on 4th June 1960. I have discussed this matter with the PostmasterGeneral. It is incredible to me that 12 years after its introduction a great area in the southern part of my own electorate is still unable to receive an adequate and satisfactory television picture. It is now 1st March 1972. Twelve years after its introduction there are still people in my own electorate who cannot receive on their screen, even with the great expertise and the advanced technology at our disposal, a picture which could reasonably and logically be called a decent image. 
I want to comment on another matter before I finish. 1 have received many complaints about licensees and the great amount of American news film shown in Australia. I have discussed this matter with the Postmaster-General. For the life of me, I cannot understand why we in this country are subjected to a very high percentage of American interpretation films of great events overseas. The Australian Broadcasting Commission is established in most areas of the world. As I understand, we have a tacit gentleman's agreement between the ABC and the British Broadcasting 
Corporation. I refuse to see the logic of Australians always being subjected to the American interpretation of great world events. 
Management has a great responsibility. A licence is not a document for profit alone. It is incumbent upon the licensee to provide a diligent and intelligent service to the community. Mistakes have been made. We are all fallible. I worked in this industry for many years. I believe in the power and the persuasiveness of television. It is a broad forum for the dissemination of ideas. It is a wonderfully evocative visual medium. It is a wonderful medium for truth and the revelation of political and governmental inadequacy and humbug. It is the forum about which my distinguished British colleague, Robin Day, has so correctly said that truth and falsehood can grapple in the critical public gaze. 1 appeal to the Government quite earnestly and sincerely to see that the legislation which has been outlined, the legislation which has been amended, is adhered to by the licencees with a general regard for the wellbeing of the viewing public of this country. It is essential that controls bc tightened. In my view, it is essential that the licensees display a much greater sense of community and public responsibility. In moving these amendments, I think that the honourable member for Lang has really put his finger right on the problem area. In conclusion, I reiterate that I support the amendment which he has proposed. 
The Postmaster-General  (Sir Alan Hulme)  has covered a very diverse area in his reply to the amendment moved by the honourable member for Lang  (Mr Stewart).  Of course, it is always so typical of this Government to go back in time whenever we are dscussing Opposition amendments on any legislation. It simply is irrelevant for the Minister to speculate on what the Labor Government in 1949 may or may not have thought of existing broadcasting conditions and facilities. 
Of course, as my colleague, the honourable member for Wilmot has said, television was not with us then. So the comparison is hardly relevant. In supporting the amendment I want to ask a specific question of the Postmaster-General in relation to a matter to which he made passing reference. I ask: On how many occasions has the Australian Broadcasting Control Board received complaints against a licensee for not meeting the quota laid down and how many complaints has it received of infringements of advertising standards? I know it is tremendously difficult to collate all the complaints that are made. What the Postmaster-General says about monitoring is perfectly true - I have been present when it has been done - but still we have to remember that the mere espousal of a technical facility will not ensure that the general public knows that it exists. There is a great feeling amongst many people in the community that a number of licensees are using some sort of escape route. If the PostmasterGeneral can answer the 2 specific questions I have put to him I would be obliged. 
I do not dispute for one moment the integrity nor indeed the vigour of the PostmasterGeneral in the actions he took in 1965. But, of course, when this action was taken the control had to become affected. The plain, simple fact of the matter has been stated on a great number of occasions. The original concept of the issuance of television licences was quite clearly, and quite logically defined, I think, in those days. I suppose that there is always a very great danger of being wise after the event. I know that it is not a terribly original observation but there is a temptation to do this. Nevertheless, the plain, simple fact of the matter still remains that although the legislation was introduced in 1965 the control by that time had been complete. 
What distresses me very much is the domination in this country by the so-called Press barons, to coin an unoriginal phrase, of television and radio broadcasting outlets. No-one can deny that this is the situation. It exists and it is there for all of us to see. Let me give the example of my own capital city where the newspaper ownership controls the only commercial television outlet as well as one of the major radio outlets. I could go on and weary the Committee with examples of this right across the nation. It is absurd that a refusal to accept the truth to deny the plain fact that the mass media of this country are controlled by an elite group. I do not make any personal reflection on the business acumen or financial ability of this group but what does worry me is that this I think has a parallel in totalitarian countries where there is this domination on the one hand by the State or by the financial wizards on the other. 
I may be a little difficult, or perhaps a little dumb, but I do not see the essential difference between that sort of monopoly by the State and monopoly by the financial giants, particularly when it comes to dissemination in the mass media. People are controlled by what they read in newspapers; they are influenced by what they read in newspapers. People are influenced by what they see on television and they are most certainly influenced by what they hear on the radio. As a practitioner in this field for nearly 20 years I know the impact that this has. Also I know that the restrictions that are placed on some particular comment or observation by these people can be considerable. 
As I have said, I do not argue at all with the energy and application of the Postmaster-General. But I think that events rather overtook him rather than him containing the events. Quite frankly, the present infrastructure of television ownership in this country in my view would defy a panel of our most eminent jurists to sort out. I repeat that what is patently clear is that there is a very great deal of concern in this community today, and quite rightly so, that people should be concerned about the monopolistic control of media that have such an influence on our minds and our actions. 1 therefore support our objection to this amendment. 
Clauses agreed to. 
Proposed new clause 9. 
I move: 
That the following new clause be added to the Bil!: "9. After section 124 of the Principal Act, the following section is inserted. 124aa. A person who claims to have been defamed in a broadcasting or television programme shall be entitled, on request to the Commission or the licensee, as the case may be, and upon payment of an adequate fee, to receive a record of such programme.'.". 
The logic and the justice of this amendment are quite apparent for all to see. It is a protective device that should be made available to every citizen of this country. I referred in a previous speech to the immense persuasive power of this media. But the process of redress available to any individual at the moment is cumbersome in the extreme and costly in its final solution. Extensive litigation is necessary at the moment. I do not really think that it is a fair proposition to expect a citizen to be involved in protracted litigation, and this is the only process which is really open to establish his or her position on a particular comment. My argument is fortified by the 23rd annual report of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board which, at page 35, under the heading 'Availability to the Public of Records of Matter Broadcast and Televised", states: 
In its last annual report, the Board referred to requests which are made to the Minister and the Board from time to time by persons, or by their legal representatives, for the supply of a record of programmes transmitted by commercial broadcasting or television stations on the grounds that the programmes are thought to have contained comments which were defamatory. The Board drew attention to the fact that the Postmaster-General in reply to a question in Parliament on 8th April 1970 had stated that the question of whether there should be some further provision had frequently been raised with him and as a result he had put in hand a re-examination of all aspects of the matter. The Postmaster.General has been in close consultation with the Board on this re-examination which is still proceeding. 
As I sail, this statement fortifies the amendment that the Opposition is putting forward. 1 would like to make one or two comments very quickly. It seems to me that in respect of other aspects of the legislation wilh which this Parliament has been dealing in the last day or so, it has moved with considerable alacrity and speed. Also it is significant that the report from which I have just read indicates that a question which was replied to in Parliament on 8th April 1970  -  almost 2 years ago - raised this very point. Of course, the final sentence which stated that 'The PostmasterGeneral has been in close consultation with the Board on this re-examination which is still proceeding' is indicative of the speed at which this is proceeding. It is still proceeding some 2 years later during which time people's reputations - or indeed a very considerable part of their reputations - may have been severely damaged by defamatory remarks. The reputations of people and citizens cannot afford to wait on time. I suggest that the amendment which I have moved on behalf of the Opposition is eminently sensible. It is timely, it is just, it is fair and it protects the citizen of this community. I commend this amendment even to honourable members opposite, because on a great many occasions this chamber is used as a forum for their eloquence and their advocacy of the protection of the individual and the citizen. This is their opportunity this afternoon to give more than lip service to what they have often proclaimed in this chamber and outside it. 
I present the following petition: 
To the honourable the  Speaker  and members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully sheweth: 
That the Australian Education Council's report on the needs of government education services has established serious deficiencies in education, the most important areas being a severe shortage of teachers, inadequate accommodation, and, as a result, oversized classes. 
That extra Federal finance is urgently required to save the government school system. 
That while the needs of the government schools are being neglected, large amounts of public money are being given, in various and numerous grants, to private schools. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to make emergency Federal fianance available to the States for State school education, and divert the large sums of public money being  spent  on private schools, to the government school system for which the government is specifically responsible. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Australian Education Council's report on the needs of government education services has established serious deficiencies in education, the most important areas being a severe shortage of teachers, inadequate accommodation, and, as a result, oversized classes. 
That extra Federal finance is urgently required to save the government school system. 
That while the needs of the government schools are being neglected, large amounts of public money are being given, in various and numerous grants, to private schools. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to make emergency Federal finance available to the States for State school education, and divert the large sums of public money being spent on private schools, to the government school system for which the government is specifically responsible. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I  present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled the petition of the undersigned electors of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That on 10th December 1948, Australia signed the 'Universal Declaration of Human Rights', Article 25 reads: 'Everyone has the right to security in the event of unemployment, sickness, disability, widowhood, old age and other lack of livelihood in circumstances beyond his control.' 
Yet, 23 years later, in our country of great national wealth and abundance it is to the nation's shame that many thousands of our people live in a state of being inconsistent with the dignity and worth of the human person - languishing in poverty and want, neglect and the lack of proper care necessary, for their health and well-being. 
We, the undersigned, respectfully draw to your attention that the conscience of the nation is not at ease while the records of our country show that social services are not comparable with that of other advanced countries administering such services, therefore, we call upon the Commonwealth Government to immediately legislate for: 
Base pension rate - 30 per cent of the average weekly male earnings, all states, plus supplementary assistance and allowances based on a percentage of such earnings. Unemployed benefits equal to the foregoing. 
Completely free health services to cover all needs of social service pensioners - hospitalisation, chronic and long-term illness, fractures, anaesthetics, specialist, pharmaceutical, hearing aids, dental, optical, physiotherapy, chiropody, surgical aids and any other appliances. 
Commonwealth Government to promotea comprehensive national scheme in cooperation with the State and make finance available to provide for the building of public hospitals, nursing and hostel-type homes necessary to effectively meet the special requirements of aged people, in conjunction with a comprehensive domiciliary care programme to enable aged people to stay in their homes. 
Mental illness placedin the same position as physical illness. 
Substantial Commonwealth increase in the 85 subsidy a day per public bed pensioner patient in general hospitals. 
Ten per cent of Commonwealth revenue to local government for general activities which now include social welfare, health, conservation and other community needs. Commonwealth subsidy for the waiving of rates for pensioners. 
Commonwealth Government to increase the non-repayable grant to the States for low rental home units for pensioners. 
Royal Commission or other form of public enquiry into Australia's social welfare structure that Australia may be brought into line with accepted world standards of the most advanced countries. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
Is the Minister for Primary Industry aware that the freight rate for the 1972 Tasmanian apple and pear export season could be 30c to 40c a bushel higher than it was in 1971? What measures does the Government propose for the protection of this industry which is being systematically destroyed by crippling freight rises? Will the Minister give urgent consideration to amending the stabilisation scheme so as to attract the support price of 80c a bushel on all fruit shipped at risk in 1972 and not limit it to the present level of 4,400,000 bushels? 
I present the following petition: 
To  the Honourable the  Speaker,  and Members  of  the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Postmaster-General's Department Central Office policy, of centralising Post Office affairs and activities under the various titles of Area Management, Area Mail Centres, Area Parcel Centres and similar titles is resulting in both loss of service and lowering of the standards of service to the public, directly resulting in the closing of Post Offices, which is detrimental to the public interest. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to: 
Call a halt to all closing of Post Offices and reorganising within the Post Office until full details of the proposed savings and all details of alteration to the standards of service to the public are made available to Parliament, and 
Initiate a joint Parliamentary inquiry into the Postmaster-General's Department, to assess the degree on which it should be run as a normal business undertaking and to what extent its unprofitable activities should be subsidised as a public service charged more correctly to national development. 
And your petitioners, as in duty, bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I welcome the statement that has been made to the House this afternoon by the Minister for the Environment, Aborigines and the Arts  (Mr Howson)  as indeed does the Opposition. However our enthusiasm is somewhat tempered by the unnecessary delay in the presentation of the statement. One finds oneself having to adjust continually to this Government's legislative pace. It can be fairly seen from this statement, with the other measures announced in this chamber recently, that we have emerging a re-Gortonisation of the McMahon Ministry - a double achievement of common sense and that degree of magnanimity that was called for by a certain member. 
I do not propose to trespass unduly on the time of the House but I shall comment on a few points that were made during the Minister's statement, although I have not had sufficient time to study it in depth. This is the third report on this matter. I am glad that finality has been reached at last. The Minister said that action will be taken as soon as possible to appoint the Australian Film and Television School's first director. I hope that this appointment will not be unduly delayed. I take exception to the wording of this particular paragraph where it states that the occupant of this position will have great influence in the style of the school. I should have thought that that would be fundamental. Any man proposed to be appointed as director of a film school, in my view, would not be a candidate if he were lacking in style. The Minister said: 
As well as being creative- 
I assume that it is already accepted that if one appoints a director of a film school it is common sense and logic that, indeed, he would be creative. He would have to be creative. The Minister continued:   . . he will be knowledgeable in the practicalities of marketing and distribution . . . 
I suggest that he does not need this knowledge. Such activity is completely outside the province of a creative director. It is a commercial enterprise and has to be undertaken by commercial people. I urge the Minister not to saddle the director with this added responsibility. In the basic course 12 scholarships will be provided, tenable for 12 months, open in general to young men and women from any part of Australia who have passed the higher school certificate. I notice that there is a qualification which is worded: 
Provision will be made for entry in exceptional cases of students who do not meet all these requirements . . . 
In general I do not argue with this provision but in my experience academic qualification is not necessarily an asset in the creative art field; practical common sense and artistic ability are the basic requirements when selecting people in this field of creative visual art. 
I am glad to see that the trainees will use the facilities of both the Australian Broadcasting Commission and the commercial stations throughout this country. This is a rare breakthrough. At long last the commercial licensees of Australia acknowledge that they have a responsibility and a contribution to make to the artistic development of this country. This is a breakthrough indeed because when this proposition was first presented - it is on record in black and white - there was almost total opposition to this concept. I am glad also to see that there will be courses for script writing and that special attention will be given to this aspect. This is an area in Australian creative television that has been overlooked for too long. It is one of the essentials. Indeed, competent, professional skilful writing goes to the very heart of television itself. The Interim Council proposes also to hold a series of seminars in both Sydney and Melbourne and, if circumstances warrant, in other capital cities. 1 do not want to enter into a parochial argument about the artistic productivity or quality of what is done in Sydney or Melbourne but, you know, really they are not the sole repositories of artistic activity in this country. In fact, without offending my friends from Victoria, very little has been done in Melbourne in the artistic and creative field. So do not let us, by saving $1 or $2, overlook the fact that perhaps Adelaide may well be able to make a contribution; that Perth may be able to make a contribution, as both it and Adelaide are now doing with eminently successful festivals, and as my own city of Hobart is doing. 
I have nothing against Brisbane. Indeed, let us have Brisbane as well. I would be delighted to see this whole activity throughout the Commonwealth. 1 am glad to see that the cost problem, which has engaged the activities of the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  and myself and, indeed, the Minister, has at least been solved in a sensible and intelligent way. My other area of criticism is this: As the Minister has pointed out, one member of the Interim Council,  Mr Hector  Crawford, has expressed doubts about the viability of the school and has advocated deferment until the operation and effectiveness of the interim scheme for professionals can be assessed. 
This does not come as a surprise to me. Let me go back to a speech I made on 9th December 1971 following the Prime Minister's announcement that he would appoint 2 extra members to the Interim Council, namely,  Mr Len  Mauger, who is not unknown and wields more than a little influence in the Packer organisation, with which all honourable members are well acquainted, and also of course  Mr Hector  Crawford. When the Prime Minister announced that he was adding these two gentlemen to the Interim Council, I said: 

 Mr Crawford's reputation is well known and  Mr Mauger's  reputation is equally well known. But for the life of me I cannot imagine - in fact it defies any, logical explanation - why the Prime Minister should appoint these 2 men to the Interim Council when in point of fact both of them may well be opposed to the entire concept. 
I think it is revealed in this statement by the Minister today that  Mr Hector  Crawford does not agree.  Mr Mauger  has reservations in some other area. Why then were they appointed? The question has not been answered. 
I am delighted that the Minister interjects that the Interim Council may well have asked for them. The Interim Council may well have asked for some other appointees also. It seems strange to me that these 2 gentlemen were the successful candidates. 
I want to take now the point about the Tariff Board having been asked to undertake a wide ranging inquiry into measures to assist production of Australian films and television programmes. With this I entirely agree, but I would like to have some indication as to when the Tariff Board will be able to present to this Parliament the results of that inquiry, because the industry is certainly waiting for this. The third report of the Interim Council endeavoured to obtain the co-operation of the film and television industry in Australia. I congratulate the industry both in the commercial field and the Australian Broadcasting Commission for their wholehearted support for this project. Commonsense has prevailed, and only by commonsense prevailing, by teamwork and a recognition of the responsibilities that I have already referred to, will this project become the viable and worthwhile project that I think it will become. 1 said that I have not had time to study the subtleties and some of the nuances contained in' the report, but I do have to say this: I express very great regret that the right honourable member for Higgins is not here, and I do hope that his absence is nol connected with the timing or the presentation of this report. I think the Opposition is quite justified in the efforts it has made and the efforts it has supported in connection with this most important measure mentioned by the Minister this afternoon. One of the most essential and highly important priorities of this nation is to encourage and to nurture the creative and the cultural image and to protect that image. Further than that, a very great reservoir of indigenous talent in this country is now afforded an opportunity to be put into practice, for the mutual benefit of our people and our nation. The Opposition believes and believes quite firmly that this visual art form, this perhaps most powerful persuasive medium of communication of the twentieth century, can be a powerful and wonderful medium for the development of understanding not only between the people of this nation and the peoples of our area, but with the peoples of the entire world. 
I welcome the statement. The Opposition welcomes the statement. We sincerely hope that this project will be given a speedy passage to finality so that we can get on with the job that has been far too long delayed by governmental differences or personalities. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Swartz)  adjourned. 
My question is directed to the Postmaster-General. The Minister will be well aware of the confusion and uncertainty surrounding the powers of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board with regard to the transmission of Sunday morning programmes by commercial television stations. Is it a fact that the Board has no legal power to enforce the transmission of certain programmes on Sunday morning but can only seek the co-operation of the licensee? Has this co-operation been forthcoming? Finally, when will amending legislation be introduced into this Parliament to correct and clarify the Board's power so that the present anomalous situation can be resolved? 
I do not intend to take up a great deal of the time of the House tonight with a long and protracted debate on the merits or otherwise of this Bill. I concur with what has been said by my colleague the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden).  1 find myself to a very great degree in agreement with what has been said by the honourable member for Isaacs  (Mr Hamer),  but he spoiled a very good story. He made out a very cogent argument for the attitude of the Government. He made out an equally devastating statistical medical argument for a total ban on cigarettes and tobacco. At the end of his speech he spoilt the whole essence of his argument because he could not resist the inevitable temptation, which falls upon all the Liberals, to oppose any measure that is put forward by the Opposition. I regret that he used the word sham' when he referred to the Australian Labor Party's policy on this issue. I think it was unworthy of him and completely unjustified. 
It has been made quite clear over the years that the Opposition has felt that a measure of this kind - although we do not oppose it, we do not think it goes quite far enough - was more than welcome not only to people in this House but also to the community generally. It has in fact been Labor policy for a great number of years. What is intriguing, however, is the remarkable haste with which this legislation has been introduced. I clearly remember the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  in this very chamber only a short time ago, in answer to a question, disputing the medical evi dence that was submitted in the second reading speech of the Postmaster-General  (Sir Alan Hulme).  It is in Hansard. I think it is worthy of perusal. The PostmasterGeneral said: 
The relationship of cigarette smoking with pulmonary and cardiovascular disease, including lung cancer, heart disease, chronic bronchitis and emphysema, is accepted beyond doubt by major international and Australian medical organise tions and the National Health and Med:c:il Research Council. 
That evidence was disputed in this chamber just a few weeks ago by the Treasurer. Let me go further and say that I recall a Press handout from the Minister for Health  (Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson)  in another place as late as March of this year in which he made it perfectly clear that legislation of the type now being introduced certainly would not be introduced nor had it then been contemplated. That was only a couple of months ago. However, I am delighted to see that the medical and expert research so cogently presented has at last been accepted by the Government. 
I do not intend to traverse the ground already covered by the honourable member for Oxley and the honourable member for Isaacs. I think it would be dull to repeat it. They have made a very sound case for the action that has been taken. In his second reading speech the Postmaster-General indicated that one of the proposals of the Government would be that the Commonwealth would provide $500,000 a year for 3 years commencing on 1st July this year for this particular purpose. In my view, $500,000 is not nearly substantial enough. However, I concede that it is certainly a step in the right direction. I would like to quote briefly from the latest statistics I have been able to obtain on the estimated revenue to the media from advertising of tobacco products for the year ended 1969. It tells a very interesting story. In 1969 the total Press revenue from such advertising was $811,936 - almost $lm. 
Then we come to the fascinating figure for metropolitan television stations, country television stations and metropolitan radio stations. We find that for metropolitan television stations, or capital city stations, the estimated revenue in 1969 was $6,962,499 - almost $7m. For country television stations - this is causing some concern to my Country Party colleagues and I can see the concern - the estimated revenue was $1,390,658. The total television revenue at the end of 1969 was $8im. I have no doubt that at the end of 1972 it will have exceeded that figure. The grand total of revenue for radio and television at the end of 1969 was almost $llm. This is a very considerable amount of revenue, a great proportion of which television licensees will have to forgo. It is not unreasonable to expect that a degree of responsibility and a degree of flexibility should be shown by the various stations in approaching this problem. 
One of the difficulties that I have had in speaking in this debate is that only about 10 days ago the Federation of Commercial Broadcasting Stations, through one of its senior spokesmen, indicated quite clearly and conceded that discussions had taken place between the Government and the Minister. However, the information that I have is that the legislation that has been introduced is not strictly in line with the recommendation made by the Federation. But 1, do not wish to pursue that matter at any great length. I merely suggest that there is a slightly disturbed feeling that these negotiations entered into - I take it, quite freely - were not strictly conducted along the lines that the Federation would have wished. I think it is reasonable to assume from the figures I have quoted that it is logical and human for the television and radio people to feel that in some way they have been discriminated against. It is a point of view that cannot be dismissed idly. That is why the Opposition has taken the view that the advertising of cigarettes and cigarette tobacco should not only be banned from the most influential media, or perhaps the most persuasive of the media - that is, radio and television - but that the ban should also be extended to the newspapers if the Government is going to be consistent in its approach. I do not think that there is a great deal of dispute on this side of the House or on the other side of the House about the necessity for this legislation. I find from looking at the newspapers' share of the revenue that there is no doubt that the small percentage that the Press enjoys at the moment will be increased substantially once the advertising is diverted from radio and television to the newspapers. That is the only mild criticism I have. 
The Opposition would like to see a positive campaign in this direction against all of the media. It seems to me somewhat ludicrous to expect to embark on an educational programme, warning people of the very great dangers of cigarette smoking, when you concentrate wholly and solely on one section of the advertising media and you are prepared to neglect the other. There is certainly an inconsistency. As I have said before, it must be conceded that perhaps some of the licensees will take the view that they have been discriminated against. I am obliged to imagine that the figure of revenue for the Press could quadruple after this legislation becomes law. I am wondering whether we are being a little timid or inhibited in our approach to the newspapers and the Press generally in regard to this measure. There may well be some constitutional deterrent that causes this inhibition. However, I dp not know whether this is so. Be that as it may, one can only agree with the general proposition that certainly cigarette and tobacco smoking is a health hazard. 
I do not intend to take my full time in this debate because I know that many other honourable members are tremendously keen to put their point of view. I conclude on the note that I agree with the terms of the amendment moved by the honourable member for Oxley. I take the very strong stand that, in face and in view of the overwhelming evidence presented, the advertising of cigarettes and cigarette smoking on radio and television should not be propagated with such a lavish and expensive presentation by the media directly coming within the ambit of this legislation. I merely repeat that I am most disappointed that the Government, to use the phrase of the honourable member for Isaacs, took a middle course. The longer one is in thu chamber the more one gets used to this Government taking the middle course. 
As my honourable friend interjects, it is usually in reverse. That may well be. As a matter of fact, I was rather terrified that following the events of the last 36 hours this legislation might well sink ingloriously to the bottom of the sea. 
 Yes. 1 support the amendment moved on behalf of the Opposition. I think that the Government's measure is worth-while and timely. However, the legislation does not go far enough or is wide enough in grappling with the problems of a very terrifying health hazard especially to young people in the community. 
The Opposition will oppose the amendment moved by the honourable member for Isaacs  (Mr Hamer)  which affects section 100a of the Broadcasting and Television Act. This amendment proposes that the proposed new section should now read 
Medical authorities warn that smoking is a health hazard.' In support of his proposition the honourable member for Isaacs has said that this is a more succinct way of putting across the message to the people. I would not dispute for one moment that the message needs to be succinct but it also has to have an impact. I would suggest that if we accept this amendment it would lessen the impact because to me the original phraseology which read The National Health and Medical Research Council warns that cigarette smoking is dangerous to health' is succinct. I think also that that phraseology is emphatic. I think thai it would have an effect. But if we substitute the terminology which is now envisaged in the amendment which has been moved it will lessen the dramatic impact of the message. 1 agree that it will shorten the message but it will lessen the dramatic impact of it because my experience is that viewers' reactions to a warning by the use of the words 'Medical authorities warn that smoking is a health hazard' would not be as great as they would to the words now contained in the Bill. You cannot have your cake and eat it. 
In the original proposition the Government is saying that smoking is dangerous to health. I will not go into an exercise on semantics but 1 suggest to the Government in all seriousness that the very word 'dangerous' is far more emphatic, far more dramatic and far more arresting than is the word 'hazard'. On those grounds the Opposition will oppose this amendment. 
The Opposition will oppose this amendment because, quite obviously, there is a link between this amendment to clause 3 and the previous amendment with which we have dealt. In the Bill as originally introduced clause 3 stated: the statement shall be spoken and the time occupied by its transmission shall be not less than 5 seconds. 
The amendment which has been moved by the honourable member for Isaacs  (Mr Hamer)  proposes that this time be reduced to 3 seconds. I do not object to or find anything wrong with the honourable member's proposition that if the amount of wordage were reduced, consequently the amount of time needed to speak the announcement would be reduced. That makes sense to me. But, goodness me, what are we doing with this legislation? 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drury)  - Order! There is far too much audible conversation in the chamber. 
Thank you,  Mr Deputy Chairman.  Even if there is not very much interest in the House in this measure, I can assure you that I have some interest in it and intend to speak on it. Let us consider quite dispassionately the effect of  3  seconds of visual television transmission. What will be the impact of this  3  second period? This means virtually that the Government is introducing and encouraging subliminal advertising. I should like to make another point in relation to this matter and in doing so I mean no disrespect to the honourable member for Isaacs. It seems to me to be an extraordinary turn of events at this stage of the legislation and at this stage of the evening for the Government to be so desperate about its legislation that it wants to emasculate it. The Government is so ashamed of its amendment that it has been introduced by a back bench member and not by the Postmaster-General  (Sir Alan Hulme). 
I suggest in all sincerity that if this announcement is reduced to  3  seconds, by the time a person turns his head or blinks his eyes it will have achieved no impact at all. This is an absurdity. If the Government wants to ruin the legislation that it has introduced, this is the perfect way to do it. The Government is hypocritical and is not going through with the original measure that it had in mind. It is quite irresponsible to introduce an amendment of this nature which will reduce the time of the announcement to  3  seconds on a television screen. Any body experienced in this medium will tell the Government and will concur with me that a  3-seconds  announcement will not be effective. The Government maintains that it is trying to get a message across to the people of Australia and that it is trying to convince them and point out to the youth of this country that smoking cigarettes is dangerous, yet it now proposes to reduce the time allotted for this message to  3  seconds of subliminal advertising. It is an absurdity which should not be tolerated and the Opposition rejects it. 
My question which is addressed to the Prime Minister is supplementary to that asked of him by the honourable member for North Sydney. Is it a fact that section 116(1.) of the Broadcasting and Television Act was applied to the 
Australian Broadcasting Commission series Our Man in Canberra' resulting in the series being suspended? Which Minister so lacking in a sense of humour and proportion objected to the series being screened? Did the Government seek legal opinion before suspending the programme? Does the Prime Minister not accept the proposition that if political satire can be produced and shown by the British Broadcasting Corporation with great success, the Australian Broadcasting Commission should be afforded the same fundamental freedom in our democratic society? 
My question is addressed to the  Deputy  Prime Minister and Minister for Trade and Industry. He will no doubt recall that last week I sent him a telegram on behalf of the fruit industry in Tasmania expressing the industry's outrage at the imposition by the Danish authorities of a 20 per cent levy on exports of Tasmanian fruit for this season. 1 now ask the right honourable gentleman whether he is in a position to state in unequivocal terms what the Government's attitude is to this imposition. Will he be in a position to assure the industry, which is already experiencing most grave difficulties, that some positive action will be taken? 
 Mr Deputy Speaker,  it is always very enlightening to listen to the honourable member for Bennelong  (Sir John Cramer).  He seemed to devote very little of his speech to the Budget. He has this phobia about left wing unions, to which members of the Liberal Party refer ad nauseum. The Budget before the House represents the final act of panic by this coalition Government, lt. was presented purely and simply for political survival. It will not achieve that purpose because the Australian people simply will not be deceived by the hasty, ill conceived, cynical, and narrow economic proposals that are the measure of this document. The Budget is a testimony of conservative philosophy that has no relevance for this nation in the 1970s. If makes no effort to identify or to come to grips with the great national problems or the aspirations of the Australian people. 
I want to make one comment on the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam).  He has referred to transportation and plans for our capital cities. The editorial in yesterday's 'Australian Financial Review', under the heading 'After the Budget a new stimulus', states: 
One of the most cogent and widespread criticisms of this latest Federal Budget has resolved around the rather narrow front on which it chose to attack the problem of lagging national growth. 
Further on it refers to what  Dr Bell,  the economic adviser to the Australian Mutual Provident Society, stated. It reads: 
Two possible fields in which the Federal Government could adopt both a creative attitude and one calculated to stimulate consumption and improve the structure of the economy in a basic way were mentioned by the Bill: Selective decentralisation; the provision of effective public rapid transit facilities . . . 
This of course merely reinforces the 2 points made by the Leader of the Opposi tion. Much has been said about taxation in this hand-out Budget. The simple fact is that income tax continues to be pitched very heavily against the low and middle income earner. The crux of the matter is quite simply that only the rate of increase of taxation has been reduced, and that taxation paid by individuals in this financial year will in fact rise by $439m. The measure announced by the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  in the Budget, indicating that self-education expenses would be a deductible item, is in fact irrelevant, because this is an existing right which was given by the High Court of Australia early this year. I commend to the Treasurer the decision given by  Mr Justice  Menzies. 
The Treasurer made a dramatic announcement in regard to the abolition of the means test and the feasibility of a national superannuation scheme. What remarkable inconsistency we have here. I would like to remind the House and the nation that whenever this proposal has been presented by the Australian Labor Party it has been ridiculed and dismissed as financial madness. Indeed, let me further remind the House of the incredible political gymnastics of this Government. Just 9 weeks ago the Treasurer, with his traditional gusto and extrovert energy, did his best to discredit the suggestion regarding abolition of the means test. Yet some 8 weeks later he introduced that measure in the Budget that was presented to this House. Are not people entitled to question the motives behind such an announcement? I leave this to the Australian people, and 1 am optimistic enough to believe that they will make the correct decision. 
I turn now to the question of pensions. If any section of this community deserves justice with compassion it is the people who receive pensions and who in human terms have been responsible for the great development of this nation. But how have we treated them in the past 23 years? What techniques have we used? What ploy, if you like, has this Government used? The Government will give them 50c here or Si there in a Budget in the great hope that this will placate them, particularly on the eve of an election. But is this the way to treat them? Is this the method to employ? The Opposition has long advocated that pensions be 25 per cent of the average weekly wage and we on this side of the House are, of course, naturally delighted that the pensioners will receive some increase. But let us not continue with this outdated and anachronistic technique of giving 50c here or SI there in every Budget. 
I want to turn briefly now to the area of defence spending. Defence has a fascination for the Government. I want particularly to highlight what I believe to be - and I would like the Australian people to hear what I have to say on this - one of the most disgraceful, opportunistic and irresponsible acts ever perpetrated by even this lacklustre coalition Government. On the eve of a Federal election some 9 years ago - note that it was the eve of an election - this Government with its fear phobia entered into a most extraordinary contract to purchase the F111C aircraft. Here it is, August 1972, and where is this devastating piece of aerial weaponry? At page 338 of the Auditor-General's report for 1972 it says that previous reports mentioned that the 24 aircraft ordered by the Commonwealth were in storage in the United States. These aircraft are for the defence of this country, yet they are in storage in the United States. This is the piece de resistance. The approved estimated cost of this project currently stands at $US334m and we still do not have one aircraft. As the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  said, it is a mirage. The slogan, or if you like the catch cry, of the Liberal Party whenever it is confronted by Labor policy has been, parrotlike, to ask: Where is the money coming from? Now I can ask: Where has the $334m gone and for what? If a Labor administration had committed an act of folly or of gross incompetence of this magnitude it would have been thrown out of office, and deservedly so. The people of Australia deserve to be reminded of this Government's monumental miscalculation which has cost them so dearly. 
In a broader context I want to deal with the proposals in this Budget which relate to Tasmania, its primary producers and its apple and pear industry in particular. The only reference in the Budget to the valuable fruit export industry was a slight increase in the stabilisation scheme for 1972. Some weeks ago I joined the Premier of Tasmania in a delegation to the 

 Deputy Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  seeking bridging finance for this industry. But what has happened? What has been the result? What has been the reaction? Precisely nothing. It is causing very great concern in Tasmania, and justifiably so. I would suggest that if that triumvirate in the Australian Country Party, comprising the  Deputy  Prime Minister, who might well be labelled the Coriolanus of t'-.e Country Party, the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  and the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Nixon),  was as energetic and vocal about the primary industries as it is at hurling the most abusive and derogatory remarks at the Leader of the Opposition, our primary industries might be in a better way than they are. What about the extent of Commonwealth spending in Tasmania. This makes fascinating reading. The total allocation to the Department of Works for 1971-72 was $327m; Tasmania's allocation was $3.6 lm, The total allocation for the Department of Trade and Industry was $52. 884m; Tasmania's share was $60,000. The total allocation for the Postmaster-General's Department was $l,142m; Tasmania's share was $35m. The total allocation for the Department of Labour and National Service was $24. 186m; Tasmania's share was $711,000. For far too long Tasmania which after all - this may come as a shock to some hoonurable members on the Government side - is still a member of the Commonwealth, has been treated with scant respect. 
I want to turn to the fear complex of this Government and make particular reference to the Australian Broadcast ng Commission. In my time in this Parliament I have been not only dismayed and greatly disturbed by the efforts of honourable members on the other side who .'.ave mounted a concerted and concentra'ed campaign to stifle, silence and, if possible, remove any person who dares criticise this Government. We have the present controversy involving the Commission's current affairs programmes. This is a most unhappy episode but it is not new. What is new and disappointing is the entry of the Postmaster-General  (Sir Alan Hulme)  into this public argument. I say it is disappointing because hitherto he has exhibited a balance and an approach that was in my view certainly commendable. But his statements of recent weeks, his appearance on 'This Day Tonight' on 16th of this month places him fairly and squarely alongside the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  and that right honourable gentleman's attitude. The Prime Minister has never established a reputation for tolerance of any critical comment by the media. In fact if we look at the attitude of the Prime Minister in April of this year and again last Friday night on ABC television making demands as to who will or will not interview him, we can easily see how impossible it is becoming for professional broadcasters of talent and integrity to work with the right honourable gentleman at all. It can be clearly demonstrated that the Prime Minister and some of his supporters who are very vocal are trying in effect to emasculate current affairs programmes to such an extent that these programmes which enjoy substantial ratings among the Commission's programmes will cease to be meaningful at all, and will cease to be meaningful as a substantial and critical assessment of the Government's performance, and that is their task. 
The proposition advanced by the PostmasterGeneral to preview some controversial segments before they go to air is as preposterous as it is impossible. I will not go into the impracticability of it because thankfully it has already been dealt with by the  Chairman  of the Commission,  Sir Robert  Madgwick. What the suggestion does reveal is that the Postmaster-General in advocating such a measure and in putting forward such a proposal after years in this portfolio quite simply does not understand the fundamental procedures involved in putting this type of programme to air, be it on radio or television. It simply cannot be done. 
But what really is the motive behind these pressures? It is simply fear. This Government, which proclaims time and again that it believes in the freedom of the individual and that it believes in free speech, is at the moment, in my view, treading a very dangerous path if it pursues its present course, mapped out for it by the Minister for the Navy  (Dr Mackay)  in his now famous guideline statement in this House some time ago. If the Prime Minister wants the French system to prevail in this country let him say so. The French state radio and television system is a disgrace to any Western democracy. It has been used ruthlessly as an instrtument of the state, and it still is used as such. If the Prime Minister and his colleagues wish to have the Australian Broadcasting Commission as an impotent, uninformative, docile and uncritical assessor of the Government, by all means let them adopt the French system. What did De Gaulle say about his political opponents? 'They have the newspapers but I have got the television'. 
He did indeed. If that is the sort of situation the Government wants in this country I am certain that the Australian people will not accept it. It is a Goebbels-like technique, and the honourable member for North Sydney, knows it, and appreciates that 1 am right. This Budget introduced by the Treasurer falls very far short of the vision and the statesmanship that the Australian people have every right to expect from their national leaders. It is the same dreary, unimaginative, predictable approach that has marked the coalition's performance for so many of its 23 years in office, lt is time for a new approach, an approach that will ensure that this nation can surge forward, undivided, unimpeded and unhindered. That impetus can be generated only by new ideas, by political courage and by sweeping away the old tired concepts and by planning for this country a future that will assure us of a pre-eminent position in a world that is changing - and it is a fact that this Government simply cannot or will not recognise that this is a changing world. 
The Australian people deserve the best. They are being served by a mediocre government which has demonstrated clearly that it lacks the confidence of the people. It is a government that has demonstrated quite clearly that it is out of touch with contemporary thinking, and any government that is out of touch ought to be out of office. It is a government that has demonstrated with quite remarkable ability how easy it is to achieve the second best. It is a government divided and divisive. It is a government that is tired, frightened and very angry. It is a government lacking in vision and lacking in trust. It is a government that deserves to be rejected, and that certainly will be its fate. 
Has the Prime Minister received a telegram from the Tasmanian Premier,  Mr Reece,  seeking a special conference between the States and the Commonwealth? In the same telegram did the Premier draw the attention of the Prime Minister to the unemployment problems in Tasmania, particularly in the metropolitan centres of Hobart and Launceston? What action does the Government intend to initiate to resolve the problem in Tasmania which comes about mainly because of that State's comparative geographic isolation? Finally, will he give consideration to an increase in spending by Commonwealth departments in Tasmania which currently runs at the abysmally low figure of just over 2 per cent, which in the view of many Tasmanians is grossly inadequate and which is, in fact, discriminatory? 
I ask the Prime Minister: Is it a fact that he has laid down firm guidelines before consenting to be interviewed on Australian Broadcasting Commission television programmes? Do these guidelines include the power of veto over the interviewer, and the right to approve an interviewing panel and the questions that its members want to put? Did he communicate with the General Manager of the ABC informing him of those conditions, which has had the effect of reducing staff morale to its lowest point in years? 
I have given an undertaking to the Leader of the House  (Mr Chipp)  that I will take only 5 or 10 minutes at this stage of the evening. In this cognate debate a great deal of ground has been covered by all the speakers. I want to emphasise, as I did in the debate on the legislation last year, that one of the great difficulties that faces Tasmania - I think this is well recognised by everybody in this House, not least by the Minister - is that it is very clear that the benefits of the stabilisation scheme have been very largely dissipated by the rises in overseas freight rates in particular. They have been affected also by exporter charges and various other cost factors, but it is on the question of freight alone that I wish to speak. The present rate is $2.60 a bushel. Freight ls the largest single cost factor to the grower or the exporter. Frankly, what we do about this problem of escalating freight rates I do not know. It has defied the experts. It is interesting that in its 1971-72 annual report the Australian Apple and Pear Board dealt with this problem. On page 7 of the report it states: 
With the expiration of the 3-year shipping agreement between the Board and the Australia to 
Europe Conference, it became necessary to negotiate new arrangements for 1972. At the outset the Conference advised that it was no longer interested- 
I find this fascinating -  in providing a Conference service for fruit because of the special problems involved, and suggestions were made that future arrangements should be developed wilh those owners still interested in the trade, including the Salen Shipping Company- 
Of course what this means is that the Conference line, which for so many years has got so much out of the fruit industry, is now prepared to dump it. I quote what the same report has to say about the awareness of the Senate Select Committee on the Container Method of Handling Cargoes of the difficulty that Tasmania faces not only with regard to the fruit industry but also with regard to all exports and imports. The report of the Senate Select Committee states: 
The diversion of existing shipping caused by the arrival of cellular container ships, particularly as it relates to the operation of conventional ships to Tasmania, poses a special problem which baffles the Committee. What is apparent is that the Governments must give particular attention to any disabilities likely to be suffered by the Tasmanian fruit export industry and Tasmanian exports generally. 
This is basically the proposition. Freights are ruining this industry, and until we can come up with a solution to this difficulty we will not get anywhere. I want briefly to refer to the delegation that visited Canberra some weeks ago led by  Mr Reece,  the Premier of Tasmania. 1 was a member of that delegation. We came to Canberra to interview the  Deputy  Prime Minister and Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony)  and the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Nixon)  to seek bridging finance from the Commonwealth for the industry. To this stage nothing has resulted. As my friend the honourable member for Braddon  (Mr Davies)  said, the Tasmanian Premier took a courageous move to guarantee that the industry at least would be able to put its fruit on the trees for the next season. But it is a short term solution and can be successful only if the Commonwealth is willing to participate as it should and is obliged to do. The industry is in favour of a statutory authority, as was mentioned earlier this evening, but again that step can be taken only with Commonwealth support, both physical and financial. 
Time will not permit me to develop that theme very much further. I want to devote a couple of minutes to discussing the tree pull scheme. A lot has been said about the means test. I agree with the honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd),  the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  and the honourable member for Braddon that this is a most unfair imposition. What do we hope to achieve by this legislation? The growers in Tasmania tell me that it will be an abject failure and I have no reason to dispute that proposition. The funds that will flow as a result of this legislation will mean little in practical benefits to the growers. That is quite clear to all of the growers. If a grower becomes bankrupt his creditors may be minimally better off but what will be the position of the grower? 
The honourable member for Dawson pointed out that we would like a firm indication as to who is to get the money. We do not know. Is the grower to get it? This has not been made clear. How is the legislation to be policed? Because of lack of publicity about this measure there is a great deal of confusion in the industry. Reference has been made by the honourable member for Braddon to the extension of time provision. In my view it should be supported because I think it is a very good idea, and a necessary move. 
I want to refer now to a speech made by the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  in Mackay on Friday, 29th September. Last year and again this year legislation has been introduced to deal with an industry that is facing a critical problem. Belatedly, 12 months late, the Minister has accepted the proposition with regard to a stabilisation scheme that we put up a year ago. But it is 12 months too late. I want to finish my speech by illustrating the supreme optimism of the Minister. Surely he must be the most optimistic man in the Parliament. On Friday, 29th September, he said in Mackay: 
This year has been a dynamic one for Australia's rural industries and rural communities. We have moved from a position of in our major industries recession to a position of buoyant confidence. 
I am sorry that the Minister is not in the chamber because I would invite him to visit my electorate to repeat that sort of rubbish. The Parliament is now dealing with legislation and amendments to save an industry that is almost bankrupt and the Minister puts out garbage and hogwash like that. 
Of course it is garbage, and the Minister knows that it is. I invite him to my electorate at any time to repeat that statement. It is really quite fascinating. The Minister has taken no interest at all in the debate. He sits at the back of the chamber and interjects continually and constantly. 
I do not need verification from the honourable member. If the Minister would take a little more notice of what goes on in the House perhaps we would not have the problems in the rural industries that we now have. I am sorry that I have been diverted. I fully support the proposal of the Opposition and I think that the Government should support it because it will certainly have the support of the industry. I thoroughly approve of the amendment moved by the honourable member for Dawson. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Duthie)  adjourned. 
I second the amendment moved by the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson),  lt is interesting to recall that when we moved this amendment last year it was duly defeated by the Government, but the justification for moving it at that time is to be seen now. Let me remind honourable members what the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  said a moment ago in regard to the tree pull scheme and rural reconstruction generally. He indicated that there will be a full review in February next year. I find it difficult to understand why the Government will not accept this proposition at this time because basically it will not interfere with the legislation as such if it is to be reviewed each year prior to the establishment of the support price for that season. I appeal to the Minister because I think this is a logical and well intentioned amendment. As the honourable member for Dawson has pointed out, it is a necessary safeguard for us to have at this time. I submit to the Minister - I think the Minister will be well aware of this - that the Tasmanian industry is in favour of an amendment of this type. I ask the Minister to give very serious and sympathetic consideration to the amendment moved by the honourable member for Dawson which I am quite happy to second. 
In speaking to the estimates of the PostmasterGeneral's Department I cannot resist the temptation to refer to a couple of comments made by the honourable member for 
McPherson  (Mr Barnes).  I would regard him as being as irrelevant on current affairs as he is on most subjects he discusses in this place. 
He may be. He is about as relevant on these matters as is Boadicea's chariot. I want to speak about 2 matters in these estimates. The first is one of great concern and great regret to me personally. 1 know it has been touched on many times here but I intend to touch on it again. This matter of great regret to me and to honourable members on this side of the House is that the emasculation of current affairs programmes on the ABC is continuing. It is a matter for further regret that the inhibitions being imposed on the current affairs sector of the ABC are reducing its objectivity and its freedom clearly to discuss national issues. It seems to me that if these programmes are not at the moment being quite clearly diminished we are certainly well on the way to extinguishing them as effective public forums. 
I want to refer to the existing morale - low as it is - within the Australian Broadcasting Commission. I can think of no time in my experience in broadcasting, which goes back a great number of years, when the morale of the personnel in the Commission has been lower than it is at this moment. It is low for a great number of reasons. These people feel that there has been a political imposition on them to present facts and a portrait of contemporary affairs in this country that suit the government of the day. I find this a very distressing situation. I have spoken on this matter in the House before and I will continue to talk on it while this situation exists. I think a lot of honourable members, particularly on the Government side, fail to recognise that if we are to have a public broadcasting service it must not be inhibited or emasculated by government policy or interference at any time, and that is exactly what is happening now. I have spoken with a great number of members of the ABC all over this country. I know the conditions under which they work. I was an employee myself. I know the conditions under which they are now being forced to put programmes to air, with blatant political interference. 
I will not mention personalities or bring names into this very short debate. 1 think it would be unwise and unfair to do so. One has only to look at the daily Press and to read the reports that are emanating from the ABC at the moment to see exactly what sort of situation we have got ourselves into. There is no longer trust in the staff of the ABC by the top hierarchy of the ABC. lt well suits the management at this time to indulge in this self-imposed censorship of programmes. As I said in the House a short time ago, if the Government wants the French system to prevail in this country, where there is complete government domination of the state broadcasting and television services, it is heading in precisely the right direction to achieve that result. 1 do not put any personal blame on the Postmaster-General  (Sir Alan Hulme)  for this. In the 3 years I have been in this Parliament I have found him to be a man of great integrity and I have no reason to change that point of view, but unless the Government allows the ABC to operate as an objective current affairs examiner of governments and government performance without any interference, it might just as well let the ABC die tomorrow, because this is what is happening. 
We have the extraordinary paradox now of commercial television stations being far more free and far more critical of government performance in this country than is the public broadcasting service which has the duty to do this. One has only to look in the report of the Australian Broadcasting Commission for 1971-72 to see the ratings of current affairs radio programmes like AM' and 'PM'. They have an audience of 400,000, and this disturbs the Government. Obviously the Government is disturbed because such a considerable audience in the country is alert to government lack of performance. The Government has every reason to be worried. Its performance in the last 2 or 3 years has been appalling and I have no doubt that people want to know about it. They are entitled to know about it without any fetters or interference from this Government or any other government. 
Let me turn now to a local matter. Since the inception of television in Tasmania in 1961 many areas in various parts of my electorate have experienced great difficulties in obtaining favourable reception of an image. I am prepared to acknowledge at the outset that the communications I have had with the Postmaster-General have always been eminently satisfactory. But I want to remind him again that over the past 2 years I have made constant representation to him on the lack of reception - the lack of a good picture - in the Huon Valley area of my electorate. This area involves a great many thousands of people who, in 1972, are still not receiving an adequate picture. I remind the Minister and I remind the Committee that we are now dealing with the proposition of introducing frequency modulation in broadcasting. We are talking about the introduction of colour television. I have no argument with these things. I support them. But these people since 1961 have been denied an adequate television coverage. I think in 1972 that they have exhibited a remarkable tolerance in putting up with it for about 10 years. I know that the Australian Broadcasting Control Board is in a very difficult position. It does not have the field engineers and the technicians to carry out every task that it is called upon to carry out. But, speaking for my own constituents - I have received very strong representations from them  -  1 remind the Minister and ask him to place this on the top priority programme for the Board to ensure that it will make some firm recommendation as to what it is going to do. 
I know that the geographical location of the area imposes a very great demand on the technicians and their ability to get a picture into this area. But I remind the Minister that these people have been very patient. I think they have been excessively patient. The time has now come when they should be considered along with other people throughout the Commonwealth who, in the last 10 or 15 years, have been receiving a very adequate television picture. The. Minister has responded to the representations I have made to him, but I ask him as a matter of urgency to place this issue high on the priority list. 
My question is directed to the Postmaster-General. The honourable gentleman will be well aware of the very high cost of the coaxial cable service transmitting television programs from the mainland to Tasmania. I ask the Minister whether his Department will be prepared to make a reassessment of these costs or, even better still, a reduction so that Tasmanian television viewers are not deprived of seeing national and international programs that are freely available at much less cost to people on the mainland. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, in concluding the AddressinReply debate, may I make the observation that the honourable member for Wimmera  (Mr King),  and indeed many of his colleagues on that side of the House have become dull with care and melancholy since they have been transposed to Opposition. I think that feeling may be with them for many years.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  will you please convey to the  Speaker  on my behalf my best wishes on his election to the office which he has achieved. He is well equipped to discharge the difficult and responsible duties which lie before him. He has earned the reputation over the years as a devoted Parliamentarian, a loyal member of this House and the Party which he represents. He has a capacity for dignity without pomposity. I wish you,  Sir, my  congratulations on your elevation to the office that you hold. 
I congratulate also those new members from this side of the House and the other side of the House who have made their maiden speeches. They are now making a contribution to the democratic process, and that is as it should be. I do not wish to particularise, but I feel that the honourable member for Casey  (Mr Mathews),  who had the unenviable task of moving the adoption of the Address-in-Reply, should be congratulated on his fine speech. It was a speech of substance and sinew. 
It is not yet 100 days since this Government took office, but in that short time its record is most impressive, as the former Minister for External Territories, who seeks to interject, would no doubt agree. The legislative program that it has formulated is broad, challenging, imaginative, humane and long overdue. It is a program designed to fulfil the needs and the aspiration's of the Australian people. It is a program of change and of challenge. The changes have already occurred and the challenges will most certainly be met. Already initiatives have been taken in foreign affairs. The recognition of the People's Republic of China has already occurred. Prior to this Government's election to office the 800 million people of that nation were ignored by successive Liberal PartyCountry Party coalitions. One is reminded of the paranoia that seems to develop on the 
Opposition side whenever one refers to the People's Republic of China. Yet I find it fascinating and indeed interesting that the first official visit to China from Australia should in fact be by a Liberal Minister in the Victorian State Government. He is the first Australian Government representative to visit the country which members of the Liberal Party and Country Party have abused and maligned over the years. He became the first official recipient of that country's hospitality following recognition of that country. What a manifestation of change that demonstrated. 
The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  has already indicated great initiatives with great lucidity. He has visited New Zealand, Papua New Guinea and Indonesia since coming to office. Decisions have been made in relation to Indo-China and the East German Republic. There is a feeling of action abroad and initiative at home. The Prime Minister is to be congratulated on his initiatives. On domestic issues, the Government's record is equally impressive. The new and enlightened Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  has brought a new dimension in the all-important field of social security. Pensions have been increased and anomalies that irritated and retarded have been removed. 
Let me relate briefly what has already been achieved. The Government has moved to increase all pensions. The retrospective payment of pension increases is to be applauded. It is a move which I have long advocated. I am delighted to see it implemented by this Government. The increases in sectors of unemployment benefits will be most significant for a great many people in our community. It is simply not true to say, as many members of the Opposition have said, that our enlightened legislative social security program will encourage people not to work. Indeed, this is a cynical and offensive observation which reflects on many thousands of good Australian people. I reject it. The benefits which will be available have been detailed precisely in another debate as has the date from which they will be paid. I will not trespass on the patience of the House by repeating them. Suffice it to say that a critical area of social welfare has now been comprehensively examined and flowing from that examination decisive actions have been taken accordingly by a decisive Government. 
The decision to provide aid for aged relatives is a real and positive break-through in social security. For example, any person who provides continuous care for an aged relative in that person's home can now receive a benefit provided that that patient meets certain medical criteria. This benefit may be received, for example, by a woman caring for her husband, a husband caring for his wife, or a daughter and a son caring for sick and aged parents. This is an area of social welfare that has needed attention and it has now received that attention. National superannuation and the means test are being dealt with by a devoted, capable and very energetic Minister for Social Security. 
In the field of education the schools commission and the pre-schools commission, the announced aid for technical education, all highlight the thrust and purpose of this new Government. In these early days there is a thrust, a purpose and a decisiveness that was noticeably absent in previous governments which simply refused to see or could not see that change and new directions were necessary for this nation. They refused to accept this simple fact and that refusal contributed in my view to the previous Government's electoral defeat on 2nd December. The Minister for Defence  (Mr .Barnard)  has come in for a great deal of criticism and personal vilification in this House over the past week. He is an honourable and dedicated man who recognised that many facets of the repatriation system were highly unsatisfactory and in need of change. Steps which have been taken in this regard have been accepted by servicemen with a great deal of delight. These are positive actions from a positive government. 
I want to turn now to one or two matters that affect my State of Tasmania and in particular my electorate of Franklin. The Minister for Transport  (Mr Jones)  has indicated that he will make public the results of the study of the Bureau of Transport Economics, a matter which was referred to earlier by my colleague, the newly elected honourable member for Denison  (Mr Coates).  I hope that these conclusions will soon be tabled in this Parliament because they are of vital importance to Tasmania. I have pointed out in this House on a number of occasions the disadvantages suffered by Tasmania due to its geographic isolation. It affects every facet of the Tasmanian economy. The increased freight charges to the apple and pear industry is one case in point. The import charges on goods from the mainland affect Tasmania's economy to a terrifying degree. It can be said that 
Tasmania's economy is largely dependent upon one single factor, the ever increasing and escalating freight factor. The previous Government, despite the many proposals and cases put to it. totally ignored the situation but it can be ignored no longer. I have raised this matter on a number of occasions and until a satisfactory solution is arrived at I will continue to raise it. T consider this issue to be one of the most important and vital to the future economic growth and development of Tasmania. I remind the Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Wriedt)  and the Minister for Northern Development  (Dr Patterson)  who represents the Minister for Primary Industry in this House that it is of the utmost importance to establish a national marketing authority for the export of fruit and, if it is not possible constitutionally to establish a national authority. I would like the Commonwealth Government to provide the necessary finance for the State to go it alone. 
The generosity of this new Government in its early days to Tasmania can be quite clearly demonstrated by the positive action of providing $3m for projects throughout the State and the relief of the unemployment situation. The Government's proposal to acknowledge the existence of local government, hitherio shockingly neglected, is one that will be welcomed. The decision to provide local government with a voice and vote at the deliberations of the Australian Loan Council is imaginative and will be welcomed by those organisations and instrumentalities. The decisive measures announced with regard to housing are a tribute to the Minister tor Housing  (Mr Les Johnson).  They are vet another example of the Government's determination to come to grips with the enormous problem brought about by the passive and piecemeal approach of the previous Governmeat. The broad canvas of the Government's legislation is in response to the needs and the awakening of the Australian people. The people made their decision clear on 2nd December. We have responded as a government to that decision of the people and no other course is possible. The impetus and initiatives we have established must be sustained and cannot be diverted by trivia from the other side of the House. The path of change that the people have decided upon must continue. 
There is one facet of Government policy about which I am not convinced at this time. However, I will refrain from making any great comment upon it until I have looked at the matter in detail. I refer to the restructuring of the Council for the Arts. I have not had an opportunity yet to look at the fine print or to examine the restructured Council but I will pursue this matter because I am not completely satisfied with what has been done. I have been asked to restrict my speech to 10 or 15 minutes and that I intend to do. I endorse and enthusiastically welcome the thrust and purpose of this new Government because the wide ranging, radical and imaginative program announced in the Governor-General's Speech clearly illustrates this Government's determination to create a society where initiative will be encouraged and energies harnessed. The native genius of our people will be given full play to bring about a society, an environment and a forward looking nationalism that is our birthright and our destiny. 
I support the amendment and, in doing so, in no way cut across the basic proposition put by the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner). Mr Speaker  I might suggest in all kindness and generosity that perhaps the most exciting event of the first televising of this Parliament would be the ejection of the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  following your warning to him this morning. I fully support the initiative of the honourable member for Bradfield. I think he would be well aware of my almost total support for the proposition he has put. I want to digress for a moment. In the first seminar of the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association Conference held in Canberra last year I made some mention of this matter. 
Let me take up one or two of the points raised by the honourable member for Bradfield. I think it is right that this matter should go to a committee. This subject has long exercised the minds of lots of people not only in the Parliament but also outside the Parliament, and within the television industry itself. Of course, great physical difficulties are involved in televising part of the parliamentary proceedings. One of the difficulties is the enormous cost involved. I do not want to pre-empt what the committee might decide in regard to this matter, but this cost would be very significant. Another question to be considered is the type of equipment that would be used in this chamber. It might well mean that the chamber would have to be physically restructured to provide the types of cameras necessary to transmit the sort of program that would be acceptable not only to this House but also from a technical viewpoint. 
One is also reminded of the imminence of colour television. This again presents technical difficulties which are different from those experienced at the moment with black and white television. For example, honourable members might well be somewhat discomforted by the fact that, if only a portion of, say, question time were to be televised from this chamber, a greater intensity of light would be needed for the transmission of an effective colour television program. I am not putting these propositions against the proposal. I am merely reminding honourable members of the sorts of difficulties that confront us in a project of this kind. 
I agree with the honourable member for Bradfield that perhaps the televising of question time could well be the most likely start we could make in this direction. The honourable member made a very valid point when he said that if proceedings were televised we would have to watch out for the possibility that certain individuals in the chamber could hog the camera, as it is referred to in the business. I do not think that would occur but one would have to be aware of the possibility. This would have to be looked at very closely. But 1 imagine that the viewers would be quite capable of making their own assessment of the performance of a Minister or a leading member of the Opposition. I do not think that television, being the visual medium which it essentially is, would allow people not to be able to come to some conclusive judgment of the performance of, say, the Prime Minister or the Leader of the Opposition. 
One of the great difficulties experienced in the United Kingdom was how to achieve balance and objectivity. This was referred to by the honourable member for Bradfield. I think that this would create quite enormous difficulties after arriving at the technique to be used for the transmission of part of the proceedings from this House. These are just one or two of the matters to which one would have to give some thought. They are not insurmountable difficulties and they are not the greatest difficulties with which the committee would be faced. I certainly reinforce the suggestion that this Parliament has to convince the electorate as a whole of the merit of its performance in this chamber, the proceedings of the House, the standards of debate and indeed the behaviour in the House and this has to be transmitted to the public in a far more efficient way than is currently being done. I am in favour of broadcasting the parliamentary proceedings but I do not think the technique we have at the moment is the best technique that can be found. It has many deficiencies and it can be improved, but nonetheless it serves a very valuable purpose in communicating to a great number of people outside this chamber precisely what happens in here and how it happens. 
Let me comment briefly on the situation which confronted the Parliament in the United Kingdom. It has already been said that in 1966 a motion to approve a closed circuit experiment in the House of Commons was defeated by only one vote. In 1968 an experiment took place in the House of Lords. My information is that the noble Lords were not overly excited by this event. Indeed, one commentator informed me that one member of the House of Lords, at the very prospect of television cameras intruding into that chamber, retired and was described as being in an advanced state of apoplexy at the prospect. It is interesting to note that last October, in a free vote in the House of Commons, the proposal was again rejected, by a majority of 26. The atmosphere in 1966 was almost in favour of the experiment and last October the majority was 26 against any such televising of the proceedings of the Parliament. I do not really think that the system in Denmark, while it is typical of the advances that the Scandinavians reveal in so many areas of government, would work in this country. If the matter is considered by the committee and a decision made to recommend that some portion of the proceedings of the House be televised, I think it would be necessary to look quite seriously at what would be televised and by whom it would be done. Also, it might well be a very good idea to give some thought to the establishment of another channel for the televising of parliamentary events. I do not think it quite fair to inflict on the public at large, through the 2 existing channels and the third network of the Australian Broadcasting Commission, continuous broadcasting of parliamentary proceedings and then to subject viewers to televised excerpts from this chamber or from the Parliament as a whole. 
I reiterate that I support the proposal put forward by the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner)  and, of course, support the amendment. In conclusion I say that perhaps one of the most eminent television practitioners in the world,  Mr Robin  Day, in giving evidence before the committee in the United Kingdom had this to say: 
It would enable the public to see what I would describe as an authentic political debate on their television screens, instead of substitutes devised and cast by television producers. 
In effect  Mr Robin  Day is saying that he would prefer to see televised excerpts from this chamber instead of a studio re-representation of the proceedings. I would have to lend some support to that proposition. I support the amendment and I congratulate the honourable member for Bradfield for his long-standing, continuing interest in the communication of the parliamentary proceedings to the people outside this chamber. 
Is the Postmaster-General aware of the transmission by the Post Office of unsolicited material which, at best, could only be described as offensive to the recipient? Is he also aware that there seems to be a very clear campaign to post this material to females, which has caused them a great deal of distress? Will the Postmaster-General take steps to consult his Cabinet colleagues as to whether an amendment to the Post and Telegraph Act is desirable to prevent the Post Office being used as a carrier of material that has given a great deal of offence to a large number of my constituents in the past few weeks? 
My question is addressed to the Prime Minister. Following the recent unsuccessful attempts and appeals to the French Government to suspend or to cease its series of nuclear tests in the Pacific area, is it the intention of the Australian Government to join with the New Zealand Government and to proceed to the International Court of Justice without further delay and by so doing to indicate to the French Government that we will not be treated in such a contemptuous fashion? 
I address my question to the Minister for Science who represents the Minister for the Media in this place. Has the Minister seen the report attributed to the  President  of the Federation of Australian Commercial Broadcasters in which he stated that 'increased interest in radio by government, trade unions and other groups was damaging their industry'? Is it a fact that recent Federal Government regulations have reduced the freedom of commercial broadcasters and upset their very important programing, as claimed by the President? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Transport and Minister for Civil Aviation. Is it a fact that TransAustralia Airlines enjoys unfair competition in terms of access to capital and the money market? ls it also a fact that TAA is exempt from State and municipal taxes? 
My question is addressed to the Prime Minister. Is it a fact that certain State Premiers and their deputies are now gathering in London on an abortive and unnecessary mission? Does the Prime Minister agree with the comment in some sections of the Press that there was no consultation between his Government and the States on these various issues? Finally, does the Prime Minister not agree that decisions affecting the future of this nation ought to be made here and not by a remote body some 12,000 miles distant? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Social Security. Is it a fact that the Government has responded to its social welfare commitment by increasing pension payments twice since last December? Can the Minister give an assurance that Government policy will be sufficiently flexible so that pension increases will not be eroded by inflation? Has the Minister noted the remark of a former Prime Minister, the right honourable member for Higgins, that there ought to be an election immediately with pensions as an issue? Finally, could the Minister inform the House precisely what tangible contribution to pensioners was made under the stewardship of the right honourable member for Higgins? 

 - Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
It is always delightful to have to follow the honourable member for Cowper  (Mr Ian Robinson)  when he speaks about the media. He so enlightens this Parliament that sometimes I am quite devastated by what he says. I just want to recapitulate on a couple of points he made. First of all, he could not resist the temptation of referring to the Australian Broadcasting Commission, as all Australian Country Party members and Liberal Party members invariably do when a debate on the media comes before this Parliament. He said the that ABC has been given the green light to proceed with current affairs programs. There is nothing to stop commercial stations from also receiving the green light to interest themselves in current affairs but they do not consider this a profitable enterprise. The Government never deters commercial stations from indulging in current affairs programs. 'It does not deter them in any way, as is well known by the honourable member for Lyne  (Mr Lucock)  who is attempting to interject. The honourable member is a classic example of the old adage that empty vessels make the most sound. He will get his chance to talk later. The honourable member for Cowper raised the old furphy about telephone charges. What we are discussing tonight is the Broadcasting Stations Licence Fees Bill, which has nothing to do with telephone charges, so let us attack the problem as it should be attacked. 
The honourable member for Cowper as the vanguard and spokesman for the Australian Country Party on this issue said that it is unfair and is a great impost to impose an increase in the licence fee from S50 to $200. I remind Government supporters that the $50 fee was struck in 1964-9 years ago. Let us examine the revenue of the commercial broadcasting stations to see whether they are being dealt with devastatingly. The licence fee for the privilege of transmitting programs has risen by SI 50 over a period of 9 years. The revenue of commercial stations in 1967-68 totalled $31,441,292 and they each paid a $50 fee. The latest figures available are in the 25th Annual Report of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board for 1971-72 and they show that the revenue of the commercial stations was $45,770,912 - almost $46m. Is the Opposition seriously suggesting to this Parliament and to the people of this nation that a licence fee of $200 in 1973 is unreasonable, illogical, and bad economics? Do not be so absurd! 
Objection to the Bill predictably was raised oy members of the Country Party. The 
Minister for External Territories  (Mr Morrison)  has indicated that any station which is experiencing economic difficulty will be treated gently. We cannot do better than that. Nine years ago, in 1964, the fee was set. In Australia at the moment 118 commercial stations are in operation and 99 of them are making a profit. I dare say that the 19 that are showing a loss are very possibly - I have not looked at the statistics - situated in country areas. 
They may well be run by the Country Party and if they are that is why they are making a loss. The honourable member for Cowper suggested that the Country Party stations are being treated badly. Most of these stations are on network hookups anyway and are controlled by the Macquarie network or by other major networks. 
My dear fellow, I know a little more about it than you do - in fact a lot more. It can be demonstrated from the figures I have quoted on the earnings of the 118 stations that there simply is no case to answer if honourable members opposite are going to object to the licence fee being raised from $50 to $200. The honourable member for Lyne takes great delight in interjecting madly. He does not listen to argument at all and that is why he is so uninformed. If country stations are efficient they will make a profit but if they are not efficient obviously they will not make a profit. Why are these 19 stations not making a profit? Why are they finding it difficult? It is because they are unresponsive to the public that they serve. If one wishes to remain in commercial broadcasting it is a fundamental criterion that one ignores the requirements of the public at one's peril. 
One of the extraordinary features of the Country Party is that it is never reluctant to make an application for any licence, whether it be for broadcasting or television. It is always first in the queue to apply for a licence. When it cannot run the station through its own inability and lack of professional expertise, it has the gall to come into this Parliament and say: 'My goodness, what a savage impost this is. The licence fee was $50 in 1964 and the Government is asking that the fee be increased to $200 in 1973. This is a savage Budget impost.' What nonsense and what humbug! 
Is it seriously proposed by members opposite that this licence fee is exorbitant? I ask you,  Mr Chairman:  Is this fee exorbitant? I put it to everybody in this chamber and to the people outside that in no circumstances could it be considered to be exorbitant. What the Opposition fails to realise, of course, is that the total amount that will be paid will amount to only $491,204 out of a total revenue of almost $46m. 
The Broadcasting Control Board is charged with great and serious responsibility for the technical inspection of these stations and for the supervision of the program and the administrative procedures of the stations. It is also responsible with regard to the licensees of the stations. To suggest that the fee of $50, which as I said before was struck in 1964, is relevant or acceptable now, in 1973, is just being politically unreal. It is an extraordinary thing that the Country Party, particularly, with great regularity and predictability, in this chamber claims that anything that touches its sacrosanct area has to go on being protected. It cannot survive without protection. If Opposition members contend that this increase is unjustified and is a shattering blow to the stations in Australia, I respectfully suggest that they study the annual reports of such companies. I invite the honourable member for Cowper and the honourable member for Lyne to look at page 170 of the 25th Annual Report of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board. I think that the information appearing there will fortify honourable members. It reveals that all of these stations throughout Australia are not approaching the abyss of oblivion, either financially or from a program point of view. This Bill is equitable, it is reasonable, it is essential, it is concessional, it is rational and it deserves the support of this Committee. 
The honourable member for Wimmera  (Mr King)  dealt at great length with that part of the Bill which refers to the gross earnings of the various commercial radio stations. I can assume only that the honourable member, who is a member of the Australian Country Party, would be advancing the cause of country radio stations. I would be delighted if he would indicate to me the number of country radio stations within the framework of the 118 commercial stations in this country which have a revenue in excess of $500,000, because this is the nub of his argument. He went on to talk about a 1) per cent increase for stations with gross earnings of from $500,000 to $lm. What country station in Australia has a revenue of Sim? Name them. He cannot because there are not any. The honourable member and other members of the Country Party referred to land line charges. This is an impost brought about by the Postmaster-General  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  and I would suggest to the honourable member and his colleagues that they reflect that it was the previous Postmaster-General and the coalition government which made the decision to increase postal charges last year. Do not blame us for a decision made by the former Government. We are merely being economically responsible where the former Government and its members were political cowards. 
It is not a matter of my being truthful. The honourable member knows perfectly well that it was only the influence of the Country Party that last year decimated the entire Bill relating to cigarette advertising. Country Party members talk about humbug. All they are interested in is protecting their own interests. They still cannot answer this question: How will country stations be affected by this legislation? The honourable member for Cowper, who is seeking to interrupt me again, is a classic interjector but he is a man of very little knowledge on this subject. 
My question, which is addressed to the Minister for Transport, is supplementary to the one asked by my colleague the honourable member for Braddon. Can the Minister say whether the Japanese fishing boats were requested to report any wreckage or survivors from the 'Blythe Star'? 
-I have indicated to a few members of the Opposition that I will not take the full amount of time available to me because I should like them to be able to make some contribution in this debate. I think I must answer a couple of the points made by the honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd).  He reiterated on a couple of occasions - I hope I quote him accurately; his suggestion was quite clear - that the rural committee of the Government was a fairly impotent body, unable to persuade the Government to change its opinion on some actions or to give a guarantee that some change will come about. All I can say to the honourable member and to other honourable members in Opposition is that they cannot have their cake and eat it. Whenever a Labor Party committee or the Caucus as a whole overrules a decision made by the Government, honourable members opposite are the first to complain of a lack of unity within the Government Party. I think that comment dispenses with that observation. 
One really must summon all one's charitable instincts when one reflects on the speech made by the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles).  He is a delightful fellow, but he was invoking the wrath of the Gods down on us because, as I recall what he said, he claimed that it would be interesting to see what happened in the electorates of Government members if they did not support the Opposition's amendment. 
The honourable member may say 'Hear, hear!'. I hope he will say 'Hear, hear!' again in a moment. The honourable member has demonstrated a remarkable political agility. I remind him of the occasion when he had the opportunity to make a demonstration of this kind when a tax on the wine industry was introduced by his own Prime Minister. I think that Hansard will show the way in which the honourable member responded to that action. 

 - Mr Speaker, the honourable member for Angas has already had his say. I would hope that he would be generous enough to allow me to make my contribution. Nobody interrupted him when he was talking and I would expect the same courtesy. 
What I do wish to say about the whole approach to rural industries in general and to the apple and pear industry in particular is that a re-assessment has to be made by the Government of the day. I draw the attention of the House to the approach of the Country Party in the debate on the legislation to establish the Industries Assistance Commission. That legislation ought to have been introduced years ago. What it does, in effect, is to provide rural industries with the same sorts of opportunities for representation as have been given to secondary and manufacturing industries for a great number of years. The Commission would do all of those things for primary industry that has been done for secondary and manufacturing industry. But what was the attitude of the Country Party to that legislation? It refused to support it. This is basic to the whole problem of the rural sector. It must be put in a position where it enjoys the same privileges and the same accessibility to the evidence available to the Government as any other industry. But the Country Party would not accept that proposition. 
A great deal of comment has been made about the difficulty that the apple and pear industry faces. Nobody denies that. The industry is in a most parlous condition indeed. I request the Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Wriedt)  to give some consideration to some positive announcement of assistance to that sector of the industry which may be affected by this legislation. In fact, I have already initiated moves in that direction with the Minister for Primary Industry. He is now studying them and an answer will be given to us. 
Everybody in this House, not least of all myself, is aware of the great difficulties which face the apple and pear industry. It has been suggested to me - I do not know whether there is substance in the suggestion; but, nonetheless, it has not yet been disproved - that we could well anticipate in the export season of next year that freight rates will be increased again. This simply means that for the export of apples and pears to overseas markets the freight may well be as much as $7 a bushel. If this is in fact true it would be insane and indeed uneconomic for any grower in any part of this country to continue in that industry. 
These are problems which have been occurring for the last 20 years. I find it somewhat strange that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  has suddenly evinced some interest in this industry, because he was a senior Minister in the previous Government which allowed the existing set of conditions to arise. I hope that I am not uncharitable when I say that I would suggest that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition has presided over the complete breakdown of the viability of the apple and pear industry. The Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  in his second reading speech states quite clearly that the Government is prepared if the need arises to provide funds to assist with the reconstruction of any sectors of the fruit growing industry affected by the withdrawal of this exemption. I think that that is a perfectly fair, reasonable and logical approach to take. I have had representations from members of the industry. I know that they are concerned. It is my concern to be concerned about their concern. If a case is put up, as I believe there has been, for an amount of money to be made available for those people affected by this legislation, I have no doubt at all that it will be done. In fact, the Treasurer has already indicated that that would be his course of action. 
It must be understood that the difficulties of this industry cannot be debated in isolation. This is an industry which has suffered disastrously over the years and, quite frankly, its future is very bleak indeed. Its future is bleak for a number of reasons, some of which I have already suggested. If it is possible at all, certainly the position of the Tasmanian producers, who produce 70 per cent of the export trade in apples and pears, ought to be considered. I would submit to the Government that any legislation or any amendment to existing legislation that would create an added burden or an added difficulty ought to be resisted until all of the avenues have been thoroughly examined and debated. 
I indicated earlier that I would not take the full time available to me. The Minister for Primary Industry, despite the accusations which come from various quarters, particularly on the other side of this House, is most genuine in his attempt to handle, and very sincere in his approach to, this difficult portfolio. The manifestation of some of that success can be seen in some of the trade agreements that have been announced in the last few days. The Minister has had talks in Japan to try to obtain an access into the Japanese markets for exports of apples and pears. There are real difficulties in this field. There are practical difficulties and philosophical difficulties, but nonetheless he has undertaken to do this. These talks will continue with his Japanese counterpart. Therefore, I think it is somewhat unfair to accuse him of disinterest in primary industry. I know from my own experience that he is most concerned with and involved in the future of the whole spectrum of primary industry. 
In conclusion, I draw to the attention of the House a statement made by  Senator Rae  who is a leading light in the Liberal Party when opening the Ulverston Show in Tasmania last week. I will quote what the honourable senator said because I think his remarks are germane to some of the points that I have been making particularly with regard to the Industries Assistance Commission. He said: 
The rural industry has been left at the mercy of the Government, trading combines and multi-national corporations which have become bigger and more powerful than ever. They have been left to the multinational combines, the corporations and the trading companies. 
These are the remarks of a senior senator of the Liberal Party referring to the difficulties of the rural sector of our community. This was not said by a member of the Government or by a member of the Labor Party. It was said by a front bench member of the Liberal Opposition in the Australian Parliament. As I mentioned earlier, this is one of the reasons why the Industries Assistance Commission Bill should have been supported by members of the Country Party. In that event, this observation by  Senator Rae  certainly would never have been made. 

 Mr GILES (Angas)-  Mr Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for the Environment and Conservation. The House of Representatives Standing Committee on the Environment and Conservation has been holding hearings about the advisability of placing deposits on nonreturnable drink cans and bottles. One of the submissions to this Committee, recently reported in the Press, makes the suggestion that a program of drink can reclamation instituted by a group called the Steel Can People was in fact some sort of public relations farce. Can the Minister confirm that this allegation is correct? 
Is the Minister for Social Security aware of today's statement from a source not noted for its sympathy to the Government, that under Labor's health insurance program patients will enjoy the widest possible freedom of choice? Is he aware of statements from the same source that facts, as distinct from propaganda, do not bear out accusations that the program is a plan to socialise medicine? Is it a fact that these views are widely held in the community and that the majority of Australians are far more impressed  by objective discussion on the merits of the program than by appeals to prejudice and fear? 
Before the suspension of the sitting we were discussing the estimates for the new Department of the Media, and the honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay)  made some comments and complaints about the media, criticising leaders of his own Party. I think that the honourable member for Boothby merely reinforced the observation made by the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner)  that perhaps the media was spending too much time on trivia. In speaking to the estimates of the Department of the Media I think it is appropriate that in the first instance we recognise the fact that it has been operating for only a few months. It is a completely new and refreshing department. It is a department with awesome responsibility. It embraces, and is responsible for, the totality of broadcasting in this country. At this stage it is worth reminding ourselves that the Department has become a reality in the 50th year of broadcasting in Australia. This in itself is a notable occasion and one that serves to remind us of the conspicuous contribution to our society made by broadcasters, both national and commercial. 
I referred earlier to the awesome responsibility of this Department; and indeed it is awesome. Let me illustrate this point. The area of responsibility embraces the Australian Broadcasting Commission, the Australian Broadcasting Control Board, the Australian Film Development Corporation, Film Australia, the Australian Information Service and the Australian Government Publishing Service, to mention just a few. I want to deal more specifically in the time available to me tonight with its functions and powers in relation to broadcasting. Let me deal firstly with the Australian Broadcasting Commission. The Commission is answerable through the Minister for the Media to this Parliament, but its independence is guaranteed by Act of Parliament. Although in recent years it must be conceded that this independence has been challenged, and indeed on many occasions has been threatened, by some very curious and spurious suggestions, the first Minister for the Media,  Senator Douglas  McClelland, has made it clear that the independence of the Commission will be guaranteed. This is a view that I personally have supported since I have been in this Parliament, and I have no intention of departing from that attitude now. 
The attitude of the Government to the ABC is manifest in many ways. Not least is the decision to provide this year an extra $ 10.2m for increased expenditure. This is in dramatic contrast to the proposition floated by the last Government to reduce expenditure by the ABC in the field of public affairs, but fortunately this exercise was withdrawn after debate and protest in this Parliament. Of this $ 10.2m, some $5.2m will be available to improve and develop radio and television programs in many fields and to improve the accommodation of ABC staff. It is in the field of programming that the greatest satisfaction must emerge. It is this field that is of particular interest to me because I have long advocated the expansion of news services and public affairs programs by the Commission. Let me just cite one or two instances where expansion will now occur as a result of this increased allocation. A regional television service has been provided for the Wide Bay district in Queensland. An ABC newsroom with a full time journalist will be established in Burnie in Tasmania as soon as suitable premises can be found and an experienced journalist appointed. Offices will be established in Brussels, Peking and Wellington in New Zealand. The journalists located in these centres will provide news and voice reports for domestic programs and Radio Australia. This indeed is a welcome breakthrough. Radio Australia staff will move into new leased accommodation in Merlin House, Melbourne. New radio studios and recording facilities will be provided. The 
Commission's Victorian newsroom and record library will also be established in Merlin House, thus enabling the ABC to vacate the present unsatisfactory accommodation in which it is housed in Lonsdale Street in Melbourne. 
Of particular interest to me is the ability, through this allocation, for the extension of public affairs programs. As a result, for the first time on ABC television in February 1974 there will be programs to replace the normal programs such as 'This Day Tonight' and 'Four Corners', which normally go into recess towards the end of the year. I have made submissions from time to time about the increase of personnel in various orchestras maintained by the ABC throughout the country. Due to this increased allocation, it is proposed to increase the permanent strength of the Adelaide Singers from 12 to 16. The strength of the South Australian Symphony Orchestra will be increased by 9 full time players. I am glad that one representation I have made has been received in the way in which I think it ought to have been received, and that the strength of the Tasmanian orchestra wil also be increased by 2 full time players. These are very worthwhile and notable contributions to the expansion of the ABC. The Australian Broadcasting Commission, in its 41st year of broadcasting, has contributed much to our society and to our cultural development. It has certainly made a great contribution to contemporary events and the transmission of great and significant debates. It will make mistakes - indeed we all do - because it is staffed by human beings, but the record will show that its professionalism and integrity are unquestioned. 
In the area of responsibility the Department of the Media has an obligation and duty through the Broadcasting Control Board to scrutinise and maintain the standards, both technical and programming, of the commercial stations. I suggest that it would be fair comment that the establishment of the new Department of the Media has been favourably received by ' the licensees throughout this country. They have responded to the wishes of the Department, particularly with regard to Australian content. They also feel with justification that the staff of this Department, with its long experience in commercial radio and television, is sympathetic to their problems and can interpret them with intelligence and an understanding of the complexities of this industry. I suggest that Australia has been very well served by the dual system of broadcast ing, and it is my belief that this newly established Department of the Media will serve as the agency that will ensure that broadcasters of this country, whether they be national or commercial, will be encouraged to look forward to another SO years of successful broadcasting in the interests and general welfare of the people of this country. 
My question is also addressed to the Minister for Social Security. Has his attention been drawn to protests by the Commonwealth Bank Officers Association against attempts to misrepresent the attitude of the Association to the Australian health insurance program? Has his attention been drawn to other vigorous expressions of support, for the program from sources such as Anglican bishops and the leader writers of major Australian newspapers? Finally, will he arrange for these most eloquent expressions of support to be collated and circulated to honourable members, and in particular to the honourable member for Boothby? 
The honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street)  was indulging in some mystical speculation during his short speech tonight. I think a number of the points that he made need to be answered. I think he said, if I remember correctly, that we in fact had promised, prior to the election, that there would be total grower representation. 
The honourable member did not say 'total'? 
I see. Speaking for myself and indeed for most of my colleagues I can never remember such an undertaking ever being given in public or in any other forum. The honourable member mentioned an amount of money which was to be paid in revaluation compensation payments. In fact the figure is about $866,000 to Tasmania alone. This Bill, to establish the Australian Apple and Pear Corporation, is of course of vital importance to apple and pear producers throughout the country but in particular it is of overwhelming importance to my own State of Tasmania and to my own electorate. 
The Tasmanian industry, as honourable members would be well aware, accounts for the great bulk of the export trade. Indeed it is this very dependence by the Tasmanian industry on the export trade that has brought it to its present critical situation. There is no doubt in my mind that if we do not find a solution now to the difficulties facing this industry, and in particular the Tasmanian industry, there will not be an industry operating in1974. The apple and pear industry was at one time a vital and a vigorous industry that brought a very great number of benefits to the Tasmanian people and to the economy. 
Indeed, as my colleague the honourable member for Wilmot interjects, it was worth about$20m some years ago. That amount has now been halved. A number of factors have conspired to bring about the present crisis. All members of this House would know that the entry of the United Kingdom into the European Economic Community was one of those factors. The United Kingdom, with Western Europe, has been the traditional market for the apple and pear industry but British entry into the European Economic Community has altered this quite dramatically. It would be foolish, futile and naive of us to pretend that that situation does not now exist. 
The honourable member for Corangamite mentioned the difficulty of shipping. He was quite correct, but this difficulty is nothing new. We have had this problem for 20 years or more. I find it quite remarkable that it is only in 1973 when the honourable member is a member of the Opposition that he suddenly discovers the difficulty about freight rates. We have had many debates in this House over the years on ever increasing freight rates. The suggestion is that this year there will be an increase of 16 per cent. 
It also seems to me that where we failed in this industry is in the promotional area. To my mind, sufficient promotional expertise has never been developed in the general marketing area. 
It has been apparent for years that this industry was in very great peril, but very little was done by the previous Government. I know there is no point in making recriminations. It certainly is not the time, nor indeed would it be very productive, to blame the former Government for its failure to recognise and deal with the very real problems in this industry. Obviously we have to start thinking afresh, and I think that is being done with the introduction of this Bill to establish the Apple and Pear Corporation. It is obvious, of course, that new markets and new techniques - indeed, a whole new approach - must be found if this industry is to survive. What we have to do is to make absolutely certain that this Corporation will work effectively for the good of the industry and the people who work in it. These are people who have made a very great contribution not only to the Tasmanian economy but also to the economy of this nation, and they are looking forward and the industry is looking forward to this Corporation being an effective answer to some of the current difficulties that face it. 
What will the Corporation succeed in doing that the Apple and Pear Board failed to do? I believe it will have an expertise in marketing techniques that are absolutely vital in today's highly competitive world. The Corporation will have control of exports from Australia and the conditions of export and quality of standard controls, which again are of great importance. But perhaps the most significant feature of the Corporation's powers is its ability to trade. As the Minister for Northern Development  (Dr Patterson)  pointed out in his second reading speech, it will be empowered to charter ships, something we should have done years ago. This is of the greatest significance, again particularly to the Tasmanian industry. For far too long it has been dependent upon and, if I may be so bold to suggest, held to ransom by the conference monopolies. It is the belief of many growers, certainly in my electorate, that this monopoly should now be broken. It is an inefficient monopoly, but a very expensive one. The shipping arrangements of the past seasons have never been satisfactory, and it has always been an attitude by the shipping conferences that you can either take it on their conditions or leave it. 
The nub of the problem surely is in the development of new markets. As I indicated earlier, it would be futile to think that the European market will continue as before. Therefore I was delighted to learn that my colleague the Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Wriedt)  has had talks with the Japanese Minister for Agriculture to consider the possibility of exporting apples and pears to Japan. I sincerely hope that these talks to be held here in Canberra next month will be successful, because there is a tremendous potential for the Australian product in Japan and the East generally. 
This Corporation will have the power to develop these and other markets, and these markets must be developed and expanded if the industry is to survive. All the functions of the proposed Corporation, diverse and important, will, I believe, for the first time give this Corporation a substance and power that the Apple and Pear Board never had. It is essential that the Corporation act quickly and effectively. Any further delays, any further indecision, can only exacerbate an already critical situation. The great concern for this industry in its present difficulties is the dislocation of people and the hardship and misery that is caused by this dislocation. In my electorate alone it would be no exaggeration to say that people are now leaving this industry in droves. They are leaving this industry in 1973 because nothing of a substantial nature has been done for the past 2 decades. It is the cumulative effect that it has on every town and every village in the electorate that is of concern. It is not only the orchardist who loses his money and leaves a community who is affected. It has a total effect. 
One of the things that surprised me is how ironic and absurd it is that when millions of people are starving and crying out for food we uproot fruit trees by the thousands. It is an absurd and stupid situation. There is no doubt that the Tasmanian product can compete with the best in the world, and there is no doubt that the Tasmanian grower has the energy and the expertise to make it a viable industry. I am delighted to learn that the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and the Tasmanian Premier met in Canberra this week to discuss short term methods of assisting industry over its present critical time. I would hope that as a result of those talks some measure will be taken to assist these people. If this Apple and Pear Corporation can be the means of sustaining and maintaining the industry, I know the industry will play its part to the full. I would hope that all members of the House will give this Bill a speedy passage so that the task of securing the vital Tasmanian industry as well as the Australian industry as a whole can be carried out promptly and effectively and give this industry the future that it so desperately needs. I support the Bill. 

 - Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
This is the first occasion on which I have spoken in the debate on the motion for the adjournment of the House in the 4 years that I have been a member of this House. Therefore what I have to say must be regarded as serious. Last Thursday evening the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  made the incredible claim that he had been misrepresented by me and other Tasmanian members of this House in a radio advertisement broadcast over 7HO in Hobart and other Tasmanian commercial stations. Last Thursday night I rejected that claim in the face of the evidence available in the 'Australian' of 22 January '1972.  Mr Speaker,  I will quote from that newspaper what was said by the then Federal Treasurer who is now Leader of the Opposition. The article states: 
The Federal Government was gaining more control over wage inflation through its economic policies, the Federal Treasurer,  Mr Snedden,  said yesterday. 

 Mr Snedden said in Sydney the economic climate was preventing the unions pressing for over-award payments, a major contributor to inflation. 
It continued: 
We have achieved what we set out to do in that we have created an environment in which over-award payments are depressed,' he said. The temporary advantage to powerful unions'- 
I stress this-  of over-full employment is no longer there, and the Government is better able to resist excessive award increases by intervening in Arbitration Commission hearings.' 
In other words what he was saying in effect was that as a result of his policies unemployment was the answer to inflation. Having said that, what I want to turn to now is a most serious exhibition by the Leader of the Opposition. I would like him to answer the following questions: Firstly, did he, on Friday of last week, demand that the commercial station 7HO discontinue these advertisements? Secondly, did he further demand that the Liberal Party receive free time to broadcast its own advertisements? Thirdly, did he at any time make his protest through the proper channel - that is, the Australian Broadcasting Control Board? Fourthly, was the whole tone of his message to the management of 7HO in Hobart one of a threatening nature if it did not accede to his request? 
This is a very grave situation because the Leader of the Opposition has attempted, quite improperly in my view, to dictate to and to impose his will on an independent commercial radio station in Hobart. This is a situation which no management, quite properly, will tolerate either now or in the future. This is an attack on the independence of station 7HO to carry out its normal commercial business function. Further, it is a blatant example of political interference by a high handed boorish politician who has by-passed the only regulating body, that is, the Australian Broadcasting Control Board. Members of this House should not stand by and allow this man to impose his own personal whims and wishes on the commercial media of this country.  His  attitude on this occasion is typical of that of his Party when it was in Government; it is all the more repugnant when that Party is in Opposition. This action by the Leader of the Opposition must and will be resisted. I ask him to state quite plainly what prompted him to take this quite extraordinary action. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Immigration. Is there a serious sex imbalance in Australia's immigration program? Is it getting worse? If so, what does the Minister intend to do about it? 
I think all honourable members will agree with me when I say that we have heard that type of speech from the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon)  many times before in this Parliament. 
The parrot in the right hand corner of the chamber has been here for only a short time but has already established a reputation for himself as being a parliamentary bore. I have no doubt that he will embellish that reputation before long. The honourable member for Gippsland made two or three points that I think I should answer before I get into the substance of what I want to say. He constantly and consistently, like so many of his colleagues on the other side of the chamber, berates the Government for its extravagance in public spending and then says in almost the same breath that the increased pension payments which were announced last week are not sufficient. On what is the honourable member going to cut down? What sector of public spending is he going to reduce? He constantly uses this phrase about extravagant public spending, but we never hear from him what sector of public spending he would reduce. 
The honourable member for Gippsland talked earlier about a lack of confidence in the community. I remind him and his colleagues that of 170 major companies in Australia 1 ..' year, 138 announced record profits and dividends in that year. Does that suggest a lack of confidence? He also said that rural industries were being brought to their knees. That was the phrase he used. I remind honourable members that the honourable member was a senior Minister in the previous Government which, for 23 years, helped to send the farmers and rural industries to their knees. So I think that it ill becomes the honourable member for Gippsland to use phrases such as those he used in his speech today. 
In opening the second session of the Twenty-eighth Parliament  Her  Majesty the Queen referred to the Government's determination to continue with its policies of reform and innovation. I submit that this Government has been more innovative and reformist than any other government in Australia for more than 2 decades. It has succeeded in ridding the nation of the torpor and inertia of the past 20 years. Now we have a new thrust in a new direction attuned to the contemporary demands and aspirations of the Australian people. A study of  Her  Majesty's Speech confirms this refreshing and energetic application by the Government. 
What have been some of the tangible results of the Government's policies in the past 15 months? In education - and no mention was made of this in the speech of the honourable member for Gippsland - we have seen dramatic increases in the Australian Government education policies. The Karmel Committee and the setting up of the Schools Commission have revolutionised education in Australia, with massive injections of funds to the tune of $700m being allocated. The Government's commitment to abolish tertiary fees as of this year and similar proposals for technical education reveal the Government's determination to bring a new deal in education. No reference was made to these measures or to these innovations by the honourable member for Gippsland. I think it would be unfair if I did not refer to the work of the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  in piloting through this hostile 
Parliament the legislation that was so desperately needed in the field of education. The very real concern in the social welfare field was expressed and translated in the actions of the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden).  There have been a great number of activities in other areas but time will not permit any extensive comment on them. 
I want to deal now with the specific benefits which have ben bestowed on my own State of Tasmania, and I hope that the honourable member for Gippsland can contain his humour and take in what I am about to say. I ask honourable members to bear with me as I enumerate some of the benefits which have been very substantial. Total payments to the Tasmanian Government in 1 973-74 for all purposes, including the State's Loan Council program, are estimated at about $228m, which is an increase of $32m or 16 per cent over the amount in the preceding year. This represents a payment of $570 per head of population in Tasmania compared with average payments of $337 per head of population in all other States. This is equivalent to a margin of more than $90m in Tasmania's favour, and this again is an indicator of the Australian Government's recognition of the special needs and problems of the State. It was estimated in the ^Budget that in 1973-74 Tasmania would receive $87. 8m in general purpose and revenue grants and financial assistance grants. 
Nothing. In 1973-74 Tasmania will receive $8. 65m in special grants paid on the recommendation of the Australian Grants Commission. At the June 19.3 Premiers Conference the Australian Government agreed to provide $25m by way of special revenue assistance in 1973-74. Tasmania's share is estimated to be $1.2m. Tasmania is estimated to receive general revenue grants totalling $97.7m in 1973-74. These are the tangible and real expressions of this Government's assistance to Tasmania which was so sadly neglected by governments of which the honourable member for Gippsland was a member. It is to be noted that in per capita terms Tasmania receives considerably higher general revenue grants than do the other States, and this is a recognition of its special needs which are attributable to such factors as its relatively low capacity to raise revenue and its lesser ability as a State with a small population to spread its overhead costs. 
Turning to general purpose capital funds, under decisions taken by the Loan Council at its June 1973 meeting in regard to the Loan Council program for 1973-74, Tasmania has been allocated $64m for State Government works in 1973-74. In per capita terms Tasmania is receiving more than double the average allocation - $161.1 per capita compared with $66.9 per capita for the 6 States combined. Thus, the State's special needs are again recognised. 
I turn to the field of primary and secondary education. The Australian Government's payments will rise dramatically mainly, as I said earlier, because of the recommendations of the Karmel Committee. Grants for both government and non-government schools in the State of Tasmania are estimated to total $5.5m in 1973-74. This is an increase of $2.9m or 112 per cent over the corresponding period in 1972- 73. For tertiary education, payments to the State Government again will grow very rapidly, partly because of the assumption of full financial responsibility in this area by the Australian Government as of January of this year. Grants for tertiary education in Tasmania are estimated to .total $12.5m in 1973- 74 - again an increase of 112 per cent over the corresponding period 1972-73. 
The Australian Government is entering the pre-school field for the first time. The Government has received the first report of the Australian Pre-schools Committee which recommends considerable payments for both pre-schools and child minding centres in all States. This Government has taken a number of new initiatives in the health and welfare sector, involving payments to the States. Some of these relate to community health facilities. The estimated payment to Tasmania in these areas is $900,000 in 1973-74. There is an estimated payment to the State of about $1.2m for a school dental scheme in 1973-74. 
I turn now to the very critical area of housing. Advances totalling $16m will be made available to Tasmania in 1973-74 under the new housing agreement with the States, and this is an increase of no less than 82 per cent over the corresponding allocation in 1972-73. These advances are provided at very advantageous rates of interest- 4 per cent. In regard to cities, urban and regional development, again the Australian Government has taken a number of very important new initiatives comprising growth centres and other urban and regional development projects. An estimated payment of $500,000 is to be made to Tasmania for this development in 1973-74. In regard to roads, in 1973-74 Tasmania will receive a grant of $14m under the Commonwealth aid roads arrangement. This is another area in which the State does very well compared with the other States. In 1973-74 its grants will be about $35 per capita compared to the 6 States average figures of $24 per capita. The State's special problems, such as the high cost of road construction and maintenance due to topographical conditions, are taken into account by the Commonwealth Bureau of Roads, which is responsible for making recommendations to the Government in this field. That is a very brief resume of the contributions to Tasmania made by this irresponsible' Australian Government. I submit that the people of Tasmania would not agree that the Government has been irresponsible or insensitive to the needs of my own State. 
I am rather sorry that the honourable member for Gippsland has departed for I shall now talk on primary industry. This Government has assisted the apple and pear industry in my State to the extent of $2m, entering into an agreement with the Government of Tasmania. This is in the form of special assistance and is evidence of the close partnership between the Australian Government and the State Government to assist an industry, if I may use the words of the honourable member for Gippsland, that was 'brought to its knees' by his inactivity. The Government responded to the critical situation facing the carbide works in Tasmania, one of the very few industrial complexes in my own electorate. By its action the Australian Government prevented the closure of this vital industry on 30 September last and the welfare of hundreds of people was sustained and maintained. 
The decision taken by the Government to establish the Antarctic Division in Hobart was a wise and long overdue decision. The previous Government sought to have it withdrawn completely. The decision to subsidise the Australian National Line with an amount of $lm for the Line's Tasmanian sector of the trade was warmly welcomed in Tasmania and one which was long overdue. These are the tangible results of the Australian Government's determination to press on with its obligations and its commitments to my State. What is not remembered by many of our critics and oppon ents is that this Government was elected for  a  period of 3 years. We have in fact been in government for only 15 months, and I think the record stands for itself. I have cited positive decisive actions that have been taken by this Government. They are in sharp contrast to the indolence and lack-lustre attitude of our predecessors. The whole of  Her  Majesty's Speech quite clearly outlines the vision and the determination of the Government to shed the tattered remnants of the past. It clearly indicates that there can be no return to the irrelevancies and the trivia of the past. It is remarkable to observe that after 15 months in opposition those opposite have not yet brought forward one substantial policy announcement. Indeed, they spent some considerable time last week, we are informed, in the Party room having very long, detailed and fruitful discussions on the Australian flag. They have also decided that the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  will now give his total support to the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  because the Leader of the Opposition is, would you believe, opposed to communism. 
If these are the sorts of deliberations and decisions that are made in that Party room on a Wednesday morning, it is no wonder that those opposite are occupying the Opposition benches. The Government, under the stewardship of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  will take this nation into a new era. The challenges will be met and they will be overcome because there is a new resilience and purpose in government which is evoking a response from the people of Australia who for so long were subjected to governments of ad hocery, lacking in purpose and purveyors of mediocrity. 
Suspension of Standing Orders 
Motion (by  Mr Daly)  - by leave - agreed to: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent the Leader of the Opposition from speaking for a period not exceeding 40 minutes. 
I ask the Minister for Immigration whether it is a fact that a number of Australian citizens, of Czechoslovak origin are having difficulty in securing visas or visitor permits to return to Czechoslovakia to visit relatives. If this is the situation will the Minister initiate discussions with the appropriate Czechoslovakian authorities to remove any difficulty that prevents these people from visiting relatives in their former homeland? 
I ask the Minister for Social Security whether his attention has been drawn to reports that child care centres could foster communism, indoctrinate children in Marxism and lead to immorality. Would he agree that these observations are a gratuitous insult to thousands of dedicated decent Australian women whose sole aim is to serve the community and to provide an opportunity for these children to be cared for whilst one of the parents may be working? 
I ask the Prime Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs: Is it a fact, as reported in the media, that the coup in Cyprus which has resulted in the overthrow of the Makarios Government was engineered by the military junta in Athens? If this is a fact, what steps does the Government intend to take to make known to this Greek military junta this Government's abhorrence of this act of overt military aggression? 
-I should like to pay a very short tribute to the late Frank Green. He was a charming and scholarly man and a very distinguished servant of this Parliament, as the Prime Minister has quite rightly pointed out. He was also an outstanding citizen of Tasmania. In addition to all these great qualities he possessed a puckish sense of humour which we all appreciated enormously. I personally am very grateful to him for the many hours of conversation I had with him. His advice to me when I was first elected to this Parliament in 1969 was quite invaluable. He was very closely associated with the village where I now live- Richmond. He understood and, indeed, wrote about its great history and the tremendously important part it played in the development of Tasmania. He lived a very full and active life. He contributed greatly, in my view, to the scholarship of men. On behalf of my wife and myself I extend sincere sympathy to his wonderful widow, Florence. 
I ask the Minister for Transport: Is it a fact that as a result of decisions taken by this Labor Government shipping freight rates between Tasmanian ports and the mainland have in effect been subsidised to the extent of $3m? 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
It is always fascinating to listen to the discourse of the right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon)  in the field of economics. I approve of a lot of what he said. I am the first one to concede that he was a better Treasurer than the present Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  ever was. The Budget introduced by the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  on 17 September was a reaffirmation of this Government's determination to continue its program of social reform, that is, to maintain the momentum and the thrust in the fields of education and social welfare in particular. Seen in the light, the Budget is a document of understanding and compassion. 
The Leader of the Opposition had a week to prepare a counter argument. But his speech was, as always, totally lacking in substance and an exercise in bellowing humbug. To return to matters of substance, I want to relate most of my comments to the social welfare commitment in the Budget. As honourable members are aware, the total Budget outlay in 1974-75 is estimated to be $ 16,274m which is an increase of some 32.4 per cent over the total outlay for 1973-74. An amount of $ 1,535m has been allocated for education. I pose the question to the Leader of the Opposition, and those who support him: Does he propose to cut back in this vital area of education? If he does- if the Opposition proposes to do this- he should say so. 
To my mind one of the most gratifying initiative has been the acceptance by this Government of the Kangan Committee's recommendations on technical education. For far too long the field of technical education has been rather the poor relation in the educational processes of this country. The Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  deserves the highest praise for his unstinting and compassionate understanding for this complex and very sensitive portfolio. In specific terms as far as my own State of Tasmania is concerned Federal spending on education this year will almost double right across the broad spectrum of all education payments in that State. The care and education of the young, and young children in particular, is recognised with the commitment of $75m- a program of the highest priority that every member in this House- even the Leader of the Opposition- will I am sure support. 
In the social security and welfare field the Government has responded to the needs and the very legitimate aspirations of all pensioners. The standard rate of pension is almost now 25 per cent of average weekly earnings. While there is a perfectly justifiable pride in what has been achieved in just 22 months, more needs to be done for these people. As I have said in this House before, pensioners have an undeniable right to share in the prosperity of this nation. They have made a vital contribution to the development and the affluence of this country and on those terms they are entitled to their fanshare. 
I am happy to see that Tasmania has been granted $280,000 for improved pensioner unit accommodation. This is part of a 3-year project costing the Federal Government some $10m. The decision by the Government to recognise the plight of parents with handicapped children is one of the most pleasing features of the social welfare document. I know from the number of people who have contacted me personally just how much this measure will really mean to them after years and years of neglect. The increase of the subsidy under the Aged Persons Homes Act will play a very tangible role in meeting some of the difficulties being experienced by many religious and charitable organisations which are coping remarkably well with many of the problems that escalating costs inevitably bring about. 
The increase in repatriation benefits has been welcomed by all Service organisations. One is reminded of the absence of comment on this measure by so many members of the Opposition. All the organisations are now well aware of the increases and I will not trespass on the time of the House in repeating them. But perhaps I could be permitted to just mention two or three of the most significant new measures in the repatriation field. These new and very welcome initiatives are listed on page 9 of the Budget Speech: 
Free medical and hospital treatment for any condition will be provided for all Australian ex-servicemen and women who were interned as prisoners of war. 
This is another issue which was long neglected by the former Government. 
All ex-service personnel, irrespective of whether they had service in a theatre of war, who suffer from malignant cancer, will be provided with any treatment necessary for that condition. These benefits will be introduced during the Budget sittings. 
Further benefits will be introduced from  the  Autumn of 197S. The means test on service pensions will be abolished for those aged 70 and 74 years. A further 25 per cent of all war pension payments will be disregarded as income for service pension means test purposes. Ex-service personnel who had war-time service in the defence forces of other countries of the British Commonwealth and who are now residing in Australia, and have done so for at least 10 years, will be eligible to apply for service pensions. 
These are new initiatives introduced by this Government which were long ignored by the previous Government. Does any honourable member opposite suggest that we cut back in this program? I turn briefly to the field of Defence Service Homes and I welcome the increase in the maximum loan from $12,000 to $15,000 and the easing of the eligibility conditions. 
My friend, you are one of those people who have a limited capacity to know that you are developing into a parliamentary bore. I want to turn to particular issues that vitally affect my own State of Tasmania. There is of course, and always will be, a necessity for national governments to recognise particular geographical problems, and the metaphysical problems of the honourable member. The continuing difficulty being experienced by all sections of the Tasmanian community can nearly always be traced back to the acute and seemingly never-ending problems of freight rates so delicately touched on by the Leader of the Opposition yesterday. I will have more to say about that in a moment. We do not have the advantages in Tasmania of road or rail alternatives and the whole economy of the State can be brought to a standstill if we are priced out of the market by the disadvantages of excessive freight rates. In last year's Budget there was a provision for a $lm subsidy to be paid to the Australian National Line. This amount, of course, will continue in this Budget and again next year. This move most certainly has been welcomed and Tasmanians have been gratified to see at last a national Government recognise an act to overcome this disability. Therefore I was delighted to hear that the Acting Prime Minister and Minister for Overseas Trade  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  had announced that there would be a freeze in the proposed 25 per cent increase in freight rates between Tasmania and the mainland. 
However, associated with this acute problem of freight rates are other factors. Unless there is an improvement in the arrangement for shipping services to and from Tasmania and unless there is a greater expertise in evidence in regard to the State's requirements, the situation will not improve. Unless there is a greater and more acute sense of industrial responsibility, no matter what this Government might do, the situation will always remain critical. I intrude these observations because if there is not a willingness to display a corporate sense of goodwill and common sense the position of Tasmania will always be one of great difficulty and the State will always have these problems. 
I would now like to refer to some comments on freight rates that were made by the Leader of the Opposition last evening. He came storming into this chamber in his usual bull-like fashion as if he had suddenly discovered Tasmania and talked in his predictably pious fashion about freights. He should be the last person to raise that subject because he was the Treasurer who presided over a 25 per cent freight rate increase to Tasmania in less than 18 months. The people of Tasmania will be told the truth and they will see what a humbug the Leader of the Opposition really is. The Leader of the Opposition spoke about the plight of local government. We all know that he is not the sharpest member in the House but he conveniently forgets, or does not know, of the grants to local government made by the Grants Commission. Those grants were announced in this place only 2 months ago. My own electorate of Franklin- in which the Leader of the Opposition was so desperately interested- received more than $350,000 under this arrangement. The right honourable gentleman informed us that he sent out hundreds of telegrams to municipalities. Lord knows how much that cost the taxpayer. What did he discover? The Leader of the Opposition must have known that the granting of these moneys by the Grants Commission was then in train. 
The Leader of the Opposition must be exposed because he opposed the Government in giving local councils a vote and a voice at the Australian Loan Council. Yet, he has the temerity to stand in this House and say that he is the Lord Protector of local government. Yesterday we saw his crocodile tears. We heard his phony concern for Tasmania, his propositions which are as shallow as the man himself, the piece de resistance- his attack on the Government for introducing the tree-pull scheme- and his attack concerning the plight of the Tasmanian orchardists. Does he not realise that it was his government- of which he was then a member of the Cabinet- which introduced that particular measure? What an incredible man the Leader of the Opposition is. How the Country Party tolerates him I will never know. Yesterday he claimed that the $15m for Tasmania under the States - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Order! The honourable member for Darling Downs will remain silent. 
-Thank you,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  Yesterday the Leader of the Opposition claimed that the $ 15m for Tasmania under the States grants legislation was not enough. This was the amount asked for by the Premier of Tasmania. The Leader of the Opposition always says: "The Government is not doing enough. It is not giving enough money'. But in the very next breath the Leader of the Opposition slams this Government for spending too much money. How inconsistent can one be? The Leader of the Opposition is consistent in one way and that is in his inconsistency. After hearing the Leader of the Opposition yesterday no one in Tasmania would ever take him seriously. He totters into this 
House with his tattered policies trailing behind him. He is the Liberal Party's Falstaff lurching from one embarrassment to the other. The honourable member for Darling Downs may well lurch from here before he is here much longer. The honourable member suffers from a twofold disadvantage. This honourable member here - 
-You-the honorable member who keeps interjecting. The honourable member for Darling Downs has an undisciplined tongue and a very slow rate of cerebral progression. I can excuse the latter but not the former. The decision of the Government to proceed with the new terminal at the Hobart Airport at a cost of $1.3m is most welcome indeed. This is long overdue. The Opposition, as is its practice, does a lot of talking but takes very little action. The decision to update the capital city airport in Hobart, which for a capital city facility at the present time is nothing short of disgraceful, is welcomed. The Hobart Airport has been in a disgraceful state for a number of years. 
I want to pay tribute to the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  for tolerating the many hours of argument put to him by my colleague the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Coates)  and myself to have this airport receive the highest priority. I am glad to say that work on the Hobart airport has already commenced. 
-If you moved out, he possible would. I want to turn now to the proposal in the Budget for assistance to the Tasmanian apple industry. If there is one industry that has been quite savagely mauled in the last decade it is the apple industry. The industry has an expertise unequalled anywhere. It has a product that is also unequalled. The people involved in the apple industry have an energy second to none. Domestic and, more particularly, external forces have created a very difficult and critical situation in the apple industry. The provision of $2.6m, following agreement between Tasmania, Western Australia and Queensland that the Federal Government will support a guarantee scheme for the next season, is very welcome. The establishment of the Apple and Pear Corporation will, I hope, provide that industry with an organisation that will enable these people to make a substantial contribution to the State's economy, not only to survive, but also to prosper. Of course, the recent devaluation of the currency must be of some assistance to the industry. 
There are one or two other matters I want to mention briefly. The first is the abolition of radio and television licences. This is a subject to which I have devoted some time. I am delighted at last that this tax- because that is what it was- has been abolished. I hope it never returns. I warmly welcome the provision in the Budget for an additional $6m for the Australian Council for the Arts. As most honourable members will be aware I have constantly and consistently supported in this House a greater governmental awareness of and participation in the Arts. 
The scope and breadth of any Budget cannot be covered in a single speech. That, of course, would be impossible. I conclude with the same sentiment with which I began: The Budget is a document that maintains the thrust and momentum in the social welfare and educational fields. It seeks to continue the great experiment begun in December 1972. It certainly will not solve many of the current difficulties but I believe it is a very genuine and sincere attempt to reconstruct the priorities of the nation. I realise that the Budget does not  satisfy  the Leader of the Opposition. Of course, we all know that the Leader of the Opposition has a monumental capacity for believing that he is the repository of all knowledge. He is a splended example of the observation that ambition is the last refuge of the failure. I support the Bill and reject the amendment. 
I did not intend to enter this debate on the estimates of the 
Department of the Prime Minister, but I could not resist the incredible challenge thrown out by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden).  It is always fascinating to listen to the right honourable gentleman discussing the arts. I want to take up one or two points that he made. First of all he suggested that Parliament- I do not really think he was serious about this, but nonetheless he said it- makes a decision on artistic direction. I suppose his next suggestion will be that he form a sub-committee of the Country Party to advise us on artistic directions in this country. That, in short, would be disastrous. 
There has been a lot of comment by the honourable gentlemen of the Opposition about the purchases of works of art. So many people do not understand the appreciation of art. I know that this would not affect members of the Country Party who are interjecting. It would not even penetrate. Appeciation of art is a highly personal matter. What appeals to me may not appeal to somebody else. But the plain fact is that as a result of overseas purchases of art there has been a remarkable stimulus and interest in those purchases. The honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  who is trying to interject, would not know how to get out of an art gallery, let alone get into one. The simple fact is that these overseas purchases have stimulated public interest in the arts. There has been a great deal of criticism of the gentleman responsible for the purchases,  Mr Mollison,  the Director of the National Gallery. I remind the Leader of the Opposition, as he leaves the chamber and goes to read more books on the theatre, that in fact  Mr Mollison  was appointed by the former Prime Minister, the right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon),  not by the present Government. So when honourable gentlemen opposite become so critical about purchases of works of art overseas they should remember the simple, fundamental point that in fact it is an appointee of a Liberal Prime Minister who is making these purchases. 
It was a very good appointment. We have seen in the past couple of years under this Government a remarkable interest in and allocation of funds for the arts in the whole broad spectrum of the arts. Nobody denies that that policy has been a good policy. We have seen for the first time an international acceptance of  Astralian  artistic creativity and performance. 
-The Country Party asks where. One only has to recall the tour which is currently taking place by the Sydney Symphony Orchestra, which is receiving the accolade of the critics throughout the artistic world of western Europe. One has only to remind honourable gentlemen opposite about the performances and international standing of the Australian Ballet and reflect with justifiable pride on the very rich reservoir of talent that resides in this country that has been stimulated by this Government. But it is not enough to recognise it; we have to encourage and support it and not continually criticise it. For far too long there have been extraordinary attitudes to the performing and creative arts. There can be no disputing the fact, no matter what is said by the Opposition, whether it be in the field of theatre, ballet, music, composition, literature, painting, conducting and design, Australia has now reached the pinnacle of success in a fiercely competitive and demanding area of creativity. One of the saddest commentaries of our past attitude has been the effect it has had on individual Australians who, in sheer desperation and frustration, through a total lack of cohesive policy in the past, have left Australia. I am glad to say that that is now not happening. While not suggesting for one moment that all the things the Government has done will arrest that exodus immediately and overnight create the sort of climate we hope to establish for artistic endeavour, I say that the measures adopted by this Government are on the right track to achieve that particular result. 
The Leader of the Opposition made some passing references to the Australian Council for the Arts. He talked about teapots and tea sets. That is about the measure of his artistic appreciation. I would not invite the right honourable gentleman to afternoon tea even if I had a tea set. The main thrust of the whole program of the Government in the artistic field- of course it now comes through the Australian Council for the Arts-is that it creates infinitely more opportunities not only for performers but also for our society and audiences to associate with and participate in the exciting rewards and satisfaction that flow from a vibrant and creative artistic environment. 
I ask the Prime Minister: Is it a fact that this present Australian Government has provided more moneys to Tasmania by way of loans, grants and special subsidies, particularly in the area of shipping, than has any previous Federal Government? Is it also a fact that the Tasmanian Government has acknowledged this generosity by the present Australian Government? 
-I do not wish to take up the time of the Committee. I just want to make a comment on the point raised by the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett).  It is historically true that the argument the honourable member has used this afternoon was used in 1948, when the setting up of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board was described by a then leading member of the Liberal Opposition, the late  Sir Eric  Harrison, as something that would strangle and eliminate all commercial radio stations throughout the country. With all due respect to the honourable member for Maranoa and others who think like him in talking to clause 6, that was said in 1948; we are now in 1974. 1 have seen no diminution of commercial radio stations or commercial television stations. 
-The honourable gentleman from North Sydney who interjects would be well aware that when he was in government I moved in this chamber two or three amendments dealing with the freedom of the individual as it related to the Board and the accessibility to tapes and video tape recordings. I was still waiting when the previous Government went out of office for it to accept that point of individual freedom. 
Motion (by  Mr Nicholls)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Amendment agreed to. 
-Prior to the suspension of the sitting, the honourable and learned member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  made one or two observations on this legislation. I do not intend to canvass some of the points that he made, but, towards the end of his speech, the honourable member did express some concernI accept his observations- about one important aspect of this matter which he used the word 'power' to describe. This is the whole object of the exercise in my view. I do not think anybody in this House would ever deny the claim or contest the view that in dealing with television one is concerning oneself with perhaps the most dramatic and impactive communication technique yet devised by man. Therefore, I think it follows that any responsible government must accept its responsibility to make certain that this power is never abused. 
I wish to refer briefly to the enormous effect that the abuse of power in the communications medium can have on individuals or an individual. I think the classic case- I hope that the honourable member for Moreton will accept this- of the uncontrolled power of television concerns its use to destroy a  President  of the United States of America. I would not want to see that sort of situation in this country; nor indeed do I suggest that it would occur. Nonetheless, this is a very real difficulty that one faces. The honourable gentleman also commented on the change of name from the 'Australian Broadcasting Control Board' to 'Australian Broadcasting Authority'. I would have thought that in semantic terms Broadcasting Authority would be far more attractive to him than Broadcasting Control Board. 
As the Minister for Science  (Mr Morrison)  proposed, this is a cognate debate in which 3 separate Bills are being considered together. In the main I wish to concentrate on the legal powers or the absence of legal powers of the proposed Broadcasting Authority, particularly as this affects the programming question. I believe that we in this House have a duty to engage ourselves in a rational and intelligent debate on this question. It is a question which loads a government and an Opposition equally with great responsibility. Government certainly has to respond to that responsibility. 
I am always intrigued by the reaction of some sections of the Press and, indeed, the Opposition when the Government makes any announcement that it intends to amend a particular piece of legislation. There has been no more emotive reaction than the announcement by the Government that it intended to make amendments to the Broadcasting and Television Act. Indeed, no less an authority on the media than the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  made his attitude quite plain. But I will deal with the right honourable gentleman later. 
Section 1 6 ( 1 ) of the Act which deals with the functions of the Board provides in paragraph (c) :  ... to ensure that adequate and comprehensive programs are provided by commercial broadcasting stations and commercial television stations to serve the best interests of the general public. 
Section 99 ( 1 ) of the Act says that a licensee shall provide programs and shall supervise the broadcasting or televising of programs from his station in such a manner as to ensure as far as practicable that the programs are in accordance with standards determined by the Board. In 1948, the 'Board' was substituted for the 'Minister'. In 1956, because this section was being amended to incorporate television stations, the opportunity was taken to substitute 'standards by the Board' for 'to the satisfaction of the Board'. I think it is necessary to deal with the historical background of the powers of the Board. It seems quite clear that it was always the intention that wide discretionary powers should reside in the Board with regard to programming. 
I refer in this respect to extracts from the secong reading speech of the then PostmasterGeneral,  Mr Davidson  as he then was, when he introduced the 1956 amendments to the Act. I remind the House that he was PostmasterGeneral in a Liberal-Country Party Government. He said: 
It will be remembered that there are certain difficulties and particular problems that the Board has to face at this moment. 
He said further 
It seems clear that it was always the intention that wide discretionary power should reside in the Board. 
In introducing the 1956 amending Bill, he went on to say: 
Clause 40 also prescribes, in Division 4 of Part III, the conditions to be observed by the licensees of commercial stationsboth television and broadcasting- in relation to their programs. 
The Minister continued: 
I invite the attention of the House specially to the latter provisions because ever since there has been talk of the introduction of television into Australia, genuine fear has been expressed by large sections of the community that the introduction of television would have unfortunate effects on some sections of the population, particularly children. 

 Mr Davidson went on: ... it is essential to ensure that television programs are of a proper standard. 
These were the words of a Minister in a LiberalCountry Party Government- not a Labor Minister. I repeat the words of  Mr Davidson:  ... it is essential to ensure that television programs are of a proper standard. I do not want to leave any possibility of misunderstanding here. The responsibility for ensuring that television programs are of a proper standard is being imposed on the Australian Broadcasting Control Board which recently was strengthened with this objective in view. 

 Mr Davidson continued: . . . this Government expects the Board to discharge its duties in this field fearlessly. 
He added: ... I wish to make it clear that the Government will stand behind the Board in its administration and will not tolerate any abuse of the new medium by licensees or advertisers . . . 
Those were the words of the then  Mr Davidson  in 1956. 
It can be seen that a member of the then Liberal-Country Party Government had very strong views, with which I agree, on this issue regarding the legal position of the Board. The legal position has never been clearly clarified to the entire satisfaction of this Parliament or, I would suggest, of the industry itself. The Board has regarded the substitution of the words 'programs are in accordance with standards determined by the Board' for 'programs are to the satisfaction of the Board' to be quite inadequate to enable it to carry out its functions. 
It must be remembered that this issue was crystalised, as the honourable member for Moreton suggested earlier today, with the problem of Sunday morning programs. I would suggest to the House that there is no point at all in having an authority or a board, whichever it is, in existence if its powers and legal position are not quite clearly defined by this Parliament. I do not think anybody in the Opposition would accept that situation. I do not think anybody on the Opposition side would accept the proposal that the Board ought to be disbanded. I would be fascinated if any honourable member opposite would agree that that ought to be done. 
If we want standards in programming- I think we all do want standards in programming- we must clothe the Board with the necessary powers to make certain that those standards are achieved. In this respect I refer to a statement made on 7 April 1972 by the then Acting Postmaster-General,  Senator Cotton.  The amendments that this Government has introduced are being interpreted in the Press and by some members of the Opposition as quite radical and quite new. In fact, they are not. With respect to the proposals made by  Senator Cotton,  on 7 April 1 972 he said: 
The Government will be asked to consider an amendment to the legislation to clarify the powers of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board to regulate programs on Sunday mornings. 
On 28 April 1972 it was suggested that the Government would legislate on television standards.  Senator Cotton  said: 
The Government will legislate to make clear the powers of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board. 
He said that he considered the situation had arisen as a result of the challenge to the powers of the Board by station GTV9 in Melbourne. This is not a new approach. In our proposals we are using the guidelines set out by the Acting Postmaster-General in 1972,  Senator Cotton.  So I would suggest that what we are proposing is not terribly radical. 
Let us look at the situation in other countriesfor example, the United Kingdom and Canada. In the United Kingdom the Television Act 1954-63 provides, in section 1 (4): 
It shall be the duty of the Authority- 
to ensure that the programmes broadcast by the Authority in each area maintain a high general standard in all respects, and in particular in respect of their content and quality, and a proper balance and wide range in their subject-matter, having regard both to the programmes as a whole and also to the days of the week on which, and the times of the day at which, the programmes are broadcast . . . 
That,briefly, is the situation in the United Kingdom and I would suggest it is not an intolerable one. The Canadian Broadcasting Act 1968 in section 2 provides: 
The programming provided by the Canadian broadcasting system should be varied and comprehensive and should provide reasonable balanced opportunity for the expression of different views on matters of public concern, and the programming provided by each broadcaster should be of high standard, using predominantly Canadian creative and other resources. 
That Act goes on to provide fairly stringent guarantees that the interpretation and the letter of that Act will be carried out. It can be seen that both the United Kingdom and Canada are accepting, and in fact have laid down, the sorts of guidelines and rules that we are putting forward in this particular series of amendments. It is simply not good enough for the Leader of the Opposition constantly to declare his opposition to these amendments when, as I have pointed out and illustrated, they were proposed by bis Party when in government a couple of years ago. I repeat that it is an absurd and ludicrous situation where the Board does not know what its powers are, where it can move and where it cannot move. 
From time to time reference has been made to a lack of appeal and there was a suggestion that the right of appeal had been taken away. I should have thought that honourable members opposite would have known that one cannot remove something that was never there. There never has been a right of appeal. I think, and I am sure that most people would agree, that it will be in the interests of the industry to know clearly and precisely what its functions and responsibilities are with regard to this matter. 
I turn now to some of the emotive statements of the Leader of the Opposition. When these amendments were first announced he ran to the Press, as is his normal custom, and made quite emotionally charged statements about interference with the electronic media. I suggest to the right honourable gentleman that he has a very short memory about interference with the electronic media because on Friday, 7 December 1973, he sent a telex and a telegram to the commercial management of station 7HO in Hobart demanding that certain commercials being played on that station be discontinued. He further demanded that the Liberal Party receive free time to broadcast its own advertisements. I questioned him on this matter in the House and asked him whether at any time he made his protest through the proper channel-through the 
Australian.'Broadcasting Control Board. I also asked him whether the whole tone of his telex and telegram , messages to the management of 7HO was of a threatening nature. He refused to answer and I was not surprised, because this was a very grave' situation indeed. What happened was that the Leader of the Opposition went directly to a commercial management and told it how to run its business. Yet he has the temerity, both in this House and outside, to say that this Government is interfering with the electronic medial He says one thing when it suits him and quite the opposite the next day. This is the man who, as I said, quite deliberately and blatantly interfered in the internal management of a commercial broadcasting station. He has never answered the charge and I would be interested to see whether he is prepared to do so. 
I am often fascinated by the Liberal Party's proclamation that it is the protector of the individual. I do not wish to take up the time of the House in this debate with my own personal experience of this great Liberal freedom for the individual. I could take up half an hour of this debate indicating the treatment I received from the Liberal Party when, as a former member of the media, I indicated that I was going to enter politics. 
I think the amendments which the Government is to introduce are sensible, timely, and very necessary, and I believe that in the long term they will be beneficial to the television industry itself. There is also a great deal of public community support for these propositions. I do not take the view that we ought to impose on the electronic media industry any more burdensome regulations than are absolutely necessary and I do not think the Government does either. The plain fact is that the Government does have a responsibility in this area through its agent, the Broadcasting Authority as it is to be known, and I think it is only right and proper that that authority should know precisely where it stands and what it can and cannot do. The areas of indecision and uncertainty that have continued over the years have not helped the industry and I do not think they have helped anybody in particular. I suggest that the amendments which the Minister will introduce at a later stage ought to be accepted by this House in the interests of the industry as a whole. 
The Minister for Housing and Construction will be aware that the Australian Government is to upgrade the Hobart Airport. I ask the Minister: Has a contract been awarded for this work? If such a contract has been awarded, who has secured it and what is the anticipated completion date of this work? 
-Has the attention of the Minister for Labor and Immigration been drawn to the report of massive dismissals in the United States car industry? If his attention has been drawn to the report, what impact will this have on the Australian domestic car market and, as a consequence, the Australian work force? 
My question is also addressed to the Minister for Labor and Immigration. I ask the honourable gentleman: Is it a fact that the Regional Employment Development Scheme has the support of all members of this House? Is it also a fact that this Scheme, which I might say is the product of the Minister's sensitive and  compassionate mind, has been widely accepted by all State instrumentalities? 
I direct a question to the Leader of the House in his capacity as Minister in charge of electoral affairs. Is it a fact that the Government's reforming electoral legislation has been defeated by the Opposition in another place? Is it also a fact that many responsible commentators have condemned this shallow and cynical action? What measures does the Minister propose to democratise the Australian electoral system which for far too long has been a captive of the Australian Country Party? 
-The one portion of the speech of the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  with which I am in total accord is his observation that the people of Tasmania always welcome visitors to that State. Even the ubiquitous, complex and conflicting honourable member for Angas is always welcome in our State; that is a measure of our generosity. I am fascinated to hear some of the comments that were made by the honourable member. He said- I think I quote him correctlythat after 2 years the Labor Government's philosophy ought to emerge. Might I reply to that by saying that we were waiting for 23 years for the policy of his Party on this issue to emerge. I do not mean to be personal almost on Christmas Eve at the end of a session. But I must take the honourable member up on his facts. 
I welcome this short Bill introduced by the Government as being a very real and tangible expression of its desire to assist in combating what I would prefer to call the ravages that are affecting the fruit industry at the moment, particularly in my own State of Tasmania. Certainly, as the House would be aware, my electorate has made and is still making a great contribution to the economy of the State and also to Australia as a whole. This industry in Tasmania has faced extraordinary problems and difficulties over a great number of years. A survey carried out recently in the Huon Valley area of my electorate, which I might say produces a great amount of fruit and- if I may be so bold as to say- the best quality fruit, clearly shows that the years from 1967 to 1972 were in fact the crucial years for this industry as far as incomes for orchardists were concerned. These were the years of the Liberal-Country Party administration in this Parliament. It is all too easy and it is all too easily forgotten by critics of this Government that the significant years- the dramatic years or the traumatic years if you like- of the downturn in the fruit industry in my own State were the years 1967 to 1972. 
I remind the honourable member for Angas that on one occasion then I attempted in this Parliament to move certain amendments on this legislation at about 4.20 a.m. and was cut off from even speaking. The Minister for Agriculture  (Senator Wriedt)  who is a Tasmanian colleague of mine has clearly shown and still shows a great desire to assist in a tangible way the fruit growing industry in Tasmania. I now wish to refer to the fruit growing reconstruction scheme as it applies to my own State. To 3 1 October this year some 4,977 acres of apples and 272 acres of pears have been approved to be pulled in Tasmania. The total approved payments to growers to 3 1 October this year for the removal of apple and pear trees under the scheme in Tasmania amounted to $1,229,814. 
Exactly, I am not questioning that. I am merely pointing out to the honourable member in a quite deliberate fashion the amount of money this Government has provided under this scheme. I might mention the post revaluation adjustment to the industry in my State. The assistance announced in November 1973 provided for a grant of up to $1,500 per grower, depending on the volume of fruit and a supplementary grant of $1,000 for those in extreme financial difficulty who applied for clear fell under the fruit growing reconstruction scheme by 30 June 1972. To date payments amounting to $946,000 have been made under the scheme to fruit growers in Tasmania. 
There can be no doubt that the Tasmanian industry has been very hard hit by a great number of factors, not the least of course being the British decision to enter the European Economic Community. Rising freight rates certainly have been a key element in the cost factor. Uncertainty and instability in shipping arrangements have also exacerbated this problem. But it is becoming quite clear that there has to be a radical and far reaching change in the industry. This Bill recognises the need for that change. Apart from the complete measures announced in the Bill, a key clause provides an opportunity to remove a restriction imposed on growers who applied for assistance before 1 July 1973 and who withdrew their applications after the first extension of the scheme was announced. Such growers will now be eligible to apply again under this scheme. I think that has to be commended. 
These measures are very welcome. Because of the very great regard I have for the producers in my own electorate I am quite certain that what has been done by this Government in the last couple of years has been welcomed by them. The producers have had a most difficult and trying period, but they certainly have responded in a way that demonstrates their real desire and their ability to recognise that circumstances of changing conditions, market needs and indeed the world demand, have altered the whole approach of the fruit industry. I welcome this measure as yet another example of the Government's determination to assist in a practical and tangible fashion an industry that still has a very great contribution to make to the economy not only of Tasmania but of Australia as a whole. I support the measure. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Services and Property who is in charge of electoral affairs. In view of the fact that he is to introduce into the House electoral Bills of some great significance, will the formation of a new political party in Tasmania mean a revision or amendment of this proposed legislation? 
I think I will have to travel at about 25 knots to get in the few words I want to say. Firstly, let me acknowledge that we in Tasmania, and certainly I personally, concede quite openly the generosity and liberalism of the assistance we have received from the New South Wales Government. This is only the second occasion on which I have spoken in the adjournment debate in my time in this Par.liament. Therefore the subject matter I want to raise this evening is of very great personal concern and of equal concern to the people of Tasmania and, in particular, to the people of my electorate. 
At 9.26 p.m. on Sunday 5 January the 'Lake Illawarra' crashed into the Tasman Bridge. A span of this lovely bridge came down sinking the Lake Illawarra' almost immediately which resulted in 9 recorded deaths, including 3 members of the crew of the 'Lake Illawarra' with 2 crew members still missing. Cars using the bridge plunged into the Derwent River causing 6 known deaths. One vehicle is still unaccounted for. I am well aware that a marine court of inquiry is now investigating this disaster. Therefore I make no comment upon the reason for the disaster. It would be improper for me to do so. However, some 40 per cent of the people in my electorate have been affected by this great disaster, and I want to make one or two observations on how magnificently individuals and organisations have responded. I particularly want to pay tribute to the Australian Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  who responded immediately to the call of myself and my colleague, the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Coates),  for an immediate inspection of the bridge and consultation with the State Government. An immediate commitment was entered into for the total financial burden of the restoration of the bridge to be borne by the Australian Government. 
The enormous amount of physical work and planning by my colleague, the Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard),  deserves very special mention. The operators of the ferry services have responded with patience and good humour to the task of transporting thousands of my electors to the western shore of the Derwent. Sometimes they have worked up to 18 hours a day on this task. I believe that the tragedy should not be measured only in financial terms. More importantly it should be measured in the loss of human life which was the most sad and distressing feature. 
I would hope, and I am optimistic, that this key communications link between the eastern and western shores of the Derwent will be restored as quickly as is humanly and technically possible. In conclusion, I want to place on public record my personal sympathy to the families in my electorate who lost relatives and friends in this very tragic accident. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. By way of preface I congratulate the Prime Minister on a most successful and productive visit to Hobart last week. The kites and crows of the Australian Country Party are in good form this morning. I now ask the Prime Minister: Is it a fact that the economy of the Tasmanian rural industry would be seriously threatened if the call by that extraordinary and ubiquitous Premier of Queensland for the exclusion of Tasmanian beef exports to Japan were to be carried out? I further ask: Is it also a fact that there has been a very dramatic and, quite rightly, a condemnatory response from the Leader of the Liberal Party in Tasmania to this extraordinary proposition? 
I am delighted to have the opportunity to speak in support of this Bill and make some comments upon it. Later I shall deal with some of the points raised by the honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland).  I do not necessarily disagree with some of the propositions he has put forward, but I think he is unaware of some of the decisions that we have made, particularly that on the question that worries him most and the question that worries the Opposition most- the question of the election of board Chairmen. I shall develop that later on. 
The Australian Council Bill 1974 is obviously the culmination of many years of study and application by a great number of people who have a very genuine interest in the arts and a determination to elevate the arts to their proper and rightful role in the contemporary Australian community. The Bill certainly fulfils the promise made by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  in his policy speech of 1972. In that speech he said that a Labor government would provide substantially increased support for the arts, and that is in fact what we have done. He said that that support would relate to a twofold objective, that is, the pursuit of excellence, which was touched upon by the honourable member for Curtin, and the spread of participation in the arts by the performers and the audiences. Of course it is a matter of record that the Government took immediate action to give effect to these policies announced by the Prime Minister in 1 972. 
In May 1973 the Prime Minister tabled the interim report from the Australian Council for the Arts. That interim report simply meant that there was a time for all sectors of both the artistic community and the public to make certain recommendations and suggestions, and they were forthcoming. Perhaps more importantly, it provided a basis for a rational and searching discussion by individuals and organisations. It certainly must be readily admitted that there were spirited and heated discussions on the interim report. Indeed when one is dealing with the arts, one will always have spirited and interesting discussion. In the arts field, one will never achieve a totality of what artists think is right or what they think is wrong. It must be readily admitted that the proposals concerning the formation of the constituent boards and the chairmen of those boards were subjected to quite fierce criticism. This in itself was not necessarily a very bad thing. In fact, I think it was quite a productive exercise, because at last it indicated a genuine desire and a great interest, perhaps for the first time in this nation, that the arts be given recognition for the immense contribution they make to our society, and indeed to any society. 
The Bill provides for the establishment of a statutory authority to be known as the Australia Council. I refer to that portion of the second reading speech of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  in which he said: 
The Council will be a body corporate consisting of not fewer than 18 and not more than 24 members drawn from a broad range of artistic, community - 
I emphasise the word 'community'-  and related government interests. The Council will be responsible to the Minister and to the Parliament for the conduct of its affairs . . . The bulk of the day today work, however, will be carried out by a number of specialised boards - 
There will be seven of them-  which will be responsible for decisions relating to expenditure within their own budgets and for developing professional services geared to their needs. Subject to the directions of the Minister, the Council will be required to delegate functions and powers to the boards, and each board will be responsible for developing policies in its own area of the arts. Membership of the boards will be broadly based. 
I think they ought to be- 
They will include a wide range of appropriate interests and a majority - 
I emphasise the word 'majority'-  of artists or others closely involved in the arts. 
The honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland)  has, I think, rightly drawn attention to paragraph (d) of clause 9 (2) of the Bill. I think that this is where the real fear of the Opposition lies. The paragraph provides: 
Such number of other persons as the Governor-General thinks fit of whom the majority shall consist of persons who practise the arts or are otherwise associated with the arts. 
I think that the honourable member for Curtin and the Opposition generally are fearful that the boards will be dominated by people who are in fact not practising artists, but who are associated with the arts. As a former member of the Royal Shakespeare Company and an actor of some experience I shall make one or two comments on this point. I have the greatest respect for my former colleagues but I remind the House, and the Opposition in particular, that actors may well be splendid on stage, but they are never the greatest managers of their own affairs, because of the very pursuit of the an of acting, dancing, producing, directing or conducting. In fact, some of the most successful theatre companies in the world are not managed by the artists who are associated with them. The Royal Shakespeare Company, for instance, is not managed by actors, nor do they have any influence on the board which runs the company. Such companies are managed by people with commercial experience. This is vitally necessary. They merely adopt an overall policy. In my view it would be a very great mistake to adopt the suggestion that everyone on the boards and the chairmen of those boards ought to be elected by actors, dancers, producers or directors. If we do this we will create a coterie and a power struggle within these boards. It seems to me to be logical and intelligent that the  chairman  of each of those autonomous boards ought to be independent and above the performers. Then the  chairman  is in a position to make a rational decision, which I believe would not be possible in any other way. 
It is my belief that this restructuring by the creation of a statutory authority will enable the Government to give assistance to the arts in a far more cohesive and effective fashion than has been done in the past. I do not claim, indeed the Government does not claim, that this is a perfect Bill. But it eliminates the ad hocery, the piecemeal approach which has gone on before. We have attempted to assemble in some sort of rationalisation a combination of artists and people associated with the arts and with a very deep interest in the arts who can come together and provide the best possible advice to the Government. It is a very great mistake to think that we can create an elitist combination of actors, dancers and writers to sort out their own affairs and to create their own policy. They need the guidance of people with business acumen and experience. 
All well-known theatres in the world- including the Royal Shakespeare Company, the National Theatre, the Chichester Theatre and the Stratford Company in Ontario, Canada- are managed successfully because the chairmen of those companies are people with wide commercial experience. The actor's job is to act, not to keep accounts. The writer's job is to write, not to keep accounts. The dancer's job is to dance, not to worry about accounts. I suppose it could be said that there is the possibility of difficulty in some areas with the setting up of this statutory authority. I think this is inevitable in such a sensitive area as the arts. Nonetheless, it is my belief that this legislation has the full support of the Council members and of all associated with the arts. As the honourable member for Curtin observed earlier, there has been disputation between the various members of the boards. I well remember attending a meeting with the Prime Minister some time ago. Of course there was disputation. There always will be disputation among these sorts of people. With a collection of writers, actors, producers, directors and dancers around one table we will never acheive total unanimity, because of their temperamental nature. They are not ordinary people. They are creative. We cannot subject them to the normalcy of ordinary business transactions. 
In the years 1973 and 1974 Government assistance for the arts was increased dramatically over the assistance provided in previous years. There was a new awareness. There was a new direction which was badly needed. A new vision was clearly identifiable. This Government is determined to end the ad hocery, the uncertaincy and the lack of vision which had existed for far too long. Under the provisions of this Bill these barriers will now be swept aside. In this country Artists- I use the term in the corporate sense- for far too long formed the opinion and were really convinced that they were suspect and secondclass citizens who made no contribution to the contemporary society of Australia. They were lacking in status and felt they were not deserving of assistance in their various artistic pursuits. 
I do want to make one comment. I would agree that a substantial part of the Council should be made up of practitioners. But I suggest, as I suggested earlier, this is not possible because actors want to act and do not want to sit around a board room table. Dancers want to dance and do not want to sit around a board room table. I come back to my original proposition: The  Chairman  of the Australia Council ought to be a non-performing person with business background, business acumen and a sense of responsibility who can give the direction that is so urgently needed. Nonetheless, artists should be free to express their own, desirably, wideranging attitudes and they should be chosen because they have demonstrated dedication to the arts and a tolerance of conflicting views about them. 
Many people in our society have no particular artistic talent but, nonetheless, they are devoted in the pursuit of the arts. These people ought to be encouraged. There ought to be a community involvement and I think this is the very basis of this legislation. This legislation certainly gives a new sense of security while allowing people to create and perform with complete freedom. Nothing in this Bill suggests that the Prime Minister, who is the Minister responsible for the arts, will interfere in any way with the autonomy of these boards. They are free to pursue their own objectives and ideals. It is merely this Parliament that approves the allocation of the moneys to be provided. 
It must be said, and said with some emphasis, that artistic expression and artistic creativity must at all times be free of strictures and pressures from any form of government or from individuals in government or pressure groups inside the Parliament or outside the Parliament. The Bill, as the Prime Minister quite rightly has observed, is a very historic development. This is a promotion and a participation in the arts by all of the community. 
We have seen in the past few years an international acceptance of Australian artistic creativity and performance. I mention as an aside the very recent successful tour of Europe by the Sydney Symphony Orchestra, which was acclaimed by the critics in Europe. Believe me, having experienced the critics of Europe, there are none tougher or more perceptive. Yet this tour to Europe by the Sydney Symphony Orchestra was made possible by finance from this Government. If we can project our artistic achievement and artistic ability abroad, in my view the amount of money that has been allocated certainly has been well worth while. One can recall with justifiable pride the visit of the Sydney Symphony Orchestra, which I mentioned a moment ago. 
The rich reservoir of talent that resides in this country needs all the encouragement that we can give it. But it is not enough to recognise it; we have to encourage it and support it, and support it totally and financially. For far too long we in this country have had some extraordinary attitudes to the performing and creative arts. But there can be no disputing the fact that, whether it has been in the fields of theatre, opera, ballet, composition, literature, painting, conducting or design- I have covered the wide and total spectrum of the arts- Australians have reached the pinnacle of success in a fiercely competitive and demanding career. One of the saddest commentaries on our past attitude has been the effect that it has had on individual Australian performers who, in sheer desperation and frustration, have left this country. I numbered myself among them in the late 1940s. But while not suggesting for one moment that this Bill is going to arrest that exodus of the performing artists, I do suggest with all sincerity that this legislation is a beacon of hope for so many of the creative and performing artists of this country of which we can all be proud. 
This legislation will provide the structure, the authority and the will to create a new enthusiasm and purpose that will be the means of providing infinitely more opportunities for our society to assist and participate in the exciting rewards and satisfaction that flow from a very vibrant and creative artistic environment. 

 -Mr Speaker, I address to you a question concerning standing order 152 which relates to the proper administration of the Standing Orders of this House. I ask: Is it properly and sensibly within the Standing Orders of this House for an honourable member to use in debate a form of language such as 'Woof, woof? I refer, of course, to the example shown in Hansard at page 427 of 19 February 1975 which shows that the Leader of the Opposition made the remarkable contribution: 'Come on. Woof, woof!'. In seeking your ruling,  Mr Speaker,  I should mention, in case it is relevant that the expression 'woof, woof had an exclamation mark following it. 
I shall address myself to these Bills very briefly because I have given an undertaking to the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  that I will take only a few minutes, but I think very important minutes. I address myself primarily to Appropriation Bill (No. 4), which was introduced by the  Deputy  Prime Minister and Treasurer  (Dr J. F. Cairns).  It authorises the provision of financial assistance of some $6m for Tasmania in 1974-75 in connection with the Tasman Bridge disaster. As all honourable members will be well aware, the Australian National Line bulk carrier 'Lake Illawarra' crashed into the Tasman Bridge on the night of 5 January resulting not only in a loss of life but also in very serious damage to that bridge and a great dislocation to the people of the eastern . shore of the Derwent River in particular. 
I was at the scene of this disaster just half an hour after it occurred. I must confess that even then I could not believe what had happened. At this stage in speaking to this Appropriation Bill I pay tribute tq all of those organisations that responded to the gravity of the situation- too many to relate because unfortunately one invariably omits to mention some organisations or individuals.' But to return to this Appropriation Bill, this is a very clear and tangible expression by this Australian Government of its concern for the welfare of thousands of my own electors, some 45 per cent of them, who have been so severely hit by this bridge disaster and the consequences that followed. This Government has undertaken to meet the full financial cost incurred by the Tasmanian Government, its authorities and various instrumentalities. The Bill also includes assistance to the State for the investigation of a proposal for a further permanent bridge across the Derwent. 
I particularly place on record my own appreciation of the response by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and the  Deputy  Prime Minister and Treasurer-the Minister in charge of these Bills. Instantly and actively they responded both to my plea and the pleas of my colleague the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Coates)  immediately to visit the scene of the disaster to have conversations and consultations with the Tasmanian Premier and his Ministers. Also I place on record my deep appreciation of the Federal Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  and the Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard).  If there were any indication of the immediate and practical response by this Government to a disaster, it was illustrated by the actions of the 4 Ministers I have mentioned. 
This disaster has dislocated many families and brought with it great emotional problems. The physical disaster we can see; the emotional problems are not always so easily discernible. There has been great dislocation of families. Those problems still exist. Those dislocations still exist. I am happy to say that some of these problems are now being dealt with efficiently and effectively. Hopefully we will overcome them. 
Under the legislation the Australian Government is committed also to providing funds for the regrading and upgrading of various roads on the eastern shore of the Derwent- an absolutely vital operation. This work is progressing extraordinarily well. All who are involved in it- from both the Tasmanian Department of Public Works and the Hydro-electric Commission- are deserving of congratulations because this work is well ahead of schedule. The establishment by the Department of Social Security and the Department of Labor and Immigration of offices on the eastern shore of the Derwent have assisted thousands of people. This has led to an elimination or an alleviation of a lot of the personal and emotional problems to which I have referred. 
This Bill certainly will have a beneficial effect upon the whole of the Tasmanian economy, but in the few moments which I have left I wish to mention particularly the announcement by the Prime Minister of the appointment of a very distinguished Australian and an equally distinguished Tasmanian,  Sir Roland  Wilson, as the Prime Minister's personal adviser on the Tasman Bridge reconstruction. I am sure that all honourable members would agree that  Sir Roland,  with his great experience- he is a former Secretary of the Treasury,  Chairman  of the Commonwealth Banking Corporation and  Chairman  of Qantas Airways Ltd- will bring the expertise, the vitality and all the energy necessary in an operation of this kind. This Bill deserves to be supported totally by both sides of the House, and I am optimistic of that support. Finally, I commend the Government for its speed and. its action. Certainly the people in my electorate are immensely gratified by the interest and the humanitarian approach shown by the Government in this disaster. 

 -Mr Speaker, I anticipated that the Opposition would respond in this debate. Apparently it is not. I shall do that instead. In speaking to the Tasman Bridge Restoration Bill 1975 I congratulate the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  for his sense of urgency and his response to my personal invitation to visit Hobart for discussions with all of the authorities involved, particularly members of the State Government and the Clarence Council, which represents the area which has been most affected by the disaster. This visit enabled the Prime Minister, and indeed the entire Cabinet, to appreciate the wide range of problems, both physical and personal, that has arisen as a result of this bridge collapse. As the Prime Minister has pointed out quite rightly, it has imposed many hardships on the people of Hobart. Almost a complete dislocation of communication between the eastern and western shores of the Derwent has resulted and this, quite naturally, is of great concern to me as the area affected forms a very great percentage of my own electorate of Franklin. 
This Bill seeks the approval of this House to get on with the job of salvage and restoration with a maximum of energy, a minimum of delay and, I would hope, an absence of specious, empty and destructive political criticism. It is a matter of great regret that this disaster- I will make no premature comment on the reason for it- has again been seized upon by the State Liberal Opposition in Tasmania as a means of extracting the maximum political advantage in the most extraordinarily callous and cynical fashion. Again, I am distressed to observe that the Liberal Party has been aided and abetted by a prejudiced and biased media. There has been ill informed comment. In particular I refer to some of the so-called experts on certain radio programs in Hobart who indulge in idle and what I call ill informed prattle. Let me recapitulate very briefly and see what positive action has been taken. As all honourable members will know, the collapse occurred on Sunday, 5 January, just a little more than 12 weeks ago. Since that time this Government has responded with a sense of urgency and great responsibility. It undertook to meet the full expenditure incurred by the Tasmanian Government and all its associated authorities. Honourable members will be aware that the Treasurer  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  responded with alacrity to trie situation by providing $6m this financial year in the Appropriation Bill (No. 4) 1974-75 which was discussed and passed in this House a week or so ago. 
The Australian Government is meeting the full cost of all ancillary services; that is, it is providing the cost of ferry terminals and the upgrading of the Old Beach Road. I commend the State Public Works Department for its magnificent effort on the reconstruction of this road. As a result of this disaster it will be a first class road. Work on it is weeks ahead of schedule due to the magnificent physical performance and the overall guidance of the activities of the State Public Works Department. It is my wish that people in certain areas of the State would realise what is being done and praise instead of engaging in empty and unproductive criticism. I repeat that the effort of the Public Works Department in the building of this road in particular has been quite outstanding. 
The Postmaster-General's Department in Hobart responded to my personal representation and in a matter of days had dozens of new telephone booths erected on all the ferry terminals and at key points. The new terminal at Kangaroo Bay has been substantially completed. Parking areas have been provided and traffic lights installed. All of this has been done in a matter of 12 weeks. Is this an example of laxity? Is this an example of lack of Government initiative? I personally have established an electoral office in the area isolated by the collapse of the bridge. The Department of Labor and Immigration has opened an office in the same area, as has the Department of Social Security. All the officials of these departments are working with a great sense of dedication and purpose. This is an example of positive Government action. 
The appointment of  Sir Roland  Wilson as personal representative of the Prime Minister in matters concerning the collapse of the bridge was a move in the right direction. I am glad that my colleague, the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Coates),  and I were able to persuade the Prime Minister to make this appointment. This was done without delay. The appointment of the Joint Tasman Bridge Restoration Commission to superintend and direct the combined salvage and rebuilding operations is a very clear demonstration of the Government's concern for the people not only of my electorate but also of the electorate of Denison. I believe that both the Australian and the Tasmanian governments have responded with a sense of urgency and responsibility. It makes me ashamed that the State Liberal Opposition can contribute nothing more than destructive, carping criticism. 
Let me return briefly to the Commission and its personnel as announced by the Prime Minister. The Commission will have as its Chief Executive Officer the Tasmanian Director of Public Works, and the Commission will be able to borrow or recruit appropriate skilled staff as required.  Sir Allan  Knight, C.M.G., the  Chairman  of the Tasmanian Hydro-Electric Commission, has accepted an invitation to act as the Chief Commissioner. As all Tasmanian and indeed all Australians will know,  Sir Allan  Knight is one of this country's most distinguished and respected engineers, and we are fortunate that he accepted the invitation to act as the  chairman  of this Commission. 
It is not my intention to indulge in a long speech on this matter. I think I have put the case clearly and simply. What we need at this moment is action and not words. Let us pass this measure. Let us get on with the job. It has been quite clearly demonstrated in just 12 weeks what can be achieved, and if there is more to be achieved it can be done if the Australian and State governments co-operate and work together sensibly and intelligently. I believe that this has been done. As the Prime Minister quite rightly pointed out in his second reading speech, the arrangements for the restoration of the Tasman Bridge are an excellent example of close and fruitful co-operation between the Australian Government and one of the States. I commend this Bill. I hope that the House will not delay its passage unduly. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Ellicott)  adjourned. 
I ask the Prime Minister whether his attention has been drawn to recent statements by the United States Secretary of State,  Dr Kissinger,  that American intervention in Vietnam was a mistake. Has he seen any similar comments from former Ministers of the Australian Government which  committed  our troops to that war? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Housing and Construction. 
From London at half-past 11 last night. It was delicious; I did not see the honourable member for Gippsland for a week. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for the Media. The Minister will recall the 2-hour suspension imposed by him on TVT6 of Hobart last Saturday night. I ask: Under what section of the Broadcasting and Television Act was this penalty imposed? Who introduced the provisions of that Act? Had the station transgressed before and has the Government in fact attempted to amend some of the more anachronistic sections of the Broadcasting and Television Act? Finally, were any alternatives offered to the station management for this breach of the law on 3 occasions? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security and Minister for Repatriation and Compensation. Has the Minister's attention been drawn to the advertisments appearing in the national Press, inserted by the life insurance companies, against the Government's proposal to establish an Australian Government Insurance Corporation? Has the Minister been approached by representatives of the insurance industry or their agents, seeking the withdrawal of the National Compensation Bill? 
I ask the Minister for Services and Property whether there is any impediment under the Electoral Act to a new senator from Queensland taking his place in the Senate immediately. 
-In following the honourable member for Hume  (Mr Lusher)  I do not intend to intone like an unfrocked prelate. 
-We hear the guffaws from the honourable member for Riverina. I am always reminded when I hear from the honourable member for Riverina of the ghost of Hamlet's father. He keeps on appearing but is totally insubstantial. On Tuesday, 19 August, the Treasurer  (Mr Hayden)  in introducing the 1975-76 Budget had this to say: 
This Government began great programs of change in our society. The achievements are readily measurable. Incomes have risen, not only in terms of real personal disposable incomes but in terms of facilities provided to the whole community in health, in education, in social welfare. The Australian Government's record in these areas is widely acknowledged. 
Our reforms are enduring; they will not be reversed. Now we propose . . . to .take stock of the achievements. 
Having quoted that I take up an observation made by the honourable member for Hume in which I think he used a phrase like 'standards and principles'. I remind the honourable gentleman that when he is dealing with standards and principles he ought to consult the leader of his Party in that radical state of Queensland. As is well known to the public, the Premier of Queensland is a combination of three of the most unpleasant and evil individuals of our time. He is a rare combination of the Rev. Ian Paisley,  Dr Goebbels  and  Sir Oswald  Mosley. 
-And Eric Butler, indeed. He joins, I was about to say, a motley triumvirate of unpleasant individuals. And the honourable member for Hume talks about principles and standards. Bjelke-Petersen has broken at will every convention, principle and standard to which this honourable gentleman has the audacity even to refer. In this speech I intend to devote a great deal of my time to what this Budget means for my own State and, in some instances more particularly, my own electorate. But I shall come to that later on. I want to speak first of all about 3 features of the Budget, namely, social welfare, education and the taxation proposals. Firstly, I shall deal with this Government's record of achievement in the field of education. It is fascinating to hear Opposition members constantly and consistently decrying this Government for public expenditure. Yet at every available opportunity they are asking for more. They are like Oliver Twist; they can never get enough. They ought to be fed on gruel most of the time. What I regard as even more important in the Government's education program is the decision -  (Opposition members interjecting) 
Patience gentlemen, please. I refer to the decision on technical and further education. 
I have been insulted and interrupted by experts and the members of the Opposition who are interjecting will not deter me one iota. Expenditure on technical and further education, which has been the Cinderella of the education field, is estimated to total $10 1.3m in 1975-76 compared with $70.6m in 1974-75. I pose the question to the members of the Opposition: Would you reduce that? Honourable members will recall that in May 1975 the Australian Committee on Technical and Further Education submitted its second report on needs in technical and further education. This report covered the  2lA  year period from 1 July 1976 to 31 December 1978. 
As the Treasurer has said for the reasons set out in his Budget Speech, the Government has been unable in a sense of responsibility to accept the recommendation on level of expenditure of $494m at this time. But nonetheless what has to be remembered is that for the first time- I reiterate, for the first time- a national government has recognised and responded to the needs in our contemporary society for a reassessment and an acknowledgment of" the great contribution made in the technical field of education. This is a matter of great substance and it is a move in the education area generally of which this Government can be very proud indeed. 
I turn now to the social welfare program, so often denigrated by our opponents. They have such a brilliant record in this field that they should be embarrassed even to mention the words 'social welfare'. I remember one of their more distinguished Prime Ministers uttering the now classic phrase to a meeting of pensioners on the front steps of this Parliament House on the Budget day of 1970. 1 quote what he said to the pensioners who had assembled there in an orderly fashion. He said: 
I suppose you are up here to get more dough. 
That is a classical example of the humanity and the approach of the Liberal and National Country Parties to these matters. I turn now to the social welfare program in which total direct outlays on social security and welfare are estimated to increase from $3,703m in 1974-75 to $4,772m in 1975-76. Of course there was no mention of this in the remarkable document distributed and made public by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  (Quorum formed)  I thank you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  and I also thank the honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Bourchier)  for lowering the curtain on Act I. I was referring to the social welfare program of the Government and the absence of any statement by the Opposition on what its attitude would be. I had mentioned the increase of 28.9 per cent. Therefore direct outlays on social security and welfare in 1975-76 will be equivalent to 21.8 per cent of the estimated total Budget outlays. 
The additional pension payments which will come to fruition in November will increase the standard or single rate of pension to $38.75 a week. I invite a comparison with the record of our predecessors. Under the Budget proposals in November the married rate will increase to $32.75. Again I invite a comparison. Also at this stage I should like to deal with the question of the means test. It was and still is the Australian Labor Party's intention to abolish the means test completely. However, due to the tight economic situation, it was not possible at this stage. I want to emphasise, as has already been said by the Treasurer and reiterated by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  that the final stage in the abolition of the means test will take place on 1 July of next year. 
I interpose here the observation that it was somewhat remarkable, and I have no doubt predictable, that the Leader of the Opposition made no mention at all of the means test in his speech. It would be interesting to know what is the attitude of the Opposition to the means test. Honourable members would be fascinated by the attitude of the Leader of the Opposition to pensions and social welfare. I find his observation that this particular Budget is an incentive to spendthrifts quite objectionable. I am sure that the 500 000 people who are to benefit by paying no taxation at all would also be fascinated to learn whether they fall into the category of spendthrifts. I will return to consideration of taxation matters in greater detail in a moment. 
My own State of Tasmania will receive from this Budget more, in per capita terms, than any other State in the Commonwealth. In fact the amount allocated for Tasmania is equivalent to $835 per head of population. This, I am certain, will bring great joy to the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  who is on record as saying: 'New South Wales is getting a little sick and tired of subsidising Tasmania'. I regret that the honourable member is not present in the chamber. It is interesting also to observe that while the increased revenue spending in this Budget has been held at approximately 23 per cent, grants to the States have been increased by 34.2 per cent and, interestingly, grants to local government by 42 per cent. I pose this question: What is the attitude of the Opposition? Is its attitude to local government the same as that displayed during the recent referendun? It can be seen that the oft-quoted phrase of our opponents about centralism can be discarded as political jargon. It is interesting in these times, when centralism is such an unpopular word, to note how often all the States and the various instrumentalities of those States display remarkable energy and speed in rushing to Canberra for money and assistance for every conceivable project. Yet their constant catchcry is the 'spendthrifts of Canberra'. 
I turn now to perhaps the most significant feature of  Mr Hayden  's Budget. This is in the field of taxation. This is a fundamental reform which was long overdue, because one is reminded that the old taxation system had remained virtually unchanged for more than 2 decades. In essence the new system is simpler and much fairer than the old. Instead of people having to work out a complicated system of concessions every taxpayer will in future be entitled to a minimum rebate of $540. This is in addition to special rebates for dependants. The Opposition has made great play and many comments concerning the proposed taxation restructuring, yet honourable members who have been in this House a lot longer than I have been will realise that for all the years the Opposition was in government it never had the wit, energy or inclination to make any basic change to the taxation system. Suddenly, when in Opposition, its members see their party as a party of reform. It is wonderful what a period in Opposition will do. 
I turn now to specific areas of this Budget that will be of enormous benefit to my State of Tasmania and a great part of my electorate which has suffered as a result of the collapse of the Tasman Bridge. I do not want to canvass this matter too widely because I note that later today it is proposed to debate this subject. But it can be said unequivocally that the response of this Government to that disaster is, in terms of money and assistance, without precedent. This Government, this centralist Government, is footing the entire bill for the restoration of the bridge with an additional fifth lane, has committed itself to the construction of a second bridge across the Derwent and is currently building the temporary Bailey bridge at Dowsings Point. It has provided the money and faculties for ferries and ferry services, the construction of terminals and the upgrading of Old Beach Road, all of which will bring this Government's financial commitment to the restoration of the bridge and the building of all these facilities to somewhere between $60m and $70m in toto. The Liberal campaign of propaganda in my State claimed that Tasmania is the neglected State. Indeed, it has been the neglected State. 
The question of increases in freight rates occupied a considerable part of the maiden speech of the honourable member for Bass  (Mr Newman).  I congratulate the honourable member for that speech but not for the susbstance of it. I quote some of the increases imposed in Tasmanian freight rates by the Liberal-National Country Party coalition when it was in office. I commend this information to the honourable member for Bass. Under the guidance, presidency and imaginative genius of the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon),  who was the then Minister for Shipping and Transport, in August 1970 there was a 12V4 per cent increase on all Tasmanian trade. 
The honourable member is not in the Anglesea Barracks now. In July 1971 freight rates on the Sydney-Tasmanian run were increased by 12'/2 per cent and on the Melbourne-Tasmania run by 8 per cent. In August 1972 the rate on dense cargo from Sydney to Tasmania increased by 12 per cent and from Melbourne to Tasmania by 25 per cent. The surcharge on hazardous cargo was increased by 20 per cent and on newsprint by 17 per cent. The concession of 18 per cent on industrial machinery was removed. That is the record of the vocal group opposite which includes the honourable member for Bass. It reflects but little credit on the gross misinterpretation and distortion of what this Government has done for the particular problems of Tasmania's geographical isolation with respect to freight rates. There is no better record with regard to Tasmanian freight rates than the record enjoyed by this Government. In direct contrast to the actions of the former government this Government, for the first time, is subsidising by millions of dollars the Australian National Line's services to Tasmania. 
I make another point. In the 1972 election campaign the Prime Minister gave an assurance that he would set up the Inter-State Commission. All honourable gentlemen will realise what has happened to the Inter-State Commission. Legislation for its establishment lies in the Senate- the States' House dominated by an additional member from the august and noble State of Queensland. 
-And the DLP. It is dominated by the Opposition. That Inter-State Commission legislation will remain stillborn in the Senate, although it is the very legislation which can help us in sorting out this complicated and great human problem. I pose the question to Tasmania's Liberal senators and their colleagues: What is your attitude to the InterState Commission? 
Honourable members will recall that this year there has been much comment, particularly from members of the National Country Party, about the assistance this Government provides for the arts. I remind those honourable gentlemen that man does not live by bread alone. Honourable members will recall that this year the Australia Council was set up as a statutory body to administer the wide and broad spectrum of all of the artistic activities of this nation. I know that this will have no appeal at all to honourable members opposite. This has proved enormously successful and I am delighted to see that $23m is included in this Budget so that this creative program can continue. This Budget is a responsible document. It is a responsible document because it has come from the fertile and responsible mind of a responsible Treasurer. I fully support its thrust and direction and totally oppose the amendment moved by the dubious successor to the right honourable member for Bruce  (Mr Snedden). 
I will display a great deal of generosity towards the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon)  this afternoon. My only regret is that members of the National Country Party, including the honourable member, seem to treat this Bill as being a humorous episode. A remarkable degree of levity has been displayed by the honourable gentleman and some of his followers. I assure honourable members that we in Tasmania do not consider the situation to be humorous; we consider it to be quite serious. I want to make one or two observations. 
-Yes. Indeed their leader from Queensland is not very welcome down there at all. 
I thank you,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  This Bill, to which the honourable member for Gippsland rarely referred, is an important Bill and is in addition to those introduced into this House previously which dealt with the Tasman Bridge. I want to take issue with the honourable member. He quoted from a very dubious newspaper article of last May. I remind the honourable gentleman that it is now September. Maybe he does not realise that spring is with us, but still he always was a wee bit slow about these things. One of the general observations that he made when quoting from that article related to the apparent neglect of the area. The honourable gentleman had one or two of his facts wrong and one or two of the geographical situations incorrect. Of course one can understand that. The honourable member cannot see the wood for the trees. 
I happen to live on the eastern shore of the Derwent. I represent a great many constituents in that area. I have not found the immorality and the crime to which the honourable member refers. In fact I have an office there and am in that area every day of the week when Parliament is not sitting. I should like him to substantiate the claim that he read, for example, that crime has been on the increase. No statistics are available in State instrumentalities or authorities to support such an absurdity. The honourable member touched upon the question of a hospital. In fact there would have been a hospital there many years ago but for the obduracy and the stubbornness of certain sections of the Australian Medical 
Association. If the honourable member cares to look at the Budget Papers he will see that the Government has provided almost $ 1 m for the establishment of a complete community health centre on the eastern shore to serve these people. Further to that the Government has established offices of the Department of Social Security, offices of the Department of Labor and Immigration, welfare offices and community centres. These are just a few of the things that have been established in quite a short time. This is in direct contrast to the attitude of the honourable gentleman and his Party to the disaster of the 1967 bushfires. People are still paying off the debt to the then national government which was presided over by former Prime Minister,  Mr Holt. 
The honourable member for Gippsland talks about industrial trouble. He made great play of this. He was very flippant, as he usually is, about the Tasmanian members. Let me assure the honourable gentlemen that within a week consultations were held- quiet, constructive consultations, I might add, without the issuance of Press statements and the grabbing of headlineswith the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions and the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Senator James McClelland).  I remind the honourable gentleman that within a week that dispute was settled. Disputes can be settled in a rational way. If somebody tries to be irrational and to bulldoze his way through he will not settle anything. Surely the honourable gentleman is not suggesting the use of this sort of tactic. Quiet, dispassionate, logical discussion will always win out. 
The honourable member for Wimmera does not deter me one iota. I take no cue from him on how to settle industrial disputes. In fact if I were looking for the recipe to exacerbate industrial disputes I would call him in. We have been subjected to the usual speech by the honourable member for Gippsland. He comes into the House and obviously has not read the Bill, short though it is. Predictably he has been destructive. As I said before he showed a degree of levity. He has been meaningless and cynical in the extreme. 
-As my good friend the honourable member for Denison reminds me, he is not even listening now. The honourable gentleman, of course, has established a great reputation, if one can apply that misnomer in respect to him, for vulgarity and empty rhetoric in the extreme. This Government has responded in a very positive fashion to this disaster. Nobody more than myself is aware of the ramifications that have flowed from this disaster. I represent people who live in the Tasman Bridge area, and I do so to the best of my ability. I am not assisted, aided or helped in any way by spurious criticism of the sort that flowed from the honourable gentleman's mouth this afternoon. 
-The honourable member for Gippsland. This is a responsible Bill and has to be looked at in a responsible fashion. The honourable member for Gippsland quoted from the Hobart  Mercury.  One would think that would be the last source of information that one would go to for accuracy. It is largely because of articles appearing in that newspaper that so much confusion has come about. I would have thought that particular publication, in response to the corporate sense of responsibility that ought to flow from a responsible newspaper, would have reported in an untarnished and unbiased fashion. Unfortunately one's hopes in this direction are never fulfilled nor are they ever likely to be. 
As honourable members will recall, the Bill provides for the introduction of a fifth lane to the repairs of the Tasman Bridge. I just want to make one or two observations on the physical and engineering difficulties that are faced in this situation. It is terribly easy for anybody to get up in this House or outside it and say: 'You ought to have had it rebuilt'. The fact is that the engineering problems are of enormous magnitude. The joint construction authority has had to face this fact. It has had to be rational in its approach. It had to be logical and be persuaded that the actions and directions that it was taking were in fact the correct ones. Is any honourable members going to dispute the engineering qualifications of  Sir Allan  Knight? If he is, let him say so. I do not think any honourable member will do so.  Sir Allan  Knight is a man of world-wide experience acclaimed in this field. The decisions that he has made are based upon a very profound engineering knowledge. They are not based upon emotion and empty rhetoric. One does not repair bridges or anything else with that sort of ingredient. One can only tackle this problem if one sits down as a rational human being, looks at the physical and engineering problems involved and then makes a decision. It is not up to politicians to say how a bridge will be repaired. I have no concept of the physical dimensions or the engineering dimensions involved and I would suggest that very few honourable members have any concept of what is involved. 
It is very easy to be critical; it is far more difficult to be productive and positive. I might say at this point that I do not intend to take up the full amount of my time as I know that this is an important Bill and other speakers will want to make their contribution. I think the Bill ought to be allowed a swift passage. However, I want to make one or two points. It is not generally realised, for example, that over 7000 tons of concrete and steel are lying on top of or are in the immediate vicinity of the  Lake Illawarra.  Are honourable members going to suggest that the job of removing this material can be done overnight? Of course it cannot. Better minds than ours have applied themselves to this very difficult problem. 
Nobody realises the great difficulties of the water situation. The river bed itself has always posed great problems for engineers of the greatest eminence, even when the bridge was first built. But paramount to the whole operation has been the repair of the spans. It is easy for every expert imaginable to say that this or that ought to have been done. Admittedly, of course, one has to face up to the fact that industrial trouble did set the program back- nobody disputes thatand that it is regrettable. I have said this publicly and I repeat it here. Nonetheless, do not let us dwell on what has happened; rather, let us be positive in our attitude to what we hope will be achieved in the future. 
There will be, not as the honourable member for Gippsland has said, months' delay, but about a month's delay- a 4 week's delay- on the actual piledriving and construction work on the main span. In the meantime work is proceeding rapidly with the piledriving equipment on the Dowsing Point temporary bridge. Also, this Government has provided money, as every honourable member is aware, for the preliminary work involved in the construction of a second permanent bridge. I am always fascinated in this Parliament at the continual criticism directed at this Government for too much public spending. 
In conclusion, let me encapsulate what I want to say. This Government, faced with this disaster, is looking at a Bill that has a financial commitment in the vicinity of $50m. It is very easy to be critical and to say that this Government spends too much money. But the Government has clearly spelt out its obligation and commitment in respect of this matter. No government could have been more positive in its reaction, response and contribution to the restoration of the Tasman Bridge, the construction of the temporary bridge and also the preliminary plans for the reconstruction of the second permanent bridge and all the associated works that have gone with it. Do honourable members think that ferry terminals come out of the night like a spectre? Do honourable members think that new roads are built overnight? This is what has happened in Hobart, and people well know it. I have talked to people from New South Wales who have told me quite frankly- they are quite adamant about this- that at the moment Hobart has a ferry service that is better than the service between Sydney and Manly. All this has been achieved within a few months. It has all been done with funds provided by this Government. I hope that this Bill receives the same speedy passage as its predecessors. I commend it to the House. 
I address my question to the Minister for Manufacturing Industry. I preface it by saying that the Minister will be aware of the announcement by Kemerton Pty Ltd that it intends to cease production of calcium carbide at the Electrona plant which is in my electorate. I ask: What initiatives have been taken by this Government in the last  2Yi  years to assist the company? Is it a fact that Kemerton is a corporate body, owned 51 per cent by Consolidated Gold Fields of Australia and 49 per cent by the Australian Industry Development Corporation? Finally, will the results of the feasibility study into the production of ferro silicon be made a public document? 
-I want to make a few general observations on the estimates for the Department of the Media, but firstly let me take up one or two of the points mentioned by the honourable member for Warringah  (Mr MacKellar).  I take his last observationon ethnic radio- first. I draw the honourable member's attention to the Press release of the Minister for the Media  (Dr Cass)  of 1 October. The honourable member has quite rightly and very generously paid tribute to the Government for the activity in the ethnic radio field. We too share his concern in the observations that he made. We have transferred that concern to action. It is interesting to read the statistics issued by the Minister. No doubt the honourable member has a copy of the Press release. I draw the honourable member's attention to the fact that every Turk in Sydney at some time listened to radio station 2EA, 98 per cent of Greeks had listened to it and 52 per cent of Italians had listened to it. The figures in MelbourneI will not go through them all- are very much the same. In fact it could be said in the general sense that there has been almost a 100 per cent total ethnic community involvement in this experiment. I hope that this sort of participation will continue because I agree with the honourable member's sentiments. 
-The honourable member was heard in silence; I hope he will pay me the same courtesy. I hope that this participation will continue and that there will be no diminution of interest in this ethnic radio experiment. No doubt some mistakes will be made. I think that can be anticipated and is understandable. Nonetheless the experiment is off the ground. If those early figures I have quoted are any indication I think the experiment looks like being successful. 
The honourable member referred also to his doubts about the establishment of the Department of the Media. In fact I think he said he would have it abolished. This is a fascinating observation. I am glad that he has come clean at last because his former Leader, the right honourable member for Bruce  (Mr Snedden),  made the same observation before he was deposed by the right honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  I have yet to hear the present incumbent in the leadership office express any opinion as to whether he would abolish the Department. No doubt we can look forward to an answer from the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon)  who I notice has now joined the triumvirate of Opposition spokesmen on the media. It is a fascinating and complex situation to have 3 Opposition spokesmen for media activities. 
In speaking to these estimates I want to make a few observations. I think the Department of the Media's annual report for 1974-75 very succinctly introduced some of the responsibilities of the Department. I think what is very important about the establishment of the Department of the Media- of course one must confess straight away that one would not be entirely happy with all of the activities- is that it is an entirely new and vast concept. Nonetheless the Government has taken the bit between its teeth and established this Department with the best will in the world to bring together a very diverse and complicated industry. I think one of the advantages of having the Department of the Media is that there is a voice in Cabinet for the first time to explain at that level the difficulties and the intricacies of the media. I think this has never been fully understood by members of the Opposition and I think it is a point to which they might well give some attention. 
The honourable member for Warringah also pointed out the activities of the publication and inquiry mobile centres which have been established for the first time. I do not think anybody would really seriously complain about this branch of activity by the Department of the Media. I think a lot of honourable members have tended to disregard for too long the importance of transmitting and communicating to the public outside what we say and do in this Parliament. Any activity that allows the general public, the voter outside, to have an appreciation of what this Parliament might be doing can only be recognised as a step in the right direction. I merely make that point because I think it is an interesting innovation and one that is certainly long overdue. The sales of publications have been very satisfactory indeed. It is true that the Department has not had an easy passage since its establishment. It has, as I said earlier, provided a voice in Cabinet for this very diverse and complicated industry. 
I want now to make a few observations on the Australian Broadcasting Commission. The Commission constantly and consistently comes under attack from those people who do not particularly like what it is doing. I suggest to honourable members, and particularly to the honourable member for Gippsland, that if they lay down the sorts of guidelines that have been postulated in this place from time to time and have the media reflecting and reporting what they think it ought to reflect and report they will be in the greatest difficulty in the world. I was reading a review of a book this morning by a former colleague of mine Robin Day. He had some interesting observations to make about public affairs and news programs generally. I find myself in common agreement with some of the observations that he made. I think it is fair to say that there is increasing pressure on commentators and interviewers to compress into the shortest possible time the greatest possible argument. I do not think this is physically possible and I do not think it is intellectually possible. One of the things that concerns me- having had some experience in this sphere of the activities of the media- is that I have always thought and always transmitted as far as I was capable of physically and intellectually that the proper thing was to be pertinent but never impertinent. I detect today this manifestation of impertinence creeping into so many areas of public affairs programs. I do not think it is the right of the interviewer ever to make an interviewee feel somewhat insignificant. I must confess that at times from my own observations I get the distinct impression that the interviewers feel that the people being interviewed are quite idiotic and incapable of an articulate or coherent statement. 
I was interested the other day to read some of the observations of the General Manager of the ABC  Mr Talbot  Duckmanton dealing particularly with news. I agree with some of the observations he made. I will quote from an article in the  Age  which reported part of his speech. He said: 
We have lost some diversity of opinion because for various reasons, but again primarily economic, there are now fewer truly international news gathering agencies. 
He went on to say: 
It is partly because of the concentration of international news agency services in so few hands that the ABC has its own correspondents in a number of countries. 
I could not agree more with the General Manager of the ABC. I think it is very dangerous in our society to have this concentration of media power in too few hands. There is a perfect and classic example of what I am saying in this country at the moment. There is not enough diversity of communication and news gathering resources. I am saying that there is too much power in too few hands. Do not let any honourable member ever underestimate the impactive power of the media, particularly television, in moulding public opinion. That is one of the reasons why I would observe that the Department of the Media has a very great responsibility in this area to see that people are not being brain-washed and to see that all shades of political and community opinion are heard and are seen to be heard. I think that is tremendously important in a domestic parliamentary system. 
I know that great advocates say that for economic reasons we ought to have fewer newspapers, fewer television stations and fewer radio stations. I concede that this whole operation is very expensive but I do not think that that ought always to be the first criterion. I think it is tremendously important to have a diversification of opinion so that we can get the corporate view which will benefit the greatest number of people in our society. I regret that we have only 10 minutes each to speak in this estimate debate because I could go on for some time. There are a lot of other things I wish to say about this area, but time is running out. I commend the new Minister for the Media for the energy and great understanding which he has brought to a very difficult portfolio in so short a time. I assure him that he has my full support in a very difficult and sensitive area which deals with public opinion. 
I preface my question to the Minister for the Media by saying briefly that the Minister would no doubt be aware of the feelings of a great number of people in the community regarding religious broadcasting by the Australian Broadcasting Commission. I ask: Is it a fact that the internal programming of the ABC is the sole prerogative of the ABC? Further, does the Minister have any authority to instruct the ABC on any of its programming schedules? 
I ask the Minister for the Media: Has his attention been drawn to reports that the Australian Broadcasting Commission is engaged in distortion and manipulation of news during the present political crisis? I also ask the Minister: Is it a fact that the Australian public are being subjected to a devious and obviously a master plan of deception on programs emanating from ABC radio and television? 
