I direct my question to the Minister for Social Security. Is it a fact that prior to 1977 employees who had not qualified for full annual leave entitlement at the time of the annual leave close-down at their place of employment could register for employment with the Commonwealth Employment Service to receive the unemployment benefit for the period they had no income but were prepared to accept any employment offered? Has that practice now been discontinued? When were the branches of the Department of Social Security notified of the change. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Social Security. Have advertisements been placed in local newspapers and post offices indicating that social security field officers are visiting all areas and are therefore available to help people with social security claims? If not, will she consider doing this urgently so that in addition to removing beneficiaries not entitled to receive unemployment benefit the field officers can assist others who are so entitled? 
-Has the Minister for Administrative Services been made aware of a report by the Australian Electoral Office stating that 731,555 Australians, or 9 per cent of the total poll, voted informally at the Senate election last December? Does the Minister agree that the magnitude of the informal vote is a national disgrace? Does he propose to initiate any reform to simplify our voting system? 
-I preface my question which is directed to the Minister for Social Security by referring to a question asked by  Senator Young  on 7 March.  His  question related to a letter written to the editor of the 
Adelaide  Advertiser  stating complaints by a woman who had to wait four hours to fill out an ordinary form and other complaints about the behaviour of staff at the office of the Department of Social Security. The Minister replied that she had asked for a report on the matters raised and that she would also ensure that any further information on the matter was given to  Senator Young.  Has the Minister now received the report from her Department on the matters raised? Will other honourable senators be supplied with a copy of the report together with any further information promised to  Senator Young? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Social Security. Is it a fact that officers of the Department of Social Security have been instructed not to divulge to beneficiaries of the unemployment benefit the reasons why their benefits have been cut off? Is there any truth in the article in yesterday's  Sydney Morning Herald  stating that unemployed people soon will have extended rights of appeal against their benefits being terminated, suspended, altered or postponed? What assurance can the Minister give that in future recipients of unemployment benefit will not be denied the reasons for changes to the benefit before lodging an appeal to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal? 
I ask the Minister for Social Security: Has there been a significant increase in the number of sickness benefit payments over the last few years? If so, has the increase been disproportionate to the general population growth rate increase? Further, have a considerable number of people on unemployment benefits been transferred to sickness benefits? Finally, can the Minister give any other reason why the number of sickness benefit payments has increased over recent years? 
The case that  Senator Colston  raises tonight is probably only one of many that in fact occurred during the annual close-down last year. I had experience of similar cases in Adelaide, when one of the Social Security branches rang me to say that it had received instructions that people stood down because they did not have full annual leave entitlements, and who therefore were unemployed for a period of from a week to three weeks in 1 977, would not be paid their unemployment benefit, as they had been paid in the past. I contacted the head office of the Department of Social Security in Adelaide and spoke to the Assistant Director to ascertain whether the head office had received a similar instruction. I was advised that no such instruction had been received and that the same provisions as had applied in the past would continue to apply; that is, that any employee stood down because of the annual leave shut-down who did not have the full annual leave entitlement, provided he registered with the Commonwealth Employment Service and was prepared to accept employment during the period of the stand-down, would be entitled to unemployment benefit. 
Having passed this information on to the Christies Beach branch of the Department of Social Security and the employees concerned, I was later advised by head office that it had made a mistake. It had discovered an instruction that had been received from the Director-General that decisions which had operated prior to 1 977 had been cancelled, that employees would not be entitled to unemployment benefit during the period for which that particular plant was closed down for annual leave. 
What I would like to know from the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)-  because I asked a similar question some time ago- is when the branches in the various States were given the changed instructions for the annual leave close-down of 1977 and why the head office of the Department of Social Security was not so advised, at the same time as the branches in South Australia were advised. This did cause a lot of confusion, not only among employees but also among officers of the Department and others, including myself. Because I had received wrong advice, I gave wrong advice to these branches of the Department and also to employees who were stood down during that period. I would like to know whether the instructions sent out by the Director-General were sent to all branches or only to those outside the metropolitan area. 
My question, directed to the Minister for Science, follows a question asked by  Senator Messner  in this place on Friday, in connection with the wine industry. Has the Minister now made inquiries concerning the incidence of additives, including sugar, in wines made overseas and imported to Australia? Is it possible for the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation to analyse imported wines and to determine effectively whether sugar has been added? 
-Has the Minister for Social Security been made aware of recent Press reports stating that pensions and other social welfare benefits have been denied to women who are living at the same address as a male? Will the Minister undertake a complete review of the guidelines presently used to determine eligibility for pensions and other benefits to ensure that payments are not suspended or cancelled unless the Department of Social Security has reliable evidence to prove that either a domestic or a bona fide de facto relationship does exist? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. I refer to a Press report in today's  Australian  that the cost of prescriptions will be increased by 50c to $2.50 from 1 July. Is the Minister aware that doctors often write prescriptions for drugs that can be bought from a chemist without a prescription for much less than the set fee? Will the Minister discuss this anomaly with the Minister for Health to ensure that doctors advise their patients when drugs or other patent medicines can be obtained from pharmacies without a prescription for less than the set fee? 
