-The Australian Democrats congratulate  Senator Scott  on his election to the position of  Chairman  of Committees. 
That the following matter be referred to the Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs: The desirability and practicability of consulting the Australian people on whether or not they wish to have the right to initiate Federal legislation, with particular reference to- 
the development of an educational and media campaign designed to inform all Australians of the experience of countries and States such as Switzerland, California and 22 other States in the United States of America in initiating legislation; 
whether an appropriate method of initiation might be the presentation of a petition signed by not fewer than 2 per cent of voters asking that questions be put to referendum, the putting of such questions then to be mandatory, and their becoming law if carried by a majority of voters; 
the establishment of a timetable leading up to a national referendum seeking an amendment of the Constitution to permit citizen initiative; 
whether such a referendum should, as well as seeking a direct yes/no decision on the principle of providing a right of citizen initiative, also provide a series of options setting out the conditions of initiative, including, most importantly, the actual percentage of voters necessary to sign a petition in order to initiate a referendum; and 
the possible reference of the question to a Constitutional Convention of which half the membership would be members of the public and the other half would be members of Parliament, elected by both Houses, at a Joint Sitting. 

 Senator Carrick (The Leader of the Government in the Senate): To move- 
1 ) Days and Hours of Meeting: That, unless otherwise ordered, the days and hours of meeting of the Senate be Tuesdays at half-past two p.m., Wednesdays at fifteen minutes past two p.m., and Thursdays at half-past ten a.m. 
Suspension of Sittings: That, unless otherwise ordered, the sittings of the Senate, or of a Committee of the Whole Senate, be suspended from one p.m. until fifteen minutes past two p.m., and from six p.m. until eight p.m. 
Adjournment of Senate: That, unless otherwise ordered, at half-past ten p.m. on Tuesdays and Thursdays and eleven p.m. on Wednesdays the  President  shall put the Question- That the Senate do now adjournwhich Question shall be open to debate; if the Senate be in Committee at that hour, the  Chairman  shall in like manner put the Question- That he do leave the Chair and report to the Senate; and upon such report being made the  President  shall forthwith put the Question- That the Senate do now adjournwhich Question shall be open to debate: Provided that if the Senate or the Committee be in Division at the time named, the  President  or the  Chairman  shall not put the Question referred to until the result of such Division has been declared; and if the business under discussion shall not have been disposed of at such adjournment it shall appear on the Notice Paper for the next sitting day. 
Government and General BusinessPrecedence: That on all sitting days of the Senate, unless otherwise ordered, Government Business shall take precedence of General Business, except that General Business shall take precedence of Government Business on Thursdays, after eight p.m.; and that, unless otherwise ordered, General Orders of the Day take precedence of General Notices of Motion on alternate Thursdays. 

 Senator Knight: To move; That, in the opinion of the Senate, the appropriate Minister should take urgent action to table in the Parliament a proposal for the construction of guard boxes for the shelter of Commonwealth Police patrolling Parliament House so that Parliament may approve the proposal in accordance with section 5 of the  Parliament Act  1974. 

 Senator Harradine: To move; That the Senate is of the opinion that the Australian Government should not participate in any trade or aid negotiations with the Government of Vietnam until that Government allows those Vietnamese approved for entry into Australia to depart Vietnam and join their relatives in Australia. 

1 ) That a Select Committee of the Senate be appointed to consider and report upon the possible planning, including terms of reference, for a national convention, to be held within two years, for a ten year indicative plan for the Australian economy, such convention to include representatives of all political parties, employers' groups, unions and government, to attempt to establish basic guidelines on which all could agree and which would remain constant regardless of changes of government, with particular reference to- 
the massive unemployment problem likely as a result of the growing use of computers and automation in Australia; 
the flow-on of money to the community at large as a result of such automation, and other structural changes desirable in the society; and 
possible new initiatives in Australian primary and secondary industry, with special regard to the export industry. 
That provisions relating to membership powers and proceedings of the Committee be contained in a subsequent Resolution. 
I thank honourable senators for the tolerance and the broadminded attitude they have taken on this matter together with their practical approach which in this case I think is necessary. I am anxious to carry out with whatever diligence and thoroughness I can muster any function that the Senate may require. I do not necessarily see this as any sort of oneupmanship. One should not view positions on standing committees merely as a medal one has but rather as a duty that one should carry out as part of one's work. I certainly hope that if I am ever fortunate enough to serve on a Senate committee that that is the attitude I will continue to take. 
I refer briefly to the remarks of  Senator Chaney  and  Senator Georges  that the Australian Democrats should have some modesty of aspiration in this regard. That is certainly the case. 1 could not see any sense of value in any claim by the Australian Democrats to be represented on many committees. There are only two of us in the Senate and  Senator Chipp-  I have his leave to speak on his behalf- has the work and responsibility of leadership which are considerable in a party with only two members in the Federal Parliament. I feel that the Democrats' participation in committee work should be restricted to work which can be done with some efficiency and preferably in an area of some interest and knowledge to the senator concerned. I think this is probably a point in all committee work. It is perhaps difficult for a person to operate efficiently in an area firstly in which he knows very little and secondly in which he is not interested. 
I move: 
That the following matter be  referred to  the Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs: The desirability and practibility of consulting the Australian people on whether or not they wish to have the right to initiate Federal legislation, with particular reference to- 
the development of an educational and media campaign designed to inform all Australians of the experience of countries and States such as Switzerland, California and 22 other States in the United States of America in initiating legislation; 
whether an appropriate method of initiation might be the presentation of a petition signed by not fewer than 2 per cent of voters asking that questions be put to referendum, the putting of such questions then to be mandatory, and their becoming law if carried by a majority of voters; 
the establishment of a timetable leading up to a national referendum seeking an amendment of the Constitution to permit citizen initiative; 
whether such a referendum should, as well as seeking a direct yes/no decision on the principle of providing a right of citizen initiative, also provide a series of options setting out the conditions of initiative, including, most importantly, the actual percentage of voters necessary to sign a petition in order to initiate a referendum; and 
the possible reference of the question to a Constitutional Convention of which half the membership would be members of the public and the other half would be members of Parliament, elected by both Houses, at a Joint Sitting. 
Since this is my first utterance of any consequence in this place I would like to congratulate you,  Mr President,  on your election as  President  of the Senate. 
I express my pleasure in serving under you,  Mr President,  for the next few years. I would also like to thank the Leader of the Government,  Senator Carrick,  for his thought in providing time for. me to speak to this motion. I would like to mention first- I think it is important- that this is an expression of Australian Democrat policy rather than my own view exclusively. We believe that true democracy depends very much on regular consultation with the electorate- much more regular than general elections every three years. Beyond that, we believe that the strength, productivity and morale of a democracy depend perhaps more than is realised on the rights of citizens themselves to initiate legislation, even if this right is perhaps not exercised very often. Hence, this motion is not intended as a mere exercise in political theory but is put forward as a practical and urgent matter for investigation. Honourable senators might well ask why it is practical and urgent. I should like to give my reasons for that assertion. The first is the difficult situation in which we find our country at this time. The economy is stagnant, unemployment is rising, there are bad prospects for our balance of payments, our industry is going off-shore in sheer desperation, we have a declining share of the mining market and our markets have warned us, notably Japan, that our share of those markets may well decline further in the future. 

 Mr President, if we are honest I think we can rationally expect worse to come rather than better unless the will and morale of the Australian people improve. When we have people as cautious and well-informed as Professor Watson Munro of Sydney University saying publicly that within eight years only wealthy Australians will be able to run a motor car; when other authorities suggest that petroleum may well be rationed by then and that petrol prices may be trebled; when we consider the dependence of this country on motor transport and motor spirit- perhaps we are the most dependent of all developed nations on motor transport because we do not have the railroads and we do not have the canal systems of other developed countries- there is great cause for concern for these reasons by themselves. The stubborn and higher rate of youth unemployment is another cause for great uneasiness. These things, I suggest, are constants in our future. They may become cliches but they cannot by any means be safely ignored. 
I believe it is possible that this country is facing a decade of greater crisis than it has ever experienced other than at times of war. The penalty of not winning through this crisis would be very severe indeed. Whilst I do not agree with all of the views of Professor E. W. Wheelwright of the Economics Department of Sydney University, one he expressed recently and publicly that took my attention is that Australians could become the poor white trash of Asia by the year 2000. 1 do not believe that that is a statement we ought to dismiss too lightly. All honourable senators know that there is widespread public disillusionment with our parliaments. I believe it is due to the increasing domination of parliamentary business by the politics of confrontation, failure- I believe for good reasons- to deal with the real problems of this country and a preoccupation with purely political matters. In other words, a sort of inward turning is occurring. 
With respect to  Senator Withers-  I mention his name here- the Withers affair itself seems to me curiously to have occupied much of the valuable time both of this Senate and the other place. I wonder what the attitude of the electorate and the community generally is towards this affair. I know the reaction of a number of people with whom I have taken the trouble to discuss this matter. I have discussed it with all sorts of people from taxi drivers to bank managers over the last week and they find it utterly incomprehensible. They cannot see any reason for it or any sense in it. I believe they resent the fact that such matters take up the time of our Parliament when there are other problems of which the public- believe me- are far from being unaware. The stress placed on politics by the Press and the other media- now so much greater than it was even a decade ago- I suggest should be a guide to us all of the increased interest of citizens in politics and in the political mechanism. We are dealing with a much better educated electorate than we have dealt with in the past and one which questions events more than perhaps was the case in the past. We might say that we have a slightly more rebellious and less compliant electorate. These are young people, people under 30 years of age. I applaud those virtues in them. It is good that they should question things. It is very good that they should seek new directions but it is bad if their natural urge to do these things is thwarted because, if it is thwarted, those efforts and those natural drives will be turned in bad directions. If that happens perhaps those of us here may feel that we should share some of the responsibility. 
Australians know that federal referenda put to them recently have not been on real areas of concern. For instance, one might contrast the practicality of a referendum on whether we should export our uranium with a referendum on whether High Court judges should retire at the age of 70. 1 suggest that in the minds of 90 per cent of Australians there is no doubt whatsoever as to which of those two is the real issue of importance. If a referendum is to be put to the public I believe it should be about a matter that the public should take seriously. That is why the idea- I believe it is a false idea- that Australians are not interested in referenda has grown up. The referenda have not concerned subjects of great importance or interest to the electorate and the people are intelligent enough to understand that. Increasing numbers of people know that a referendum offering a yes-no option instead of a series of options is influenced a great deal, often decisively, by the way in which questions are framed. I suggest that such things are no longer good enough. 
In my opinion this public disillusionment will not stop until two things happen- until Australians are able to feel honestly that the real problems of the near future are being tackled effectively by governments and when Australians are given a greater sense of consultation through meaningful referenda. The time is coming when any political party will use the words 'We seek a mandate to govern* at its peril because the real place of government should be with the people. Yet the best and most practical reason for considering the introduction of citizen initiative in Australia is the need for an electorate to be not only consulted but also informed. I remind the Senate of the old saying: 'You can lead a horse to water but you cannot make it drink'. If Australia is to ride out the coming crisis of the Western world it will be only through active interest and knowledge among Australians at large of the great historical forces now operating. In order to get into motion new industries, new directions and new investments such as the necessary massive investment needed in petroleum substitutes, a great deal of frugality and sacrifice will be necessary for this country. 
I will not deal with this question of motor spirit extensively but it is one of the great crises about which the Government will soon have to consult the electorate in order to gain its support for a very massive investment which is necessary now and which the years will reveal as being increasingly necessary if we are not going to be on our knees in 10 years time before the Middle East oil barons, seeking enough petroleum merely to keep us alive, much less any for our strategic considerations. I will not canvass that situation at this stage. I have merely used the fuel ethanol idea as an example. 
I have stressed several times the need for an informed electorate. The habit of being informed, of course, will take time for Australians. They are not used to being consulted by governments. Australians are modest, decent people. They are compliant and good. They do not put themselves forward. One might say that in a way they are easily led and easily influenced. But I do not believe that they are incapable of making decisions sensibly and rationally on their own behalf. 
Some senators and some members of the House of Representatives to whom I have mentioned this matter of citizen initiative are opposed to this concept. They say that an illinformed, emotional decision might be made. Some regard the recent success of proposition 14 in California in such a light. In this motion I have mentioned the idea that initiatives should come from a petition of not less than 2 per cent. It could perhaps be greater. That I think is one of the matters that the Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs should consider. Yet, even if 2 per cent were the figure arrived at, that would be a matter of 170,000 signatures on a petition which is a not inconsequential minority of people. Those people would by no means have the right to carry legislation. They would have to convince their fellow Australians that the idea they were putting forward was feasible and sound and it would have to be carried by a majority. So I suggest that the Australian society contains a sufficiently large number of sensible rational people to see that referenda do not come through on the basis of initiatives which are wholly irresponsible. 
Another objection might be that too many referenda might prove unwieldly and expensive. The conventional wisdom, of course, is that Athenian style democracy cannot work except in a very small state. Of course, for many centuries this proposition has been true. But like so many things in our society now that statement needs to be questioned. Because of recent and on-coming advances in communications technology it is now increasingly feasible for rapid and cheap consultation of large numbers of people through the electronic media using computers to count them. We have an institution called the TAB that does it regularly. Only in this week's Press- in Monday's  Sydney Morning Herald  if I recall correctly- it was stated that two-way cable television will be available in substantial parts of the United States within five or six years. One of the uses suggested was that it could easily be used cheaply and quickly for consultation of the referenda type. In fact a decision on a matter could be arrived at within a matter of hours. Even the sorts of referenda we have now could be altered so that they are not as expensive. I believe referenda are far too expensive. There seems to me no need for referenda to be counted on a single day. It is possible that people could take two weeks to vote. Perhaps a person could do this when he went to a post office. He could cast his vote in a referendum at that time. The referendum could then be counted at the end of two weeks. In this way it could be a fairly low key operation. As in California, a number of propositions could be raised at the same time. 
This motion is in no way motivated by an intention that all Australians should be consulted about everything or, indeed, about most things. It ought to be freely acknowledged that the function of parliaments is to make laws and that it is or should be the function of members of Parliament to see that they are the best laws and those most appropriate for that time. But from time to time issues arise in all communities which are of almost universal public concern and which are as a result controversial. I would instance as present examples: Whether or not we should mine or export uranium and whether or not marihuana should be decriminalised or legalised. There are also a whole series of questions relating to the law on abortion. Government initiated legislation on such issues will plainly be unpopular with large numbers of people. These people would be much more likely to accept with good grace a decision of the majority of" their peers. This, I think, is one of the strongest arguments I could bring forward for the idea of citizen initiated referenda. 
It is of some interest to note that when so many of the States of the United States of America introduced citizen initiative about the turn of the century it was regarded then as a radical solution to the problem of a decline in faith in representative democracy. Two types of initiative apply in the United States. The petition referendum, which this motion advocates, is in use in 14 
States, the most famous of those being, of course, California. The other form is the optional type in which the legislature itself may order a referendum on any issue it has passed, ensuring that a specific number of voters approve of it before the proposed law can go into effect. Even that suggestion, I believe, has merit because it does allow some kind of check, some sort of consultation, of the total body of electors on controversial legislation. 
There has been great division of opinion throughout the world on proposition 14 in California because it has led to the celebrated socalled tax revolt which also, as we know, has had some publicity in this country. 1 do not believe that that publicity has been put forward in any kind of responsible or sensible way but I would say that citizens ought to have some option of deciding how their money is spent. I suggest that here again is a way in which incentive and responsibility can be returned to the community. I believe that an informed Australia would perhaps even be persuaded to tax itself more heavily if it were convinced that extra money would be a genuine investment in its own future and its children's future and if that decision were its own decision. I know a cynical response to this is easy enough to make. Cynicism is always easy but it achieves nothing and I think we need something better than nothing at this stage in Australia. 
I return to the point that unless we can get incentive and productivity back into this society we have bad trouble ahead of us. That incentive and productivity might, for instance, be the force that helps reduce the appalling incidence of youth unemployment. The state of youth unemployment disturbs me most profoundly. I have felt for some time that, if we have urban terrorism on our streets within the next decade in this country, we will have only ourselves to blame. That feeling was uncomfortably reinforced when I read about yesterday's violence manifested at the anti-Budget marches in Sydney and Brisbane. I will add that I was distressed earlier today when I heard the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  answer a question on this matter in the other place. He was asked what he thought about the marches and his only comment was that he believed he was distressed and concerned that somehow it had come from a demonstration organised by  Mr Wran  and  Mr Hayden.  Here again, I suggest that, if the Prime Minister looked closely at this matter, he would see there were other manifestations in this violence, that this is something that is perhaps a harbinger for the future. I think we ought to regard the situation in this light and see whether something can be done about it. As one with three children I suggest that we cannot allow young people to go straight out of school and to be frustrated to the extent they are being frustrated now and to allow them to go to employer after employer and be told: 'We have nothing for you' and then say: 'We will not let you actually starve; we will give you a small amount of money, just enough to live on, but for God's sake do not ever go near a beach or the bush because if you do you will be called a dole bludger'. I say that we cannot do that to young people and expect to get away with it. 
What I am trying to stress is that the causes of the malaise in our society are very deep-rooted. They will be remedied not by trivial band-aiding but only by a conscious and determined move towards a better form of democracy. I have been appalled to learn in talking to many young people, often well-educated, the number who have lost faith permanently in the system of parliamentary government. Tens of thousands of them are not even on the electoral rolls. I have put to many such people the idea that they have a responsibility to be on the rolls and to vote but 1 have been laughed at for my pains. It has been spelled out to me by these young people that there is no hope of any better society through the parliamentary system because even most members of parliament have no power to influence events. Political power, these young people say, which should rest properly and equally with the people, is in the hands of increasingly few men- now possibly, virtually in the hands of one man. Many of these disillusioned young are, of course, no longer quite so young. That disillusionment began with the Vietnam war. 
I mention to honourable senators that I understand it is quite common for young people not to be on the electoral roll. They say that they have decided to act that way because they do not want someone coming along one day and sending them to another Vietnam. They are opting out of society. Is it our right to say that, because they have done that, they should continue that way or should we try to do something and get them back into society in a proper way? I repeat that these young people are often among the best educated, most hopeful and intelligent people in our society. 
My point is that, with every year that passes, more and more people are in this disillusioned segment of our society. What is needed from government I believe is a generous gesture towards these people and indeed towards the whole society, increasing both its rights and its responsibilities towards deciding the circumstances of our future. I support the motion with this thought: It might be rather a nice feeling for members of Parliament to know that they were supported increasingly by an active, informed electorate rather than a suspicious, uninformed grey mass which can be wheedled into voting one way or another at general elections for the most puny, self-interested and non-productive reasons. Surely it is small wonder that the real issues of importance in this country, the real problems of the near future are swept into the too-hard drawer. It is small wonder that any government- even a Democrat government, if there were one under these circumstances- is afraid to say to society: 'Look, unless we do these things now, at this cost, we will be in bad trouble in 10 years from now'. Somebody, sooner or later, must say these things. 
We are a wealthy country, richly endowed by nature. We now have coming into its responsibilities the best educated generation of Australians that ever lived. Yet our economic problems are severe and are becoming worse. I repeat that I believe that these problems go back to a lack of motivation by our people to extend themselves, to meet the challenges that lie ahead. At this point I also blame the Government for its dissimulation in not making the community fully aware of the nature and danger of those challenges. 
Australia can be contrasted directly with a nation that is in relatively good shape economically with, I notice from the latest figures released by the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, one of the lowest inflation rates in the world. That country is also a small nation, and it has a remarkably small share of natural endowments. It has been able to persuade people of three different languages and origins to live amicably together. It has been able to keep out of two world wars. It has universal military training which its people embrace with great enthusiasm and competence, and it is regarded as one of the leading manufacturing nations of the world in its own specialist fields. That nation is, of course Switzerland. In Switzerland the right of citizen initiative has applied and has been jealously guarded by citizens for well over 100 years- in fact, from 1848, the year in which the loose confederation of 22 Cantons became a federal state. I quote from Professor George Thurer, a member of the pro Helvetia movement and a distinguished Swiss academic who said: 
The Swiss people themselves have today the last word in a number of important decisions- a feature which is almost unique in European states. The Swiss voter does not merely elect legislators and magistrates, but guards the right to accept or reject individually the most important issues of domestic policy. He has the prerogative of the 'Initiative' and the referendum. This extremely high degree of the people's political responsibility for the affairs of state could only be reached by experience and practice, rooted in the soil of the communities with their innate sense of freedom . . . 
I suggest that this is not an unworthy objective for this country to emulate. I put it to honourable senators that in this matter there is some urgency. So far as the need to get greater co-operation with government by the Australian people is concerned, the clock stands at eleven. The need for getting on with an active investigation of a mechanism to introduce citizen initiative in this country is an urgent one. This motion which has been put forward by the Australian Democrats may be dropped. It may get no further. It may be carried on. I do not know what will happen to it. I would say only that if it is not discussed and proceeded with, everybody in this chamber should share the responsibility in a decade's time, I think, for the consequences of what might happen if it is not proceeded with. Certainly such a suggestion is a limitation on the power of parliaments, an extension of more power to the people themselves and a trust in them, but I believe that in the interests of Australia it must come and must come soon. 
In a world in which democracy is so much on the retreat- I am sure that all honourable senators know that and would agree with me on that point- surely there is every reason for Australia to step boldly forward on a road towards more democracy rather than less. There is little doubt that at least some of our Asian neighbours look with interest at politics in Australia. A good example to them from us may prove to be of vital importance in the future. This is yet another reason why we should consider joining that enlightened group of nations, mostly small nations and middle powers like ourselves, such as Switzerland, Holland and the Scandinavian nations, who have an active interest in better forms of democracy. I am by no means a subscriber to the theory of the great unwashedthe idea that people, for their own good, have to be led around by the nose. Nor do I see myself, as a senator, as having any God-given mandate to lead anybody around by the nose. So I make this final point: Either one believes in democracy or one does not. I commend the motion to the Senate. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Durack)  adjourned. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development. Its subject is proposed bauxite mining in Western Australia. In view of the concern expressed by the public and conservation organisations over aspects of the Wagerup and Worsley alumina projects, especially their impact on water resources in south-western Australia, is the Government considering the institution of a public inquiry into these environmental aspects in accordance with paragraph 7 of the administrative procedures under the Environment Protection (Impact of Proposals) Act 1974? 
I present the following petition from 161 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned, members of the Sydney University Postgraduate Representative Association, and like minded people, respectfully showeth that the Government decision to tax Commonwealth Postgraduate Research Awards will result in: 
a further serious decline in living standards for postgraduate scholars performing valuable low cost research for the Australian community, and 
a reduction in the standard of research at the universities as top scholars will be forced to reject offers of inadequately financed Research Awards. 
Your petitioners strongly urge that the Commonwealth Government take appropriate action to revert to the former policy of award adjustments in line with the Consumer Price Index. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
-Is the Minister for Education not concerned at implications to Australian research programs of provisions in the 1978 Budget which would reduce payments to Commonwealth research grant scholars with families to little more than what a man with similar family responsibilities would receive on the dole? 
The Australian Democrats could scarcely oppose this Bill because to do so would be to inhibit a proper consideration of the very important matter that is its subject, and because we also believe that this whole area needs basic rethinking. The mere fact that the purpose of the Bill is to encourage consultation is an excellent thing. I would only like to have seen in the first paragraph of the second reading speech of the Minister for Social Services  (Senator Guilfoyle),  after the words, 'This is to allow for full consultation with the State governments', the words and with major voluntary organisations'. It appears to me that it is the people in the heat of the kitchen who need to be consulted about what is to be done in this area. 
-The aim of the Bill, according to the Minister's second reading speech, is to allow full consultation with State governments and, again, I would suggest that that should be at all stages also with major voluntary organisations. I suggest that nothing in this area can be implemented successfully without the continuing participation of those kinds of organisations. I am sorry about that. The Australian Democrats think this is quite basic. It is absolutely basic to our philosophy. We cannot consult people and then go away; people have to be consulted continuously or not at all. 
There again, whilst I would not oppose the Bill, the whole direction of this area of public policy worries the Democrats. The Government, in keeping the economy in irons- I think that has to be said- acquires a certain responsibility to tidy up after it and to think outside purely economic considerations to the social strains it is putting on this community. One of these social strains- one of the implications of what is happening- is homelessness. Unemployment and near poverty- actual poverty in many cases- puts the most terrible strains on family life. I think it starts with people who are forced to live in small flats, perhaps going back to the family home, and leads to baby bashing. I believe that babies are bashed in our society not because of any fault in the mother or the father but because of the conditions of the society that are imposed on them. Increasingly conditions of the society are imposed on them by government. I believe that government and all members of it should accept the responsibility for those areas of disunity and destructiveness in the community that are arising from the current situation. 
Actual housing shortages now being experienced in Sydney are having vast consequences. People cannot be expected to go on living in caravans and to carry on a happy family life. Huge numbers of our population are attempting to do this. It is almost inevitable that at some time during the life of such a family one of the children will reach the stage of becoming homeless. This is the second area that worries us very much. In the past homeless people typically were the sort of Skid Row derelicts with an alcohol problem. Of course, they still form a major part of that section of the community. I would like to draw the attention of honourable senators to the new categories of the homeless. I think that this is of vast importance. One hears the most terrible stories of Kings Cross where young people- girls as young as 11, 12 and 13 years- regularly wander the streets. They normally end up as prostitutes, probably before reaching the age of 14 or 15 years. One had only to talk to social workers at places like the Wayside Chapel to get the facts on that. 
In New South Wales 32 institutions- I call them that because I think we should use that word- house 1,000 to 1,200 people a night. Every night the Mathew Talbot hostel, which has 400 beds, is more than full. I am concerned that we hear back from these organisations that the social security statistics are based on the actual number of people assisted, but because so many people are turned away the actual numbers of people needing assistance are not known. Because people have their pride, it is normal when they are turned down two or three times that they will not go back to the place that turned them down; they will end up sleeping on a park bench or somewhere on a street. Of the $32,000 a month required to run the Mathew Talbot hostel about $7,000 comes from Commonwealth assistance, so $25,000 has to come from other sources. In tighter economic circumstances this is becoming increasingly difficult. 
The same picture emerges with the Salvation Army homes. For example, I learned today that Foster House in Surrey Hills, which has 250 beds, invariably has been more than filled. Tonight, honourable senators, at the time I am speaking here, every bed in that place and in every place like it in every city in this country is full and fairly uncomfortable stretchers are put out on the floor to accommodate a few more people. Incidentally, I would like to mention that the improvement of the fire escapes at Foster House is a matter which is giving the people running it the greatest concern. It is a major cost factor. I think that ought to be borne in the minds and perhaps in the consciences of honourable senators. 
I would like to pay a tribute to the magnificent way in which these homes are managing with the small amount of money- this miserable 75c a day per person- that we feel is sufficient to contribute towards running them. I leave honourable senators to imagine the extent of the meals that these people would get if the fantastic 25c a person a day we provide were the only form of assistance provided. Fortunately, this is not so. Well intentioned people in the society see that that is not so. Good meals are provided. Bedding is changed regularly. Clothing, hairdressing and so on are provided. As far as I can see, every effort is made to make these unfortunate people comfortable, but even more importantly, to maintain their self-respect. But these places are stretched to the limit, not only by sheer weight of demand but also by the changing nature of the social problem. The problem embraces young people, people with acute psychological problems, and many more of the people now concerned than previously are women and children and many are Aborigines. This whole area is of great importance, not only in itself but also because it is so much an extreme symptom, to be sure, of the cracking strains which are now emerging in our society. We are reaching the stage where, one way or another, a huge proportion of our people are sick, either physically or mentally. I wonder how long we can let this situation continue without taking decisive and effective measures to change it. I think we have to get the poorhouse mentality, which is now creeping into the society, right out of our minds and we have to remember that we are a modern twentieth century society which should at least be able to look after all of our people decently. When we let that standard go I suggest that we will have nothing left of any value. We will have nothing except money grabbing, self-pursuing selfish interests which unfortunately emanate too often from the example in high places. 
The Australian Democrats believe that one great error of government is to tend to monopolise the area of social services or, more accurately, to allow specialised public servants to do so. This might seem laudable at first sight, but it makes the community at large feel that the disadvantaged people are no longer of its immediate concern. It makes the community feel that the Government will look after these disadvantaged people. Therefore, the natural feelings of compassion that should come from community involvement are stifled. The blind, the disabled and the homeless are to be tucked tidily away from any community involvement. This is very much an increasing tendency in government and one which we deplore. It contributes to what  Mr Rupert  Murdoch has called the 'me generation' because we allow our young people to grow up with the feeling that they never have to help anybody with anything; it will be done by the government. 
As honourable senators might or might not know, the Australian Democrats in forming its policy in this area has tried to consult the community as widely as possible before our suggested policies are voted on by all our members in a secret written ballot. Our social security paper was referred to well over 100 individuals and organisations before it was even put to a ballot. Their comment on it was sought in every possible area. Our feedback stressed more than anything else that community groups should more and more be given the responsibility for social services, with public servants and social workers fulfilling the role of informing and guiding such groups. I agree with the Government that the society must become more frugal. This is definitely on the cards for us over the next decade. Evidence from all areas is to the effect that it is much cheaper anyway to allow the community to be involved. Therefore, I suggest that that is the proper direction from which social services should be provided. 
As my colleague  Senator Chipp  said, we can never see why governments persist, for instance, in filling expensive hospital beds with the aged when excellent religious and community groups are willing to provide this service and could do so much more cheaply. I hope that a more human and wider view on homelessness will be taken when this matter hopefully is considered again in consultation with the State governments and I hope also, as I said before, with voluntary organisations. So there are three major points I would like to bring to you  Mr Deputy President,  and to honourable senators. I hope that community groups and voluntary organisations will be consulted, encouraged and financed in every possible way to assist the homeless and that the true nature and extent of the problem of homelessness- its rapid growth and its association with economic circumstances in this society- will be properly recognised. 
Finally, I would like to say that it is not enough just to feed and clothe a human being. I suggest that people are homeless because they feel that they have failed or, to an increasing extent, because society has failed them in some way. Whatever the fault, they can no longer help themselves. In these circumstances, I think that a decent society will see an obligation to help these people. It is up to a humane and concerned government to set the guidelines and to provide the right conditions for that community involvement. 
Debate interrupted. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for National Development and follows matters raised recently in Question Time by  Senator Thomas  and, I think,  Senator Young,  about the increased use of petrol as a result of vehicle emission controls. In view of the opinions expressed by experts attending an international conference on alcohol fuels in Sydney last month that ethanol added to petrol increases the octane rating, reduces the need for lead additives and hence may well eliminate completely the need for any vehicle emission controls, will the Minister ensure that the National Energy Research, Development and Demonstration Council, in its current inquiry on behalf of the Government into the desirability of commencing an experimental ethanol industry in Tasmania, takes into account this most important factor of anti-pollution before the report of the Council is delivered? 
I rise to address myself to the question of public funding of political parties. I move: 
That, in the opinion of the Senate, it is absolutely essential to the cause of good, honest and fair government that a public fund should be established forthwith to finance candidates, parties and groups during elections, with the money for this fund coming from- 
contributions from persons, companies, trade unions and any other interested groups; and 
the assignment for this purpose, of part of a person's income tax, up to a maximum of 10 per cent, a space to be provided on every tax return form in which a taxpayer could indicate how much, if any, of his assessed tax should be so assigned. 
I would like to commence with some explanation of the forms in which the motion is cast, the key point being, of course, the practicality of such a fund. Would people in fact contribute to it? It is of some interest that in the United States of America between 1973 and 1976 the voluntary $ 1 check-off on income tax had provided a fund of $95m. This is a mechanism wherby people in the United States of America may merely indicate that they want to have $ 1 taken from thentax and put into this fund. The Australian Democrats are not sure that Australians would be quite so ungenerous as to have only $1 assigned. It takes some time, as we know, for new ideas to catch on in Australia, and the effect of this one, I think, is not really predictable. Probably more and more people would participate as the years went on and the idea became familiar. 
The mention of a maximum of 10 per cent takes this possibility into account. I would not foresee any circumstance where that would be in operation for very long. I think, in addition, that some maximum sum of money would also have to be indicated. The actual amount of money required for the purpose of funding political parties ideally and the way it should be dispersed are matters for negotiation. I have no doubt that they would prove controversial. I think that there is good reason to suppose that the amounts of money to be made available should be considerably less than the amounts now being spent at elections by political parties. 
-Of tax. 
That is right. This motion is taken pretty much from the Australian Democrats draft policy on electoral and constitutional reform. Already party members have suggested a variety of options for balloting among members in the area before our final policy is formulated. It is of some interest that that figure is a matter of discussion. The main intention of this whole provision is that it should provide adequate funds initially for the idea to proceed. 
Tax avoidance is an interesting point. I do not really know what would be the situation there. I think that if tax avoiders are to avoid tax they will avoid every aspect of tax- this one and others. I think that that is the situation. I think that the honourable senator makes a valid point, that only a minority of public spirited people would contribute to this fund. Large numbers of people would probably say: 'This is money we are paying out and we would rather not do so '. 
Nevertheless, it is a fact that public opinion is very strongly for public funding inasmuch as it can be established. A poll was taken on this matter by Morgan Gallup in which 60 per cent of people said that it would be a good idea if some system of public funding were carried out. Some 2,153 people were first told that it had been suggested that the Federal Government provide a fixed amount of money for the election campaign of candidates for Federal Parliament and that all private contributions from other sources be prohibited. They were then asked whether they thought it was a good idea or a poor idea. According to the published report of the poll, some 60 per cent said that they thought it was a good idea, 27 per cent said that they thought it was a poor idea, and 1 3 per cent were undecided. 
Not long after the formation of the Australian Democrats we made a sort of straw poll of nearly 2,000 Australians. They were not Australian Democrats. I will admit that it was not a particularly well controlled poll. Some 10 questions were put to the public on which we asked for an opinion. This was designed mainly to inform us on our initial policy forming. We were most struck by the fact that although there were questions on uranium and several other quite controversial questions, the highest response for a Yes vote was to the question whether it was thought that political parties should disclose all sources of their funding. We were intrigued by that, and subsequent inquiries by the Australian Democrats have indicated that there is a widespread feeling in the community that this question of funding should somehow be resolved, as it has been in many other countries. I will quote from an editorial in a responsible Australian publication, the  Australian Financial Review  of late 1977. The editorial opinion of the  Financial Review  then was: 
No aspect of politics is shrouded in more secrecy and is more capable of breeding a corruption which could undermine our whole system than the subject of campaign funds. 
Almost alone in the democratic world Australia clings to the idea that the funding of political parties is not the business of the electorate but solely the concern of the politicians and the people who run the political machines. 
The editorial ends with this rather striking comment: 
The system of campaign funding has a bad smell about it which, despite all the metaphorical orange sniffing our politicians indulge in will not go away. 
I must say that that is an obscure reference to me. I do not quite know what orange sniffing is. 
I see, I thank the honourable senator. The editorial concludes: 
The electorate has a right to know who is funding our politicians. 
It is customary, when the matter of public funding of political parties arises, for there to be much talk of slush funds, dirty money and the like. I do not want to take that line tonight except to the extent that we know that that kind of talk occurs. I suggest that it will continue to occur while public funding of political parties does not exist in Australia. In other words, no matter how well intentioned a political party might be, no matter how honest and even-handed its members might be, without public funding the imputation is there that that political party, especially while in government, will in one way or another serve the interests of business organisations and others which provided it with really large sums of money, particularly at election times. 
My first major point is that a great deal of the current public cynicism about politics and politicians comes from this area. I suggest that the persistence with which it is treated in the Press and the frequency with which it becomes the source of editorial comment must only confirm this in the minds of the members of the public. I believe that it is the great issue behind the problems of politics in this country where public credibility of politicians is concerned. I think that this is a serious matter for all of us in this chamber. This public cynicism especially seems to be the case when political parties for one reason or another decline to disclose their sources of major funding. I think that the imputations there are obvious. If a party discloses the sources of its funding then any connection it might have with an organisation, a company or a person is made public and it is known if there is likely to be any degree of influence or any conflict of interest in that matter. 
My next major point is that the need for very heavy private funding of political parties is corrosive. It seems to me wrong that major political parties should have to vie with each other to obtain one way or another- one might almost say in any way, at any cost- millions of dollars at election time. Most of this money, as we well know, is used to buy large amounts of media advertising, including expensive television time. It is unfortunately true, based on the results of elections since television was introduced, that use of expensive television time will influence, to some extent, the electorate. I know that there is no way of proving this. I suggest, as a matter of practicality, that that is something we have to consider almost as a fact. If one major party goes for bust and literally spends huge sums of money on advertising, surely the other major party feels that it has to compete. Whether the Government parties and the Labor Party feel that they can do this without compromising their position on any issue in any way is a matter I will leave to their own reflection. Even if they can look back on this matter with absolute clarity of conscience, there is no way that they could make the same guarantees necessarily for the future. I suggest that this is quite important. The point is that while there is a very great and seemingly impelling and increasing need for large sums of money for advertising, especially at election times, there must also exist a very great amount of temptation towards some kind of arrangement with a lavish donor of funds. 
I am making these statements because these are part of the conventional wisdom of this country. They are very deeply seated. We observe from experience that for some reason the parties appear to have very little difficulty in raising huge sums of money for advertising. I recall very vividly a full page advertisement which appeared in the  Sydney Morning Herald  during the last election campaign. In fact, this was a Liberal-National Country party advertisement which featured a not very flattering photograph of  Mr Gough  Whitlam with only two or three words of comment, which I do not recall- they were that forgettable- but which were casting some sort of general slur on the Australian Labor Party. No attempt was made to dissect policies. No attempt was made to use this huge amount of newspaper space to inform the public of anything of any consequence. I might say that such advertising was not one sided; it was used by the Labor Party as well. 
As a conservationist I resent the use of this huge amount of newsprint purely because people have money to do so. I suggest that we are not living in the kind of world in which people who merely have the money to do something should assume the divine right to waste assets and to waste commodities to the extent to which they are capable of doing so. In other words, the assumption is that the more money a person has, the more money he will spend and the more pages of newsprint he will waste. I suggest that if one would say that individuals ought not to do that, surely political parties, which I believe should give a lead to the public in matters of that kind, ought not to do so also. 
While we were campaigning we questioned this matter quite closely. The Australian Democrats' idea of things is that we should maintain contact with the electorate and with its feelings on issues. We usually invite people to attend our meetings and to comment on matters of politics or on any matter of policy that the meeting is considering. At every meeting at which this matter was raised- it was raised at very many- we inevitably got the same response, namely, that the public does not see that this huge expenditure is necessary or desirable. I suggest to honourable senators that we are even reaching the stage where such huge advertising at election time is becoming counter-productive. Increasing numbers of people are looking at such advertisements and are saying: 'That is a big advertisement, where did the money come from?' That is a very good question. They are not saying: 'We agree with what this party is saying' or 'We think that Gough was a bad boy because of what was said in the advertisement'. 
As I said, the idea that because one has the money to pay for some resource one has the automatic right also to squander it must surely go. Of course, it is right and proper that there should be election advertising. But surely it ought to be carried out under some sort of control, with impartiality, as our other election procedures are carried out. We go to the most meticulous care to ensure the secrecy of the ballot. In many respects we have a good situation, unlike the situation in Manila and places like that. We do not have peso sandwiches. I do not believe there is any corruption within the actual machinery of our election system. I think that we should rightfully be very proud of that because I am sure that we are of one of the few countries in the world where that is the case. Ideally, advertising at election time, which is right and proper since it is necessary that the public should be informed of what is going on at that election, might present to the public the actual policies of the rival parties. I admit that it is a strange idea, but perhaps we might get somewhere with it. These policies might be presented in contrast to each other and on the same page of the newspaper to allow the public to make a comparison of the policies of parties in a reasonable way. Then the judgment of people will be informed. When they vote they will know something about what is going on. 

 Mr President and honourable senators, I suggest that this is necessary because at election time the Press tends to regard policy from the point of view of what has news value. It is not necessarily the most important, most useful or most innovative policies of a political party that are presented in the news. Quite often members of the public do not even know about those policies. The only way they can find out about them is to write to the political parties and ask for their policies at large. Political advertising, used in the way I suggest, could be both useful and productive. I suggest that the challenge would be there for the advertising industry to present this material in a vivid, entertaining and attention getting way. That would be a worthy use of its special expertise. I suggest that we would then have a situation in which, instead of people being completely bewildered by what is going on at election time, concerned citizens could have easy and systematic access to the policies of the various parties. They could consider those policies and vote accordingly. 
Debate interrupted. 
I present the following petition from 1 , 520 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The Petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth: 
That the terminal facility at Coolangatta Airport is clearly inadequate for the 400,000 people who use it each year. Continual requests for upgrading or replacement of the building have been made over many years by local authorities and organisations from Northern N.S.W. and Queensland 's Gold Coast. Many commitments of consideration and action have been made but nothing concrete has emerged. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled should review the continued delay in upgrading terminal facilities at Coolangatta Airport and direct an urgent plea to the Minister for Transport for substantial commencement of work during the 1978-79 financial year. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. In view of the fact that the General Manager of the Australian Broadcasting Commission mentioned in a staff memorandum on 5 September the possibility of staff retrenchment and the reduction in scale or cancellation of programs as a result of reduced staff ceilings imposed once more on the ABC by the Government, can the Minister give an assurance that a review of ABC staff ceilings planned for the end of this month will be sufficient to avert these possibilities and permit maintenance of ABC programs at least at their present level? 
We of the Australian Democrats do not oppose the 1978 Budget, nor could we support  Senator Gietzelt  's amendment. I might say that that is a decision motivated by our public pledge before the 1977 election that we would never vote against a Supply Bill brought forward by a government elected by a majority of Australians regardless of the political complexion of that government. The Australian Democrats will not then be blockers purely for the sake of blocking and we will honour in this Parliament the pledges that we made before we were elected to it. There are certain aspects of the Budget of which we approve. As  Senator Robertson  said, such items as the increased tax on petrol are bitter enough pills to swallow, but I think that most responsible Australians know enough about the problems and uncertainties of the near future to see that these items are necessary although unpleasant medicine. 
If as a nation we are to meet the very considerable challenges of the next decade I believe that we will have to be a good deal more frugal and a great deal more productive than we have been in the past. I also believe that the easy years, the easy money of the 1960s, will not return to us. This should not be a cause for gloom or despondency. Rather, there should be greater effort and a community of purpose to face up to and meet the problems that we know confront us now. It is, or should be, a fundamental responsibility of government to lead this effort. So we of the Australian Democrats have no patience with doomsayers nor with the prejudices deriving from what we believe to be the 19th century ideologies of the Labor and Liberal Parties. Political action should be inspired by the basic facts of national life. 
We of the Australian Democrats are pragmatists and we are proud of it. A basic fact is that we Australians occupy, as a single people, one of the wealthiest and best countries in the world, with an enormous potential. We have the largest, best educated and healthiest generation of young Australians in our history now coming into their responsibilities. It is to our eternal disgrace and shame that so many of them cannot find work when they want to work after being at school for so long. I am not one of those who believe that many people are dole bludgers, but I do believe that if young people are left for any time without the motivation of work, if they are allowed to become cynical and bitter about the possibilities of obtaining work, they may well turn into dole bludgers. It will be we who have made them dole bludgers, not the young unemployed themselves. 
I suggest that we are now beginning to feel, as a benefit, the effect of a massive infusion of new ideas and new blood into our society from many other nations. I believe that is something for which, may I say, the old Australians do not give the newcomers to our society nearly enough credit. We have as yet relatively uncrowded and relatively unpolluted cities, a vast countryside which is as yet largely unused- that is to our discredit, too- an enormous treasure of mineral wealth, much of which we are allowing other people to take away from us, and the capacity to grow in some part of the continent almost every useful plant to be found on the face of the earth. We have nearly everything possible going for us but, unfortunately, not everything. 
I believe that we have one pervasive disadvantage which needs to be talked about in this place, one vast millstone about our necks which affects virtually every aspect of our national work and lives, that is, the almost manic obsession of the old political parties to play an incessant daily game of confrontation and to visit upon the Australian community, which is surely one of the most homogeneous communities in the world, every possible permutation of the game of divisiveness that fertile imaginations can dream up. It is because of the dangers of this two-party system, of adversaries battling from the two extremes of the economic spectrum, that the Australian Democrats were formed a year  or   ago by 8,000 ordinary Australians. In 1977, for these very reasons, more than 800,000 Australians voted for us. Whatever our future might be, honourable senators of the Government and Opposition parties might see in that fact something of a portent for the future, some degree of criticism by the Australian people- at least 800,000 of them- of the lack of attention which this Parliament so often gives to the affairs of urgency and necessity of this nation. 
I doubt it. We will wait until 1980 to see that. I am not attacking individual members of parliament or individual senators. I hope I am not so stupid as to believe that these men and women did not achieve public office without some sense of concern and dedication. That is already obvious to me, even in the short time that I have been here. What I am attacking, and I believe validly, is the two-party system. It is because of the two-party system that we could never have any sensible long term planning- the sensible long term planning for which our economy is crying out. It is because of the two-party system that government proceeds on an erratic three-year cycle of stop and go. All honourable senators know that just as well as I do. 
The Budget that we are discussing was predictable. It had to be a horror Budget because an election was held last year. There will not be another election until 1980. Next year's Budget will be slightly better and the 1980 Budget will be a positive delight to everyone. In 1981 there will be a horror Budget again. So much for efficient, continuous national planning. Our planning is dictated by political expediency, not the best interests of the nation. I suggest that the Australian people cannot allow this situation to continue indefinitely. I suggest that that is the reason for the presence of a third party- the Australian Democrats. 
The two-party system is also responsible substantially for the pattern of strike action that regularly eats away at the economic flesh and blood of this country. I will not accept that we can blame solely the Australian Labor Party or the trade unions for this situation. Every dispute in this country has to become a political football; every strike has to become a battle between the opposed and confrontative political forces. We saw a tragic and unnecessary situation like that in the strike in the Latrobe Valley. Already the political scientists are looking at this matter. They realise that it was the political ingredient of that strike which caused the damage, agony, suffering and divisiveness in that society. There are many other strikes like that one. I suggest that this nation can no longer afford that rivaltype response which, with respect to honourable senators, I say is typical of two gangs of eightyearolds on the playground. 
The industrial relations policy of the Australian Democrats is based on taking the heat out of this confrontation, getting it out of the political field, getting it out of the legal field, getting the disputes away from publicity and at a place where the parties, together with a team of conciliators on whom they can mutually agree, can discuss their problems until a solution is reached. This is being done overseas. It is not a new idea. It comes from the Canadian Liberal Party. It is Trudeau's idea of industrial task forces. 
I would like honourable Government senators now to tell me why they and their colleagues appear at least to be insisting on governing this country as if it will no longer exist in another five years? That is my first comment on the Budget because that is the reality of the Budget. It offers no new initiatives of any importance. It does not seek any bold new ventures from our society. The Budget does not sponsor any new or important rural industry of several that are possible. On the contrary, it is somehow contrived to destroy initiative, to cripple enterprise and to abort any new and valuable ideas before they even reach the full light of day. 
Typical of the counter-productive measures contained in the Budget is the taxation of allowances to post-graduate scholars. This comes about after a lengthy period- since 1970- during which these allowances have been allowed to lag behind inflation. Now we have a situation in which a post-graduate scholar with a familysome 40 per cent of such scholars are married- is earning very little more than a man with similar family responsibilities who is on the dole. These people, while they are studying, are also involved in the nuts and bolts of virtually every major research program that is carried out in this country. They are indeed grossly underpaid research assistants. Every scientist will tell you that. I predict that they have now been reduced to the stage where many of them will have no option but to get out of that research work and seek full time jobs which, in view of the high intellectual calibre of most of them, being post-graduate people, they will probably get easily enough. In this case the loser will be the Australian nation. 
What of the saving as a result of this measure in the Budget? Once again I would like to refer to the sloppy thinking and accounting in this Budget. It was stated in the Budget Papers that this measure would save $lm. That is a good round figure. I suppose that there are some people up there who do not think in terms of anything less than that. If one looks at the number of post-graduate scholars and their circumstances one will see that the saving probably will be about $350,000. For this saving we are tossing aside research which may have tremendous portent to the future of this country. In other respects also- in the interests of an alleged economy- money for essential and often overdue research has been cut back. A result of this action already I suggest is one that should have been predictable, that is, that existing programs that are likely to produce short term and superficial results naturally will be favoured and very little money will be left over for new or innovative research, which we need for a future that will present us with many problems and the need for change. 
I suggest that it is no economy to cut back on necessary investments in one's future. It is in this area that I believe the Government has made one of its most fatal miscalculations on behalf of this society. Indeed, I fear that we are now stuck with perhaps the most dangerous thing that we could possibly have in Australia now- a thoroughly conservative government, in the worst sense of that term, leading us into a decade of great and possibly dangerous change. I admit that the situation could change and I know that there is probably feeling within the Government that there is a problem in that direction. Government senators should get out and see that something is done in this society for a change and not just sit pat talking about inflation as if it were some great achievement merely to have halted it and let everything else go to hell. 
In this decade, we as a nation will need to be as flexible, innovative and creative as possible if we are not to end up, as I have mentioned here before, as the poor white trash of Asia by the year 2000. The warnings are clearly before us. They have been given by our academics, by almost everybody of knowledge in our society. They have been disregarded. But ordinary Australians increasingly are understanding this point. Last Saturday's result in the Werriwa byelection I suggest was not so much an indication of support for the Labor Party as a censure of the Government. 
-I will come to that point in a few minutes. The Government, I suggest, has an immediate responsibility to get this country moving again in a creative and constructive manner. I assure the Senate that any criticism I make is directed to that end. I am trying to get this thought through. While it is about it the Government might also recollect that it has a duty to Australian businessmen and women, thousands of whom have gone to the wall in bankruptcy over the last couple of years, a duty which I suggest the Government has been neglecting most seriously and for far too long. I am beginning to wonder who it is that the Liberal Party really represents. 
One must ask: Can the Australian people look to the Australian Labor Party for creative and effective alternative leadership? I believe on present showing, while the Labor Party sits bemused apparently by its ideology and fails to do the necessary job the Australian people are waiting for it to do, that the answer is no. That job the Australian people are waiting for the Labor Party to do relates to the trade union movement and its place in Australian society. We have many good trade unionists in the Australian Democrats and every day we welcome more as members. Nothing pleases me more than to see ex-activists of the Liberal Party and Labor Party working together amicably and constructively in so many Democrat branches because in that process we have a microcosm of a future Australia which operates through the politics of cooperation rather than the present politics which in spite of words to the contrary continue in practice to be confrontative 
We hear much talk these days about consensus and the desirability of consulting people, but we do not see any signs of it in practice, nor do we see or hear of" much consultation with the Australian people. The Australian Democrats believe fundamentally in the necessity for a strong, honest and healthy trade union movement which benefits all workers- and I stress the words, 'all workers'. We would like to see such a trade union movement exist because it certainly does not exist now. Instead, the industrial trade union movement of this country benefits a few unions to the detriment of many others. Which unions does it benefit? It benefits those few which because of the nature of their occupation have the power to blackmail people and they rarely pass up the opportunity to do so. 
The Australian people, I suggest from the feedback we in the Australian Democrats are getting, are fed up to the back teeth with this situation and they will not tolerate it any further. They ask, as I would do, what right these minorities have to blackmail us all. I would say that they have none. I believe it is time that the Labor Party came out and said that too. It is a crying shame that the majority of the trade union movement which is useful, reasonable and decent, should be continually given the tag of association of these few people. How many men would be associated with this group? Honourable senators in this chamber could sit down and list 20 or 30 men- only that number- who are responsible for this dangerous and divisive tendency, this deliberate campaign of blackmail of society to get short term gains, usually money gains. So while the Labor Party continues in the public mind to be associated with these extremist groups, and believe me it is associated with them in the public mind, it will not get the confidence of the majority of the Australian people. 
There are very many things about the Labor Party's policies that are constructive- indeed, we in the Australian Democrats share so many of them- but which will never come to fruition. Here are some of the points that the Australian Democrats would like to see the Labor Party take up with the union movement. Why do the unions continue to obstruct a sane and well planned system of industrial democracy in Australia? I do not mean by that what  Mr Dunstan  is doing in South Australia. What I mean are the successful schemes that add so much to the prosperity of places like the Scandinavian nations and West Germany. I am talking about workers on boards, worker ownership of shares, profit sharing, self-contained worker groups which are permitted to use their initiative and enterprise. I think that point is very important. I am talking about the possibility of even area ownership of whole new industries by their workers. This is what the Australian Democrats mean by industrial democracy. 
I would like to take up the point of area ownership a little further because I believe it is a fundamentally new idea which has come from Australian Democrat policy. Like all of our policies it has come from the grassroots of our party. The idea is basically that there should be a third element in our economy. There should be the public sector and the private sector as we understand them and especially in depressed areas the opportunity should be given by government to as many workers who wish to specialise and unemployed people in the society to start a new industry. This industry should be given low interest loans by government. Also government should provide expertise. Further, government planners should ride herd on that industry for a few years until it gets off the ground. Once it has it will then be an industry which is owned by its workers. I suggest that this is an ideal solution because unlike so many State enterprises the motivation is there for people to want to work for themselves. I suggest this is a new thing for our society that we might consider. 
Another point that might be clarified with the unions- and here again I know I am speaking in the same way as many other people, but in fact the Australian Democrats I believe seven or eight months ago were among the first to bring up this point- is their apparent determination to keep tens of thousands of unemployed people permanently out of work by not reconsidering union attitudes towards permanent part time work and the abolition of weekend penalty rates. These penalty rates have already crippled our tourist and entertainment industries. That has been proved beyond doubt. Beyond that they are actually and actively cutting down on employment opportunities. There are many people in our society now unemployed who would like to work three or four days a week, or maybe two days a week, but they are not being given the opportunity. It is their fellow workers, for apparently purely selfish motives, who appear to me to be keeping them out of it. I suggest they will pay dearly to the Australian community before they are much older because this situation is clearly understood in the community now. 
While I am on this subject I would like to refer to two more points and I should lower my voice while I put the first one. Should it be necessary for any organisation that is giving its members a useful service to insist that its membership should be compulsory? I know the objection that workers not in unions have no moral right to share the benefits that union work and union solidarity have achieved. We in the Australian Democrats agree absolutely with that. Our policy, which again has been formed by secret national ballot of all our members, states that where workers object on grounds of principle to union membership they should not have to belong to that union but they should pay a fee for service to the union and so contribute to its expenses. This is a kind of compromise solution that we would like to see in this area as in others. My final point about unions is this: Can there be any serious disagreement that the only fair and honest way for a group of people in consultation to reach decisions is by a secret written ballot? 
I leave those thoughts with Labor Party senators. I return to the Liberal and National Country parties which make up the Government and which after all bear an immediate responsibility to the Australian people. I suggest the 
Government already knows that its Budget strategy will not work. If the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  still thinks he is controlling inflation I suggest he go and talk to some Australian businessmen and women as I have done recently- to a great number of them. 
I know they do not. The present control on prices is due only to the harsh reining in of the economy. It is like a driver who persistently slows down his car by the savage use of his brakes instead of using his accelerator sensibly. The moment restraints are lifted there will be renewed inflation. Why it is that in Sydney now there are no home units on the market? It is because the people who own them are keeping them until the restraints are lifted and then the prices will go up. This is the case almost everywhere throughout the whole of the economy. Yet, if the restraints are kept on- and this is the Catch 22 situation- every month and every year our basic problems are increased and we are less able to contend with our international competitors, especially those in Asia and South America. 
The Australian Democrats agree with  Mr Bob  Hawke that the initial answer must be a conference of all elements in our economic and political scene. People must sit down and work together co-operatively to try to find the answers to our problems. These answers, I suggest, might include a dramatic and selective improvement in Australia's productivity based on a realistic assessment of what the world will be like and what the world will need in 10 years time. An attempt must be made to find out what are the things that will give us steam to make progress in the intensely competitive world in the future. 
It is not possible in the time I have to discuss all of the new and exciting initiatives that are actually present in the society which the Government does not appear to have seen and for which the ground work already exists. I might mention the laser industry,  Mr Ralph  Sarich 's orbital engines works in Perth and some fascinating new initiatives in small shipbuilding. I will turn for an example in some detail to what the Australian Democrats regard as an important possibility in view of the rapidly oncoming crisis in respect of our supplies of petrol. I think that few thinking Australians will doubt that this is one of the major problems that lies immediately ahead of us, and one which Australia, least of all among the developed nations, can solve easily. Unlike other developed nations, Australia does not have very large railroad mileages. We do not have canal systems. We have vast distances to be covered. This is the point made by  Senator Robertson.  Without petrol or a motor spirit as our lifeblood in this country in the future Australia will be in a very bad way. 
Some honourable senators may recall that the matter of fuel alcohol or ethanol as a substitute for petrol was raised in evidence before the Standing Committee on National Resources in its solar energy inquiry in August 1976, now more than two years ago. Ethanol is in most respects a better motor spirit than petrol. That is why it has been used as a fuel for decades by Indianapolis racing cars. It has a higher octane rating and even when it is used at an additive to petrol, which is what the Australian Democrats suggest should be researched first, it can reduce the need for lead additives and hence also the need for vehicle emission controls. Since August 1 976, some very exciting research has been going on into this subject. For instance, we know now from some trial plantations, which I might say have been organised by private industry, not by government, that a plant named cassava, which is basically the Asian tapioca plant, grows very well even on marginal country in tropical Australia. Cassava, which is already being grown in Brazil as a source of ethanol, may well prove to be a major breakthrough as the cheapest and most easily produced source of the starch from which fuel ethanol can be made. Meanwhile, at the School of Chemical Engineering at the Sydney University, research has been going on that also promises to provide a major breakthrough in the actual production of ethanol. Strangely enough- or is it so strange- this most promising field of research has been almost entirely neglected by government. Yet, the work has gone on through the efforts of a few dedicated academics and private enterprise. It is suggested that further research might open up some dramatic new horizons for Australian agriculture and contribute greatly towards our future selfsufficiency in motor spirit. That self-sufficiency is now under threat. Whilst two States have devoted considerable funding, or propose to do so, for coal to oil research, lead times, costs, pollution factors and actual final cost per litre all appear much greater than is the case with ethanol. 
Based on the South African SASOL plant, the final cost of a coal to oil system would be about one and a half thousand million dollars. The lead time would be at least 12 years, by which time we would be well into our crisis. The cost of the product would be about 35c to 40c a litre. Ultimately, of course, such a plant would exhaust even our vast coal reserves. A time factor of 70 years has been mentioned if we relied on this source solely for our motor spirit. One coal to oil conversion plant might provide about 7 per cent of our current needs for motor spirit. Eighty regional ethanol complexes which would cost in total the same amount as one coal to oil conversion plant- they cost about $20m each- would produce 20 per cent of our requirements as opposed to 7 per cent of our requirements under the other alternative. Lead times would be much shorter- perhaps as little as 8 years- and final cost a litre would be about 20c to 25c. Whilst that sounds a lot now, I predict that that cost will be competitive with petrol prices in a few years' time. 
There are some other big pluses in this process. One is that these ethanol agro-industrial complexes can be built one at a time as we can afford them. They would be regionally situated. They would provide new industries and work in country areas that need this assistance so much. By using cassava in tropical regions and sugar beet in temperate climates, a wide geographic dispersion would be possible. Such a dispersion also has strategic importance as well as being a useful factor in the decentralisation that Australia needs so badly. The modern technology is also based on the return of all plant nutrients to the soil, the return of proteins in the form of a valuable stock feed and the actual powering of the fermenters through methane gas produced as a by-product. It is not oversimplifying the position to say that this process aims at achieving and has largely achieved the objective of using growing plants to turn sunlight into motor fuel. Hence, theoretically the fuel can be produced in perpetuity. It is a permanently renewable energy source. Unacceptable areas of monoculture are not necessary. Twenty per cent of all our motor spirit needs could be produced from an area comparable with the total area of the Queensland sugar canefields. But, of course, not only would the culture be much more dispersed; in many cases, it would be in the form of rotation crops which would improve the soil rather than deplete it. This concept lies behind the first active support for an experimental ethanol plant which would be situated in Northern Tasmania and based on sugar beet. 
The Australian Democrats are great believers in consulting people. I went to Tasmania some months ago at the invitation of the local sugar beet association. In effect, it is composed of local farmers now using that very rich soil for growing vegetables, for dairying and even in some cases for growing opium poppies. Their main interest in beet growing is because, as a rotation crop, it will improve the soil and save it from inevitable depletion in 10 or 15 years. These growers are right behind a plan for the first pilot plant which is now necessary to test modern fermenting techniques for ethanol in actual operation. The cost of the first three years of research, which would be applicable not only to Tasmania but also to many other areas of Australia, is a modest $500,000, of which the Tasmanian Government has already told me it would provide half. This matter is now before the Standing Committee on Technology of Synthetic Fuels of the National Energy Research Development and Demonstration Council. I hope that we see its recommendations reasonably promptly. 
I make an appeal to the older political parties to get going on things like this ethanol question. I say to honourable senators: For heaven's sake, do not let things slide. We cannot afford to do this. We appeal to the Government to consider some of the things that we consider to be necessary and urgent. We should be setting aside money in sufficiently large quantities to foster active and useful research into new industries, new hopes and new investment in Australia's future. We should be taking the heat out of industrial confrontation. We should be giving active encouragement to Australian industriesAustralian private enterprises- to develop export markets in particular which are something more than a simple rape of our national resources which most of our export industries seem to be doing now. I might say also that they seem to be in the hands of foreigners. We should be doing something effective about our outmoded Constitution and political system so that members of this Parliament are elected on a basis of representing all Australians, not just half of them, and so that the Australian people are consulted more adequately and more honestly about their own affairs. 
We should be introducing an effective system of defence which is based on the initiatives and co-operation of our own people and our own industries. We should be doing something effective about the tragic situation in which our farmers find themselves. I suggest that a first thing might be reasonable floor prices for all farm products based on costs of production plus a reasonable profit. For heaven's sake, we should be getting some of those young people into jobs. We cannot let this situation drag on until they are all bitter and disillusioned. We simply cannot afford that situation to develop. Finally, and most of all, I plead with the Government to give the Australian people leadership which will permit them some pride, some spirit and some hope for our common future rather than the present long, endless retreat in disarray. 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 1 9 September 1 978: 
Is there an academic co-ordinating body in the field of dermatological research within Australia, other than the Australasian College of Dermatologists; if not, will the Minister consider action to facilitate the establishment of such a body or of Chairs of Dermatology at Australian universities, in view of the high incidence of skin cancer and dermatological complaints incurred by Australians. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Science. Its subject is the current methods of manufacture and use of the herbicides 2,4-D and 2,4,5-T. I am prompted to raise this matter because of recent reports in Victoria of further cases of human foetus deformities claimed to be associated with exposure of the mother to 2,4-D or 2,4,5-T during early pregnancy, the subsequent re-opening of a Victorian inquiry into the matter and the total ban on the use of the herbicides by the Sale City Council. I ask the Minister whether he will now arrange for a national inquiry into the manufacture and use of 2,4-D and 2,4,5-T in Australia which is open to the media and the public and which: (1) ensures it receives evidence or depositions from scientists outside Australia, especially from the United States of America, Sweden and Holland; (2) considers the implications of the volatile bases on which these herbicides are manufactured, which permits the spray mist to remain in the air for long periods and to drift many miles in some circumstances; (3) considers the desirability of larger spray nozzle aperture sizes or other methods of use that might reduce air retention and spray drift; (4) considers the desirability of banning the use of herbicides in urban areas or within one kilometre of a dwelling place, as is the practice in some European countries; (5) considers the current practice of packagers of printing directions for use on packages in very fine type; and (6) considers the desirability of an indefinite delay in conversion of instructions for use on such herbicide packets to metric measurements. 
I direct a question to the Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs. In view of widespread and continuing public concern about the apparent failure of the Government to establish the reasons for the murder of six Australian journalists in East Timor in late 1975-1 refer to the deaths of five men at Balibo and that of  Mr Roger  East- will the Minister inform the Senate whether an inquiry into this matter is still continuing? What results has it achieved? Has the inquiry yet taken evidence from Timorese refugees now in Portugal and said to have been in Balibo at the time of the killings? Is the Minister not concerned that, unless this matter is properly cleared up, it must seriously affect Australian media coverage of events in Asia in the future and seriously inhibit editors and chiefs of bureau assigning journalists to that area, thus denying the Australian public important facts? What will be the long term implications to Australian national security of our current soft line diplomacy, in this instance aimed apparently at the avoidance of facts rather than the establishment of truth? Finally, what might have been the reaction of the Indonesian Government if six Indonesian journalists had been killed in similar circumstances in an area controlled by the Australian Army? 
I speak to clause 6 (a). Although I do not want to take up the time of the Committee by covering ground which has already been covered, I think it is worth stating the position of the Australian Democrats. We believe that persons who  devote their  working lives to this country should not be disadvantaged in this kind of way when they retire. This seems to the Australian Democrats to be a quite fundamental attitude for any modern society that makes any small claim to being civilised. I ought to add, too, that this policy of the Australian Democrats was adopted by our national membership in a secret ballot and that we are the only political movement in this country which does that. I do not willingly want to add to the long list of people who are taking  Senator McLaren  to task, but he was perfectly well aware when he made his remarks that  Senator Chipp  's comments were inspired by a policy which was also voted on by many more people than would ever vote for an Australian Labor Party policy. 
At some stage  Senator McLaren  can convince me with figures that that is not so. I shall return to clause 6 (a). I suggest that there is little relevance in the second reading speech of the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  that, because inflation might be slowing down, the effect of this proposal to adjust pensions annually would be limited. It could be equally argued that because the Government seems confident of arresting inflation this type of miserly economy is of no great value anyway. In other words, if we arrest inflation the value of this proposal will be negative, and I put that to the Minister. Of course, that is a side issue. The important thing is not so much the application of the proposal as the principle behind it. I do not think that the Government has thought enough about it. Government members who do not want to come over to this side to vote have not thought about it either. They are not being honest with themselves. 
In the short time that I have been in this Parliament as a senator I have had occasion to talk to a large number of pensioners, old people who came all the way to Kings Hall, who have tried to discuss this matter with Government senators. On a number of occasions they were refused that opportunity. I know that they were refused because I spoke to those people afterwards and tried to give them some sort of undertaking. That is a fact. I have talked with those pensioners and with many others. As all honourable senators know, many thousands of pensioners have become quite upset about this proposal. They have mounted a major lobbying campaign during which surely all of us have been approached in one way or another. It is right and proper that they should be upset. 
The second major point of objection I have to this clause is that persons of pensionable age surely have earned the right to some feeling of stability and an assurance that their personal economic circumstances are not going to be disturbed year after year at the whim of governments. No matter how small or large that disturbance is, it creates proper and understandable feelings of uneasiness and resentment. I repeat that I am aware of this because I have talked with these people. I think it is time that more Government senators talked with them too. Unless the Government withdraws this amendment it will be held against it at the ballot box and properly so. However, I hope that Government senators will oppose it not so much on the ground of expediency as on the ground of its unfairness and its miserable carping attitude. If the Government wants to cheesepare I suggest that there are better places in which to do it than this. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice, on 20 September 1978: 
Is any action being considered to relax section 78 ( 1 ) (a) (x) of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 to induce financial support for the Australasian College of Dermatologists in their research studies, in view of the high incidence of skin cancer and dermatological complaints incurred by Australians. 
-I give notice that, on the next day of sitting, I shall move: 
That a referendum of voters of the Australian Capital Territory should be held, as soon as possible, to confirm or reject the recommendations of the Australian Capital Territory Legislative Assembly Standing Committee on Education and Health in its Report No. 26- Pregnancy Termination. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 16 August 1978: 
1 ) How much time was made available to broadcast election speeches or political advertisements in respect of each political party on each radio broadcasting station and television station in connection with the State election in New South Wales on 1 May 1976. 
What was the percentage distribution of time purchased by parties and candidates on metropolitan and country commercial broadcasting and television stations. 
What were the costs charged for this time and what was the percentage distribution of these costs between parlies. 
I present the following petition from 6 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. 
The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth that the term of the current Staff Elected Commissioner expires on the 22nd October 1978. We pray the Government will direct that this position should continue, and that the Minister will authorise the Commonwealth Electoral Officer to proceed with an election, by all ABC staff, of a new commissioner, and your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I present the following petition from 10 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled- 
The Petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That whereas the Fraser Government was elected in December 1975 after promising that pensions would be adjusted instantly and automatically in relation to quarterly Consumer Price Index figures; and whereas that Government subsequently announced that pension adjustments should properly be made half yearly each May and November; it is the current intention of the same Government to legislate for pensions to be adjusted only once a year, and this constitutes a serious breach of generally accepted ethics of democratic government and also deprives many needy pensioners of increases that are essential to their subsistence. 
The foregoing facts impel the undersigned. Petitioners to request the Australian Government to uphold the principle that the trustworthiness of governments should at all times be above question, and to appeal to the Parliament to prevent the imposition of further economic hardship upon Australian pensioners by rejecting any Bill which has for its aim the introduction of annual adjustments of pension rates. 
And Your Petitioners in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I present the following petition from 2 citizens of Australia: 
To the honourable the  President  and members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That on the 10th December 1948, the General Assembly of the United Nations adopted and proclaimed the Universal Declaration of Human Rights which declares that, 'Everyone is entitled to all the rights and freedoms set forth in the Declaration . . .' (Article 2) that 'Everyone has the right to take part in the government of his country, directly or through freely chosen representatives . . . The will of the people shall be the basis of the authority of government; this will shall be expressed in periodic and genuine elections which shall be by universal and equal suffrage and shall be held by secret vote or equivalent free voting procedures.' (Article 21 (l)and(3). 
Elections for Senators meet all requirements except one. Senators are elected periodically, by secret ballot, with universal franchise, and the quota-preferential method of proportional representation ensures that the vote values within states are equal as nearly as can be. 
However the provision of the Electoral Act that compels voters to show preference for ALL candidates on the ballot paper interferes with the free expression of the will of the voters, and is unjust. 
Australia, as a Member State of the United Nations, is pledged to achieve observance of Human Rights and Freedoms. 
We, the undersigned citizens of Australia, therefore humbly pray that the Senate will fulfil the pledge of a Member State of the United Nations and take steps to remove the compulsion from the Electoral Act in order to allow freedom of expression for everyone who has the right to vote for Senators. and your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
ACT Termination of Pregnancy Ordinance 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for National Development, relates to the answer that he gave earlier today to a question asked by  Senator Sim  about the cost of nuclear power. Did the assertion in his answer that nuclear power is in fact competitive with other fuels take into account two factors- firstly, the cost, which apparently is very high, of the demolition of nuclear power stations past their useful life and, secondly, the cost of the permanent and safe disposal of radioactive waste resulting from both the operation and the demolition of nuclear power stations? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 26 September 1 978: 
Has an interdepartmental committee, concerned with the impact and implications of new technology in industry, been established, as indicated by the Minister in a statement on 1 September 1978; if so: (a) who are the membersof this committee; (b) what are their respective positions; (c) in which departments are they employed; and (d) what are the terms of reference of the committee. 
 I think it ought to be reiterated that, certainly in my opinion, the matter we are discussing here today is not a matter which will decide whether abortion should or should not be carried out in the Australian Capital Territory. Indeed, it is a fact, as stated at page 38 of the report of the Australian Capital Territory Legislative Assembly Standing Committee on Education and Health that 1,106 applications for abortions were received between October 1970 and March 1 977 and that only 49 of these applications were not approved. The rest, more than 1,000, were approved. I suggest that that is a sufficient answer to the position that  Senator Walters  has taken here. Hence rejection of the present Termination of Pregnancy Ordinance and its replacement by a better one is unlikely to increase the number of abortions carried out in the Australian Capital Territory. In my opinion a revised ordinance has the potential- I stress the word potential'- to remedy what is in many respects a disgraceful situation in which abortions are carried out in this Territory. That situation is due to bad government by the Federal Government on behalf of a group of people who do not yet have the right to govern themselves. 
It is stated at page 39 of the report to which I have referred that the termination committee operating under the present Ordinance has the sole function to see that requirements for making a termination legal are met and that hospital facilities are not used for the purpose of an illegal operation. Its function then is basically a negative and restrictive one. Under present procedures, as I understand the matter, this committee of six may not necessarily include a woman although it sometimes does; that women seeking termination are not allowed to put their cases personally to that committee but only through a doctor, and that terminations are carried out more or less in parallel with other hospital procedures using the same staff, who may or may not wish to be involved. Since the committee will not even see the women concerned under any circumstances there is no question of it actually counselling her. My reply to  Senator Tate  is that we must look at the de facto situation, the situation which actually exists now in Canberra, if we are to make judgments on this matter. Certainly I have looked at it that way. I have asked myself: Would I willingly contribute to the continuance of the present situation? I would say that as a matter of conscience I could not see that situation continue. As a result I will be voting with  Senator Ryan  in this matter. 
As I have said, the Ordinance, which states merely that abortions may not be carried out in the Australian Capital Territory except at a public hospital and gives no other guidelines, seems admirably designed to encourage the sorts of bad conditions which in fact exist. The Federal Government surely must have appreciated this. Otherwise why did it seek an inquiry and recommendations from the Australian Capital Territory Legislative Assembly? Having received those recommendations, the Government proceeded to ignore them and perpetuate for a further 12 months the very ordinance which it must have known was inadequate. This is the situation that we are expected to tolerate and, even worse, that the people of the Australian Capital Territory are asked to tolerate. 
I repeat that whether or not a person agrees with termination of pregnancy is not an issue in this matter. There are two main issues. The first is whether abortions are carried out under properly regulated conditions associated with humane and professional counselling. If such counselling were available in some cases it may actually avert an abortion which otherwise may have taken place. 
The other major issue to me is the Federal Government's high handed and unjustifiable action in flouting a carefully considered recommendation of a committee of the Australian Capital Territory Legislative Assembly. This Assembly is elected by the people of the Australian Capital Territory, regardless of whether it has powers at this stage. 
In no circumstances do I approve of the idea of private clinics specialising in abortion for profit being introduced in the Australian Capital Territory. In fact, I think that governments everywhere in Australia should look more carefully at the legality of such clinics, especially to ensure that the 'reasonable grounds' which a medical practitioner must have in terms of the Menhennitt judgment, do exist. This is a point at which some of the people who are concerned about this matter should look. They should look at the of the law rather than at the law itself. Law makers can only make laws. If those laws are then flouted, there is not a great deal that the law makers can do about it. 
The point has been made that the disallowance of the present ordinance may create a situation in which a legal loophole permitted the entry of such private abortion clinics to the Austrlian Capital Territory for a short period. I would like to make a point which I do not think has been made yet. Since a legal appeal against the new ordinance would need to succeed before this could happen, I doubt that anybody would take the risk of setting up a business in the Territory and face the possibility of a fine of $1,000 for each case. Granted that, and since such a situation could not continue at worst for more than six months, I think it is unrealistic to suppose that anybody will step in and start a private abortion clinic. It will take some months to get a case through on appeal in any case. I suggest that that is not a matter of great consequence. Of course, there is some disagreement as to whether such an appeal under the Seat of Government (Administration) Act would succeed. As honourable senators will know, this depends on the interpretation of the words 'the same in substance'. I merely point out that the words are not 'similar in substance' but are 'the same in substance'. I suggest that that semantic difference is significant. 
However, even the smallest possibility of private abortion clinics being allowed into the Australian Capital Territory must be taken into account. I concede that much and I think it is reasonable that not even the slightest chance should be taken of that happening. Therefore, I support  Senator Rae's  contingent motion and the amendment proposed by  Senator Evans  since they are designed to guarantee this very point. Assuming that point to be secured, I must earnestly put it to honourable senators that to allow the de facto operations ofthe present ordinance to continue in Canberra would be to allow the continuance of a much less satisfactory position than should obtain. Indeed, it is one which is actually oppressive to the citizens of the Australian Capital Territory. Certainly I can assure you,  Mr President,  that my conscience would not permit me to subscribe to that continuance and hence I must vote against it. It is sad that so many good and no doubt well-intentioned people who oppose abortion should have so badly missed the point in all the letters and petitions which we have received. These letters show quite plainly from their content that the writers see this matter as a for or against abortion issue which, of course, it is not. We are dealing with a bad and slovenly law, a lazy piece of government which, to my amazement, the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  quite calmly said yesterday according to media reports he is quite ready and happy to perpetuate. 
A second major issue is involved, that is, the extent to which the wishes of the Legislative Assembly, admittedly without powers, nevertheless elected by the people of the Australian Capital Territory, should be taken into account by the 
Federal Government in its administration of the Australian Capital Territory. I should have thought that the lack of responsibility of the Australian Capital Territory Legislative Assembly would have inclined the Federal Government to listen a little more to the carefully considered recommendations of the Assembly's committee. But no, the Government, or the Prime Minister, must continue to emulate King George III and maintain his colonial authority right to the bitter end. That is the way it appears. 
A third issue is very much at stake in this matter also. I refer to the campaign of mail and lobbying that has been organised by both the proabortion lobbies over this matter. This campaign began with letters from hundreds of people. I, like other honourable senators, have received well over 2,000 letters. Honourable senators have received hundreds of letters from persons opposed to abortion. These urge voting against  Senator Ryan's  motion. This campaign was obviously orchestrated, most of the letters being in set forms and very many on printed or photocopied forms or cards. I may say for the record that I tend to ignore and discount such letters. If people can do no more than scrawl their signatures on what someone else has written, I suggest that they have no right to expect the Senate or a member of Parliament to take them seriously. I make that statement for what it is worth. My point is that this was an organised campaign by a perhaps sizeable and certainly vocal minority, but still a minority. It has prompted more recently a similar type of campaign from those people in favour of abortion and who are equally extremist. Again, much of the campaign has been orchestrated. The material has been duplicated and form letters have arrived together in large numbers. This has also been the case with petitions. 
I could not speak on this matter with any honesty if I did not refer with grave distaste to the letters I have received from young children- as young as six or seven years- on this issue. I am very strongly tempted to quote some of these letters in the Senate but I would not like to place on public record the extent to which children of that age have been forced to utter sentiments of which they could have no possible understanding and which in their innocence they have been caused to support. They include such statements as, 'Dear  Senator, Please  do not hurt little children'. In my opinion, this is really very bad. I know that the people who oppose this motion are sincere and honest in their beliefs. That is the one thing which excuses everything that they might do. However, it is not enough to be sincere and honest in one's beliefs in this world. I believe that any political system which depends ultimately on exerting pressures of these kinds or admitting them, even to the extent of causing these mass pressures from people in a mindless way. using young children and form letters, is deplorable. That is the basic reason behind my view that a referendum of Australian Capital Territory voters should be held. We should have a referendum of mature adults to obtain their considered view by secret ballot of the major matters that have been recommended by the standing committee of the Legislative Assembly in its report No. 26. 
A democracy places on its citizens not only the right but also the obligation to decide important and divisive issues themselves. If a country does not do that, it should not call itself a democracy. It is not a democracy. Important and divisive issues always cause strains and pressures on the community, even more so on legislators. I believe that it is perhaps not even fair for the members of the community to expect legislators to decide these matters for them. In other countries that is not so. I believe that it should be the role of government to provide promptly and readily to communities concerned the means of consultation. That is the clear and obvious course ahead of the Government now. I might even use an old fashioned term and say that it is the Government's duty. I believe that the storm of lobbying which has been associated with this matter serves clear notice on all of us that issues of this sort can best and perhaps only be settled by consultation with the people in a proper way. Are we content that issues like abortion will be settled in future by pressure tactics of greater and greater magnitude and expense but which provide no way of even guessing actually how many people are involved? Alternatively, are such matters to be decided by a considered secret ballot of citizens? This is the basic principle of the kind of democracy all of us in this Parliament are supposed to cherish. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development. In this morning's Melbourne  Age  the Director of the Australian Conservation Foundation,  Dr Mosley,  was reported as expressing fears that the Foundation might bear the whole brunt of this year's Budget cut in funds to voluntary conservation bodies. If that were so, it would represent a cut in its budget of $50,000 a year to $100,000 a year and would seriously prejudice important current projects of the Foundation, to say nothing of its future plans. If there are grounds for such fears, will the Government reconsider the allocations so that the Budget cut is spread equally throughout the recipient organisations? 
I would like to add briefly to the point made by  Senator Harradine  concerning senators-elect. It is very important. Unlike  Senator Harradine,  senators-elect in this Parliament had to wait six or seven months before being paid, during which time they were regarded by the public as being people who had been elected to the Senate and were servants of the public and were there to do things. That is the time, perhaps more than any other, when a senator is required to smarten up and do things for people. He has been in the public eye, has been elected and such matters come forward. 
It is not a matter of suspended animation; it is a matter of suspended finance. A point worth making is that senatorselect have to make all their own telephone calls, type all their own letters, reply to voluminous mail, and send telegrams during a period of six or seven months, during which time they receive absolutely no support whatever. The public does not understand this; it simply cannot see why it happens. We all have our differences with the Constitution, but it contains a provision that senators may not take up their positions until the end of the June following their election. This is a matter which, for the sake of senators-elect in the future, this Parliament should consider seriously; that they should be given at least some secretarial assistance, some assistance with their travel, telephone and postage expenses. 
With all respect to the New and Permanent Parliament House Committee I would like to support the remarks of the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Wriedt).  I would hope that at the party meetings tomorrow members will, as a matter of common honesty and integrity in view of the state of this country, consider that it is no longer proper or decent that our meals and drinks should be subsidised to the extent that they are subsidised. I would prefer that we were at least honest about that matter and stayed in this Parliament House rather than have a new Parliament House and continue to bludge on the community. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for National Development. I ask that when the comparisons between the costs of nuclear generated electricity and the costs of other sources of electric power sought by  Senator Sim  today are supplied, such costs include realistic estimates for the dismantling of nuclear power houses at the end of their useful life, and storage of radioactive materials resulting from such dismantling during the necessary time spans. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 13 September 1978: 
When will commercial FM broadcasting be introduced. 
Will the FM broadcasting industry be opened up to new independent operators. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 13 September 1978: 
1 ) Has a committee or sub-committee of Cabinet been formed to examine the introduction of commercial FM broadcasting, if so, who are the members of the committee or sub-committee. 
) Do members of any such committee or sub-committee have any relationship with the owners of any existing commercial AM radio broadcasting operation; if so; (a) who are the members; (b) what is the relationship; and (c) what is the extent of the interests involved. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice, on 19 October 1978: 
1 ) Are Australian taxation offices at present undertaking an investigation into proposals to implement a retail turnover tax or value-added tax; if so, do the terms of reference for such inquiries include: (a) services as well as goods; (b) food; and (c) footwear, textiles and clothing. 
Will the investigation assess what effect such taxes would be likely to have on inflation, especially of food prices, and a possible further depression of Australian manufacturing and retail sales. 
I present the following petition from 23 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled: 
The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth objection to the Metric system and request the Government to restore the Imperial system. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
Human Rights in the USSR 
I present three petitions, similar in wording, from 233, 367 and 8 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled: 
The Petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That Australian Government employees strenuously oppose the proposal by the Australian Government to abolish Paternity Leave and restrict the provisions relating to Maternity Leave which are currently contained in the Maternity Leave (Australian Government Employees) Act 1973. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, should reject the passage of any legislation which has as its purpose the abolition of Paternity Leave and the restriction of the Maternity Leave provisions. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petitions received. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development. It concerns the proposed commencement of the Iwasaki Sangyo tourist complex at Yeppoon in Queensland. Will the Government exert as soon as possible its legal responsibilities to the Australian environment by instituting a public inquiry into the proposition that a 150-metre wide strip of the foreshore of the Iwasaki land be returned to the control of the Crown, so averting the anomalous and virtually unprecedented present situation in which 19 kilometres of the Australian coastline are owned or controlled to high tide mark by a foreign developer? 
I oppose the Atomic Energy Amendment Bill. It is alarming to see an attempt being made by the Government to legislate beyond its own time. The ethical implications of this kind of intent are in themselves serious since surely under our system of democracy it is basic that when a government loses the confidence of the people through an election it also loses the right to influence the affairs of the nation in a decisive way as from that time. It is all the more alarming to see such an attempt being made by a government within an area of concern which that government knows to be a matter of deep division within the Australian community. The debate which has taken place so far today has demonstrated that. I reinforce my point by saying that this was indicated by a secret written ballot conducted of 6,000 Australian Democrat members last year to determine our policy on uranium. That ballot consulted more Australians on that subject than have been consulted at any other time before or since. I assure honourable senators that it was a ballot of middle Australia. More than 70 per cent of those people voted for a policy option stating that uranium should not be exported from Australia until three vital criteria could be met. The first is that means exist for the safe storage of nuclear wastes through the necessary timespan of many thousands of years. In this regard I mention that the half life of plutonium is 24,400 years. That gives some idea of the time span in respect of which it is necessary to think. We have to think much further forward into the future than we can count back into history. The second criterion in our policy is that the means exist to guarantee that plutonium created in such profusion as a by-product of the nuclear power industry is not diverted to the making of nuclear bombs by irresponsible governments or criminal elements. The third element of our policy is that in the light of these requirements the nuclear power industry is economic when compared with other sources of electric power. 
These matters relate directly to the very basis of consideration of this Bill which I see as being the flexibility in decision-making in the future in the whole area of nuclear power and the export of uranium so that the decisions may quickly and readily be taken in accordance with the wishes of the Australian people. The future viability of the nuclear power industry becomes a matter for deep concern in any consideration of this Bill. Nothing could be more basic to it. We in the Australian Democrats are satisfied that the first requirement we have set down in our policy, that is the safe storage of nuclear wastes, has not yet been met although in some small ways some progress has been made. We await with interest the final costing of nuclear waste disposal, especially that created by the closing down and dismantling of nuclear power stations. This aspect in itself indicates the necessity for policies concerning the whole area of nuclear energy to be as free and open as possible in the future. 
As some honourable senators would know, some of the world's first nuclear power reactors are due for close-down and disposal, yet no satisfactory means of doing this has yet been worked out other than at enormous cost. Sometimes it involves burying the whole station in an enormous quantity of concrete. Disposal methods are variously estimated to cost between 20 per cent and 50 per cent of the original installation cost. The quantity of material involved in such cases is very large- a matter of tonnes; certainly not an amount that could be fitted into a beer mug, to recall at this stage a recent flight of fancy of one of our better-known Western Australian mining magnates. 
As to the security of plutonium, it can only be said that international safeguards are not adequate. Ships with whole cargoes of nuclear material have gone missing in mysterious circumstances and it has been reasonably established that there is already existing in the world a black market for plutonium which serves very willing buyers at very high prices. 
As experience in the more advanced nuclear countries is showing, these prime factors of waste disposal and control are tending to make nuclear power uneconomic, quite apart from any moral, safety or environmental considerations. The cost of reactor construction has increased a good deal in recent years, partly because it is now recognised that much greater and more comprehensive safeguards are necessary in a mechanical sense if reactors are to be safe throughout their lifetime. Indeed, the productive lifetime of reactors is shorter than was once hoped in the days when we believed that nuclear power was to be the great hope of tomorrow. These cost factors are, of course, the basic reason why most of the advanced Western nations are now not carrying out the nuclear programs that they projected a decade ago. I suggest that there again is reason for absolute flexibility for future governments to deal with uranium in a way which suits the circumstances of the time, without limitation, without any kind of hindrance. 
By the end of 1975, 19 countries had installed 157 reactors over a 15-year period producing a total output of almost 72,000 megawatts. It was expected, on early projections, that this might rise to 500,000 megawatts by 1985, a date now not far off, and some projections were that as much as 2.5 million megawatts would be produced by the year 2000. There was the view that nuclear power would provide cheap and safe energy throughout the world. But now the picture is one of major nations abandoning or restricting their nucler power programs severely. Japan, which expected to have a nuclear power capacity of 60,000 megawatts by 1985, now seems likely to have barely one-third of that amount- about 21,000 megawatts. I noted a recent decision of Austrian voters not to use a reactor which had been built. That decision, interestingly enough, was the result of a referendum arising from a citizen's initiative, a civilised aspect of government that the Australian Democrats believe ought to be introduced by the citizens of Australia, acting on their own behalf and in their own interests. 
How can any attempt to perpetuate the uranium mining industry through legislative means be justified in circumstances in which there has been an actual decline in nuclear power production and when there is recognition, as there is in the State of California, that it is necessary for societies to live without nuclear power. That has been the decision of California, one of the most advanced American States, a group of 2 1 million people. They now say that it is viable to support their society by other means of power. In this regard I think we can recall the tragic death of Congressman Ryan who was one of the people behind this investigation. He is a great loss to the world. 
Instead of introducing these amendments the Government should be considering the fact that the nations which are now seeking nuclear power houses and nuclear fuels are of a quite different and more alarming type. They are typically autocracies, like Libya, Uganda and the Philippines. They are typically nations whose approach to technology has been far from meticulous. They are typically nations which, based on their known records, might not be at all averse to acquiring a number of dirty atom bombs- that is, high fall-out type atom bombs, the sort of crude device which can be produced in association with an ordinary power reactor at quite low cost and with access to quite limited technologyprecisely the type of atomic weapon which was produced by India through the use of its Candu reactor. These nations also are places where economic conditions are not so good as to guarantee the kind of adequate spending on nuclear installations that would ensure maximum safety. I believe it is true that the low rate of mishap associated with nuclear power houses over the last two decades has been due in no small part to the fact that it is the highly developed nations technologically, such as the United States, West Germany and Japan, amongst others, which have built and maintained the reactors. 
Unfortunately the nations now wanting reactors and nuclear fuel are also places in which, because of their autocratic governments, dissident movements exist- dissident movements which already have shown themselves to be so desperate that they would seize any possible opportunity for violent revolt, or merely the chance of attracting world publicity to themselves. Surely we can see in this situation a danger to the whole world in the spread of nuclear power or the attempt to promote it artificially as this legislation attempts to do. Such nations do not have well established and reliable law and order enforcement procedures. Such nations also very often are ruled by juntas supported by power bases, often military, within which corruption of all kinds is rampant. 
An interesting example of great relevance to this country and to this Bill is the Philippines. It is interesting and relevant because Australia already has made commitments to supply it with nuclear fuel. That nuclear fuel will be used at the first Filipino power reactor located quite close to Manila. It is relevant that we consider some of the circumstances of that reactor. We are fortunate in that only today there was an interview on the Australian Broadcasting Commission  AM  program with a nun, Sister Moorehead, who had been to the Philippines. She gave a report on this matter. She said: 
In actual fact this particular plant will only benefit the people of Manila. Primarily, it will benefit the multinationals, the big international companies that have factories in the Philippines and the profits and money from those factories that is being taken out of the country does not benefit the people actually at all. The people in the Philippines need human housing, adequate nutrition, food and all this son of thing before they need electricity. 
The next point made by Sister Moorehead was more sobering and much more relevant to the provisions of this Bill. She said: 
It's actually documented- I'm not just saying this off the top of my head- that this nuclear plant is on an earthquakeprone zone, that the reactor is quite close to a fault zone. It is surrounded by five volcanoes, four of which are classified as active. It is actually verified that already there has been corruption and fraud in the building of the plant and so inferior concrete is being used which makes it a definite safety hazard. 
I ask Government senators whether they would like to have that on their consciences. I certainly would not like to have it on mine. 
I intended considering the security aspects of the Bill which I think ought to be considered but as  Senator Tate  has raised them I will not take up the time of the Senate by going over them again other than to indicate my agreement with the suggestion that if the Government wants to amend this Act it should look first at . section  S  sub-section (4). It should recognise that the Act is unduly repressive because it relates purely to nuclear power, the science of which is now so well and so openly known as to require quite different provisions which separate completely the power generation area from the military area. The Government does not seem to have understood the basic problem when it framed these amendments. It appears in all good faith to wish to perpetuate in a solidified way into the future- 21 years or more- the right of private corporations to export uranium to wherever they wish within reason. The Government does not seem to realise that this is cloud cuckoo land where nuclear energy is concerned; there is no El Dorado for Australia in nuclear energy and uranium. 
Export of nuclear fuels may make some money for a few interests, many of which are foreign, but the effect on the nation at large will be negligible, as the first Ranger report indicated, clearly enough I should have thought, for everybody to understand. It seems that fuel will be exported at a likely terrible cost to human beings in other countries, human beings who live under governments which use military means to crush dissent. Again, that is not a situation which I would like on my conscience. 
I predict, without any pleasure at all and with great sorrow, that the Filipino reactor will be the scene of a massive and tragic accident due either to structural faults or to volcanic activity around it. This is not my own personal view; it has been stated repeatedly by nuclear scientists in the United States who have pleaded with their Government to intervene and try to persuade the Marcos family, which is dominating ownership and control of this reactor, to move the reactor to a safer area. But it will not do so because a reactor in close proximity to Manila means more money in the hands of the Marcos family. The fact that an accident involving the reactor would cause fallout over the whole of Manila is, I gather, of no interest to the  President  of the Philippines and his wife. No doubt they have means of getting away in such an event. My final comment is a tough one but I feel that it has to be made. If in decades to come some of our fuel returns to us in the form of crude and dirty atomic bombs with their inevitable very high fallout rate, we shall have only ourselves to blame. 
-On behalf of the Australian Democrats  I  endorse the remarks of  Senator Carrick.  I will not be tedious.  I  think that you know, sir, that you have our sincere good wishes. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice, on 22 November 1978: 
Does the Australian Bureau of Statistics collate statistics on a national basis concerning the use of animals in scientific experiments, or for the types of experiments they are used in; if so, what are the statistical elements; if not why not. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence. It relates to the armament said to be proposed for the Royal Australian Navy's 15 new patrol boats now under construction. According to a Press report in the Sydney  Daily Mirror  of last week- on 1 5 February, to be precise- each boat will carry a range of small arms, machine guns and one small cannon. Since the vessels will be much larger and faster than the Attack class boats they will replace- they might well be, at a cost of $7m each-I ask the Minister whether that report was a correct account of the total armament to be provided in these ships? If so, in view of the fact that in the past there have been successful missile attacks by fast patrol craft against more heavily armed naval craft, why are our patrol boats not being equipped with some form of ship-to-ship missile? Will the Government, as a matter of policy, urgently consider adaptation of these ships to missile capability so that they can play a role which is more commensurate with their cost in Australia 's future defence? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 24 October 1978: 
Are several thousand persons of Seychellois origin now resident in Australia. 
What are the present entry requirements for Seychellois wishing to migrate to Australia. 
3 ) Will the Government, on compassionate grounds, consider making entry to Australia easier for relatives of Seychellois now living in Australia, in view of the recent change of the government in the Seychelles. 
I present the following petition from 9748 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The Petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That whereas the facility for citizen initiated referenda exists in many other countries, notably the United States and Switzerland, but does not exist in Australia, and whereas no steps are at present being taken to investigate the ways in which this right could be granted to the Australian people. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, should: 
Initiate necessary action for a referendum to be held to amend the Constitution to provide for Citizen's Initiative, on the following conditions: 
If a specified percentage of the voters (for example 2 per cent) sign a petition asking that a referendum be held on a certain question, then the Federal Government would be obliged to hold that referendum, and the result would become law. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That the following matter be referred to the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs: 
The petition relating to the right of citizen initiative presented to the Senate on 21 February 1979 by  Senator Mason. 
I move: 
That the following matter be referred to the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs: The petition relating to the right of citizen initiative, presented to the Senate on 2 1 February 1 979 by  Senator Mason. 
The Australian Democrats have, of course, had considerable feed-back from the Australian public on its disillusionments with parliaments. That is one of the major reasons for the existence of the Australian Democrats in the first place. I would probably say from my own experience and from that of others that the spearhead of this criticism, and the point that has brought the most frequent response from citizens, is an almost universal complaint that there is a lack of response to petitions when they are presented to Australian parliaments. In fact, it is so that petitions to this Parliament are generally received, but no other apparent action is taken. Most petitions have a small number of signatories and the actual number of petitions is very great. Indeed, yesterday more than 20 petitions were presented in the Senate. I noted that the largest petition, other than that on citizen initiative which I presented, was one presented by  Senator Baume  on the subject of abortion medical benefits, which was signed by 284 petitioners. 
Plainly, then, all petitions cannot take up the time of committees and it is not reasonable or rational to suppose that they should. However, I believe it is reasonable that petitions from many thousands of Australians ought to prompt some response beyond merely being received and that is one reason for my motion today, although it is not the primary reason. I think the size of this petition is of interest. It has almost 10,000 signatures and I understand from those responsible for knowing these things that it is the largest petition to be presented to the Senate for some eight years. Moreover, it is only the first part of what we expect to be a much larger petition, for which signatures are continuing to be collected throughout Australia. I think a great many more are yet to come. I understand from Democrats offices throughout Australia that because of fairly widespread and increasing media and public interest in recent days in the subject there is already an accelerated pace in the addition of signatures to those petitions. Certainly there will be many more signatures. I think it certainly very democratic that honourable senators on both sides of the chamber, other than Australian Democrats senators, should present further petitions on this matter, and I confidently predict that that will be the case. 
I think that this topic is one which is of great basic and increasing interest in the society and one to which perhaps the Australian community has not given very much thought until recent years. I suggest that the motivation for an interest in citizen initiative has been the publicity associated with such initiative referenda carried out in countries outside Australia, and probably in particular the Proposition 13 referendum result in the State of California two years ago which had the effect of limiting the amount of tax collected; in other words, it brought citizens into direct control over the way in which their money was spent. I know this is a subject which will be regarded as controversial but I would say that basically citizens have a right to decide how much of their money will be collected for the purposes of public administration and how it should be spent. They should responsibly have the power to decide in which directions priority of spending should go at particular times. 
We have sought reference of this matter to the Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs because it is plainly the most appropriate Committee to deal with such a matter. I am well aware that it is a very busy Committee. It is a Committee already well loaded down with references. I do not think this is a reason for us not to suggest that this matter should be put to that Committee. I think that Committee is busy because there is a much greater interest now in constitutional change in Australia than there has been in the past. I suggest that there again this will be an accelerating process and if this Committee thinks it is having a busy time now it may find that it will have an even busier time in the years to come. I wish it well because I think its task is about the most important of any committee of the Senate and probably the most basic because, after all, it is the rules of government and the way government is carried out which fundamentally affects action. 
Indeed, if a political system operating in any country does express accurately the will of citizens to the maximum extent- I do not believe that to be the case in this country now- it has a healthy, useful and, on the whole, good influence on the affairs of that nation. I have said before in the Senate and I will say again that it is not enough for any government to feel that citizens can be compelled to a course of action, that they can be compelled to enthusiasm or that they can be compelled to start new industry or to be more energetic or productive. The only way this can come is from the people themselves. To me, this seems to be a fundamental reason for advancing ideas which would provide more democracy in this country rather than less democracy and it would increase- although this is a source of irritation- the numbers of checks and balances on the Executive. It would make the Executive constantly accountable for its actions in every possible way, not only to other members of Parliament but also to large bodies of informed citizens. 
I believe that any parliament would benefit from a situation where the legislation it passed was not necessarily passed as its exclusive right and where there was also a right for large numbers of informed citizens to initiate legislation. That is why the Democrats have persisted with this matter and why we will continue to persist with it. We have publicised it, we have sought public contributions and we know that the degree of interest in it is increasing very rapidly. I now make the point that it is just not members of the Democrats who are taking this petition around, but also a number of other organisations in the community. Their members are actively interested and they are taking the petition about and getting signatures not because they support the Democrats but because they support the idea of citizen initiative. To these people and to our own people who are collecting signatures we have said: 'Please do not let people sign this petition without explaining to them carefully what it is about'. We are hoping that in the 10,000 signatures we have so far to this petition, we have 10,000 persons who understand what the question is, who are in favour of it and who know that full well. 
Why is it important that this matter should be referred quite soon to the Committee and, indeed, advanced at least to an investigatory extent? It has been said to me by a number of members and senators from both sides of the Parliament that in some countries the right of citizen initiative has been abused and from time to time matters have been brought forward which, at least from the point of view of a politician, have not been of benefit to that society. I say to those people that one either believes in democracy or one does not. If one does not believe in democracy, why not go across to an executive-type government? Perhaps we could have a dictator straight away, and one would not have to look far to find out who it would be. I suggest that this is a crunch matter of that sort. It is not a situation where one can have a little bit of democracy or more democracy. 
If we as senators say that we cannot trust the people of this country, that we cannot trust even 171,000 of them to come forward with an idea that is fairly sensible and rational, and if we cannot trust the remainder of the citizens to pass the referendum responsibly in the normal way, then something is very rotten in the State of Australia and the educational task, at least in politics, has been sadly and lamentably in decay. I suggest this is not a course of action or a course of history which any responsible country which wishes to be prosperous and strong can tolerate. I suggest to honourable senators that these underlying reasons are really why we should go ahead with this sort of idea. 
In relation to the criticism of the idea, I was pleased to see that some of the propositions which were put forward last year in California and which looked at first sight to be very much the work of pressure groups, as indeed they were, were thrown out by the electorate. I am referring, among others, to the proposition which dealt with the banning from schools of teachers who are homosexuals. I am not canvassing that issue, but honourable senators will have noted, I trust, that the people of California in their own wisdom and in their own place decided against that proposition. A very large case was also put forward against smoking in public places. Many people would have applauded that idea, but there again the people of California decided on balance that that was not warranted and justifiable. If one looks back over the history of referenda, particularly in Switzerland, whilst one sees communities becoming educated to their proper use- of course, this is a process that has to be begun before it can continue- one also sees that much of the legislation that has come forward as a matter of initiative has been responsible, useful and in many cases such that no government could have introduced it without considerable opprobrium. Compulsory military training in Switzerland was introduced as the result of a referendum, as indeed most major matters are decided in that country not only at the national level but also at the level of the cantons. 
I do not intend to go on indefinitely on this matter. I think that I have made the points I wish to make. I would only finally commend this matter to the Senate in the sense and spirit in which the Australian Democrats put it forward. We do so not as a matter in which we seek any political advantage or in which we are pushing our own ideology but as a matter on which we feel genuinely that as representatives in the Senate of the people of Australia we have a right and duty at least to say: 'You, the people of Australia have a right to know about extensions of democracy which might benefit you. It is the function and duty of your parliaments to see that you have that information and, having given it to you fairly and honestly after investigation, that you are allowed to vote in a referendum '. Of course, a constitutional change would be necessary to introduce this power in Australia. The result of such a referendum would shape the future political climate of this country. 
I suggest to honourable senators that there is nothing to fear in this proposal. We have a situation now where parliamentarians and parliaments are, I think very unfairly, in great opprobrium in the community. I am afraid that episodes such as the one last night concerning  Mr Goodluck's  Bill, judging from the feedback I have had so far today, have not increased public love of and faith in parliament. That seemed to me and I think to many people to be an exercise in politics which only goes to confirm what I am saying now, that is, that some vital and basic step needs to be taken by the Parliament to show the people of this country that it genuinely consists of a group of people who have been elected in the interests of the nation and that it is not afraid- I repeat that the Parliament is not afraid- of placing more power in the hands of the people. 

1 ) That a Select Committee of the Senate be appointed to consider and report upon the possible planning, including terms of reference, for a national convention, to be held within two years, for a ten year indicative plan for the Australian economy, such convention to include representatives of all political parties, employers' groups, unions and government, to attempt to establish basic guidelines on which all could agree and which would remain constant regardless of changes of government, with particular reference to- 
the massive unemployment problem likely as a result of the growing use of computers and automation in Australia; 
the flow-on of money to the community at large as a result of such automation, and other structural changes desirable in the society; and 
possible new initiatives in Australian primary and secondary industry, with special regard to the export industry. 
That provisions relating to membership, powers and proceedings of the Committee be contained in a subsequent Resolution. 
The concept of a total future plan covering a reasonable time span is one of the most important economic measures so far established as the economic policy of the Australian Democrats as a result of debate within our organisation. It is not too much to say that the Australian Democrats, on reflection, feel that this is an essential ingredient of any economic strategy of value or promise for this country. We regard it as crucial to our program for restoring the Australian economy to a healthy state. We would go further and say that we regard it as essential to the strategy of any political party that is in government to restore the economy to a healthy state in a world in which we will face- I must stress this point- increasing competition. It is going to be a difficult, hard world. It is not going to be one for people who muddle through. We will be competing with other nations which have long understood that future planning is necessary to their societies. They have learned that the hard way and it is not a lesson that they would forget quickly. 
It is rather baffling to the Democrats why none of the old parties- most importantly the Australian Labor Party- has not brought forward a motion of this kind, discussed it and tried to justify it. The proposal I have put forward is very similar to the one made by a major Labor theorist. I refer, with respect, to  Mr Bob  Hawke, who has said over a period of time and apparently has not been heard very clearly, although he speaks clearly enough, that a lack of planning, a lack of consensus and a lack of getting together in the Australian society of the elements which make it up are probably basic ingredients in our economic problems. We of the Australian Democrats would agree with him absolutely. 
Our curious, wasteful and thoroughly irrational system of trying to muddle through without a national plan has also been criticised by expert observers both at home and abroad. As far back as February 1975, Australia's failure to exploit its scientific research and discoveries was criticised by the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development in a special report on science and technology in Australia. I believe that some lessons have been learned from that. In that area particularly I think the Government is trying hard to move, as my experience on the committee I have the pleasure and honour to serve has shown me. That committee is investigating industrial research and development and I believe that this is part of the type of planning and future thinking with which we could do with a great deal more. Virtually the whole of that OECD report in one way or another identified problems basically caused by a lack of systematic future planning. John Niland of the University of New South Wales, writing in the  Journal of Industrial Relations,  pointed out: 
Manpower planning cannot occur in an institutional vacuum. There is a whole range of vested interests leading to inefficiencies and restrictions, and a fundamental question yet to be faced in Australia is how these are to be handled. 
The writer adds- and I would stress this extra point: 
In substance they are peculiar - 
That is these problems and inefficiencies- to our unique industrial relations system, and for this reason there is probably little to be learned from overseas experience. 
That means basically that this is something that we have to sort out for ourselves and that probably the sooner we sort it out the better. 
Some words have been written on the subject of planning by our good friend  Dr Peter  Calvo who is a lecturer in economics at the University of New South Wales. They are words to which I would like to refer at this stage because he puts some matters better than I feel I could myself. I think they are worth quoting in this context because I believe they tend to isolate the problem at which we should be looking. He said: 
Economic planning means considering alternative development possibilities for the economy. Forecasting is not planning, despite the fact that the forecasting industry has managed, due to persistant economic uncertainty, to turn crystal gazing into a marketable product. A plan has four characteristics. It gives medium-term outlook; it is comprehensive; it is detailed; and it is published. Such a plan would present in detail and in concrete and nontechnical language several alternative future paths open to the economy. At present, we have a situation of unplanned intervention in almost every field of economic activity. Government interference has become necessary due to emergence of serious problems in our society. Governments have responded to issues of public goods, unemployment, inflation, pollution, environmental damage, waste and poverty. Since governments believe in the general proposition that the market can do no wrong, they are caught off-balance in the face of accelerating inflation and act in panic when corrective recessions imposed on the economy fail to remove inflation. The same attitude of surprise, panic and disorganised response characterises government reaction to problems of unemployment, drug contamination, environmental depravation, poverty, crime and urban decay. The usual governmental method of coping with these problems has been through creation of a hasty and unplanned multitude of agencies that often operate at cross purposes. At the heart of economic planning, however, is the notion of preparedness. To begin with, it would coordinate what the government is now trying to do in its disorganised and wasteful way. Furthermore, planning helps bring about a more purposeful and responsible government capable of a far greater positive response than we are ever likely to get without proper planning. 
What is the urgency factor involved in this need to devise somehow for ourselves a more efficient future? I turn next to the view of no less an authority than Professor Robert Triffin, Professor of Economics at Yale University. Professor Triffin, writing in  World Economy,  expresses a view which is pessimistic on the whole, as is the view of many other economic experts throughout the world. He said: 
The threats that confront mankind, as it enters the last quarter of this century, pervade the whole financial, economic, social and political fabric of the world . . . they may be summarised in a single word not to be found yet in any dictionary: infession that is, an inflationary recession, or even depression, reflecting the bankruptcy of the traditional answers given to changing economic problems both by the free market mechanism, and by the interventionist policies of national governments, at home as well as abroad. 
I will not go right through Professor Triffin 's analysis, but he made the following comment after describing growing inflation, growing recession and growing unemployment: 
The human misery entailed in this tragic outlook makes it nearly indecent to mention the financial threats intertwined with it. 
I shall refrain from the temptation of saying what such inflation rates would mean if extrapolated over, let us say, another ten- or twenty-year period. 
These are the planning periods of 10 or 20 years which I suggest should be taken into account now, not in a year's time, not in 5 years time, not in 10 years time. It will be too late then for any kind of coherent plan to be put together. It should have been done years ago. Tomorrow is probably soon enough to start. I am concerned at the fact- and I think that it is relevant- that in many quarters planning has become a bad word. It has for some decades had associations for conservative political parties, particularly of socialism or communism, and a general 1984 feeling of State oversight of almost all aspects of life and society. This is particularly the case with economic planning. In some ways I suppose this is a justifiable feeling because State planning of almost every aspect of individuals ' lives has been a common factor to most totalitarian states. 
Such planning is, of course, an abuse of power no matter how well meaning it was in the first place. History has also shown us another interesting point that on the whole it has been counterproductive. So strong is the tendency for most human beings to rationalise and to take overcategorical stands on such matters that I think we have to be very careful not to throw out good with bad or, to use a convenient term, not to throw the baby out with the bath water. 
It is very easy to motivate whole attitudes, even the policies of a political group, around its view of a single word or a phrase that has not been too carefully examined and planning, of course, is just such a word. Part of the problem, and this is rather basic to my argument, is that planning by authoritarian States has been arbitrary and has almost always been imposed downwards without any attempt to consult the community or those business men and women and workers who must inevitably be affected by that planning. It is all the more important to distinguish this tendency because presumably it seems to professional planners that this is the right way to go about things. After all, if you are an expert on your subject and you have studied it, you probably feel that you know best. This is a natural feeling that any of us might indulge in. Surely they would feel, "We have studied our subject and it is much better for people to do what we tell them to do. They do not know. We do know." To them it seems a perfectly simple matter. This, of course, is the perpetual cry of the bureaucrat and too often also that of the poll.tican The road to hell is traditionally paved with good intentions and this attitude of the professional planner I think is one of the most heavily trodden of such roads. 
If we can believe history, in the early years of Nazi Germany planning was remarkably efficient. It got German industry back on its feet; it created the autobahns; it created the Volkswagen car; and it built up a highly efficient and large war machine. 
I will continue with the thought now. I believe that it did. My next sentence answers Senators Baume 's point. It would be an over-simplification to claim that the planning process itself finally led to Germany's involvement and defeat in the war. But I believe that it would be justifiable to say that the authoritarian approach was involved in each case. I think that if we look back we will see that Nazi Germany was not unique in this respect. A glance back through history shows that it is a frequent fate of autocracies. It goes right back to the first intergration of China by Shih Huang Ti, the first emperor, who was a very efficient person with a very efficient bureaucracy. Among other things it built the Great Wall. I am sure that the bureaucrats then regarded themselves as efficient and their plans as competent and capable. Indeed, the bureaucracy had many good characteristics. 
To our knowledge China was the first place in the world which identified standards of widths of roads, wheel tracks, measurements and things of that sort. It built cities and forts. However, it was also authoritarian to the extent of brutality. It was unable to think in ordinary human terms and it survived only a few years after the death of its instigator. That emperor was so feared and the effect of his death was so feared that when he died away from the enormous capital he had built his body was concealed for weeks by his troops in a load of rotting fish because they were afraid of the consequences to China when his death was discovered. 
If I have dwelt on this point it is because I regard it as very important. I suggest that the lesson we ought to learn is that planning ought not to be authoritarian and heavily centralised regardless of the apparent efficiency of such a course. Instead it ought to be low key, consultative and based as much as is humanly possible on a consensus of the community. It is relevant to this nation that there is now a greater feeling in politics and among the public for consultation and consensus. This is creating a climate in which the sort of national convention which is proposed in this motion might become more acceptable. I was pleased yesterday to hear the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate,  Senator Wriedt,  mention in a speech in the Senate that he felt that there was a greater degree of consensus and working together and that he was concerned that certain events, which I need not canvass but which appear in  Hansard  under his name, are breaking up that approach. I believe that he was referring to the approach to pensions. 
I recall that when I gave notice of this motion in the Senate last year there were some interjections from a number of honourable senators when I mentioned the mere possibility that there might be some basic guidelines on which representatives of all political parties, employer groups, unions and government might agree. I got the impression that they felt that there could not possibly be the kind of world in which this could happen and that for some reason or other, although it is possible for other groups in the community such as families, organisations and business boards to agree on things- even school children have mock parliaments at times- this Parliament is different, that it is immune to such rationality. I suggest to honourable senators that that is the logical consequence of that attitude. 
I believe that it is quite defeatist and wrong and perhaps we are failing in our duty to the public who elected us even to suggest or begin to feel that basic agreement on a future plan should not be laid down with basic guidelines to which every party might agree. If there were an election, businesses would know that if they planned rationally and sensibly the guidelines would not be changed, or the whole ball game changed, as it is changed every few years. That is what is wrong with business in this country. It is not business. Our business men work and try as hard as anybody else but they are operating in a society in which they never know from one year to the next what the rules will be. 
The people who establish the rules are the members of this Parliament and they have a duty and a responsibility to see that there is that kind of coherent future for this country. If they do not do that, if they allow the politics of confrontation, of doing down the Opposition or doing down the Government to be the first influence on their actions, indeed if they regard loyalty to their political party as their first motivation, they are traitors to this country. I do not use that word lightly because if they do so they are failing to do the things they were elected to do. They were not elected to be members of a political party. They were elected to be senators and members of parliament for electorates and constituencies in Australia. Their first duty is to serve Australians in every way they can. Any other duty they have must be subordinate to that duty. I would be interested as this debate ensues if any honourable senator on either side of the House cared to take up that point and explain to me reasons why that should not be so. 
I do not under-estimate the difficulties that would be involved in such a conference and this is why it has been placed by the Australian Democrats in a rather long time span. We believe that most problems can be solved by a reasonable consensus between intelligent men and women and that if we give that away in this world we have nothing left. The suggestion then is that the planning occupy as much as two years and relate to the probable difficulties of organisation. It is proposed that a Senate select committee would be the best place for this overall operation to begin to consider ways and means of deriving the terms of reference of such a conference. I believe that the planning of such a convention should take place over a considerable period in consultation with those who will probably be involved. I say that in the light of knowledge that some conferences and conventions of this sort have been held. 
One was held recently in Victoria on the subject of unemployment. To my knowledge that led to a most regrettable confrontation at which a number of unemployed people, I think quite justifiably, went along and took exception to the large and expensive dinner which seemed to be the major part of that convention on unemployment. I suggest that anybody who says, 'OK, let us have a convention on unemployment or the economy next week', is fooling himself. Either that or it is just a public relations window dressing exercise that will not achieve anything. We in the Australian Democrats believe that a good deal of careful planning should go into such a convention in consultation with those who will probably be involved, many of whom as we know are antagonistic to each other due to political colouring of so much of our social and economic life which results from the two-party system of which I have spoken before. I will not impose my views on that subject on the Senate again other than to say that I believe that the two-party system has more to answer for in its failure to plan adequately for the future than is commonly believed. 
If those involved can get together and talk reasonably, they may come to know pretty much what the areas of study and terms of reference are going to be. If there could be some initial running around and discussion on this it would be much easier for everybody; there would be some sense of knowledge of what was going to happen and people could go to such a convention without feeling that unpleasant surprises were going to be sprung on them. Again, I think it is very important, where unions and other organisations are concerned, that they should be able to have full consultation with the rank and file of their own organisations before they enter such conventions. One of its most difficult and urgent and necessary jobs would be to sort out somehow the situation where we have so many trade unions, so many demarcation disputes. That problem was solved in most other countries many years ago, to the benefit of all concerned, particularly the trade unions. 
The whole question of relativity of rewards as between workers in this country is long overdue for careful examination. As far as I can see, we are back now to the type of industrial jungle situation where, not to put too fine a point on it, the unions which have clout and which can blackmail the community get the goodies but the people who are not in that position- the clothing workers, footwear workers and others- get the sticky end of the deal. That is not good enough. It is necessary to have a society in which a fair reward is given for all areas of work. I suggest that that is a matter which can be discussed only as a long term indicative plan. It is no good restoring relativities and then finding next year that things are going to change because we have another government which has not agreed on any particular guidelines. Every Australian deserves consideration of what his due reward in the community and his working conditions ought to be. 
All of us who have looked at the matter in even the smallest way know that that is not the situation that obtains now. There is grave disproportion in our society, and I blame for that the more conservative elements of our trade union movement. Fortunately we do have in the labour movement distinguished and gifted people such as  Mr Bob  Hawke who are capable of perceiving a view of the future. We also have the most oneeyed double-dyed conservatives in the world in our union movement. They are true blue conservatives of the old-fashioned style. They do not want anything to change. They do not see that the world is changing. They are not prepared to admit that it is changing. They want it to be just the way it always has been. They are not prepared to consider acting for the benefit of all Australians. They see their duty as being only to their own union, their own group, their own party. I suggest that that is not good enough for the whole of Australia, but I believe- this is a hopeful view, but I think it is justified- that with the passage of time such people are becoming thinner on the ground. We are getting more enlightened and intelligent people in the union movement who may even see in time that a good system of rational industrial democracy such as the West German model could also be considered in planning for this country. When 1 refer to industrial democracy I do not mean the sort of industrial democracy described by  Mr Dunstan  in South Australia. That is not industrial democracy at all. It is a misuse of the term. 
Once we got to the stage where we had delegates who knew what they were doing and what they were going to talk about we would be more likely to get some results. Consultation over a period would also be a necessary concomitant. I am not so naive as to believe that the first such convention would get many results. It would probably be a very rough run indeed for everybody concerned. There would be a lot of dissension, perhaps a lot of unresolved issues; but it would get the machine working, and I think that is a necessary first step. If such a convention achieved little else, at least it would bring a much better understanding nationally of our planning problems. Once one takes the lid off almost any area of society one sees this yawning gulf in planning, and I think that is one of the results such a convention might have. At least if it exposed the problem properly it would have done all of us a service. However, that is being pessimistic. Hopefully, such a convention ought to result in some kind of framework for a future indicative plan for Australia, however vague. At least it could lay down some ideas which the community could look at and say: 'Whatever they do in Canberra, at least that is the way we are going, unless there are very good reasons why it should be changed'. If there are very good reasons why it should be changed, I suggest that those reasons should be the business of regular consultations to consider, not just the result of arbitrary action by government. 
When I refer to an indicative plan for Australians, I mean just that- indicative. It should be able to show Australians possible directions our economy might take and so permit a reasoned consensus about these things. It should be possible to allow people some choice in the sort of society they want, and that is another thing that is being denied to people through the lack of any future planning. They do not know what is going to happen because nobody knows what is going to happen. If there were another Labor government in 1980, the whole ball game would change again. That would be extremely destructive, especially to a country that has to go through a stage of economic problem. It is at that stage that we want unity. We cannot have this continual breaking down, this continual knocking away of what somebody has done beforehand. It is wasteful in terms of human effort and the few dollars in the pockets and bank accounts of every one of our citizens. Surely we in this Parliament are realistic enough to know that that is the real cost of political change, of economic change, because of change of government. It hits straight at everybody's pockets. As we know, those pockets, especially now, are not bottomless. We could get away with that sort of thing during the palmy days of the 1960s. We could afford that luxury then. But I do not believe that we will be able to do it in the future. In other words, planning on the basis suggested by the Australian Democrats would be a continuous process, with continued consultation between the major forces in the economy and society. 
The period of great change ahead for the world has a very considerable potential for disaster for any country that is ill prepared for it. Hence, any planning mechanism we adopt surely must be as flexible and as able to adapt promptly and efficiently to changing circumstances as it can be. I suppose that there are those innocents who would reply that planning is not necessary, that one needs only to leave the economy to the natural forces of the market place and all will be well. Fortunately, those kinds of people also appear to be getting rather thinner on the ground, and I hope that that is a continuing trend. Such a naive view can only be destructive. In other places and at other times that view has led to the complete collapse of private enterprise systems. It was the natural forces in the market place that eventually placed vast areas of Chinese property- virtually all Chinese property- in the hands of two related families, the Chiangs and the Soongs, and created the strains that led to the success of the communist revolution late in 1949. 1 suggest that if we look at any other society where capitalism has collapsed and led to a communist state we will find similar unrestrained, unbridled selfish activities in play. If we wish our society to continue in a proper way we should guard against that. 
The Australian Democrats believe in enlightened private enterprise, and I stress the word enlightened'. There is nothing enlightened in the belief that the kind of unfettered market place forces that have led to the destruction of private enterprise in so much of the world during this century is of any value. If it is to continue, private enterprise must be prepared to modify itself in many directions and especially to exercise much greater social responsibility than it has done in the past, while at the same time retaining its most important and useful feature- the motivating power of enlightened self-interest, which we believe cannot be done without. Perhaps in one million years or 2 million years we will have the kind of perfect human being who is capable of being a co-operator, a socialist or something of that kind. But I do not believe that the human race- after all, we are a very young race, are we not?- has reached that stage or anywhere near it. We do need self-interest, but it has to be enlightened and well directed and well controlled. 
To the Australian Democrats it is fundamental that if there is to be regulation it is much better that it be self-regulation imposed as a result of co-operation and consultation with the rest of the community. It is also better that modifications to the private enterprise system should mesh smoothly within an overall, long term plan decided upon by the community as a whole as its future course. 
There are a number of important structural problems in the Australian and other private enterprise economies the importance of which is only just being understood and which need this kind of special study. One obviously is unemployment. I do not believe that the Government is insincere in its attempts to grapple with unemployment, but it is not succeeding. It does not know why Australia has unemployment. Our Party's economic policy is decided, like all our policies, by secret written ballot of the national membership and has, as its first premise, that if there is structural unemployment it must not be accepted. In such a case it is the structure of society that must change one way or another so that all who wish to work may do so. We feel that there are no reasons why that should not be a basis for consideration. We have increasing massive unemployment, especially of young people. We have something like 250,000 young people out of work. What is that going to do to our future society? Has anybody stopped to think of what is going on in the minds of those 250,000 young people? What is going to happen if things continue in this way over the next few years? 
I think it is an admission of failure on the part of those who should be guiding this nation on a safe and prosperous course, that is the people in Government, that they have not been able to cope with unemployment better than they have. It comes down, after all, to being a matter of options for the Australian community. Decisions could be taken tomorrow for such things as voluntary earlier retirement, reduction of working hours or working days, extensions to the categories of meaningful work and job sharing. The unions would have to play their part. They would have to look at penalty rate at weekends and say to themselves: 'Is it worth while this going on? I am doing fine. I can afford a second car and a swimming pool but the guy next door is out of a job'. I think that this is the sort of thing that has to come and it can only come with planning. 
I turn now to the vital question of the effects of automation on the amount of work available. Are we to stumble through this great social and economic revolution on a purely ad hoc basis, which will mean a welter of strikes, disunity, mistrust and neo-Luddite activity? If we accept that method then surely no honourable senator would deny that they are going to be the consequences. Neo-Luddite activity would be justified. You cannot blame people for being Luddite if they are not given any solutions. People say: 'Oh, gosh, this machine is taking over your jobs chaps, but we haven't got any solution. You go on the dole.' That is not good enough. You cannot expect human beings to accept that sort of situation. 
Alternatively, a rational plan arrived at in consultation with all sections of the community would probably result in people accepting automation as a rational, reasonable first premise of the truism that increasing diversion of repetitive, boring or laborious work to machines should bring a vast new era of happiness and development to all human beings. Surely that ought to be the consequence of automation. Surely that is what it is all about. What value has it got to the human race if it does not do that? In order to see that this happens there has to be a plan that ensures a reasonable flow through of the profits from automation to all citizens in an equitable way, not just to a few business owners- some of them outside this country- who are able to throw off workers and make more money because they have got machines. If you can get a machine that can do the work of eight men, right, you sack seven men and make eight times as much money. 
Really, this seems to me to be back on the nine or ten-year-old level in any judgment of what its future consequences to the society are going to be. 
The flow through of the profits of automation to the ordinary citizen could come in three forms: Firstly, in more money; secondly, more leisure; and thirdly, a more diverse human experience. I would stress the third one as being of vital importance and one which we all should consider. We also could consider a combination, perhaps a combination of all three. Planning for this new era has to take into account the provision of fresh outlets- recreational, artistic, inventive or in the world of sport- for the community. A person who is a brilliant painter, a brilliant musician or is good at sport might do that as their job. Why not? Why have they got to produce a thing? What is the virtue of a thing? Why does productivity in the economic sense have to be our guide? Have we not outlived our nineteenth century forebears to that extent? We have got enough food in our stomachs now. We have had that for many decades. Why do we harp on with this old thinking that that is the only important thing in life? Why do we believe that everybody must work? Even if the people on the dole are there for no reason, for some reason or other they are looked down upon by society and the Government. I believe that to be an unfortunate truth. 
The gross present use of non-renewable energy resources has to be modified for us to have a sustainable economy. That will not happen without planning either, as we have found. I have been shocked in some discussions that I have had. In some discussions with members of this Parliament- quite happily a few- it has been put to me that we may well discover a little bit more oil and there is no real need to look for alternatives until we know that the hydrocarbons have almost run out. This calm assertion that this generation is somehow entitled to go on squandering, until the end, resources which should be there for probably thousands of generations of humans to come is appalling to me. It is lack of vision. It is lack of a view of the future. I suggest to such people that they think of what the historians of the future will say of this generation. They will look back on us as more damaging and dangerous than any barbarians, than any huns because we looted the assets of this world within three generations. So, serious consideration of the whole energy area is now necessary as a part of a long term total plan. 
We must also look at Australia's future industries. It is pretty plain that we are not going to do very well just pursuing the old paths, especially in competition with the very energetic Asian industrial revolution that is going on in such places as South Korea, Taiwan and, of course, China. In China I think there will be a vast industry much faster than people realise. We need new initiatives in completely new directions. We need ways of developing this country's resources in more productive ways than simply ripping out minerals from the soil and exporting them. That is a very simple problem. The situation is comparable with that facing a little boy who has had people save money up for him until he is ten years old. They then say to him: 'There is your piggy bank now, John. Rip it open and spend it'. So, Johnny rips it open and spends it. When he has not got any more what does he do? He cries in the corner. What will we do when we run out of minerals? Will we go and cry in the corner? Unfortunately it will not be us. It will be our children and grandchildren who do it. They will have to face the problem. 
Everywhere one looks at this area of planning there are difficulties. There are ugly and obvious gaps. I have not touched at all on our appalling lack of any cohesive defence policy. This is a matter which the Australian Democrats are considering closely and we certainly will be raising it in the near future. I believe that I have demonstrated that Australia needs a cohesive and reasonably long term economic plan. The lack of it is the chief cause of our economic ills, our massive and growing unemployment, our ugly and uncontrolled urban sprawls, our disgraceful record in one of the world's largest geographic land masses and one of the most lightly populated countries with one of the world's highest rate of urbanisation, our failure to provide adequately for our own defence and the growing and ominous social and economic disproportion within our own people. 
The Government probably will adjourn this debate at the end of my speech because this is an Australian Democrat initiative. 
I suggest that that is unfortunate. It is an aspect of the political game that does not endear this Parliament to the people of this nation. I hope that  Senator Cavanagh  soon talks to some people in the community about what they think of the confrontative nature of this Parliament. He should talk to them about what happened with  Mr Goodluck  last night. He should go out and talk to his bank manager or a person in the street and see what they really think. 
I ask  Senator Cavanagh  to talk to those people and see if he does not agree with me afterwards. 
I have not quite finished yet. Will the honourable senator let me finish. 
No, only three more sentences. The first one is something which I think even all honourable senators on both sides of the chamber may understand. If a matter is important something should be done about it. If it is not considered important then someone on the Government side should get up and say so and justify his or her statement. In this matter, particularly, the Government should not hide behind its power to stifle debate. If it does delay consideration of matters of basic importance it is acting against the national interest. I leave that thought and that direct challenge with the Government. I do not expect a reply; I have merely indicated the logic of one. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Scott)-  Is the motion seconded? 
The Australian Democrats find the views of  Senator Hamer  on this subject very interesting and refreshing. I have noticed a number of times, including earlier this evening, that there seems to be a certain resistance amongst some honourable senators who have been in this place for some time to new ideas. The reaction to them of some honourable senators is a gut reaction. They revolt immediately at the thought of something new or interesting coming forward. I suppose it is a natural consequence of increasing years. I am beginning to become aware of it myself. 
It is interesting to note that three of the speakers in this debate tonight are new boys in the Senate-  Senator Hamer, Senator Tate  and me. Our interest in this subject and the fact that we are here and wish to speak to it is perhaps an indication that we have not yet been properly broken to harness. However, I think that one of the most interesting aspects of this whole question is that  Senator Hamer  has brought up the proposition at all. It is a highly heretical proposition, if I might say so. It is practical and it is sensible. We of the Australian Democrats have not yet balloted it specifically because we have not got round to it, but I would be very surprised if our organisation and our people who are thinking about this area of constitutional and legal reform did not go along sufficiently with  Senator Hamer  almost to be induced to send him a membership form for the Australian Democrats. However, we will spare him that for the time being. 
I am indebted to the honourable senator for that, but - 
I would suggest to both honourable senators that there is no reason why it should not be raised again. I would suggest that if these ideas are not raised and ventilated they tend to disappear back into obscurity when, of course, we should always be looking at our role, our methods and the way in which we can best serve people who elected us to this Parliament and who pay us. I am aware that whenever I mention this idea in the Senate people do not like it very much. However, it is something I will continue to mention in the Senate. Actually, the Senate is accused of being a rubber stamp, is it not? One hears this accusation through many sections of the community. In almost any writings one can see that the Senate is a rubber stamp. The Australian Labor Party is very twisted up over the role of the Senate. One sometimes reads and listens to the observations of the Labor Party on the Senate. Many members of the Labor Party do not want the Senate. They think the Senate is an obstruction and they want to get rid of it. I have heard honourable senators actually making this point in the Senate. 
There we are. We continue nevertheless with the Senate in spite of this policy. We are a rubber stamp the way the House is now constituted and it is a rather expensive rubber stamp. I do not know just what it costs to run the Senate but I would say that it would cost $100,000 a year to keep each of us on the road. There are 64 of us so there is $6. 5m in just one throw. Of course there are other aspects such as our chamber to maintain, our support staff and the other facilities of the Senate. It is a very expensive luxury to the Australian community and I say that the way it is presently constituted it is a luxury. I would tend to some extent to go along with Labor Party thinking and agree that if it goes on in the way it is we might well get rid of it, but frankly I would prefer  Senator Hamer's  solution. 
I think it is much better that the Senate itself should consider what its role is. I do not think it good enough for Labor senators to sit here and say: 'Our idea is to abolish the Senate. Meanwhile we will all sit here drawing our salaries and have a nice time doing'- it would be unparliamentary to say what I was going to say,  Mr Deputy President,  so I will not say it, but I think you understand my meaning. I think there is a useful tendency emerging in the Senate and, of course, it is a tendency towards increasing committee work. I think this is so in the eyes of the public, too, now that Senate committees are receiving Press publicity. It is tremendous to see this publicity. I was delighted to see the publicity given to the Estimates Committees' work in many particulars last year. Although I was not concerned with those Estimates Committees, it seemed to me as a superficial observer as I am now and from my own experience, that these committees were doing a job and probably saving the Australian taxpayer money by the mere fact that they are diligent and energetic in checking up on the Estimates. 
Other committees are carrying out useful roles. From time to time the Press attends public hearings of committees and in doing so I think it is bringing to the public a better view of parliamentary proceedings than at times they get of this House. The reason for that, of course, is that in the committees we have a multi-party approach. Perhaps I am more fortunate than others in the committee on which I serve, the Standing Committee on Science and the Environment, but in the admittedly short term that I have served on that committee I have not noticed a single tendency on the part of the  chairman  or members of that committee towards party politicking. It is an exercise in elucidating the facts and the truth and the opinions of people on the current inquiry. Because of that it is respected, I believe, by the Press. I have had pressmen say to me that sometimes Senate committees come up with some good ideas. Increasingly, chiefs of staff are assigning their journalists to go along and have a look at the proceedings of a Senate committee or at least to go along at the end of the day and talk with the  chairman  of a committee and see what has come up in a current inquiry. These, I think, are useful tendencies. 
The status of the second or upper House has been in question for many decades. Of course, abolition has occurred in a number of cases. The Queensland and New Zealand governments are among many which now operate on a unicameral basis. I was recently in New Zealand and discussed the subject with some people. I think there are those who regret the situation. I think the New Zealand Parliament has shown a degree or volatility which at times is rather unfortunate. Certainly at the moment it has nothing like our Estimates Committees. It does have some committees which have been established recently but they do not go into the Estimates with anywhere near the accuracy and depth that the Estimates Committees of the Senate do. Justifying the upper House, the Senate, is a necessity. It can be justified, I believe, not by its similarity to the other House- far from it- but by carrying out an ancillary and specialised role. 
It is this aspect of  Senator Hamer's  proposals and ideas that I find most interesting and which I think the Australian public finds interesting. Certainly I can assure the Senate that the Australian Democrats membership and our policy forming areas will look at this idea and see whether we can formulate policy on the matters that  Senator Hamer  raised. I believe this debate should be continued. That is why I am on my feet speaking now. I heard a comment, I think from the Government side: 'I hope we can dispose of this matter tonight'. I suggest that that is an irresponsible comment. We should be used to it by now. The Government is so accustomed to feeling that it is the be-all and end-all, even though it was elected by a minority of Australians. I repeat that it was elected by a minority of Australians. More 
Australians are opposed to it than voted for it and I think the Government ought to bear that in mind and have a bit of humility when it comes to the idea of pushing people around and saying what should be discussed in this chamber, for how long it should be discussed and when. 
Time is taken up regularly in this House by the reading of statements which originated in the other place. Any member of the public, any journalist and any senator could see those statements merely by picking them up. They could be tabled; they could be put on our desks. We could read them if we thought they were worth reading. I saw one in here tonight that, frankly, was not worth reading. It was read in this House. Apart from that judgment, I would say that a tremendous amount of time of the Senate is taken up wastefully, and I think it is apparent to the public that it is taken up wastefully. In the case of a number of debates here- for instance, when a matter of public importance comes upthere is no vote taken. Why is there no vote taken? I would like to know the reason some time. I can see no reason why a vote should not be taken on such a matter. If a matter is raised as a matter of public importance it is considered to be worth discussing as a matter of public importance. Indeed, it is considered to be worthy of being broadcast. Yet no vote is taken on it. Obviously it is regarded somewhere and by somebody as being of no importance whatsoever. I suggest that this is one of the aspects of the waste of time in this chamber which we should examine. 

 Senator Hamer has mentioned the point about repetitiveness of tactics, the repetitiveness of legislation, the fact that Bills are brought in and rammed through this House in the last week of a session. It is obvious that the Executive and the other House do not have much respect for the Senate. They believe that the Senate is here to say yes. 'Just do this; do what we want'- that is what the Government wants. The Government feels: 'The Senate is a nuisance. Let us keep it quiet. Let us keep it talking. We do not want it to do anything. What can we find for the Senate to do?'. I am quite sure those thoughts go through the minds of the members of the Executive from time to time whenever they are reminded of the Senate. I am sure that  Senator Hamer  's motion will remind them yet again. 

 Senator Hamer has spoken of the inadequacies of Question Time. Time and time again we come into this chamber at Question Time, ask a question and find that the Minister representing another Minister, naturally enough, is not able to give us a reply. I think we are a little naive to suppose that he would be able to give us a reply. There is the polite fiction that if one does want the Minister to give a reply one has to tell him before Question Time that one is going to ask the question and then, of course, it is not a question without notice. I suggest that this sort of farcical undertaking ought to be looked at carefully. I can see no reason why  Senator Hamer  's idea that a Minister should come to this chamber and be questioned by the Senate should not be carried out. I can see no reason why some device could not be introduced whereby there would be joint sittings in which Ministers were questioned. I think that it would save repetition because often, when I look at the  Hansard  records, I see that the same questions are asked in this House and in the other place at the same time. 
Debate interrupted. 
-I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That the following matter be referred to the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs: 
The petition relating to the right of Citizens Initiative presented to the Senate on 2 1 February 1979 by  Senator Mason. 
I present the following petition from 6 1 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That restoration of provisions of the Social Security Act that applied prior to the 1978-79 Budget is of vital concern to offset the rising cost of goods and services. 
The reason advanced by the Government for yearly payments 'that the lower level of inflation made twice-yearly payments inappropriate ' is not valid. 
Great injury will be caused to 920,000 aged, invalid, widows and supporting parents, who rely solely on the pension or whose income, other than the pension, is $6 or less per week. Once-a-year payments strike a cruel blow to their expectation and make a mockery of a solemn election pledge. 
Accordingly, your petitioners call upon their legislators to: 
Restore twice-yearly pension adjustments in the Autumn session. 
Raise pensions and unemployed benefits above the poverty level to 30 per cent of average weekly earnings. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
Yes, I second the motion. I shall speak to it only briefly in order to raise perhaps one question of importance to the Australian Democrats which  Senator Chipp  has not covered. Obviously we regard the basic issue as being terribly important. It is terribly important. However, there is another issue involved. The Australian Democrats believe - 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  Order! Under Standing Order 409 it is permissible for the seconder to speak to the motion at this point.  Senator Mason  is in order. 
We have experienced some difficulty in the Senate recently over the matter of seconding motions. I felt that it was a matter which I would certainly like to get clear in my mind, whether or not  Senator Chipp  's motion is seconded in this place, because it appears that sometimes it is in order for the seconder to speak to the motion and at other times it is not. I believe that it is rather nice to have things done in the same way all the time. My remarks will be brief. I believe that in most public assemblies of this world- I say this with respect to  Senator Georges-  seconders of motions do speak to them at the time when such motions are seconded. I suggest that conventions other than that are not necessarily correct. I point out to  Senator Georges  that just because something has always been the case it may not necessarily be right. 
As I was saying, the question of public knowledge of an important issue is at stake here. I believe that we in the Australian Democrats have information and knowledge, as I think any perceptive person would have, which indicates that there is a wide degree of concern in relation to this matter in the Australian community. It is a matter of concern to many responsible, reasonable, decent Australians. We cannot agree that this kind of matter should be decided by executive government, either here in Canberra or in Queensland. I have reason for holding that view. I was astounded to learn of the attitude of responsible people in government in Queensland. 
This is relevant to my argument. They described the land being developed at Yeppoon by  Mr Iwasaki  as being useless wasteland. When I had a look at that pan of the Capricornia coast I realised that, far from being a useless wasteland, the Iwasaki land forms one of the most beautiful pieces of coastline in Australia. Indeed, most nations in Europe would give millions of dollars for something half as good. 
It struck me then quite forcibly that apparently there are people in government in Queensland- I refer to those people who described that area as useless wasteland- who can probably see value only in land on which one can grow cattle, sheep, cane or possibly peanuts or from which one can permit some foreign organisation to extract minerals. There is good reason to believe that those are the values of those people. It is an unfortunate accident of fate that for the time being they are in control and have the ability to destroy or to maintain one of our most valuable national assets and, as  Senator Chipp  has said, one of the assets of the world. 
We in the Australian Democrats believe that we have the Australian public squarely behind us on this issue. I leave that thought with honourable senators on both sides of the chamber. No oil drilling, or even discussion of oil drilling, should take place anywhere in the Great Barrier Reef area unless a full and public inquiry is held into all its implications. Most Australian democrats are opposed to exploitation of the Reef area in this way. We believe at best that it would defer only briefly the time when we have to face up squarely to the fact that we will need renewable resources in this world. The best professional assessment I can find of what might be under the Barrier Reef suggest that it would be nothing like that which was found in Bass Strait. We could ruin the asset we have in the Reef for very little reward. 
The Reef, as  Senator Chipp  said, is held in trust by us for the world. It is one of the great wonders of the world. As the years go by it is being increasingly recognised as such. When one talks of Australia in one's travels, one finds that people say: 'The Great Barrier Reef. I would like to go there and see it some time '. It is the one feature of Australia about which people overseas know. It should be the greatest, the best known, the biggest and the best cared for marine park in the world, and it should be declared so forthwith. It certainly has the natural potential to be that. I believe that we should not tolerate the mere possibility that any shortsighted, moneygrubbing interest will be permitted to damage it or to destroy it by blasting across the Reef in order to lay pipelines to get oil to the shore, by risking major blowouts resulting in enormous oil pollution or by risking the possibility of a super tanker having an accident. 
As  Senator Chipp  has said, this matter is very close to the hearts of the Austraiian Democrats, as I believe it is close to the hearts of the Australian people. I commend the motion to the Senate. 
My question to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence follows from a question I asked here last Tuesday week. In view of the fact that most navies of the world, including those of Indonesia, Singapore and Malaysia, have fast patrol boats and small attack craft armed with surface-to-surface missiles and that indeed Indonesian boats now in service are armed with the same Styx missiles with which the Israeli destroyer  Elath  was sunk by a patrol boat by missile fire in 1967, and in view of the fact that the Fremantle class patrol boat to be constructed for the Australian Navy is at 42 metres, 220 tonnes and a speed of 30 knots, reasonably comparable with missile boats elsewhere and indeed bigger and faster than some, will the Government urgently reconsider plans for these ships with a view to providing missile capability to at least some of them so that in the eyes of possible aggressors and, in fact, they are fighting ships? Can the Minister confirm that the cost of these ships, which are planned to be armed with small arms, machine guns and one small close range gun, is now in excess of $ 10m each? Would the Minister agree that our entire flotilla could be destroyed by any one of a number of possible aggressors without our patrol boats being able to defend themselves in any way? 
-I move: 
That the following matter be referred to the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs: The petition relating to the right of citizen initiative, presented to the Senate on 2 1 February 1979 by  Senator Mason. 
I spoke to this motion last week so I will not take up the time of the Senate by extensively arguing it. However, to make the  Hansard  report intelligible I think I ought to speak very briefly about the motion. This petition, with nearly 10,000 signatures, is the largest to be presented to the Senate in eight years. It asks the Senate to consider possible introduction of the right of citizen initiative in this country. Citizen initiative means that the right of making law would no longer be the sole prerogative of members of Parliament but would be exercised through a referendum  when the Australian people themselves wished to do so. 
Such a referendum would be initiated by a petition. This is the position already in many States throughout the world including notably Switzerland and California. If the petition were to be signed in Australia by 2 per cent of the electorate, as is the situation in some of the overseas states, it would require 171,000 signatures. When a government receives a petition of at least that size asking that a certain matter be put to referendum, it would have to be put. The government would have no right of veto. If the referendum were carried the terms of the petition would become law. 
This petition, as I have said, is the largest to be presented to this House since 1971. It is much larger than most petitions which are presented in this place and I suggest it would be intolerable to the many thousands of Australians who have signed it if it were not considered further when the machinery exists to consider it. That machinery is a reference to the appropriate Standing Committee of the Senate which in this instance is the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs. 
In this place last August I moved that this matter be referred to that Committee. That motion is No. 89 under Orders of the Day, General Business. In view of the public support and interest indicated by the petition and the fact that it is a continuing petition I ask the Government to permit this matter to proceed within a reasonable time. I commend the motion to the Senate. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT-Is the motion seconded? 
My question is addressed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. In view of the fact that my question to him here last Thursday asking the Government to consider an upgrading of the armament of our new Fremantle class patrol boats to missile capability was edited out of the Australian Broadcasting Commission broadcast of Question Time that night, can the Minister tell me, firstly, why he asked for the question to be placed on notice rather than following his usual custom and that  of other Ministers of informing honourable senators that the information would be provided on a later sitting day; and, secondly, whether he was aware that by asking for the question to be placed on notice it would effectively be censored from the broadcast? What other distinction can the Minister put forward between asking for a question to be placed on notice and telling an honourable senator that he will provide an answer on a later day? 
I present the following petition from 135 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the Pesident and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That restoration of provisions of the Social Security Act that applied prior to the 1978-79 Budget is of vital concern to offset the rising cost of goods and services. 
The reason advanced by the Government for yearly payments 'that the lower level of inflation made twice-yearly payments inappropriate ' is not valid. 
Great injury will be caused to 920,000 aged, invalid, widows and supporting parents, who rely solely on the pension or whose income, other than the pension, is $6 or less per week. Once-a-year payments strike a cruel blow to their expectation and make a mockery of a solemn election pledge. 
Accordingly, your petitioners call upon their legislators to: 
Restore twice-yearly pension adjustments in the Autumn session. 
Raise pensions and unemployed benefits above the poverty level to 30 per cent of average weekly earnings. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I wish to speak briefly to this motion to deplore, on behalf of the Australian Democrats, a further step along a path the consequences of which we believe the Government has failed to consider in accordance with the facts. We believe that the truth about the uranium industry on a world wide basis is available to the Government. We are astounded that apparently it is not aware of the facts and we believe that it can be demonstrated that there is no good sense in persisting with the exploitation of Australia's uranium at this time and that probably a great deal of harm ultimately will come from it. I feel that I certainly would not like to be associated with a Government which will be looked back on in future as having released into the world quantities of a substance which it should now be able to anticipate will do infinite harm, indeed as having released that substance into the world to no really good effect. I believe that we should look at the world into which we are releasing this substance because this is a highly relevant point. It is a world which is becoming much more fragmented, in which we have seen the rise recently of more and more authoritative, irresponsible governments of the worst type, often installed by military force and equally often maintained by military force. It is a world in which the rights of citizens, the rights of minority groups, the rights of any organisation and any element in society are subdued by military force and, most importantly, a world in which there is no question of dissent, no check, as occurs in our society, on what might be going on so that once those countries have a nuclear power industry it will be impossible for the outside world, much less their own people, to know or influence just what is going on in those places. 
Many such governments, as in Libya and Uganda, have access to huge quantities of money. That money comes from oil exports. Many of these nations also have taken already or are returning to a position of adherence to the strict provisions of the Islamic religion, indeed a type of Islam on which there rests a religious obligation for a holy war, the Jehad in order to further the aims of the Islamic faith and, in terms of the Koran, to compel conversion to that faith. Because Australia is still a moderate, reasonable country these phrases must ring strangely in our ears as something from another world that does not exist but I assure honourable senators that that world does exist. It is certainly taken seriously enough by the Islamic nations and I should have thought that recent statements in Iran would have made that quite plain. 

 Senator Gietzelt has mentioned the tremendous fluidity of that Middle Eastern region. The fact is that countries which were believed to be stable anchors, forces to whom it was said we could safely sell uranium, have been demonstrated no longer to be so. The fact is that there are nations which have been shown to be lacking in responsibility as far as world peace is concerned and who have the money and the determination to obtain the plutonium which is the inevitable product of the nuclear power industry and which is also the major ingredient of dirty forms of atomic bombs in terms of fallout. It is not possible to guarantee the security of plutonium. It is a substance of great value in small volume and anything in this world, I believe, can be seen as being available at a price. It is also not possible to guarantee the use for peaceful purposes only of the uranium oxide which we now propose to export from Nabarlek. I predict with confidence that a proportion of the 9,000 tonnes we propose to export will find their final use in nuclear weapons. 
The Government still seems to believe that there will be some vast benefit to Australia from exporting our uranium although every authority, from the first Ranger report onwards, has said that this is clearly not the case. As the first Ranger report stated clearly- that report is accessible to any member of the Government and to all honourable senators- there is no significant bonus in terms of employment and national income. The mining industry, especially the uranium mining industry, is very capital intensive. It is not labour intensive in the sense that there can be a significant flow through of money to the Australian people. I believe that the Government is playing a cruel joke on the Australian people when it pretends in the face of all this evidence that we will have a uranium bonanza. I pity that Government when it becomes apparent to the Australian people that that is not the truth and, of course, time will make that abundantly clear. Most of the major Western powers are ending or severely restricting their commitment to nuclear power because of the virtual impossibility of long term storage of nuclear waste at acceptable cost, the basic expense of nuclear power, which makes it no longer economic in comparison with other sources, the shorter life of nuclear power houses than was once supposed, and the great cost of actually disposing of plants that have passed their useful life. The problems of the world will not be solved by electric power. What the nuclear reactor does is produce electric power, but what will we use the electric power for? There are other substances in the world which cannot be replaced. Metals such as nickel, lead and silver are rapidly running out. It is the desire of the Government that we should have a great boom economy based on nuclear power, even if it were possible, at the expense of running out of these resources so that our great great grandchildren will have nothing left and will look back on our generation with contempt as the looters, the people who did not think for the future, the Huns of the 20th century in terms of exploitation, deprivation and the destruction of our resources. I would suggest that the situation is no less than that, I would hope that the Australian people would see it in those terms, because that is the truth. It is their children's children who will suffer from this kind of policy which is being entered into by the Government with no regard whatsoever to the truth, 
This move against nuclear power by responsible nations is absolutely beyond doubt. The customers now are the less responsible nations, those who are not prepared to give the guarantees, those who are not prepared to have safe and reliable engineering, and I would concede that safe and reliable engineering has kept nuclear power free from a major accident for nearly three decades. But can we believe that the nations that are ordering reactors now will have the same scruples? I would suggest not. Even if they had those scruples, they have a far less developed technology. They are not in a position to guarantee to the world that they can use these highly dangerous materials safely. Let us be honest. They are in many cases not so much interested in nuclear power for the benefit of their people as they are in the accumulation of plutonium to make dirty nuclear weapons with which to attack or terrorise their neighbours or perhaps even their own people. As in the case of the Philippines, there is small evidence indeed of any concern to protect their own nationals from the evil consequences of a nuclear accident. 
It has frequently been put to me and to the Australian Democrats that we might as well sell our uranium because if we do not other people will sell their uranium. I see this as a wholly irresponsible argument. It amazes me that people responsible enough to form a government in this country would have the temerity to put such a view. Yet they do, and strangely enough they expect it to be accepted. To draw a valid analogy, young people all over the world, including too many of our own young people, are suffering and dying now because certain nations believe they might as well go on permitting the uncontrolled growth of the opium poppy in their territory. They might well say. 'If we do not sell narcotics, other people will'. I suggest that the analogy between that opium and our uranium is a precise and exact one. Both commodities are the raw materials of great and powerful evils. I believe it is wrong of the Government to permit this immoral traffic without at least consulting the Australian people about it. Numerous polls in every State have shown a steady and increasing concern by the Australian people about this subject. If the Government has no morality, at least the Australian people have morality. In spite of the fact that every one of those polls has shown that more and more people do not want uranium exported, the Government will not face up to it. It will not agree to consult the Australian people. We in the Australian Democrats say that this is a proper and responsible subject upon which the Government should consult the Australian people. When the Government was elected by the Australian people, it was elected to carry out its vows during its term of office in a responsible way, and I would suggest that does not give it an unfettered right to carry on actions when there is clear evidence of a large degree of dissent from those actions among the Australian people. The Australian Democrats say: 'Let the Australian people decide whether we export our uranium, and let them decide it soon'. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. Is the Government aware of the results of two studies recently released by the Colorado State University and the Miami University's School of Public Health which show that over six years miscarriages among women in the Oregon town of Alsea rose to the unprecedented rate of 130 per thousand live births in June of each year, just after surrounding forests were sprayed with 2,4,5-T, and that this figure represents almost three times the miscarriage rate in two control areas where miscarriages averaged 45 and 46 per thousand? Is the Minister aware of a telex message sent this morning in which a Health Department spokesman in Brisbane expressed anger about the slowness of the National Health and Medical Research Council in getting the facts on the Alsea incident which has led to additional restrictions being placed on the use of 2,4,5-T in the United States of America? Is it a fact, as has been reported also from Queensland, that the Federal Minister for Health,  Mr Hunt,  has said that the National Health and Medical Research Council's pesticides sub-committee will not consider this matter until 2 1 March? If so, will the Government instruct the Council to get on with the exercise of its responsibilities in a less leisurely and more responsible way? Meanwhile, will the Government urgently consider taking action in consultation with State governments to ban the use of 2,4,5-T in or near inhabited areas and in water catchments areas until this matter has been resolved? 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 20 February 1979: 
Has the Prime Minister, as reported in the  Sunday Mail,  7 January 1979, requested talks with the Premier of Queensland,  Mr Bjelke-Petersen,  on the future of the Great Barrier Reef. 
When was such a request made, and what date was requested for such talks. 
Has  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  made any reply to the requests; if so, when, and what was the reply. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs. In a sense it follows from the question asked earlier by  Senator McAuliffe.  Is the Government aware of a recently legislated program for the widespread development of solar energy in the State of California where it is planned, among other things, to apply solar space and water heating to all practicable dwellings by the year 1990? Does the Government know that development under this program named Solarcal will be decentralised and based on small firms in areas of high unemployment, that its slogan is 'Jobs from the Sun' and that its goals will be to stimulate local economic development, to conserve energy and to create jobs, especially for young people? In view of the fact that Solarcal is estimated to provide 370,000 new jobs a year up to 1990, so halving the Californian unemployment rate, and in view of the Australian Democrats' confidence that the Government is really sincere in its stated intention to reduce unemployment in our country by all reasonable means- 
-I seek leave to speak under the terms of Standing Order  408-  a personal explanation. 
Leave granted. 
This relates to the length of Question Time. I feel that there has been an  attemptheretoday,particularlybytheOppo-  sition Whip, to suppress Question Time. Standing Order  99,  in part, reads: 
Question shall not contain- 
statements of fact or names of persons unless they are strictly necessary to render the question intelligible and can be authenticated; 
If  Senator Georges  does not want planned questions, he must accept the situation- and I believe that all honourable senators should- that we must be permitted to give a certain amount of background - 
I rise to speak in the first reading debate on the Poultry Industry Levy Amendment Bill, to draw attention to a matter which I think is of some urgency and importance. I refer to the armament provided on the Fremantle class patrol boats which are being built for the Royal Australian Navy, their lack of missile capability and the apparent complete lack of any naval planning for this class of fast attack craft or patrol boats. A good deal has been said in the Parliament recently about defence- the Australian Democrats feel, for good reason. Perhaps we have a much less certain international climate ahead of us than we might have supposed even two or three years ago. I remember predictions being made with great confidence at that time to the effect that there was no possibility that Australia could become involved in a regional war. We were told that we could have no possible enemy. I suggest that the world is not that kind of world any more. We have a difficult decade ahead of us, with the possibility of a great deal of regional conflict. Of course, we in Australia are part of that world. We are far away from our natural allies and far away from what we have regarded in the past as being our normal areas of support. 
It is not the Australian Democrat view that Australia should indulge in foreign adventurism or that we should involve ourselves extensively in a network of alliances that might attract unfavourable attention to us in time of war; but it is certainly the Australian Democrat view, and I suggest the view of the citizens of this country, that we should be in a position to defend ourselves. We have been reinforced in this view by the recent comments of Admiral Zumwalt, the former chief of naval operations for the United States Government. He has warned us that we cannot necessarily rely on the sort of automatic support from our powerful allies which we might feel we have a right to expect. It is not a matter of lack of goodwill, lack of concern, or lack of good intent on the part of our allies. In a confused world scene we could become involved in a relatively small sideshow operation in which, at least for some time, our powerful friends might not be in a position to help us. It is during that time that we must be in a position, and soon, to help ourselves. 
It is worth clarifying our defence thinking from a fairly primal point of view. I assert, firstly, that we cannot fight back against nuclear weapons; nor can we, in the foreseeable future, ever hope to do so in a major sense. Also, I do not believe that, in the foreseeable future, we can repulse a naval and air attack by a major nation. We are simply not in that sort of ball game. I cannot see how the imposition of taxation or loans on our society could put us in that position. Unfortunately, at present Australia could not withstand that kind of attack from many similar middle power countries. In fact, our defence preparedness compared with that of other middle power countries is lamentably poor, especially when we consider that Israel, with only  3lA  million people- in spite of the wars in which that nation has been involved- has a tremendous capability not only to defend itself but also to manufacture weapons on its own soil. 
This is the context in which I would like to see an urgent reassessment by the Government of the arming of at least some of our 15 Fremantle class patrol boats. It seems that this is the right time to raise the matter because most of the ships have not yet started building. Only the first of the 1 5 ships, HMAS  Fremantle,  has been launched; construction of another is under way; and they will be delivered progressively until 1985. Therefore, I should have thought that, even if design work had been done, the actual difficulty or additional expense involved in amending the plans of some of the later built boats would not be an insuperable problem for this country. 
If we are to equip ourselves effectively to deal with possible adventurism against our shores, we should bear in mind the point I made a little earlier, that is, that the adventurism could be associated with a preoccupation elsewhere by our allies. This could be a danger time for us. I remind honourable senators, without seeking to make any positive analogy, that the aggression by Indonesia against East Timor came at a time of" political confusion both in Portugal and in Australia. This is the kind of danger period to which I refer, when perhaps a more serious conflict might engage our allies. They just might not be able to help us. The opportunity would then be presented for that kind of adventurism. 
If it is not possible to change the Fremantle class ship- I believe, as I will mention later, that there are good reasons why that should be done- at least we should consider a missile capability for a new class of vessel preferably to be built in this country. I am aware that the new Fremantle class patrol boats were designed originally as a replacement for the present Attack class boats which, I understand, have deplorable sea-keeping qualities. In answer to a question I asked on 20 February- some weeks agoSenator Carrick stated: 
I am advised that no missile capacity is intended for the particular patrol boats mentioned! My understanding is that they were designed to augment and later to replace the Attack class patrol boats as a general purpose low contingency surveillance vessel with good sea-keeping and endurance capabilities. I am advised that the fitting of missiles entails complex fire control systems, radars and a number of additional features such as the desirability for higher speed, all of which would change the concept of the vessels' intended operations. 
I wish to comment briefly on that reply, which in itself, based on present naval plans, is an eminently reasonable one. Nevertheless, the facts are that these 15 new patrol boats are equipped with advanced radar, echo sounders, gyro compasses and the latest ultra high frequency radio equipment. They also have a highly sophisticated satellite link navigation system. These are some of the reasons why these boats are costing more than $10m each. I suggest to honourable senators that this is an exceedingly high price to be paying for vessels whose function is to push around a few Japanese or Taiwanese fishing boats. I should have thought that it would have been possible for boats capable of doing that sort of minor surveillance work to be constructed, preferably in Australian shipyards, at much lower cost than that. The amount, over $ 10m, is a great deal of money. 
In the Senate I later raised the question of whether the cost might not be even higher than that. I note in passing that I have not yet had a reply to that question. I will be interested to read it when I do. All the indications from the expert observers to whom I have had access are that the cost will be much higher and that the total cost of building these 15 boats might be somewhere near $205m of the Australian taxpayers' money. I was astounded- as were many Australians who have contacted me- to read announcements that these fast, large and very expensive patrol craft were to be armed with small arms, machine guns and one small close-range gun. Even the nature of that gun has not been decided on. It is possible that modifications may even have to be made to HMAS  Fremantle  because that decision has never been taken. It is a fact that these boats are basically Brooke Marine designed FPB45s which are in use elsewhere in the world as armed missile patrol boats. 
I go back more than a decade to the sinking of the Israeli destroyer  Eilate  by missile fire. The  Eilate  was a very well equipped destroyer. It was an old ship but well armed, with a crew of high morale and high efficiency of training. It was in a war situation. It was sunk by patterns of four missiles fired from a harbour. It was not able to retaliate effectively against the firing vessels, which were all small patrol boats. It was not able to defend itself. It was on fire by the time the third missile was fired, and the fourth sunk it. That was a major turning point for many countries, especially small and middle powers like Australia, towards the thought that they should arm themselves with a naval capacity of missile armed patrol boats or fast attack craft as a basic and important aspect of naval strength. One would hope that governments and navies would learn the lessons of experience and that we should not have to learn that kind of bitter lesson for ourselves. 
The 48 countries which now have fast patrol boats or attack craft are mostly middle powers like Australia- not all of them but most of them. I was seeking a guide as to why we have not really considered this type of vessel to be an important part of our naval establishment. I think there may be a clue in the fact that the Royal 
Navy does not have such craft. If the Royal Navy does not have them presumably automatically the Australian Navy does not have them. Yet our needs are far different. It is true that until recently the United States Navy did not depend on this type of craft although the United States Navy is now developing a class of 340-tonne hydrofoils, each of which will carry eight Harpoon ship-to-ship missiles. Not only are the 48 nations now maintaining 613 fast patrol boats in service, but also another 134 are on order. A number of countries, including Sweden and Indonesia, are working hard towards the ability to manufacture such patrol boats in large numbers inside? their shores and to provide them with the necessary missiles with which they will be equipped. Unlike Australia's boats, not one of those 613 boats is not equipped with missiles. Every one of them carries a missile capability. Of those boats, 121 belong to the United Soviet Socialist Republic. China has 140 such boats and has perhaps 50.. more on order. 
At this stage I turn to our closer neighbours. Although we have a friendly relationship with our closer neighbours one of the facts of life is that it is necessary for us to examine their military capability and with all prudence to see that ours is at least comparable in important respects. Indonesia, Malaysia, and Singapore each operate missile armed fast patrol boats. In the early 1960s 12 Russian Komar class fast patrol boats were acquired by Indonesia. These vessels have a standard displacement of only 71 tonnes. They are much smaller than our 220-tonne patrol boats which we regard as mere surveillance vessels. The Komar class vessels carry only two Styx missiles, which were very effective weapons in their time. The point is that it was the Russian built Styx missiles that sank the  Eilate.  While Indonesia has these smaller craft still in service it is not leaving the matter at that. It has now ordered four fast patrol boats of American design from yards in South Korea where they are now being built. The latest information I have is that the Indonesians also plan to have another 12 built in Indonesia and that it will have a continued building program of that sort of ship. 
These ships displace 256 tonnes and Australia's displace 220 tonnes. They are cornparable. The Indonesian ships will be armed each with four Harpoon ship-to-ship missiles. Since 1 973 the Malaysian Navy has operated six fast patrol boats of the French La Combattante design. These vessels are interesting because they carry Exocet missiles of French design to which I will refer more in a few minutes. The Malaysian Navy is also ordering four more Swedish 
Spica-M class boats which will also be armed with four Exocet missiles each. Similar to our own ships, based again on the FPB45 which was evaluated by the Royal Australian Navy, are the Singapore Navy's fast patrol boats. These 48-metre long vessels displace 234 tonnes and carry an armament of five Gabriel surfacetosurface missiles. 
Is it a fact that the boats we are designing and plan to build are too small, too slow or otherwise unsuitable for missile service? It is true that there are indeed faster attack boats in the world, but in general the comparisons I have been able to make show that the Fremantle class boats, at 42 metres long, 220 tonnes and with a speed of 30 knots, are very much in company with most of the fast patrol boats in other world navies, except for that one vital consideration: They will not have a missile capability. 
I am very deeply concerned, as I think many Australians must be, to realise that not only will they not have, on present plans, a missile capability but also that we have publicly in advance telegraphed to anybody who might be tempted to adventurism on our shores that the boats will not have such a capability. In other words our 15 fast patrol boats, a major part of our naval building program, from now on will be known to be in the mere popgun class, incapable of defending themselves. In fact, if as a flotilla they were exposed even to the attack of a few of the patrol boats which our neighbouring countries possess now, they would be destroyed without any possibility of their being able to fight back. Even the old-fashioned small Komars that Indonesia now has could destroy a Fremantle class patrol boat without ever coming into range of the close range popgun with which our Navy seems to be so enamoured. 
But perhaps it is unfair of me to criticise the Navy. I am criticising the Government because the whole question of defence policy is a mess. We do not seem to know quite what we are defending ourselves against or how we are going to do it. All we are saying is that there is a big something- maybe a big aircraft carrier or a big fast frigate with one propeller- and we will buy those. We have not thought how we are going to use them, as far as I can see. When this is examined carefully by the media, by people who have tried to make themselves expert in these areas, it is seen that we are placing our naval men in a most unpleasant, unfortunate situation. At some future time they are likely to be in a position where they will be sacrificed to the general muddle-headedness of planning which has been perpetuated in ships which are not fish, fowl or good red herring. 
No, indeed not, but I would like it to be a bit better than a red herring. Much smaller boats are equipped with missiles. I mentioned the 71 -tonne Komar class, which is Russian designed. The German Navy operates boats similar to the Fremantle class. These carry four Exocet missiles. In this regard I would like to draw attention to an article on regional maritime forces by A. W. Grazebrook in the March edition of the  Pacific Defence Reporter.  The article has a certain relevance because it is the statement of a commentator who is something of a specialist in this field. He discusses the naval building program in Indonesia and points out what is being built now and what further orders might be placed. He comments: 
Whether or not more such orders are placed, Australia must plan on Indonesia being quite capable of denying passage through the Indonesian Archipelago to Australian merchant and war ships. Indonesia will also have the ability to cause severe disruption to trade in Australian waters and mount raids against coastal facilities. 
At this point I would like to make a comment which may be worth the Government's consideration. Certainly I am no expert in this field, but once again I am quoting an expert article out of the same publication which mentions that:   . . today the emphasis is to (it ships with low altitude, inertial guided missiles, with ranges between 5 and 50 nautical miles. 
This weapon cannot in fact be countered by electronic counter measures or by most kinds of electronic warfare devices. This is why I have stressed in regard to the ships that I have mentioned that they carry the French Exocet missile which has an effective range in excess of 30 nautical miles. It flies at between two and three metres only above the surface of the water at a speed of 600 knots. Again in the March 1978 edition of the  Pacific Defence Reporter,  the writer commented: 
The only counter measure to this type of threat is to destroy it with medium-range conventional or guided weapons. 
Hence fast patrol boats equipped with this type of missile are an even better weapon than and a considerable development on the Styx equipped patrol boats which were able quite successfully and without any retaliation to destroy a much larger ship, in fact the Israeli destroyer that I have already mentioned. 
I hope that the Australian Democrats have made a case for a least some consideration of missile capability in this class of ship. It will be some years before the last of the ships is built. I am not persuaded by arguments that it would cost more to lit them with missile capability. I think it would be better if we had fewer ships but at least had them equipped with missile capability. I am not persuaded by the argument that other middle powers in the world can afford this kind of thing but we cannot. I can see every reason for there being a large number of small, highly mobile, fast ships with missile capability which have been proved in the past and which are known to be able to attack much larger vessels and sink them quite successfully. I think if we had that sort of capability, we would have a much better defended Australia. 
But again, I worry about our naval men, the people who man our ships. Looking to the future I see with great fear the development of a situation such as occurred in Darwin after Japan came into the war. At that time our servicemen will be expected to go out to die in a navy of small ships armed with pop guns, just as the men who flew at Darwin were expected to fly biplanes against Zeros. It is a fact that if there were an emergency a Government would feel compelled to say: 'This is all we have got. Put them up there and let them have a go'. It would be absolute murder. The charge of the Light Brigade would have nothing on it. That is the sort of situation that the Government is legislating for unless it steps in now and insists that some of these ships be re-equipped. 
I can sympathise with people in certain areas of the Navy who want a good, big, comfortable ship for northern surveillance work. That is fine. But I would have thought that we needed fighting ships. It is the purpose of the Navy to provide fighting ships and to man those fighting ships. If it does not do that, we might as well not have a navy at all. Why have a navy if it is not capable of doing that work effectively? That should be its first pre-requisite and government planning should make it the first pre-requisite. 
There is another aspect to this matter. The remaining 14 Fremantle class boats will all be built in Australia. We in the Australian Democrats applaud this. We have been spying for years: 'Why don't we build a class of naval ship that will be small, fast, mobile and missile-equipped, that can be built in our own shipyards; even if the cost appears to be higher, at least it will be money that is being spent in our own country. At least we will have the capability to defend ourselves'. When one sees Sweden and even Indonesia and other countries such as Egypt planning shipyards in which they can build these vessels for themselves, one would think that our own defence people would consider doing the same thing. 
Finally, the Australian Democrats ask seriously that the Government at least consider adapting five of these Fremantle class vessels to a ship-to-ship missile capability, be they Exocet or Harpoon. I know that we are using Harpoon on some of our other ships and I suppose that there is a value in uniformity. But whatever the Government does, could it then consider in the not-too-distant future a consistent building program of fast attack craft with missile capability and of the type and versatility to use ordinary port facilities around our coast, with as many as possible of these craft being built in Australia 's own yards. 
-I withdraw General Business Notice of Motion No. 2 standing in my name relating to a report of the Australian Capital Territory Legislative Assembly Standing Committee on Education and Health. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 2 1 February 1979: 
1 ) Which mining permits for oil exploratory purposes exist on the Great Barrier Reef. 
2 ) Who are the holders of these permits. 
When are these permits due for renewal. 
I present the following petition from 80 citizens of Australia. 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled the petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That restoration of provisions of the Social Security Act that applied prior to the 1 978-79 Budget is of vital concern to offset the rising cost of goods and services. 
The reason advanced by the Government for yearly payments "that the lower level of inflation made twice-yearly payments inappropriate " is not valid. 
Great injury will be caused to 920,000 aged, invalid, widows and supporting parents, who rely solely on the pension or whose income, other than the pension, is $6 or less per week. Once-a-year payments strike a cruel blow to their expectation and make a mockery of a solemn election pledge. 
Accordingly, your petitioners call upon their legislators to: 
Restore twice-yearly pension adjustments in the Autumn session. 
Raise pensions and unemployed benefits above the poverty level to 30 per cent of average weekly earnings. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Resources because I believe that it relates to a resources issue. Is the Minister aware of a report in yesterday's  Canberra Times  that a test of the Holden Commodore SLE car revealed that petrol consumption of this car in new condition is 14 miles to the gallon around town and 17 miles to the gallon on the open road? In view of the Government's widely expressed concern for conservation of motor spirit resources, will it take action to discourage the Australian motor industry from construction and promotion of such personal vehicles that are not capable of an average mileage of, say, 20 miles to the gallon? When will the Government discuss with State governments the application of penal road tax rates to such vehicles? 
The Australian Democrats are anxious to speak to the report at this stage because it deals with a matter that is very close to our hearts as a political organisation and because we believe that certain matters should bc raised with the Government before this year's Budget is framed. I will not add to  Senator Rae's  comments about the lateness of this report other than to say that this modest 52-page document coming to us at this stage- a report for 1976-1977 arriving in March 1979- makes something of a mockery of accountability. Some $226m, rather more than half our aid in that year, went to Papua New Guinea, and the' Australian Democrats agree that we ought to fulfil absolutely our obligation to assist Papua New Guinea to prosperous nationhood. We have no argument with that proposition, but we do argue with the proposition in the annual report, and this has been recapitulated by the Government since, for a steady reduction in the amount of aid to the rest of the world. In 1976-77 only $ 152m went elsewhere to a world with fast and evergrowing problems. Some $25m of that was necessary food aid, and I would like to believe that all Australians realise that those dollars saved lives everywhere. They saved lives from the ugly, protracted and painful death "which is the sort of death people have from starvation. I hope that no honourable senator is in any doubt about that, nor about the fact that, as often as not, the lives that are taken are the lives of children. 
The strains now on the Third World are going to become greater because of higher oil prices. This factor will cause great and appalling crises involving millions more individual tragedies, perhaps more tragedies than there are people in the prosperous world. In 197 1 we ranked third in the world in our aid as a percentage of gross national product. Now we rank eighth. Briefly, over the past five years those figures dwindled from 0.56 of one per cent to 0.45 of one per cent. I remind honourable senators that the United Nations suggested target figure for prosperous nations, as indeed we are in spite of our problems, is 0.7 of one per cent- a little enough amount, heaven knows. There is a belief- I trust and pray a mistaken one- among people who ought to know that the Government proposes to cut our aid programs to 0.3 of one per cent of gross national product in this year's Budget. The rationale is said to be that since that is the average percentage of aid of the countries of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, why should we be doing any better? That is my main reason for rising now to speak to this report. I plead with the Government to rise above the thought I have heard expressed frequently- a cynical and despicable thoughtthat there are no votes in foreign aid. I ask the Government to increase our aid, if only modestly, to the Third World while at the same time maintaining our commitments to Papua New Guinea. I speak with some personal experience in this matter because at one time I was an Australian adviser working in the north-east region of Thailand 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Science and the Environment, follows the question asked earlier by  Senator Melzer.  If the Minister has not done so already, will he read the findings of the United States Environmental Protection Agency that led to the bans on 2,4,5-T in March 1979? I ask the Minister to direct his attention particularly to one sentence on page 1 1, which states: 
Statistical analyses of these data indicate that there is a significant correlation between the amounts of 2,4,5- T used in the study area during the spraying season and the subsequent increase in the spontaneous abortion index in the study area. 
Having read the report, will the Minister consider the desirability of holding a public national inquiry into the whole question of the importation, use and manufacture of 2,4,5- T? 
I regret in more ways than one that it falls to the lot of the Australian Democrats to be the sole dissenting voice in this matter. In ideal circumstances nobody could object to the idea of a new and permanent Parliament House, to domestic satellites in profusion, to Boeing 707 VIP aircraft, to $l-a-week flats for members of Parliament or to airconditioned cars for all. But we in this country live in circumstances which over the next decade will be far from ideal. We will be facing national challenges and competition on an unprecedented scale; and I suggest that we all know that. If we do not know it, we should. We in this Parliament will necessarily be calling on Australian citizens to work hard, to be more frugal and to accept sacrifices in the national interest. The going must become progressively rougher over the next 10 years. 
Now we propose to present the bizarre spectacle of a parliament which, while asking for this sacrifice and frugality, simultaneously expects the community to bear the cost of a magnificent new parliament house which basically will be there to our greater glory and comfort and which, I will say, is already seen as such. I quote: Flesh and blood, for God's sake, before bricks and mortar'. We have enough human problems in this country not to be wasting money on this mammoth scale at this stage; and the cost of that waste, I predict with confidence, will be very much more than the $ 1 5 1 m of the 1 978 estimate. Let us be reasonable about it. Let us consider recent Press reports that building costs are soaring everywhere already. Let us say that realistically around half a billion dollars will be the cost of the new and permanent Parliament House. Can we afford that in this country? I suggest, reasonably, no, and I venture to predict at this stage that that building will never be built. If by some chance it were completed by pushing through the funds to it in the teeth of adverse public reaction, when would it be completed? We see the spectacle in Canberra now of great new buildings held up indefinitely by strike action and I suggest that, as a symbol, the new and permanent Parliament House will be a very likely target for industrial action. That is another prediction I make, not with any pleasure. 
Based on achievements in Australia so far in building, I suggest that it may be 12 years or possibly 15 years before this edifice is completed. I noted with interest that  Senator Wriedt  made the point that if there were dissensions or any difficulties with the building, that might be the case.  Senator Davidson  said that it is a very tight schedule which is going to be very difficult to achieve. I suggest that the achievement of it is going to be beyond the realities of human nature. The Australian Democrats understand also that during the intervening period of more than a decade no major funds are going to be spent on the maintenance of this building. It will be a shambles within a few years. Conditions of operation here will deteriorate. Again, I speak of the acute problem of the Parliamentary Library. The services it offers will become much less than adequate. I gather that the urgent need for more library staff, especially in the research area, is limited by the actual space available. The provision of expert research staff is a long term investment. It is not possible to pick 20 research officers off a tree when the new and permanent parliament house is finished. These people must be accustomed to working in our conditions and on our terms. I predict that there will be a serious fallback in the facilities provided in the new and permanent parliament house, if it is ever finished, for at least a decade after its completion. 
I believe that a more modest building, which could easily be designed in accord with this one, could be constructed. Plenty of space is available for it and no doubt it could be built at limited cost within a few years. I suggest to my colleagues in this Parliament that, in making the decision to build a new and permanent parliament house, what they are doing, in effect, is condemning the Parliament to a decade or more of less adequate services and hence performance than may be desirable for this country. They are doing this in one of the most critical decades this country could possibly face. That is really the crunch point. It will be great to have this new and permanent parliament house; but it will not serve the needs here and now or during the next few years. Everyone in this place will suffer for at least 10 years and probably 15 years. There will be a fall-off in the performance of the Parliament during that time. I suggest that that is not necessary. 
Is this building so bad? I say that it is not. It is a building of some value, of ritual and of tradition in this country. Those things are rather important to a society, particularly if it faces some degree of instability, as I think we might do in the next 10 or 15 years. I am not aware of any plans to rebuild the Houses of Parliament at Westminster every 30 or 50 years, although those buildings are without doubt inadequate, certainly oldfashioned and probably a fire trap. I suggest that that last point about buildings being a fire trap is not one that can be canvassed with any validity in regard to our present premises. It is a matter which could be remedied quite easily and at relatively small cost. Moreover, no member of this Parliament has been burnt to death in this place during the last 50 years. 
No one has been burnt physically. That is the sort of burning about which I am speaking, not the hell fire type. This place has been seen as the centre of government nationally by two generations of Australians. We see them, young and old, filing into this building day after day. It is not an inelegant building. I believe that it fits into its setting gracefully. It has been said that there is no room for future expansion of the Senate and the House of Representatives chambers. Will the Senate and the House of Representatives expand very much when, after all, our population is stabilising and shows signs of possibly declining? I believe that the seating accommodation for senators could be extended into the lower galleries if that were absolutely necessary. 
Certainly, this building is compact. My own office is extremely compact. But that situation could be greatly remedied by extensions being carried out in a discreet and sensible way. I suggest that plenty of Australian architects would welcome the challenge of designing a building or buildings which would fit in with this one and which would be an example to future generations of the frugality and forethought of this generation of politicians rather than an example of a desire to spend, spend, spend, regardless of any other consideration, at a time which is inappropriate. It may be argued that a new, massive public building would create employment, especially for the hard-pressed Canberra building industries. It will do that in 10 or 12 years time when most people in the industry will have given up hope, their businesses and possibly life in any case. However, the extension program could provide work and relief from the tight accommodation problem within the next few years and at costs which I have seen estimated at between $15m and $20m. That is a reasonably modest requirement of the nation in these circumstances. 
It is on these grounds that the Australian Democrats oppose the new and permanent parliament house. We urge an immediate rethinking of the matter. The Australian Democrats have already had considerable feedback from the public on this matter. I place it on the record that not one person who has written to me or telephoned me was in favour of the new and permanent parliament house, with the exception of some of my colleagues in this place. I give fair notice that we Australian Democrats will maintain our opposition if this project- in our view, a quixotic and unrealistic one- is persisted with. 
-On 23 November last, more than four months ago, I raised matters concerning the inherent safety of the proposed nuclear reactor being built near Manila in the Philippines. Because I see this as a matter of fundamentals, I ask the Leader of the Government in the Senate: Has the Government since satisfied itself of the truth or otherwise of my assertion then that the reactor is sited in a major earthquake zone, close to five volcanoes? Is the Government satisfied that the safety mechanisms of this reactor could withstand earthquake tremors? Has the Government checked the assertion that inferior concrete is being used in construction of the reactor? If the Government has not checked these things, will it do so immediately in view of the implications of the Harrisburg nuclear accident? If the results of that inquiry are less than satisfactory, will the Government cancel its agreement to sell Australian uranium to the Philippines? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 28 February 1979: 
1 ) How many officers have resigned from: 
the Army; 
b ) the Royal Australian Navy; and 
the Royal Australian Air Force, in each month from December 1977 to February 1978. 
) What are the ranks of these officers. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 6 March 1979: 
Do most navies of the world, including those of Indonesia, Singapore and Malaysia, have: (a) fast patrol boats; and (b) small attack craft armed with surfacetosurface missiles. 
Are Indonesian patrol boats now in service armed with the type of Styx missiles which sank the Israeli destroyer Eliat in 1967. 
Are Fremantle class patrol boats measuring 42 metres, weighing 220 tonnes, and with a speed of 30 knots, to be constructed for the Royal Australian Navy; if so: (a) will the Government urgently reconsider the plans for these ships, with a view to providing at least some with a missile capability so that they are fighting ships; and (b) is the cost of these ships, planned to be armed with small arms, machine guns and one small close-range gun, now in excess of $ 10m each. 
Could the patrol boats currently being used by the Royal Australian Navy be destroyed by any number of possible aggressors without being able to defend themselves in any way. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 20 March 1979: 
What is: (a) the recommended staff size; and (b) the current staff size of the Commonwealth Police at Sydney's international and domestic airports. 
Clause 5 (l)(a) indicates a scenario in which a perfectly innocent situation could apply. It reads: 
. overthrowing or destroying the constitutional government of the Commonwealth or of a State or Territory; 
If a government is defeated by its Opposition, by perfectly normal, legal methods, it is overthrown and destroyed. I suggest to the Minister that this difficulty might be overcome by removing one word from the clause. That word is 'the' before constitutional'. The clause would then read in part '. . . the purpose of overthrowing or destroying constitutional government of the Commonwealth or of a State or Territory'. Surely that is the principle that we are trying to establish, not to relate the legislation to a particular government. The use of the word 'the' confuses this clause and I see no necessity for it. It is the overthrow of constitutional government in a commonwealth, State or territory that is to be deplored and which the clause aims to avoid. 
The clause also provides: Whether by those persons or by others'. That is where this comes in so dangerously. 
Force, violence or unlawful acts can be from any area, not necessarily from the participant who has given the intention in this case. Surely the inclusion of the words 'by those persons or by others ' - 
I would be most interested to hear the view of the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  on the value of the word 'the' in that clause. It seems to bring it back to a particular government when surely we should be defending a general principle that we deplore or wish to avoid the overthrow or destruction of constitutional government of the Commonwealth or a State or territory. We do not seek the protection of a particular government controlled by a particular political party. 
I am baffled to hear the AttorneyGeneral say that a clause of a Bill of this seriousness should be regarded in a commonsense way. It is not possible for it to be interpreted in that way. I have been trying for some time to visualise a situation in which there would be a lawful activity which would do the things of which the Attorney-General is complaining. I grasp his  meaningfullybutmyassertionisthatwhatheis  saying is not what is in the clause. Surely that is what we are discussing in this Committee. The use of the words 'unlawful activities' at least gives point to the Attorney-General's intention. I cannot see why there should be any objection to putting in the word 'unlawful'. There again, as with the earlier sub-clause, it would interpret and enlighten the sub-clause. But the lack of such a word poses implications at which the mind boggles. In fact for some time I have been needling the Government, as the Committee would know, over the arming of our patrol boats with missiles. I have privilege in this place but had I been an outsider doing that I could be said, under this clause, to be interfering with the Navy in the exercise of not so much the defence of the Commonwealth but its other activities. I believe it is intolerable that there should be a situation in which that sort of clause is permitted in a Bill. I am amazed that the Attorney-General can say: We have looked at that clause and we say that at some stage it may be interpreted in a commonsense way'. Either it says what it means or it does not say what it means. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services, coincidentally follows from the question asked by  Senator Bonner.  1 have a reply to a question on notice- Question No. 1427- revealing that the approved Commonwealth Police security force at Sydney airport is seriously below establishment. The figures, as supplied to me by the previous Minister for Administrative Services,  Senator Chaney,  are that for plain clothes members the approved establishment is 29 while the actual occupancy is 18; and for uniformed members approved establishment is 55 while actual occupancy is 42. So in effect, 60 people are doing the work that 84 people should be doing at that place. The Australian Democrats take it that the Prime Minister was sincere in his statement yesterday that he wants an urgent review of airport security. The Leader of the Government in the Senate has confirmed that here today. Will the Government urgently ensure that security staff at all Australian airports are brought up to approved establishment? 
We of the Australian Democrats do not agree entirely with the view expressed by  Senator Evans  on behalf of the Labor Party about clause 8, especially sub-clause (2) of clause 8. This clause concerns the important and crucial area of the responsibilities of the Director-General. 
I will suggest some alterations to it as I proceed. We now have a good Director-General. I wonder whether the Government has been unduly influenced by the present situation. It is the possibility of a bad situation arising in the future- and this is most important- for which we should be legislating. The Government might feel that if a bad situation arises in the future or there is some change in events or accent it could then introduce amendments which would cope with the situation, but this might not necessarily be the case. It seems to me that semantically even clause 8 (2) is too soft. It says that the Director-General is subject to the general directions of the Minister. As a matter of semantics and inference, I suggest that that means that the Director-General is not subject to the specific direction of the Minister. I would be interested in any other interpretation of that. We feel that that is far too loose and diffuse, that it throws on the DirectorGeneral a heavier responsibility than he should bear and that in fact there is too light a responsibility on the Minister who is, after all- I suggest that we cannot avoid this- the channel of accountability.  Senator Evans  mentioned this point but, with respect to him, I think he has dismissed it too lightly. The Australian Democrats suggest to the Government that it can strengthen this Bill by amending it to read that 'the DirectorGeneral is subject to the direction of the Minister', which seems to us to be a reasonable point of view. One cannot consider that section without looking at 8 (a) and (b), which raise points concerning the treatment of particular individuals and the collection and communication of intelligence concerning them. 
Excuse me,  Senator, are  you helping me with that point? 
No, just the direction. I would not agree with you there. I think you can say that a person can be subject to the direction of another person but that there are certain limitations to it and in that way you are making the limitations specific. The Australian Democrats' argument is that if you leave it the way it is you are making it non-specific. By saying 'subject to the direction of the Minister', then indicating in (a) and (b), you can indicate precisely what you mean. I feel you then have a situation which is controllable. Do you think I have met your point,  Senator Cavanagh? 
That is another matter. We can understand why the Government has phrased (8) (2) (a) and (b) the way it has. It has been influenced, and properly, by the consideration of the threat that may be posed by a particular individual, unspecified, but obviously a dangerous, ruthless individual who is definitely aiming at damage to our society. We believe that the Government may also consider additionally that it has a duty to protect individuals of our society; that is an obligation of any government, or should be so. 
This whole question of the regrettable but real vulnerability of individuals in this society to police measures was referred to and is on the record of the second reading debate on this Bill by  Senator Chipp  wherein he gave certain examples. The Australian Democrats, to whom such things are brought, have many cases on our records where people have felt- perhaps wrongly, perhaps unjustifiably- that they have not pursued their rights adequately because they felt they were unhappy about it, that they could be pressured and that somehow they must not run foul of the police. Therefore, I think it is desirable in some sense- and I share  Senator Evans'  problem- I think there should be some sort of mitigation or limitation of the absolute power of the Director-General in this regard. 
Presumably this clause is here because we think a Minister may act in a political way or a government may act in a political way, but somehow the Director-General, no matter who he is, is going to be immune from this or any other pressures. When I say 'any other pressures', I reiterate that I think the Government is placing a very grave responsibility on any single individual as Director-General in the way this is phrased. Unfair, intolerable pressures can be brought to bear on any individual in our society, perhaps through his family- anything can happen. I suggest that the Government is placing an intolerable burden on this person. 
As far as we have thought it through now, there may well be a possibility where the Minister could raise these matters or perhaps question the opinion of the Director-General- not himself- but perhaps in a situation where he may be in consultation with or have the concurrence of the Cabinet; or indeed if you are going to have a judicial audit, as the Labor Party suggests that somehow that could be brought through there. The Australian Democrats ask that the Government consider this very human situation where it is legislating for one man to have tremendous responsibility and authority and not providing any safeguards whatsoever. 
As a senator for New South Wales and especially for the city of Sydney, I feel that I could not allow the statement to the Parliament by the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  on passenger vehicle emission controls to pass without some comments. The first is that the statement sticks in my craw; I find it very hard to swallow. Indeed, my hackles rise at some of the assertions made in it because they seem to me to be a follow-up to what has been a policy of gradualism in this Parliament over the past year to make the Australian people believe through several statements, Dorothy Dix questions and the like that even the air they and their children breathe must be foul and polluted in the interests of a spurious, false and rather ignoble cause. That cause is set down in the Minister's statement in these words: 
Australia cannot alford to waste liquid fuel and every opportunity must be taken to reduce consumption. 
Of course, there is nothing spurious, false or ignoble about that sentiment as it stands if one could feel that the Government and those who lie behind the Government are sincere about it, but I suggest that there is ample evidence that they are not. This is why I want to speak briefly on this subject. The assertion that Australia cannot afford to waste liquid fuel and that every opportunity must be taken to reduce consumption is made in a country where we still have running around cars- and some of us are riding in themwhich are capable of the princely performance of 8 miles to the gallon, which 1 am assured a Ford LTD does. 
Vehicles produced recently in our country, which have been the subject of tremendous publicity and media campaign, have been shown to give fuel consumption as low as 14 miles to the gallon- considerably lower than that of vehicles made by the same maker in the past. What we might call the big three manufacturers which were supposed to give us a motor industry which would give tremendous exports, assist our defence industry and so on have not lived up substantially to any of these claims. They are now producing vehicles which will use up what rare resources of petrol we have just as fast as the vehicles can damn well get through it. I suggest that this Government shows no sign of doing anything whatsoever about that situation although it lies in the hands of the Government to do something. Responsible governments in other countries have done something already. To make pious statements that we cannot afford to waste liquid fuel, while we permit this kind of industry to go on, is hypocritical to say the least. 
The Government could contribute more by its influence. I suggest that this Government has a diminishing influence on our cities. It is perpetuating chaotic traffic conditions in our inner cities which are causing a massive use of petrol on a scale which is frightening to contemplate. Publictransport systems in this country are in chaos and are getting worse. In most countries it is now considered reasonable to have some limitation on speed in order to reduce consumption of petrol. This limitation has been introduced by governments which sincerely feel that. 
I was in New Zealand earlier this year where I drove a car. I tell honourable senators that when one drives a car in New Zealand one has to be very careful not to break the regulation that one must not drive at more than 50 miles an hour. The basic reason for that rule is to conserve petrol. It has had valuable spin-offs. The accident rate has fallen substantially as a result. However, I see no indication whatsoever of any initiatives. One hopes that the Government of this nation will give that initiative for a reduction in maximum speeds on our highways. There is no attempt to check on blatant gas-guzzling cars. 1 return to this point: Surely by now the Government might say that it is considering that it will negotiate with State governments with a view to applying penal registration costs on the worst of these offenders. I assume that the Government does not have that in mind and that it does not care. I asked a question regarding this matter some weeks ago. Very little information was given and none has been forthcoming since. I suggest it is time that the Government made a statement to the Australian people on the subject if only to test the water and to see what the Australian people feel about the matter. Most people now do not drive gas-guzzling cars. Most people have cars which are frugal because that is all they can afford to drive. I think it is grossly unfair for us to say that we will cut down on emission controls to save petrol when we permit that kind of situation to continue. There is no real encouragement in this country of the manufacturer or importer of thoroughly conservational cars. Cars have been designed and built which are capable of enormous mileages to the gallon. When most of those cars come to Australia they are knocked by a prohibitive import tax. We do not want those sorts of cars here, it would seem. We want cars that will cut out our supplies of petrol as fast as they possibly can! 
In the statement the Government is really saying that the long-suffering people, and their children, in our cities will carry the can for this assertion that Australia cannot afford to waste liquid fuel. Nobody else will carry that can. People who want to drive a car that does eight miles to the gallon will be able to continue to do so. I point out that among the victims of this kind of policy which seeks to sanctify and perpetuate pollution in our cities are our children. There is already good evidence that lead pollution has an association with hyperactivity in children. Research on this aspect has been done overseas. Statements have been made by reputable scientists in this country. I have yet to see a comment on that matter from the Government. If there has been one, perhaps members of the Government would oblige me by bringing it to my attention. But 1 doubt that there has been one because I have not yet seen one. 
There are many ways by which the Government can bring down the level of pollution. These are not my ideas; they are ideas which are well established throughout the world and of which the Government should be well aware. I think that the real point about the statement is that it is a failure because it does not see the need for the matter of pollution control to be associated with the overall traffic, fuel and motor vehicle problem. All these issues are closely associated. I suggest quite briefly a number of possible initiatives for the Government to take. I have no doubt that the Government already knows about them, but I suggest that they are worth reviving at this stage. The first is that at least the beginning of an approach towards electric vehicles should be made in this country. For instance, suitable trade vehicles might be encouraged through tax reductions or subsidies for short-range work around the streets of our cities. Honourable senators who have recently been in London will note with relief that for some years the milk carts which go around London have been electric. Electric vehicles are quiet, non-pollutant and thoroughly conservational. 1 do not know why there has not been an encouragement of this sort of beginning to the introduction of electric car technology in our own cities. There again, there is no real reason for a good electric vehicle not being developed and made in this country for short-range running in the cities in most regards, including commuting. I am aware of the work being done at Flinders University. I would like to see the Government perhaps giving that a little more attention and seeing an electric vehicle not only as providing a solution to a problem of fuel conservation but also as providing a solution to a problem with our total environment in our cities and perhaps as making a much greater contribution towards community health than the Government realises. There is very little doubt that the motor car running around the cities constitutes a major health hazard. 
I return to an earlier point, namely, the fact that cars with smaller engines are less pollutant, even if they are petrol-driven cars. The bigger the engine capacity of a car and the more gas it guzzles, the more pollution it spews forth into the environment. Those great monsters contribute far more than they ought to contribute to trouble in our society. It is possible to have engines with a lower octane rating. I suggest that to do so would be a return to sanity. We ought not to consider that the prime requirement for a car is that it should be something which will squeal its tyres and get off at the traffic lights faster than anything else and then slow down to five to seven miles an hour through our city traffic. Cars with a lower octane rating work extremely well. They are better cars; they last longer; they have a better engine than cars with very high compression ratios. Here again, that means that there is a significant drop in the lead content of the petrol used- a significant drop in the problem of controlling dangerous emissions. 1 suggest that, rather than adopting the strange, round-about, cart-before-the-horse approach outlined in the statement, the Government should look at some of these more sane and realistic methods. 

 Senator Walsh mentioned that he thought that natural gas was a better proposition than fuel ethanol, of which honourable senators will know I am something of a sponsor, although I do not believe in any way that it is the answer to all our problems. However, I am delighted to see that CSR Ltd and Fielders Bakeries, both private enterprise organisations are going ahead now with a major program of ethanol production from cassava, as is being done in Brazil. This will mean a great deal in Australia's future. It will be another aspect of self-sufficiency in energy for us. But it has another plus, namely, that because of the higher octane rating of ethanol the additive of 20 per cent ethanol to petrol significantly lowers the need for leading and significantly lowers the dangerous emissions of that new fuel, which in Brazil is being called 'petral', a word which 1 suggest we could conveniently adopt here. Petral is a better motor spirit than petrol. It is much less pollutant and much safer. I raise two other very brief points concerning the statement. The first is on page 4 of the statement and reads: 
The Commonwealth is concerned that any association between health incidents and photochemical pollution should be adequately researched and established before a causal relationship is assumed. 
This is just another example of the sort of logic we are getting on things. It is the same sort of logic we got on 2,4,5-T whereby unless the chemical actually kills somebody, destroys somebody, unless it actually damages fatally a great many people, it is okay. That is what this statement is saying. It is saying: Let us do it this way round. Let us assume that photochemical pollution does not do any harm. After a lot of long, leisurely experiments, after a lot of people are dead, or have cancer or after enough people are dead or have cancer, let us assume that there is a causal relationship. To the Australian Democrats, that is like waving a red rag at a bull. A government which takes that attitude is not being honest with or sincere with the people who put it in government. 
The only other point I want to make is on page 6 of this statement and concerns the two car concept. The idea is that there will be different emission controls for vehicles used in urban areas and those used in non-urban areas. Well that is fine. Apparently the logic is that if a person is driving his car in the country, whatever pollution comes out of that car will be fairly widely dispersed anyway and furthermore, if the driver happens to be a farmer, then such pollution would not matter very much. I would probably go along with that. I would say that that was a reasonable supposition. But it is also a naive supposition. It assumes that people in this country are so dumb and so unintelligent that they will not realise that if they were to go out of Sydney to K atoomba or out into the suburbs to buy a car, that car would have a different type of emission control. How is the Government going to stop those people from bringing that car back into the city? 1 suggest that that whole paragraph on the two car approach is so naive as not to be worth anybody's serious consideration.  Mr President,  I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 29 March 1979: 
1 ) Who arc the members of the Special Working Party of the National Health and Medical Research Council, referred to in an answer by the Minister for Social Security to my Question without Notice of 8 March 1979, and the Minister for Health's subsequent answer to the Question (see Hansard, 8 March 1979, page 628, and 20 March 1979, page 796). 
What affiliations do these members have with other organisations in both the public and private sectors of the community. 
What arc the educational and occupational qualifications of these members. 
I present the following petition from 484 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members ofthe Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition ofthe undersigned respectfully showeth: 
That the compiling of statistics on birth defects lacks formal coordination, leading to poor interpretation of the cause of these defects. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, should: 
Promote more research into the causes of congenital abnormalities; 
Set up a central bureau where records of each child born with abnormalities would be maintained; 
Provide support for parents of children with congenital abnormalities. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I  present the following petition from 8 1 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That restoration of provisions of the Social Security Act that applied prior to the 1 97S-79 Budget is of vital concern to offset the rising cost of goods and services. 
The reason advanced by the Government for yearly payments 'that the lower level of inflation made twice-yearly payments inappropriate' is not valid. 
Great injury will be caused to 920,000 aged, invalid, widows and supporting parents, who rely soley on the pension or whose income, other than the pension, is $6 or less per week. Once-a-year payments strike a cruel blow to their expectation and make a mockery of a solemn election pledge. 
Accordingly, your petitioners call upon their legislators to: 
Restore twice-yearly pension adjustments in the Autumn session. 
Raise pensions and unemployed benefits above the poverty level to 30 per cent of average weekly earnings. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition From 20 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled the petitionof the undersigned citizensof Australia respectfully showeth: 
That restoration of provisions of the Social Security Act that applied prior to the 1978-79 Budget is of vital concern to offset the rising cost of goods and services. 
The reason advanced by the Government for yearly paymentsthat the lower level of inflation made twice-yearly payments inappropriate is not valid. 
Great injury will be caused to 920,000 aged, invalid, widows and supporting parents, who rely solely on the pension or whose income, other than the pension, is $6 or less per week. Once-a-year payments strike a cruel blow to their expectation and make a mockery of a solemn election pledge. 
Accordingly, your petitioners call upon their legislators to: 
Restore twice-yearly pension adjustments in the Autumn session. 
Raise pensions and unemployed benefits above the poverty level to 30 per cent of average weekly earnings. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I present the following petition from 12 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the plan to obliterate the traditional weights and measures of this country does not have the support of the people: 
That the change is causing and will continue to cause, widespread, serious and costly problems: 
That the compulsory tactics being used to force the change arc a violation of all democratic principles. 
Your petitioners therefore pray: 
That the Metric Conversion Act be repealed to ensure that the people are free to utilize whichever system they prefer and so enable the return to imperial weights and measures wherever the people so desire; 
That weather reporting be as it was prior to the passing of the Metric Conversion Act; 
That the Australian Government take urgent steps to cause the traditional mile units to be restored to our highways; 
That the Australian Government request the State Governments to procure that the imperial and metric systems be taught together in schools. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate as it involves or should involve major government policy. Last year and again last month I raised in Question Time the matter of inadequacies in the siting and construction of a nuclear reactor in the Philippines which, in terms of our contract with that nation, would be fuelled with Australian uranium and hence, in terms of our nuclear safeguards agreement, is or should be a matter of direct and urgent concern to Australia. Has the Government yet investigated the allegations that the reactor is sited in a notoriously active earthquake zone close to five active volcanoes and that concrete of inadequate strength is being used in its construction, and any other matters that might give concern? If the Government has not yet made this investigation, when will it do so? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 28 March 1979: 
Has the Air New Zealand plant at Mangere. Auckland, New Zealand been awarded a contract to overhaul the gas turbine engines of the three FFG Frigates as reported in the  Daily Mirror  of 13 March 1979; if so, what will be the total costs of these contracts, and what factors have determined these costs. 
Will Air New Zealand be carrying out servicing or overhaul or both of the turbine engines. 
3 ) What is the Minister's definition of 
servicing; and 
overhaul. in relation to these matters. 
How many spare engines will bc held for these frigates. 
5 ) How many people associated or directly involved with the servicing or overhaul of these engines will bc required to do a Type Familiarisation Course on these engines. 
What measure of similarity is there between the FFG Frigate engines and those used by Air New Zealand. 
The Australian Democrats support the Labor Party's attempt to salvage some rags of sense and honesty from the Committee stage of the Australian Security Intelligence Organization Bill. The Bill already has been exposed as a slovenly, thoughtless and dangerous piece of legislation which the Government, I believe, is too indolent to consider seriously in all its implications. This has been revealed by the performance of the Government in considering the proposed amendments that have been moved in the Senate. I believe that from the point of view of the Labor Party and the Australian Democrats there might have been a general bipartisan view of this Bill. If there is not, be it on the head of the Government. The Government has destroyed such a possibility by its refusal to allow reasonable and sensible changes to be made to this Bill. I feel that very strongly. 
The Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  might have noticed editorial comments in those dangerous left wing periodicals, the Melbourne  Age  and the  Sydney Morning Herald,  objecting to many aspects of this Bill. He might also have noticed that the radical revolutionary Robert Milliken expressed some objections to which our leading periodical of the underground Press, the  National Times,  devoted not less than one page. I would say that those objections covered the reasonable and considered viewpoints of a large number of Australians. Since I have been concerned with this matter I have received feedback from many people on a letter I wrote to the  Sydney Morning Herald.  They include people with whom the Attorney-General might be glad enough to have a drink. I refer to people of his own profession, not radicals or left wingers but people from the North Shore and the eastern suburbs of Sydney who are deeply concerned about aspects of this Bill. They say that the Government has not done its duty and that it has failed to look seriously and responsibly at the matter. 
The Australian Democrats want an honest, useful and effective security organisation in this country. I do the Labor Party the justice of believing that it also wants such an organisation. It is reasonable and sensible that we should have one. But we do not want an organisation of little people with God knows what unhealthy motivations and malices, people who are able behind a veil of secrecy to persecute ordinary, decent Australians who have reasonable grounds for dissent. The Attorney-General has given a blueprint for such action in this Bill, and I hope that at some stage, if not here then at least in the other place, enough sense will be got through to the Minister's party to enable it to realise that. I can assure him that it is the view of many Australians. If we are to get through the crises that will confront us in the next decade, surely we must have freedom to express reasonably our dissent and our differences of viewpoint. I know that I am out of order by referring to clause 5 which deals with the ridiculous definition of subversion- somebody blowing his nose might be subversive if he did it in a certain circumstance- and clause 8, with its unbearable and unreasonable load of responsibility on the Director-General. I only hope that, if the Government wants bipartisan support, something will happen after the Bill leaves this place and goes to the other one. 
I believe that the Committee stage of this Bill has become a mockery. There is no reason for it. It has been a waste of time because the Government has refused to accept reasonable arguments from the Labor Party and, to some extent, from ourselves as to why the Bill should be amended. It is our view, quite strongly, that the Bill should be referred to a committee which can go back to the Australian community and seek its views in a responsible, reasonable and orderly fashion over a period. The Australian Democrats support the initiative of the Labor Party in that direction. 
asked the Minister for Science and the Environment the following question, upon notice, on 2 1 February 1 979: 
1 ) Did the Minister, us reported in the  Age,  1 6 January 1979, state that the Federal Government 'now intended to declare the significant areas  or  the reef . . . (Great Barrier Reef) . . . part of a marine park 'as soon as possible '. 
Which areas of the Great Barrier Reef does the Minister refer to. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 27 March 1979: 
Have Bowral residents exhibited concern regarding the closure of the Westwood Training Complex for mildly retarded young women. 
Have they exhibited particular concern regarding a sum of $40,000 raised by Westwood Auxiliary and held in trust by the Uniting Church. 
Was this money raised by people of the Bowral District, to help the people in the Bowral District. 
Will this money be expended by the Uniting Church in Sydney at another welfare centre: if so, what action does the Minister propose regarding the use of this account, considering the large allocation of funds her Department has directed into Westwood and other Church and community projects. 
I present the following petition from 66 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. 
The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That restoration of provisions of the Social Security Act that applied prior to the 1978-79 Budget is of vital concern to offset the rising cost of goods and services. 
The reason advanced by the Government for yearly payments 'that the lower level of inflation made twice-yearly payments inappropriate ' is not valid. 
Great injury will bc caused to 920,000 aged, invalid, widows and supporting parents, who rely solely on the pension or whose income, other than the pension, is $6 or less per week. Once-a-year payments strike a cruel blow to their expectation and make a mockery of a solemn election pledge. 
Accordingly, your petitioners call upon their legislators to: 
Restore twice-yearly pension adjustments in the autumn session. 
Raise pensions and unemployed benefits above the poverty level to 30 per cent of average weekly earnings. 
And your petitioners in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. Is the Government aware that there have existed for some time motor vehicle emission controls that have a minimal effect on fuel consumption and engine performance? I commend to the Minister especially a National Roads and Motorists' Association test in Sydney of the Japanese Honda system in 1976 which, I am assured, showed effective meeting of the second stage of Australian Design Rule 27A and at the same time barely measurable variations in engine performance and fuel consumption. Could the Australian motor industry not begin using such emission control systems instead of the wasteful inefficient ones it now uses? Does the Government not see an obligation on itself to see that local industry does convert to well proven and efficient technology rather than saying, as the Minister does in the Press today, that New South Wales and South Australian insistence on proper emission controls is a tragedy for Australian motorists? Finally, in such circumstances is not the tragedy for Australian motorists the Australian motor industry itself? 
asked the Minister for Social 
Security, upon notice, on 27 March 1979: 
1 ) What Commonwealth funds have been allocated to the Westwood Training Complex for mildly retarded girls in Bowral, New South Wales since 1 970. 
How were these funds used. 
Have funds been made available which have not been used as at 27 March 1979; if so, what is the amount of these funds, and what were the grounds for allocation. 
The Hope report was open to public scrutiny for many months. However, the Australian Democrats do not believe that the legislation, as it stands, accurately reflects that report and the public comment on it. For that reason we support and applaud the Opposition amendment, and I commend it to the liberal-minded senators on the Government benches, if there are any. 
Question put: 
That the words proposed to be left out  (Senator Button's amendment)  be left out. 
-I rise, not unexpectedly I suppose, to support  Senator Harradine  's point of view. It seems to me that the matter comes down to one involving the allocation of time to questions of importance. I cannot see that the Government is justified in moving this motion on those grounds. A considerable amount of time has been devoted to what has been referred to as a jocular debate about the national flag this afternoon. The Government obviously could have used its time more profitably. 
I wonder whether  Senator Rae  or any other honourable senators who have been in the Senate chamber and in Kings Hall in the last few days, will disagree that  Senator Harradine  's motion is not of importance to this community. If they do, they are blind and deaf. Of course, it is important. It is vital that the matter be brought up. I know that the Government does not want it debated. There is no doubt about that; the Government has made it abundantly plain. But other people- the citizens of this country- have certainly made it abundantly plain that they would like to see the matter discussed and would like to know what honourable senators will say about it before the Budget framework is decided. I suggest that this matter is of importance. The Government is not moving this motion to save time. I state, with respect to  Senator Georges'  view, that I do not think the delaying of the debate on the Australian Security Intelligence Organization Bill for a couple of weeks would matter very much. Subversives will not be jumping down our throats during the next fortnight. We do have a situation-- 
I resent that comment from the honourable senator. 
I have spoken on this Bill. I have been present during debates at the Committee stage.  Hansard  will show that I have spoken. The honourable senator may not have been in the chamber at that time. The honourable senator probably was not because he says that he did not hear me. If he looks at  Hansard,  he will see my speech. I suggest that this matter is not relevant to what I am discussing. 

 Government senators interjecting- 


 - Mr President, if Government senators have quite finished their interjections, may I proceed? The point I was makingand I have yet to have an intelligent reply or response from the Government on this matter- is that the six-monthly indexation of pensions is vital to and of interest to over a million Australians. If I can get a reply to that matter, I will sit down gladly; but I have not yet received a reply. I will resume my seat now,  Mr President,  in the hope and expectation that I will get a reply from a member of the Government whether that matter is not of importance. If I do not get that reply, we will leave the pensioners and the public of this country to draw the conclusion that they obviously will draw. 
I support this point. I would be very surprised if, indeed, the Government rejected these amendments completely out of hand. It might wish to modify them, but surely we have got to the basic crunch situation. With all due respect to  Senator Missen  and others who would like to get this all out of the way in the next 10 minutes, I suggest we are discussing something of rather more importance than that to the Australian people. I do not believe this is something that we can just throw away because it might suit our convenience to go to bed at half past ten. 
I might. With respect to you,  Senator Missen,  you were minding mine earlier in the day and publicly in the Senate. 
And rightly so, I will not make that response to you. You say to me to mind my own business. I will accept that. I will mind my own business, but 1 will thank you to mind yours. To return to the point, as  Senator 
Evans said we have had abundant lessons. History has always treated badly those who will not learn from experience. We have learnt from Savak, from the Central Intelligence Agency, from the Bay of Pigs and from the establishment of brothels by the CIA at enormous expense for the gratification of its members. It has been proven that if people are given unlimited use of money they can be expected to abuse it. Everybody is human. I have said before, speaking in Committee on this Bill, that the Government is making an intolerable error in that it is somehow thinking that its people in its security organisation are gods, that they are superhuman, that in some way they are better than everybody else in the world, including, as  Senator Evans  said, the Attorney-General or the Leader of the Opposition. That is not so. There is no reason whatsoever to suppose that a recruit to the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation staff is a more credible, more reasonable or more honourable person than the Leader of the Opposition. I would suggest that that is an intolerable situation. 
I would make another point that has not been made yet, and it is this: I can see no reason why proposed new clause 92B should not be adopted. There is no reason to suppose that the revelation of the money has been spent by a security organisation is going to breach any particular matter of security. I would have thought that was obvious, that it was reasonable that the society should know how much we are spending on security and that it was unreasonable to assert knowledge of that to the community was in some way going to breach a particular point of security. I would be obliged if the Attorney answered that point in detail a little later on. 
I applaud proposed new clause 92C. I think it is very good that there should be a situation that would give concern to the community. There might be a situation in which, perhaps, the number of warrants that are being issued might be a revelation There is no reason to suppose that revelation of the number of warrant is going to prejudice any particular security cause, but in a dangerous situation it might reveal to society an intolerable situation in which there was overuse of warrants by the organisation. I would, I think, approve basically of proposed new clause 92D. I believe the same logic applies. I would ask the Attorney to tell me how any particular security cause is going to be prejudiced by a general audit. 
-Thank you,  Senator Hamer,  for reminding me of that point. 
No, it is fair enough. We must run things properly in this place and keep our personal views out of it, I would hope. I think I have made my point. I have asked the Attorney a number of questions. I request his reply as to why he assures us that a general accountability on the number of warrants is going to prejudice any individual aspect of security. If he can answer that I will go home satisfied. I do hope he will. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 2 1 February 1979: 
1 ) Has the Minister delivered the submission he referred to in his answer to Senate Question No. 776  (Hansard, 16  November 1 978, page 2171). 
When will the Government announce its policy relating to the introduction of commercial FM broadcasting. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 24 October 1978: 
1 ) How much time was made available to broadcast election speeches or political advertisements in respect of each political party on each radio broadcasting station and television station in connection with the State election in New South Wales on 7 October 1 978. 
What was the percentage distribution of time purchased by parties and candidates on metropolitan and country commercial braodcasting and television stations. 
What were the costs charged for this time, and what was the percentage distribution of these costs. 
My "question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport and relates to the oil spills report of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation, which contains recommendations concerning navigational aids and practices affecting the passage of Great Barrier Reef waters by oil tankers. As a result of that, I ask the  Minister  a question to which, although it is without notice, I would like to get at least a general reply now. Does the Government recognise the considerable, continuing and urgent risk of a major oil spill from tankers which regularly traverse the Reef waters, which carry cargoes of 100,000 tonnes of oil or more and which, in the words of the Committee, actually touch bottom in 'not rare instances'? ls the Government, as a matter or urgency, giving attention to providing additional navigational and tide telemetry facilities which would, among other things, encourage oil tankers to use routes outside rather than inside the Reef? Is the Government considering a principle of compulsory pilotage of oil tankers operating inside Reef waters? 
I present the following petition from 43 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled the petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That restoration of provisions of the Social Security Act that applied prior to the 1978-79 Budget is of vital concern to offset the rising cost of goods and services. 
The reason advanced by the Government for yearly payments 'that the lower level of inflation made twice-yearly payments inappropriate' is not valid. 
Great injury will be caused to 920,000 aged, invalid, widows and supporting parents, who rely solely on the pension or whose income, other than the pension, is $6 or less per week. Once-a-year payments strike a cruel blow to their expectation and make a mockery of a solemn election pledge. 
Accordingly, your petitioners call upon their legislators to: 
Restore twice-yearly pension adjustments in the Autumn session. 
Raise pensions and unemployed benefits above the poverty level to 30 per cent of average weekly earnings. 
And your petitioners in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
-The Income Tax Assessment Amendment Bill (No. 2 ) is quite an important Bill. What I want to say about it perhaps would have been said more reasonably in the second reading debate, but as we are considering the Bill as a whole in the Committee stage, I think I can make the observations which I wish to make now. I disagree with the Australian Labor Party. We voted against its amendment because we felt that it had overlooked a very important point, namely, that perhaps more important to the Aboriginal people of this country- I speak from some knowledge- than money is self-respect. I feel that it is important to the Aboriginal people of this country that they should be seen to be like everybody else, to bear their burden in the community at some stage, just as everybody else does. It is not necessarily a good thing for a community to regard the Aboriginal people as something separate, something different, something like a child to whom people have to look down. 
I must confess that when I heard the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Chaney)  speak along those lines I felt a certain sympathy. It is a sympathy which the Australian Democrats would share because, in our own small way, we have tried so far to make contact with Aboriginal people. As I think I have mentioned in the Senate before, we found that Aboriginal people do not like being called Aborigines, among other things. That is not their name for themselves. I think that we have to come closer to this kind of contact and try to assimilate these people as a people with every right, including the right to pay taxes. But I agree with the Government that that rate of tax should be mild. It is mild, as the Bill states. 
I think that there is another side to the coin. The Minister has said to us that this is the first major opportunity for the Aboriginal people to be given a great investment, the virtual control of a large sum of money from this country. Whatever one believes are the merits or otherwise of minerals or of the mining of minerals, it certainly is good that that should be happening in our society. I believe that the Minister is a sincere man. He has said certain things. I hope that he is backed up by the Government. I believe that the Government's credibility in this matter of there being an intelligent, reasonable investment by Aborigines to their own benefit, in which they are consulted carefully over a period of years, is very much at stake. I conclude my remarks by saying that very many Australians will be watching the Government's performance in this regard with the greatest of care. I hope, for the future of this country and all the races who inhabit it, including the Aboriginal race, that the Government is sincere. This is its one big chance to be sincere and I hope that it takes it in that spirit. 
I had not intended to rise again on the Bills, but since  Senator Keeffe  has chosen to make an unspecific statement concerning Australian Democrat policy in this regard, I feel that I should stress to him and to other honourable senators that the relevant point of Australian Democrat policy is very basic to our Party: It is that this country is a multi-racial society and that, within reason, all Australians should share the same privileges and responsibilities. I do not believe that the requirements of these Bills are unreasonable. Far from it. I think, when I speak of the Aboriginal people, of some rather quiet, very responsible and law-abiding people who live in the inner suburbs of Sydney. I believe that there are more Aborigines in the inner suburbs of Sydney than anywhere else in Australia.They are trying to get along, trying to be decent, reasonable, honest Australians. I know that frequently they have a pretty rough time of it, but they are prepared to accept that challenge. 
To return to the policy of the Australian Labor Party and the remarks of  Senator Keeffe,  I say that it is not right that Aborigines should be treated by them as some kind of children, something that has to be protected or treated as a lower order of society. Until one reaches the stage of recognising them as people, and encouraging them to be people, like us one will get nowhere with them. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 29 March 1979: 
1 ) Who are the members of the Pesticides and Agricultural Chemicals Sub-committee of the National Health and Medical Research Council. 
What affiliations do these members have with other organisations in both the public and private sectors of the community. 
What are the educational and occupational qualifications of these members. 
I would like to speak very briefly to the amendment. It is a pity that the Australian Labor Party, having moved paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of its amendment, which make sense, suddenly introduced what I can only describe as a series of buzz words. That is what the Opposition is doing. 
It is adding buzz words to confuse a clear piece of thought, to no purpose whatever. As  Senator Chipp  has already said, the Australian Democrats approve, and in his speech today - 
I did not make it after all, did I? 
The Opposition is using buzz words. 
Is the honourable senator taking a point of order? 
I think it is a pity that the Opposition has used those buzz words. Until a couple of hours ago, I thought that the Senate was discussing a serious matter which concerned the interests of society, not necessarily the interests of the Labor Party or of one of its members who may have incurred a certain fate. Surely there is some reason for supposing that some of the time of this House might be devoted to the affairs of the nation. We would approve of that. Indeed, we approve of the motion, but I would make the point - 
We disapprove of paragraphs (d), (e) and (f) for the reasons that I have stated that these are buzz words which add nothing to the original thought in the amendment in paragraphs (a), (b) and (c).  Senator Chipp  made our point about paragraph (d) and suggested we had reservations about that. We believe that the Opposition's criticism of this Appropriation Bill is just and valid. Surely that should be enough for the Opposition. I find it educational to observe the bitterness which has been manifest on both sides of the Senate in the last few hours. I suggest that it is not something which any senator can observe except with great regret. If I have learned anything tonight it is that this kind of confrontation achieves nothing and destroys a great deal, including probably-- 
Here is a thought which I want to commend especially to  Senator Georges  - 
I will wait until  Senator Georges  is listening patiently. 
This kind of confrontation achieves nothing and destroys a great deal, including the credibility of political institutions in the eyes of the Australian public. I leave that thought with  Senator Georges  so he can reflect on it. 
Question put: 
That the amendment  (Senator Georges')  to the proposed amendment be agreed to.. 
I  present the following petition from 40 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That restoration of provisions of the Social Security Act that applied prior to the 1 978-79 Budget is of vital concern to offset the rising cost of goods and services. 
The reason advanced by the Government for yearly payments 'that the lower level of inflation made twice-yearly payments inappropriate 'is not valid. 
Great injury will be caused to 920,000 aged, invalid, widows and supporting parents, who rely solely on the pension of whose income, other than the pension, is $6 or less per week. Once-a-year payments strike a cruel blow to their expectation and make a mockery of a solemn election pledge. 
Accordingly, your petitioners call upon their legislators to: 
Restore twice-yearly pension adjustments in the Autumn session. 
Raise pensions and unemployed benefits above the poverty level to 30 per cent of average weekly earnings. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health, but it also has some implications for her portfolio of Social Security. Has the Government noted a report in last Monday's Melbourne  Age  of what is said to be definitive research of the Harvard University research team covering more than 2,000 children over three years? This report says that lead in the body, even in relatively low amounts, causes 'mental deficits' in young children- specifically, lower IQs and more classroom behaviour problems. Will the Government make its own investigation of this important research study, especially its reported assertions that lead in the body ranks after only nutritional problems and accidents as a child health hazard? If the Government agrees that the conclusions of the report are substantially correct, will it take urgent measures to reduce the lead content in Australian petrol? 
-The Australian Democrats are concerned about the Great Barrier Reef in relation to this question of oil drilling. We believe that the Australian community also is concerned and is becoming increasingly concerned, perhaps more so than ever before in our history, and with good reason. The Australian Democrats are concerned because there are those in our community who are trying to appeal to the Australian society on several dishonest levels. The first such level says, in effect, that if we do not drill the reef, and soon, we will not have petrol to run our cars. That has actually been said in the Press. As I said a few minutes ago, this is not only put at the lowest possible level of greed, selfishness and sheer philistinism, but it is also specious and untrue. We do have plenty of options open to us in this society to keep our traffic moving. It is only a matter of honestly facing up to those problems and laying down an energy policy involving the use of fuel alcohol, electric cars, natural gas, the condensate from gas, and perhaps at some stage oil from coal or shale, and we can guarantee into the indefinite future the traffic mobility that we need to keep our society reasonably prosperous in our nation of such great distances. The Australian Democrats commend the Government for the action it is beginning to take in this regard, particularly the action concerning the use of alcohol supplements to fuel. Drilling the reef would not solve the problem of motor spirit. At best it might only delay the problem a few years, and so exacerbate it. As I hope to demonstrate, that would be achieved at appalling cost to our society. 
The other thing I want to say is that the best professional assessment of oil on the reef area that I have seen to date is that the possibilities are poor to fair. On tests made so far, it would appear that  there is  probably no considerable amount of oil on the reef. It would have to be a very considerable resource, would it not, to be commercial, because of the much greater safeguards which would be needed in that area if the reef were to be developed and drilled for oil. 
That brings me to my second point: Is it really worth it in cold economic terms- not aesthetically, not morally, although naturally the Australian Democrats support those values above all in this matter, but in sheer money terms? Of course not. 
In reply to those interjections I will say that I meant exactly what I said. I think I must say to  Senator Puplick  that moral and aesthetic values are held by many Australians. But I think it is also necessary to examine this matter in sheer money terms. The reef is a natural asset of world importance with sporting, fishing and tourist facilities. It has the potential to be probably the most important tourist attraction in the world, without any exception. It is a place to which hopefully in the future when people have more leisure, hundreds of thousands of people would be glad to come. I believe that this potential alone, intelligently, conservationally and carefully exploited, would be worth very much more than any oil which may be taken out of it in the meantime, and for very much longer. I emphasise that point. The oil, if it is there, would be useful for only a short time. As I have said, it can be readily replaced by other fuels, if we can get ourselves together sufficiently and find those alternatives. We would be a poor, weak people, would we not, if we could not do that with our natural advantages, if we were to say to ourselves that we have no alternative but to rip out what future generations may need, that we will not even try to do without this oil, that we are prepared to devastate natural resources just because we want it now, like a child wanting a toy. 
Those people who accept the specious words being fed to us- and fed to us, it must be said, by the oil industry itself- that oil from the Great Barrier Reef might solve our future energy problems, are whistling in the dark. The oil industry says, and its political supporters confirm, that we could drill not actually the reef itself but other places in the reef region, without damaging the reef. They say: 'Trust us, and everything will be fine'. But is this really so? I suggest it is not so, and here is the true importance and true significance of the sincere pledge that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has made. 
The policy of the Australian Conservation Foundation, supported by the Australian Democrats, is that the entire continental shelf waters, from the Queensland coast to the outer extremities of the reef, are an intimately associated natural system. If we meddle with any part of it we stand a grave risk of damaging the reef itself. I am not making that assertion myself. In support of it, I should like to quote some highly respected authorities on this matter. I quote first a letter written by Professor F. H. Talbot, President of the Great Barrier Reef Committee and Director of the Centre for Environmental Studies, Macquarie University, to the  Sydney Morning Herald.  The letter reads: 

 Sir, Recently a number of politicians have talked of never drilling the corals of the Great Barrier Reef, but of drilling its waters. This is a misconception. 
The waters that flow between the reefs carry essentially drifting planktonic food to the corals and carry nutrients to the plants. They also transport the eggs and larvae of fishes, coral and other reef animals for an important part of their life. 
The Great Barrier Reef includes both the reef itself, its coral and its waters - 
I commend these next words in particular to honourable senators: and if these waters are drilled the reef itself is being drilled. From recent overseas spills we also now know that oil kills and deforms eggs and larvae. 
Drilling the reef may result in a rather doubtful short term oilfield. The alternative is the declaration of the greatest marine park on earth. 
I quote next  Sir Maurice  Yonge, the world 's veteran authority on the Great Barrier Reef. This is a letter from  Sir Maurice  to the  Sydney Morning Herald,  a fine newspaper: 
The Great Barrier Reef is the most important and biggest reef structure in the world. lt is a very elaborate and complicated ecological system. 
No one can predict what could be the results on the reef of a major oil spillage. 
The possibilities are that the whole reef could be killed or that sections of it could be seriously damaged for many years. 
The damage to one reef near an oil spillage would affect the whole reef system because of the biological interconnection. 
In contrast, I should like to quote a comment by that noted conservationist, the Queensland Minister for Mines and Energy,  Mr Camm.  It states: 
The Great Barrier Reef area represents only a small fraction of the region over which petroleum exploration rights are being considered the Queensland Minister for Mines and Energy,  Mr Camm,  said yesterday. 
He told Parliament he would have further talks with the companies concerned and the Federal Government to determine future exploration in the Reef area. 
This would be done so that no harm would occur to the coral reefs themselves. 
Honourable senators will notice how different is the view of this Queensland politician from the expert opinions I have earlier quoted, opinions of those who really know and have the interest of the reef at heart. I quote now from the Melbourne  Age  of May 2 1 , a comment by  Mr David  McGarry, Senior Vice-President of the Australian Petroleum Exploration Society. At least  Mr McGarry  is a little more honest than  Mr Camm.  The comment reads: 

 Mr McGarry would not rule out the possibility of an accident during production if oil was found in reef waters. 
But companies working on the reef would be very careful because of the cost of cleaning up after spills. 

 Mr President, anyone who has seen the reef, its vast areas of shallow water often exposing the coral at low tide, knows that nothing bigger than a row boat could get into much of that vast complex. Granted all the money in the world, once the oil had drifted across the reef area, there is no way it could be cleaned up except by dropping detergent on it from the air, thereby sinking the tarry deposit and causing immediate coral damage. Any oil not cleared up would be deposited on vast areas of living coral at the next low tide. I repeat, there is no one who can guarantee or even reasonably promise to keep an oil spill originating anywhere on the continental shelf within the reef from damaging the reef. Hence the Australian Democrats find the Prime Minister's assurances very welcome. But what would be the chance of oil spills or other damage from drilling? It would be very considerable. This area is subject regularly to cyclonic storms. That means that whatever oil platform is erected, or whatever structure is erected, would be subject to damage. I have heard this matter discussed before, but I have never heard any convincing answer to the point. But the oilmen tell us there will not be any trouble. How much of this can we believe? I am indebted to a good friend,  Dr Norman  K. Sanders, who was with the Department of Geography at the University of California, at Santa Barbara,  Dr Sanders  had occasion to put a submission before the Assembly Planning and Land Use Committee of the State of California on the environmental costs and benefits of off-shore oil drilling. He stated, among other things: 
The oil companies have issued repeated assurances through the years that they have solved their pollution problems, but the record indicates otherwise. We in Santa Barbara received reassuring words before our disastrous 1 969 blowout which poured 3,500,000 gallons of crude oil on to our beaches. The residents of the shores of the Gulf of Mexico were told not to worry, that modern technology was fail-safe' and then in 1970 had to watch in horror as a Chevron Oil Company platform caught fire and burned out of control. When dynamite finally killed the fire, oil continued  to spill into the sea Tor an additional 2 1 days until its flow was stopped. After another flurry of press releases about advanced oilfield technology, a 22-well Shell Oil Company platform in the same region blew up in 1971. It took four months to stem the flow of oil- a process which cost four lives and $36,000,000. 
I will continue to quote from this admirable report.  Dr Sanders  continues: 
The Special Legislature Commission on Marine Boundaries and Resources of the Massachusetts State Senate's report on offshore drilling is interesting. The Commission strongly recommended that the Commonwealth of Massachusetts oppose all phases of offshore oil development until a number of conditions are met, including waiting 'until blow-out and spill prevention technology have sufficiently improved to be clearly fail-safe and until oil spill technology can adequately cope with an ocean spill in adverse seas and weather conditions so as not to cause any damage to the marine environment and public health from its own effects. ' The Commission also found that 'American corporate oil interests have a serious detrimental influence on government resource management decisions and regulation, both through direct political influence and by partial, if not complete, corporate monopolization of alternative energy sources, e.g. gas, coal, and nuclear fuels. ' 

 Dr Sanders continued: 
Specific hazards attend every phase of offshore oil exploration, production and transportation. During the exploration phase, test wells are drilled into unknown geological structures from portable rigs. High potential exists for blowouts during this operation, especially in deeper water. If oil is encountered during the exploratory drilling operation, it is ignited and burned in a flaring device. Sometimes, however, the oil is simply dumped on the surface of the sea. When the test data is obtained, the exploratory holes are supposed to be capped. In the Santa Barbara area, considerable oil spills to the surface from inadequately capped test wells. 
When exploration establishes the presence of oil, platforms are installed and more holes drilled. These wells are also subject to blowouts and furnish further pollution through accidental or intentional oil and mud discharge and dumping of acids used for increasing the flow of oil through the production zones. In addition, fire hazard can be great on oil rigs as shown by the Shell and Standard disasters in the Gulf of Mexico and two major fires in the Santa Barbara Channel. One fire destroyed 22 wells on a Mobil Oil pier near Santa Barbara and the other caused an estimated $1,000,000 damage to a 12-well Standard Oil platform offshore. 

 Mr President, I think that those matters are highly relevant to what we are discussing today. After all, we are discussing fundamentally whether the Queensland Government's attitude that it is perfectly all right to drill for oil on the Great Barrier Reef region is justified and whether the Queensland Government should be allowed jurisdiction. I believe that, having made those points, I have said enough to question seriously the credibility of those people, including those people in the Queensland Government, who have said: 'We we can drill the reef area and cause no damage to the reef itself. In a way, I can understand the attitude of foreign oil men who, after all, are interested in running their businesses. But it should be our responsibility to protect our assets- not theirs. We should not leave it to them. It is a matter of reassurance to the Australian Democrats that the Prime Minister has given the guarantee he has against the remotest possibility - 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I should like to refer briefly to chapter 7, 'The Present Situation at Maralinga' which appears at page 1 7. The report, although fairly recent, is a little out of date; it was published in January 1979. However, certain statements made on pages 16 and 17 do give cause for concern about the present state of plutonium deposits at risk at Maralinga. I ask the Government whether it can give some assurances in that regard. Under the section 'Burial pits', the following appears: 
Nevertheless, the situation at present is unsatisfactory in one respect. . . . The airfield pit which contains 500 of plutonium, dispersed in about 1 tonne of salt in six steel drums, is covered only by a steel plate and a metre or so of soil. Its contents are accessible and, for that reason, unsafe even though a sensible person would not wish to interfere with them. Moreover, the security fence at this cemetery . . . has been removed. 
Later, in chapter 8 at page 19 the report states, under the heading, 'The Future at Maralinga ': 
If some action is taken to remove or secure the retrievable plutonium at the airfield cemetery, and to make secure pits containing substantial amounts of cobalt-60, the same statement can be made about that burial area. 
That statement relates to diminishing risk. Meanwhile, it appears that there may be at Maralinga a deposit of 500 grams of plutonium, a very considerable amount, which is not at present secure. Although the report states on the same page that the risk will diminish in the future we must bear in mind that the half-life of plutonium is some 24,400 years; so we are looking a long way into the future for that risk to diminish. 
At page 16 in a comment under 'Risk from Dispersed Plutonium', the writer of the report hedges his bets pretty closely. He states: 
Calculations on this basis, with cautious assumptions on local meteorological conditions, indicate that, under natural conditions, resuspended dust will very rarely, if ever, present a plutonium hazard. 
A fact that is well known is that plutonium in the form of dust in minute amounts is a very ready creator of lung cancer. I would like also to draw that matter to the attention of the Government. The Australian Democrats are particularly interested in the fact that certain plutonium at Maralinga is stored in salt in steel drums and covered by only a steel plate and a metre or so of soil. We ask: Is that still the case? If so, can someone clean it up pretty quickly? 
-At this stage it is essential to try to persuade Government senators about the sense of priorities that they ought to exercise in our society. Here we have a situation in which Government senators are forcing over a million people in our society into a state of greater and greater deprivation. I have been approached by ordinary, decent Australians who have worked all their lives and who now say that they cannot afford three decent meals a day. Most of them can afford one decent meal a day. The time of the Senate should be exercised on a social sore of this type that is being perpetuated by this Government. The Government stubbornly refuses to do anything about it although it knows about it. All Government senators have spoken to pensioners who have come to this place from all over Australia and who have tried to get through to them the nature of the indignity to which the Government is subjecting the elderly people in our society. 
The Australian Democrats did not bring forward this Bill as a piece of politicking. We are not pressing it now for a political reason. Government senators know as well as we do that they are doing the wrong thing. It is time they admitted it. The policy of the Australian Democrats is for quarterly indexation of pensions. I conclude by referring to an article in the  Sun-Herald  on 7 December 1975 entitled 'Fraser Gives Firm Pledge on Penions '. It states: 
The Prime Minister,  Mr Fraser,  today gave a firm undertaking that pensions would be adjusted automatically twice a year. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Education and seeks to draw his urgent attention to the growing graduate brain drain out of Australia as a result of the Government's attitude towards post-graduate research grants. Can the Minister explain the cutbacks in the number of Commonwealth postgraduate awards from 875 in 1975 to 680 in 1979? Has there been a severe deterioration in the value of the grants, due partly to the eroding effect of inflation which has brought some of Australia's most useful and enthusiastic research workers virtually down to the poverty line? In view of the relatively small amounts of money necessary to remedy this situation, will the Government consider reasonable increases in the amount of these grants to apply as soon as possible? 
My question, like that asked by  Senator Gietzelt,  relates to the serious effects that lead levels in petrol appear to be having on the health of Australian children. In view of recent statements in the media attributed to the petroleum industry that it would cost more than 5c a litre to reduce existing lead levels and a counter claim by Professor Lloyd Smythe, Professor of Analytical Chemistry at the University of New South Wales, that it would cost less than lc a litre, will the Minister for Science and the Environment ask his Department to research this matter, inform the Senate of the result and issue an informed public statement as soon as possible? 
The Bill that the Senate is discussing is designed to allow the Australian Atomic Energy Commission to borrow money so that it may enter into a partnership with Peko Mines Ltd and Electrolytic Zinc Company of Australasia Ltd in the Ranger uranium project. We of the Australian Democrats have the gravest doubts about the viability of the nuclear power industry. Indeed, our policy is to oppose the mining and export of Australian uranium because we believe, after considering as many aspects of it as we can find, that nuclear power, as an industry, is pollutant, dangerous and uneconomic. If at some time it ceases to be those things, and that can be proved and demonstrated to us, we will reconsider the situation as, we would hope, would any reasonable person. 
In the foreseeable future, the Australian Democrats see few glimmerings of improvement on the horizon; rather, with incidents such as occurred at Harrisburg, we see more problems ahead for the nuclear industry. However, generally we support the amendment proposed by the Australian Labor Party. We would like to see a sensible division of powers, because of the changing circumstances in which the Australian Atomic Energy Commission now operates. 
The point that I want to make particularly is that if we are to have such an industry, and if, regardless of the warnings that the Government should be getting- if it has any sensitivity- from all over the world, it persists in its folly of persevering with this industry, we must ask: Will it be a sound business undertaking if the Government is indeed to be involved? Presumably the Bill is designed to see that it will be a sound business undertaking, so I think it is worth while asking whether the Commission is a sound organisation from a business point of view. I question this. In doing so, I do not question the ability of the officers and staff of the Commission at any level. There are, as we all know, some extremely able and intelligent people working at the Commission. The concern of the Australian Democrats is with the policy of the Government. There appears to be a deliberate Government policy designed to make the operations of the Commission in the commercial field uneconomic. 
During a recent visit to the Commission's establishment at Lucas Heights I asked a question about the cost of consultancy there. I was toldand I want honourable senators to note the figure particularly- that the cost was $ 1 8 an hour. This means that a wide range of services in the most sophisticated type of chemistry imaginable, including isotope analyses, plus the use of the most complex and expensive equipment, is freely available to industry- especially the mining industry- at a cost which is lower than most of us would have to pay to a plumber or motor mechanic. A good solicitor charges $60 an hour for his services; a barrister charges $120 an hour and upwards. I repeat that the Atomic Energy Commission's charge of $18 an hour is an imposition on the taxpayers of this country. 
One way or another, the community foots the bill for this policy. Pensioners foot the bill. While this extravagant subsidy continues to be applied in areas of society that could well afford to pay a fair market price for the services being provided, research scholars, students, the unemployed and the aged are forced down below the poverty level. I think it is worth making the point quite plainly that the equation is perfect. If we take money away from one part of a society and give it to another, that is exactly the same as taking the money directly out of the pocket of one person and giving it to somebody else. The fact that the money is, one might say, laundered through the Government does not make that statement any less true. 
At the end of my visit to the Atomic Energy Commission, at the public briefing that is commonly held at these public relations sessions, I asked whether in fact this figure was an accurate one. I could not get a direct reply on the actual charges, although I have since confirmed that figure of $ 1 8. In doing so I also got an expert opinion that $18 an hour would probably not be enough to cover just the cost of amortising the equipment being used, much less paying anything towards the costs of maintaining those people and paying their salaries. However, it was stated at that briefing that the Commission charged these low figures for its services because it was considered that the benefits would flow back to society through assistance to industry. That is what the Australian Democrats mean in this case about Government policy. I simply cannot believe that the Atomic Energy Commission would have the temerity to introduce such a policy itself. I invite honourable senators to consider the situation that would result from an extension of this policy. We should consider what would happen if all industries in Australia were provided with sophisticated services of this kind at a quarter of a reasonable figure, or perhaps even less than a quarter in view of what is being charged by some other reputable research and chemical testing organisations in private industry. It is almost a Gilbert and Sullivan type of situation, or it would be if it were not so tragic. The nation would go bankrupt if that sort of situation continued throughout the whole strata of our business and society. 
I turn to the 1977-78 annual report of the Atomic Energy Commission. I see that the overall allocation to the Commission was $22,800,000. Receipts for analytical chemistry and isotope operations amounted to $1,495,737 and receipts for further miscellaneous operations amounted to $335,738, giving a total of just under $2m. This revenue was, of course, derived substantially from the kind of operations that we have been discussing, the charges for which I am now bringing to the attention of the Senate. I would say that it is a fair assumption that on reasonable prices for the expert services and sophisticated equipment involved, the Commission ought to have earned at least another $1.5m to $2m and probably a great deal more. Industry pays other major analytical enterprises, such as Amdel in South Australia, reasonable prices which are justifiable in the market place. My query is as to why it does not pay those prices to the Atomic Energy Commission and why the Government allows that situation to continue, then comes to us and wants us to approve the Atomic Energy Commission's entering into another big business enterprise. 
Even another $lm in earnings by the Commission could have meant getting our postgraduate research scholars, on whom the future of science in this country depends so much, out of the position they are in now. A married scholar with two children is also below the poverty line in spite of the important and responsible work he does. The Government pays him the princely allowance of $120.76 a week. He has to provide transport, clothing and all the other things that an actual working career makes necessary. I invite the Senate to consider a comparison of the income of $120 a week with the income of $103 of a man with the same family responsibilities who is on the dole. It is probably worth while for a research scholar to toss in his hand, not do his work and go on the dole. He would be better off. This is a result, I might say, of the Government's insistence on subsidising industry which is perfectly able to pay for things and taking away from people like those scholars and others in the society who should be doing a great deal better. 
I ask the Government to look hard at its priorities and to try to straighten out this matter before it comes to the Senate and asks it to approve the Atomic Energy Commission 's entering into other business undertakings. I must, of course, consider the possibility that the Government provides these chemical and forensic services at very low cost to popularise the Australian Atomic Energy Commission, to make it seem a very busy organisation with its services very much in demand. That attitude, I suggest, would be equally subject to criticism. I personally do not believe that that is the case. I fail to see how the Government could be so cynical as to exploit other areas of society to that end. 
Is this strange Alice-in- Wonderland type of financial thinking, which is so costly to the hardearned tax dollar, to be carried forward into the Ranger partnership? If this is to be another blatant Government subsidising of what is quite likely to turn out to be an uneconomic industry, where will this get the country? Is that industry going to be a safe one? Will it be able to be an economic industry if the true costs are brought to light? I suggest that this is another reason for the facts which I am now presenting to the Senate. If the Government is going to enter that enterprise and provide services at appallingly low costs which the taxpayer will bear, that industry will not be economic. I suggest to honourable senators that that is something at which we should continue to look in the future. 
I turn my attention to another aspect of the Australian Atomic Energy Commission which seems uneconomic. That is the use of very good, trained minds for relatively small and, indeed, at times puny operations. I am not going to apologise for the apparently frivolous matter that I am bringing up because it very much relates to the point that I am trying to make. When I visited the Atomic Energy Commission I was told, for instance, that a complex and delicate chemical analysis of three pubic hairs was carried out to obtain evidence for a rape case. Apparently in this case the evidence was negative but the assailant confessed anyway. I imagine that in some cases this forensic work could justify the use of the sophisticated and expensive equipment and expert minds of the AEC but I believe that it should not ordinarily be a prime concern of the Commission or of a body of that kind. I ask: Just how much of this forensic work is being done, how consequential is it, for whom is it being done and what charges are being made for it, if any? 
I wish also to raise the broader issue of the ineffective use of highly qualified minds at Lucas Heights. I refer to such people as statisticians, mathematicians and others who are, I understand from the senior officers there, not fully employed. Those people are great assets to this country. Their minds should be engaged in working on important problems all the time. I think any concept that they should be put out to pasture is a false one. Because of that, the Australian Democrats would like to see the Atomic Energy Commission transformed into an energy department so that the expert people it employs who are not specialist particles physicists can devote their efforts to other sources of energy that, although we have made some important startsand I must give the Government credit for that- we are still substantially neglecting in this country. The whole situation is unfair to the staff and officers of the Commission as it exists at present. I think that is a major criticism of any attempt to use the existing organisation to move even further into new enterprises. 
I think it is also unfair that the Commission should appear to be so much a propagandist for nuclear power. I refer to its guided tours, its propaganda kits, its issues and its general public relations operation. I do not think that it will be news to the Government that a large number of officers at Lucas Heights resent very bitterly their being forced into this role. I believe that it is wrong, in a country which is so divided and in a world which is so divided on the subject of nuclear power, that the Commission and its staff, to which every taxpayer contributes, should be called on to carry out a partisan role. I noted in the annual report to which I referred, that $34,885 was spent on information services. But this did not include staff and establishment for which large additional costs would be incurred. The annual report states: 
. more than 140 overseas and Australian titles are now held in the Commission's Film Lending Libraries at head office, Coogee, NSW. 
Some 800 requests for film loans were received by the Commission in 1977-78. Some 16,800 visitors went to Lucas Heights on public tours in that year. To meet the continuing demand for factual information on nuclear subjects, Commission staff again responded to some 200 requests for talks to groups and organisations during the year. I am informed that the Commission sends letters to organisations such as Rotary and Apex asking them to invite speakers from the Commission to address them. The letter states in part that the idea is to disseminate knowledge without promoting its use or taking sides on issues surrounding it', but having heard some of the speakers I dispute that that in effect is the result. 
The Australian Democrats do not wish to go against government legislation unthinkingly or without any consideration, but we believe that the Government has got itself into a jam in this area. I hope that some of the points I raised will be looked at. I think it is a gross imposition on taxpayers that an industry like the mining industry, much of which is overseas owned, should be subsidised so blatantly and extensively by a government instrumentality to the disadvantage of the ordinary people of this country. The Australian Democrats for those reasons support the amendment. 
In the view of the Australian Democrats the Commonwealth Government Employees (Retirement and Redeployment) Amendment Bill 1979 could have been a good Bill. It might even get to be a good Bill yet if the Government takes the attitude of listening to the proper and reasoned criticisms that we have heard here tonight. I believe that it is a cause of concern that the Government does tend to regard this sort of controversial social legislation as something that they can bulldoze through, as if it is a matter for political advantage taking and numbers rather than the sort of consultation and reasonable consensus that this Parliament ought properly to provide since everyone of us here after all has been elected by Australians to this place. I am referring, of course, to its attitude to the the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation Bill, which hopefully will change in the other place, although I doubt it. 
The Bill we are discussing now is the first hesitant step into areas which are necessary to our society. I would have thought that the Government would have realised that because this is so it should move a little gently rather than barging through with all the tact and lack of discrimination of a Sherman tank. In other words, this Bill can be applauded because it is a beginning to certain things that the Australian Democrats, at lest, have been saying for 18 months. We have got to have work sharing in our society, we have got to have earlier retirement, we have got to have a situation where people who just want to keep the seat warm can be allowed to get out on reasonable terms. I think there are extensions beyond what is in this Bill now, such as shorter working weeks, perhaps shared jobs, which is implied in this Bill. I would have hoped that these things would have persuaded this Government to adopt a more reasonable point of view. Perhaps it will, even now. So the Australian Democrats agree basically with some of the principles in this Bill, certainly voluntary early retirement, which we think could well be extended to the rest of the community. 
A point that needs to be made is that early retirement is experimental. If it works well in the Public Service it might be better considered by the community, which does not like change. The community will, of course, have to accept social change for the next decade or so. That is the reason why I think that every care should be taken in the drafting of this Bill to see that the human aspects are taken fully into account. There are substantial numbers of people who would like to retire early and there are substantial numbers of people who would like to work less, perhaps even for less money. I think they have to be encouraged in that point of view. 
We do not like this management initiated retirements. We realise that there will have to be procedures which will allow the Commonwealth to remove redundant areas of the Public Service. I think it has to be recognised that those areas are not necessarily redundant because of the people who are working in them, but because those people are implementing some course of action or some area of activity which is no longer relevant to society. I think the Government, in its publicity for the Bill, has ignored almost completely that reasonable point of view which it could well have put forward. When it is felt necessary to retrain or redeploy people in the Public Service, this is not any fault of their own. They should not necessarily be treated as mendicants, but as people who should have these privileges of redeployment and retraining by right. I think this is the sort of attitude which is lacking in this Bill now. One would hope to see it come in as time goes on. 
At the moment we would agree that management initiated retirement tends to look ven much unpleasantly like retrenchment, and once that word retrenchment gets around people will get gut feelings and will resist it. So here we have the Government bringing in this important social legislation, a harbinger for the future, we would hope, with all the subtlety of a Sherman tank and with no apparent appreciation of the sensibilities of the people in this country. It seems to have forgotten that the people in this country are a series of individuals- I take this chance to remind it of that- and not necessarily just a group of voters either. 
This Bill unfortunately does one thing which, I think, has not yet been mentioned. It brings about the passing, permanently in Australia, of traditional apects of the Public Service. I suppose the Government has taken this into account. The old idea was that the Public Service was a place where people could work, a career that they would pursue for the rest of their lives, a steady job that they would do not necessarily only for reward, and that was an honourable concept of the past. I hope the Government has appreciated the fact that with this Bill they have destroyed that in Australia forever. I think this loss of permanence also will mean that we will not get as good people in the Public Service as we might otherwise have done. One of the attractions of certain areas of the Public Service for individuals has been this idea that it is a permanent career that they can pursue. That is now going. Many times in the past the independence of the Public Service has been an important bulwark against the hasty or politically motivated actions of an Executive. That again is something which this Bill proposes to sacrifice. 
The Australian Democrats feel a particular concern, as others do, about clause 7 (1) (b) (iii). That has already been covered. Our views are those which have been expressed by  Senator Evans  and others. I will not be tedious by repeating them. We are also concerned about the comment made by the Australian Government Lawyers Association that 'as clause 8 stands, it would give the Public Service Board wide power to single out employees by name or by description'. This situation could be made worse by the operation of clause 6, which would allow particular employees to be exempted. This could open the way for an otherwise general set of redeployment criteria to be aimed at particular persons or groups. I am aware that this is not a particularly original thought, but I am repeating it because I think it is something that the Government ought to take into account when it gets around to redrafting this Bill, as I hope it does. We see some validity here in comparisons which have been drawn with the United States Administration in the Nixon era. There was success in weeding out public servants whose advice was independent and unpalatable, with disastrous results for the Administration as well as for the nation. 
We have noted  Senator Harradine  's points in relation to parliamentary staff in his Press release of 2 1 May. He made his points well and they are in  Hansard.  We agree with them and I will not repeat them. I agree with those speakers who have said that the appeal provisions are inadequate and contain quite unfair anomalies which those who drafted the Bill do not seem to have thought about. This question of appeal is, I think, a classic example of how the Government, or whoever drafted the Bill, has not realised that they are dealing with human beings. They might have been dealing with pigs or wall clocks or something like that for all the sensitivity that is displayed here. There again, I think  Senator Evans  and others have described eloquently the unpleasant circumstances which are involved in this appeal procedure. 
One would have hoped that the Government, by introducing this legislation, was attempting to have an efficient Public Seivice. This surely is what the rules of the game are for. I can assure the Government that with this appeals provision it is going a long, long way along the road to having a thoroughly discontented, unhappy Public Service, where one man is against another, and one woman is against another, and where the main concentration will be on how to get the other guy rather than do your work efficiently. If that point has not struck the Government yet it has less intelligence than I give it credit for. 
It is straight career assassination. Any of us who have been in the Public Service know that there is enough of that in it now. The Government is exacerbating that with this Bill and this illustrates a deplorable lack of any kind of sensitivity. 
No, I am not surprised, not after the amazing scenes we had in the Committee stage of the debate on the ASIO Bill. I noted with interest that the Young Liberals in Victoria, perhaps the younger members of the Liberal Party who will inherit that party and may bring it back from conservative to liberal again, have also commented on the ASIO Bill. I was delighted to see that but it is not relevant to this Bill. This legislation will probably also create, if it goes ahead, a complete United States style politicised Public Service. I do not think I have to spell out that point. If the Government has not seen that either it is time it did a little reading on American history. Then it will see what it might do about that matter. 
We have no very original thoughts to bring to bear on what action the Government should take. We think the Bill should be redrafted. I tend to agree with  Senator Harradine  's view. We would support his amendment, if it ever gets off the ground, that the Government should withdraw the Bill, anticipate the future- it is what the future will bring- and refer it as every other important piece of legislation should be referred, to a standing committee of the Senate, to wit, the Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs, for examination so at least it can get it right. 
Yes, I second the motion. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Veterans' Affairs, upon notice, on 23 May 1979: 
1 ) Has there been any evidence in Australia of illness or suspected illness of Australian ex-servicemen as a consequence of exposure to 2,4,5-T in the form of Agent Orange in Vietnam; if so: (a) what are the details; and (b) what are the symptoms complained of. 
Have there been any cases of illness that, in the opinion of doctors working within or for the Minister's Department, could definitely be associated with 2,4,5-T exposure in Vietnam; if so: (a) how many cases; and (b) what type of illness. 
Does the Minister's Department have any knowledge of reports of: (a) birth defects; or (b) spontaneous abortion, of offspring of Vietnam veterans which those veterans believe to be associated with 2,4,5-T exposure; if so, how many reports have come to the knowledge of the Department. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Home Affairs, upon notice, on 27 March 1979: 
1 ) Are all vehicle owners in the Territory of Christmas Island required to have third party property damage cover in addition to third party personal injury cover under Ordinance 1 of 1979 to amend the Motor Traffic Ordinance of 1978. 
Are vehicle owners of New South Wales required under that State 's legislation to have the same cover. 
What representations, and from which insurance companies, influenced the Minister to implement the Ordinance. 
Would the Minister be prepared to consider, with Cabinet, a Commonwealth-State Joint Study into the feasibility of the introduction of such legislation covering compulsory third party property damage cover in the mainland States and Territories of Australia. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 28 March 1979: 
1 ) Who represented New South Wales in the Joint Study Group on Raw Materials Processing in its second meeting in Sydney recently, to which the Minister referred in a joint statement with the Ministers for Trade and Resources and Industry and Commerce on 15 March 1979. 
) What were their respective affiliations. 
Were these representatives present at the Group's meeting in November 1978; if not, who were present, and what were their respective affiliations. 
Would the Minister representing the Prime Minister and the Treasurer agree that the report presented yesterday, entitled 'Employment Prospects by Industry and Occupation', makes depressing reading, accentuating, as it does, the decreasing job opportunities over the next few years for school leavers and for most graduates? As a kind of eleventh hour appeal, I ask: Will the Government now recognise the appalling economic and social costs of major unemployment to this country? Will it give a high priority in the Budget to a comprehensive and realistic program to encourage work-sharing, optional earlier retirement and other similar measures throughout the work force that might reduce unemployment in both the short and long term, and permit that program to be freely debated here? 
-by leave-  Mr President,  I wish to make a personal explanation. I feel I was misrepresented this morning by the Minister for Science and the Environment  (Senator Webster)  in his reply at the end of Question Time to a question I asked on Wednesday last. In the course of that reply the Minister also misled the Senate. I raise this matter today because our proceedings are being broadcast and the issue in question is of great importance to the listening audience and, indeed, to the public at large. Furthermore, my veracity has been questioned. The question I asked is in  Hansard  of 6 June and states: 
My question, like that asked by  Senator Gietzelt,  relates to the serious effects that lead levels in petrol appear to be having on thehealth of Australian children. In view of recent statements in the media attributed to the petroleum industry that it would cost more than5c a litre to reduce existing lead levels and a counter claim by Professor Lloyd Smythe, Professor of Analytical Chemistry at the University of New South Wales, that it would cost less than1c a litre, will the Minister for Science and the Environment ask his Department to research this matter, inform the Senate of the result and issue an informed public statement as soon as possible? 
This question was taken on notice and I stress to honourable senators that the reference in my question was to 'recent statements in the media'. This morning the Minister for Science and the Environment  (Senator Webster)  stated in his reply that the actual figure referred to by the industry was5c a gallon, not 5c a litre, hence there was no cause for disagreement, 5c a gallon being roughly1c a litre. This clearly imputed that I had misled the Senate in the terms of my question, either deliberately or through carelessness. As a result, I will quote from an article which appeared in the  Sydney Morning Herald  on 5 June and which referred to a report concerning Professor Lloyd Smythe and  Dr Freeman  of the 
Department of Pediatrics, Prince of Wales Hospital. The article states: 
The two disputed a claim by a petroleum industry spokesman on Friday that removing lead from petrol could raise petrol costs by5c a litre because more refining would be needed. 
I stress the word litre. The article continues: 
Professor Smythe said a chemical engineer from Union Carbide had said the cost could be less than1ca litre. 
Since this morning both I and the  Sydney Morning Herald  have carefully checked this matter. In fact, the statement made, as stated last Friday, referred to 5c a litre, not 5c a gallon as stated by the Minister this morning. I may say that I have checked that statement back to its highly reputable source. This matter is very important because of the effect on the health of children. It seems to me strange that the Department of Science and the Environment should presumably have advised the Minister to answer the question in the way he did. I have been here all week and I also feel it was less than fair to me that the Minister did not check this matter with me before he delivered the answer he did this morning knowing full well that his answer was being broadcast. This imputed quite baldly that I was careless or inaccurate and that the  Sydney Morning Herald,  from which I obtained the information, was also one or both of those things. 
Finally, accuracy in this matter is vital. It is obviously very important to the public whether they will have to pay 5c a litre more or lc a litre more for petrol that does not harm the health of as many as 20 per cent of all children in our cities. I quote again from the result of Professor Smythe 's survey. It states: 
At Gardeners Road Primary School, Mascot - 
In my State-  about 20 per cent of the children were above this level. 

 Dr Freeman's statement said that 1 1.5 per cent of the children tested had lead levels above the maximum recommended levels set. I personally believe it to be wrong that this matter should be judged on economic grounds at all. I do not think that health hazards - 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 22 May 1979: 
What has been: (a) the consumption of rockets and missiles, by type, used in practice by the F 1 1 1 aircraft of the Royal Australian Air Force ( RAAF) in each year from 1 976 to 1978; and (b) the average number fired per FI 1 1 pilot per year. 
) How many (a) rockets and missiles were fired between 1 November 1978 and 30 April 1979; (b) Fill pilots in the RAAF have had actual experience in firing rockets and missiles; and (c) F 1 1 1 pilots are there in the RAAF. 
I present the following petition from 1 63  citizens ofAustralia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled the petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That restoration of provisions of the Social Security Act that applied prior to the 1 978-79 Budget is of vital concern to offset the rising cost of goods and services. 
The reason advanced by the Government for yearly payments "that the lower level of inflation made twice-yearly payments inappropriate"is not valid. 
Great injury will be caused to 920,000 aged, invalid, widows and supporting parents, who rely solely on the pension or whose income, other than the pension, is $6 or less per week. Once-a-year payments strike a cruel blow to their expectation and make a mockery of a solemn election pledge. 
Accordingly, your petitioners call upon their legislators to: 
Restore twice-yearly pension adjustments in the Autumn session. 
Raise pension and unemployed benefits above the poverty level to 30 per cent of average weekly earnings. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
-by leave- I rise to refer briefly to this matter now because I am a little concerned, in view of recent international events such as the Mexican oil spill, about the text of the statement of the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)-  a view expressed also by honourable senators, particularly in the last session during the debate on the Great Barrier Reef- that somehow nothing is going to happen for the oil industry has reached a stage of technology where it is impossible for there to be major spills, wells can be capped and other measures taken to clean up or prevent a spill from becoming dangerous. In that regard I can only support the statement of  Senator Mulvihill  that a sort of 'in-God-we-trust' attitude is not good enough. Such an attitude is reflected in the Minister's statement, when he says:   . . although the possibility exists of large scale pollution from shipping, off-shore operations or land installations, experience has shown that the risk factors are extremely low. This is due to the low density of shipping around Australia and to the operating procedures followed on off-shore platforms and at shore installations. 
When one reads the proceedings of overseas parliaments, and other organisations, including that of the California legislature, in regard to this matter, those words have a very familiar ring. The view has always been that it will not happen here. What we have to consider is what we will do if it does happen here. 
When we come back to questions of oil drilling in certain parts of the Australian off-shore waters, surely we must go further than generalities and deal with specific matters. For instance, I would hope, as the Minister has mentioned, that one of the recommendations that will be carried through- the monitoring of international developments- will include a careful study of the history of major oil spills throughout the world in recent years and, further, that such information will then be collated and considered within the context of Australian weather, tidal and geographic patterns, because experience has shown that measures which can be taken to prevent or control oil spills differ greatly in different geographic situations. One would hope that, particularly if there is to be any question of oil exploration on, or exploitation of, the Great Barrier Reef, there should be prepared through this mechanism which the Government has provided- the monitoring of international developments- a specific model, available to the Australian people and to this Parliament, as to exactly what would happen if there were a major oil spill in areas of the Great Barrier Reef in which there are proposals to drill. I believe that once we have this information we will be in a position to judge whether such exploration should proceed. I believe that without that information it would be dangerous and irresponsible to do so. 
The second major point that I wish to make concerns the question of funding. The report of the Minister says that a number of useful measures have not been carried through because, in some instances, of a problem of nonavailability of funds. These include such things as compulsory pilotage, imposing restricted areas around off-shore platforms, the widening of recommended tracks on navigation charts, the provision of increased funds for hydrography work, and the extension of the national plan to other hazardous substances. 
All of these, except the last, have, I believe, a direct relationship to the tanker industry. I am wondering how that industry and the oil companies seem to have such a good lobby that the statement can be made that the view is not accepted by the Department of Transport or by the shipping industry that tanker operators should pay a larger share of levies because 'in Australian waters tankers are no more frequently the source of marine pollution than other vessels'. Surely this misses the point completely. If an ordinary merchantman were unlucky enough to sink or go aground there would not be major pollution, but if it happened to an oil tanker there would indeed be pollution on a large scale. So guarding against that possibility in the future is what we ought to be considering, and I suggest that in this case the Government ought to consider going to the shipping industry and saying: Yes, if you do operate oil tankers it is essential, based on world experience, that you pay a levy, and that the resulting funds be used to plan for the future in a responsible way. ' 
Finally, for many decades- it is decades nowthere have been attempts by many wellintentioned people to get going a world organisation that is capable of dealing with oil spills. They have never succeeded. I ask the Australian Government at this stage to use its influence in international forums to see that that is done. I believe that is possibly the answer. Oil spills are now so enormous that to control them is beyond the ability of a single country. There again, we would hope that the planning organisation that we now have would study carefully which methods- bacterial, booming, air drops- have been used in other parts of the world, so that when we do have that oil spill of the future- and it will happen sooner or later, with tankers nearing the end of their useful lives and with greater oil exploration around this country- when that crisis comes we will be operating from a basis of knowledge and preparedness, rather than one of panic and complete ignorance. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice, on 3 May 1979: 
1 ) How many one cent coins are at present in circulation. 
How many one cent coins were minted and put into circulation in the years from 1 966 to April 1 979. 
How many of these one cent coins have been removed from circulation. 
Does the Treasurer keep any statistics on the velocity of circulation for the one cent coin; if so, what are they. 
asked the Minister for Science and the Environment the following question, upon notice, on 23 May 1 979: 
1 ) Has the Government given consideration to suggestions made by  Senator Mason  in a Question without Notice to the Minister about the manufacture and use of herbicides (see  Hansard,  12 October 1978. pages 1263-4). 
When can a considered, detailed comment be expected from the National Health and Medical Research Council on reports provided to it in early 1 979 of events at Alsea, Oregon, which led to the United States Environmental Protection Agency's extension of bans on the use of 2,4,5T. 
Has the United States Environmental Protection Agency requested information or reports from the Council relating to possible associations of 2,4,5T with birth defects or foetus malformations in Australia; if so, has the Council given the United States Environmental Protection Agency the requested information or reports; if not, why not. 
Was a paper by a Sydney University Research team consisting of  Dr Barbara  Field and Professor Charles Kerr on the possible association of spina bifida and the herbicide 2,4,5T, intended for publication in the British medical journal.  The Lancet,  withdrawn at the request of the Council. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for National Development upon notice, on 5 June 1979: 
1 ) Is the Minister considering the policy options decided upon by the Joint Commonwealth/States group in the report, 'A Basis for Soil Conservation in Australia'; if so: (a) when will the Minister decide on the preferred option or action necessary; and (b) will expenditure on work required be at the ' urgency levels ' seen as needed by the authors. 
What has been the expenditure on soil conservation by the Commonwealth Government in each State for each year from 1972 to 1978. 
What percentage of these expenditures has been on land treatment rather than technical services. 
I  present the following petition from 28 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Honourable Senators in Parliament assembled. This petition of citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
Australia's Aboriginal and Islander peoples have not been compensated for the loss of their traditional land, social and cultural independence and self-respect. 
Australia lags behind other nations with white majorities in providing a Treaty of Commitment to its indigenous people giving them: 
A denned proportion of national income for a defined period. 
Freehold title to traditional land, waterways and seaboards. 
Control over related resources and over the introduction of alcohol and other alien cultural influences in their regions. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that your honourable House will take urgent steps to concur with the wishes of a majority of the electors at every polling place in Australia at the 1 967 referendum by resumption from the States of the major traditional Aboriginal land areas and reserves and former reserves as at 3 1 .3.78, to become federal Crown land pending prompt determination of freehold title for Land Trusts and eventually for defined community co-operatives. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I present the following petition from 45 citizens of Australia: 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled. Initiate necessary action for a referendum to be held to amend the Constitution to provide for Citizen's initiative, on the following conditions: 
If a specified percentage of the voters (for example 2 per cent) sign a petition asking that a referendum be held on a certain question, then the Federal Government would be obliged to hold that referendum, and the result would become law. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I present the following petition from 53 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth: 
That the compiling of statistics on birth defects lacks formal coordination, leading to poor interpretation of the cause of these defects. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, should: 
Promote more research into the causes of congenital abnormalities; 
Set up a central bureau where records of each child born with abnormalities would be maintained; 
Provide support for parent of children with congenital abnormalities. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for National Development. Is it a fact, as reported in last Friday's Sydney  Daily Mirror,  that Cabinet has scrapped plans to introduce a special penalty tax on the sale of big cars with high fuel consumption? Does the Government really believe, as stated in that article, that such a tax would seriously damage the motor industry, threaten the future of the local content plan, add to unemployment and create massive problems for the national economy? Is it now Government policy to encourage Australian car makers to go on indefinitely marketing vehicles such as the Holden Commodore S/LE and the Ford Fairlane which have fuel consumptions as low as 1 1  1/2  miles to the gallon, even though their parent companies are already marketing in the United States of America the new generation of high economy, light weight, front wheel drive cars? Finally, has the Government given the industry any time scale within which grossly wasteful vehicles must be withdrawn from its sale ranges? 
This matter of a government's replying to Committee reports seems to me to be so important and basic and to have reached such a crucial point in a practical way at this time that I thought it worth commenting. On 31 May Senators Jessop and Mulvihill spoke about some aspects of the comments by the responsible Minister, on behalf of the Executive, on the results of the woodchip inquiry of the Senate Standing Committee on Science and the Environment. I was not a member of that Committee during the bulk of its hearings on woodchipping and, as a result, I do not presume to comment on the matters of detail as Senators Jessop and Mulvihill raised them. To me the important thing is that they did raise them. 
What were the kinds of points they raised? Substantially, they were points of reiteration of the validity of important recommendations by the Committee, recommendations which, as a study of the  Hansard  record of the hearings will show, the Government either damned with faint praise or said, more or less politely, that it proposed to ignore. Some of the points are quite basic. For instance, the Committee urged the Government not to issue any new woodchip licences, other than in respect of the use of sawmill waste, until environmental matters outlined in the report were resolved. If we look at the  Hansard  record of 3 1 May we will see that the Government's response, through the Minister for Science and the Environment  (Senator Webster),  was as follows: 
The Government, however, believes that there could be a case for the development of new projects, with safeguards which take account of current research and which are accompanied by monitoring of environmental quality. 
That prompted this following response from  Senator Jessop,  who was the  Chairman  of the Committee: 
I am not quite sure on what basis that statement was made, because the Committee, after extensive inquiry, went to great pains to set out recommendations in this area which were based on informed comment and which should bc adopted. 
I will not labour the point. If honourable senators care to look at the  Hansard  record of the Committee's proceedings of that day they will see that that was only one of a number of basic points of that kind which were raised. Whatever the merits or otherwise of the woodchip inquiry, that inquiry was carried out at great expense, trouble and time by the Committee members, expert witnesses and others on the usual businesslike basis on which such committees work. I know from my own experience that that Committee does work well and most of the time at an apolitical level. Its hearings are held in public. Evidence was sought from any area of the community which thought it had something to contribute. 
I have been impressed by the Committee system since I have been a member of the Senate. I feel that committee reports are amongst the most valuable material produced by the Parliament. 
However, I stress that such reports are the property of the community at large. They are the product of the community at large, organised through its co-operation and at its considerable expense. They are not the property of the Government or the Executive. I feel that it is time that the Senate stood on its feet and insisted that the reports it turns out with such great effort and which involve many other expert people in the society should be taken with considerable seriousness. As all honourable senators will know, the expert witnesses who appear before committees at their hearings are among the best minds in their fields in the country. They make considered statements under oath. Therefore, I feel that the Government should attach a great deal of weight to the reports of those committees before it dissents from the recommendations contained in them. 
As far as I know, the report on the woodchip industry was the first major report of a Senate standing committee under the procedure whereby the Government must report within six months on the action it proposes to take in relation to the recommendations contained in a report. As we know from the matter we are considering today, that requirement represents something of a watering down of the earlier ideas of the Standing Orders Committee in that the Government has to report within six months instead of the three months recommended. As well there have been changes in other areas. 
I must say as a senator that I believe that the Senate should see in the attitude adopted towards the report on the woodchip industry something of much greater importance than merely the report itself. It should see it as a precedent of prime significance. It seems to me that there is a very serious obligation on the Government to deal with the recommendations of the Committee in a manner suitable to the weight which the recommendations carry. If the Government disagrees with those recommendations it should come forward with very good reasons for doing so and be prepared to back up those reasons. Those reasons should be made public and duly considered by the community. After all, the recommendations of a Senate standing committee are not mere suggestions. 
They are recommendations. In saying that they were not mere suggestions I was thinking in terms of perhaps casual ideas which might be brought forward by an individual senator, or something of that kind. I am merely saying that the recommendations of a Senate committee have more weight than that. If this expensive and laborious Senate committee system is to continue to work and be justifiable to the public, surely it will need to be treated better than it has been in this instance. I suggest to honourable senators that the prestige and value of the Senate seems to be involved and that this is the time for a foot to be put down and for some further action to be taken. 
-I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move that the following matter be referred to the Senate Standing Committee on Trade and Commerce: 
The withdrawal from circulation and use in Australia of one cent coins, two cent coins, or both one and two cent coins. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 5 June 1979: 
Were two wells drilled in the Nikenbah area of the Great Barrier Reef for exploration for oil; if so; (a) what was the result of such exploration; (b) who was the exploratory body; and (c) when were the wells drilled. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice, on 3 1 May 1 979: 
1 ) What was the original estimate of the cost of construction and commissioning of the Lower Molonglo Water Quality Control Centre and associated works. 
What have been the actual costs, and how are they to be mct. 
What is the cost per annum of operating this Centre and what quantities per annum of: (a) fuel oil; (b) methanol; and (c) chlorine, are used in the operation of this plant. 
How arc the operating costs to be met. 
In what way does the plant differ from conventional sewage treatment plants operating in other inland cities of Australia. 
Has there been any complaint from local government authorities downstream of the Lower Molonglo Water Quality Control Centre concerning the nature of the effluent discharged by it into the river system. 
Arc similar plants to be installed in any of the States; if so: (a) where: and (b) how are such plants to be funded; if not, will the Government attempt to persuade the States to install such plants. 
-by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the statements of agreement concerning nuclear safeguards. 
The Australian Democrats are worried about the security of uranium oxide, which Australia proposes shortly to export in larger quantities. Of course, that is the raw material of nuclear power and of the atomic bomb. I stress the atomic bomb aspect particularly because I feel that a distinction should be drawn between more sophisticated nuclear weapons such as the hydrogen bomb, which holds the so-called balance of terror, and the atomic bomb. The world has gone through what could be called a very bad scene over dirty nuclear weapons of a small size, which were in effect the type of atomic bomb dropped on Hiroshima and Nagasaki. I raise this point now especially since it has been proven that the technology available to many smaller powers involves the use of so-called peaceful electricity power reactors which can be adapted to the making of nuclear weapons. This has happened already in India, and there is some likelihood of it happening in other parts of the world. The section of the agreement which worries the Australian Democrats is that which states: 
Recognising that any safeguard agreements between Australia and EURATOM- 
The European Atomic Energy Community-  will, when concluded, supersede the provisions where appropriate of any safeguards agreement between Australia and the United Kingdom. 
The Australian Democrats find that to be a source of concern far beyond that of the actual export of uranium. The point of the matter is that EURATOM has a very bad record in this respect. I am referring to what is popularly known as the Plumbat affair. Honourable senators may be aware that more than a decade ago a small freighter called the Plumbat disappeared on the high seas. She was carrying a cargo of uranium oxide- yellow cake- which was theoretically to have been taken to Italy where it was to be processed for certain peaceful purposes. In fact, she did not go to Italy. The ship and its crew disappeared. The ship was renamed and sold.  Her  background has been thoroughly obscured. Nine years later, as a result of the findings of a security service of one of the Scandinavian countries, the Plumbat affair became public knowledge and was highly publicised. It was then revealed not only that the security precautions which EURATOM had taken over this matter had been woefully inadequate but also that EURATOM had concealed the fact that it had blundered. This was information concealed for nine years, until it was found out by somebody else. 
There is some evidence that that material went to Israel. There is also some evidence- I believe that it is well enough authenticated- that it was there made into nuclear devices, in secret. There is certainly very little doubt that the Israeli secret service was involved in the Plumbat affair and that the purchaser of that uranium was the Israeli Government. I am convinced that, commodities being what they are and money being what it is, the Plumbat affair represents only one of a number of occasions on which uranium has disappeared. There is now to be considered the publicity so far concerning the construction of the so-called Islamic bomb. As a major supplier of uranium, Australia should study this matter. 
I am sure honourable senators would be aware that it has been highly publicised that a nuclear weapon is being constructed in Pakistan. Again, it is an A-bomb- a dirty, fall-out prone Abomb which will be available to the Islamic world at large. It will be built, as was the Indian device, through the use of power reactors designed for so-called peaceful uses. It is regrettable that these machines, so useful as they are in some respects, have so many problems associated with them. I suggest that this is one of the worst problems, and one which must be considered by nations which sell uranium. In spite of denials by the Pakistani Prime Minister, intelligence reports from India strongly suggest that the bomb is under construction and will be tested soon. India has said publicly that it will need a bomb of its own if this happens. This has been confirmed to me in a recent conversation with a senior Indian diplomat. 
There is no doubt but that we are on the road to proliferation and manufacture not of weapons which are the so-called balance of terror- the hydrogen bomb which I hope will never be used because of its dreadful impact- but of small, nasty, dirty A-bombs which, if they are used in any quantity even in a limited local war, will contaminate this planet with nuclear fall-out to an extent to which it has never been contaminated before. Those are facts that cannot be denied. I have wondered whether the Government has thought whether it should not look more carefully at EURATOM. Is EURATOM really organised to conduct this sort of safety check on the movement of uranium oxide, plutonium and all the other substances with which it will be concerned? I believe it is not. I believe the record shows that it is not. 
There is the old saying: 'Once bitten, twice shy'. That makes it necessary for Australia to consider whether or not there should be an overall agreement with EURATOM. At least if we have agreements with individual countries, those countries are responsible for what they do. Once an agreement is laundered through another organisation it will go into somebody's 'too hard' drawer; there will be the shuffling off and failure to take responsibility that was evident in the Plumbat affair. All honourable senators know that that is how human nature works. It will happen again. How does the Government propose to supervise safety measures in the export of yellow cake? On a long ocean journey, do we propose that this uranium oxide merely be carried on an unarmed, unsupervised merchant ship? If that is what is proposed, possibly Australia should consider getting itself a navy big enough to do this job. I cannot see much likelihood of that. 
The proposal is full of holes. This document is a pious hope, like other agreements of its kind. It has never been more than that. It does not recognise the fact that there is a tremendous amount of money in countries such as Libya and Iran. These people want nuclear weapons; they have said that they want nuclear weapons. Colonel Gaddafi has gone on record as saying that he is prepared to pay unlimited amounts of money for illicit plutonium. If we, and the Government, are so naive as not to believe that Australia is going to play its part in this dismal affair and lead the world into this endless proliferation of dirty, small atomic weapons, then I suggest that we are all a great deal more naive than we should be. 
Finally, there is one other matter that I wish to mention because it has caused a great deal of comment from the public but it has had no explanation in this Parliament. I refer to the safety of reactors actually built in societies to whom Australia supplies uranium oxide. The classic example is that of the Philippines. I have made the point in three questions that I have asked in this place that the Philippines reactor is dangerous as it has been built in an earthquake zone. It is being built with poor concrete. It is being built in a place where the prevailing winds, in the case of an accident, would take the fall-out directly on to the city of Manila. It is being built in a country which is virtually a dictatorship. The people, the Filipinos, have no choice as to whether or not they have this dangerous menace visited on them. In all conscience should we go on playing the Judas? Some people say that we have no responsibility, others say that perhaps it is a responsibility or that we should try to exercise responsibility so that these countries cannot divert our uranium to make nuclear weapons. But what the Government has said is: 'We do not give a damn whether they poison their own people with what we give them and pollute their environments forever'. I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Defence aware of media reports of the controversy surrounding logging operations at Terania Creek in northern New South Wales and in particular a report in yesterday's  Sydney Morning Herald? The  report stated:  lt was like Vietnam. Dense green jungle, choppers in the sky, mcn with guns shouting into walkie-talkies, a bulldozer smashing through trees, people being carried off . . . 
Why were two Army Iroquois helicopters present at the scene? Were they observing or overseeing the New South Wales Police Force which was moved in to remove protesters from the logging operations? 
The policy of the Australian Democrats is that key life saving drugs should be free, but we could not support the principle involved in the Australian Labor Party amendment, that all medical prescriptions should be free, even to people who are disadvantaged. We do not support it because there has been plenty of evidence in the past that items which are apparently free to the community are not respected. When items are apparently free to the community and to professionals, costs rise alarmingly. We remain to be convinced that because a medical practitioner thinks that the prescribing of a drug is necessary, that is in fact so. One hears stories of areas in which perhaps there has been a mass infection of the community by a viral infection affecting the throat, or something of that kind, and everyone who goes to the doctor is given antibiotics. Whilst these things go on in our society one can hardly regard as desirable the proposal that all prescriptions should be free. 
However, we are opposed to the Bill itself, with its proposal to increase the costs of the patient contribution. We see it quite plainly for what it is and that is an attempt by the Government to find $7m- a small sum- in a completely unwarranted area. The Government's action is unwarranted and unwise because the area in which it seeks to increase costs is that of medical care, which in this society is already dangerously overloaded. If the Government had a grain of perception it would see that this is increasingly becoming the case. It is not good enough to drive society into a situation in which its members must play a game of chance with the health of their children. There is no doubt whatsoever that this will happen. Increasingly, as time goes on, every little extra impost in the way of medical charges will mean that people will avoid medical care and will say: 'Let's leave it for awhile; it might clear up by itself. We will have a return to the bad old days when children developed such infections as rheumatic fever, which might otherwise have been controlled and which brought with them appalling consequences in later life. I wish to point out those aspects of this proposal. 
I wish also to say, for reasons that I will shortly canvass, that it is completely unnecessary for these charges to be increased. As a number of honourable senators have mentioned, the Bill represents just the tip of the iceberg. It is a very small but significant additional impost that will make the burden of health care heavier for those who can least afford it. I do not refer to pensioners, and to the very poor and disadvantaged people to whom  Senator Watson  referred, and to whom the Government is extending what it sees no doubt as a kind of charity. This concept is not far from the nineteenth century poorhouse concept, I might add, with its associations of long queues at outpatients departments and the like. 
My remarks refer to the vast majority of Australians who earn the average income and less. There are many such people to whom regular supplies of life saving drugs are essential. The Government is, with this measure and others, striking a blow at the health of the nation in a significant sense. There are many Australians to whom this additional burden will make all the difference between going ahead with a prescription that would improve their health materially or not doing so. One might ask whether they would do that to save 25c, a sum which to us in this chamber might seem trifling. I say that perhaps they would, because there are many families, especially those in which in recent years a working wife has lost her job, in which that additional cost would have to be met by doing without some item of food or clothing, which those of us in this chamber would regard as absolutely essential and would normally take for granted. The impost, as I think  Senator Colston  remarked, is a repeated one. 
People in bad health are aften placed in a position in which they use several drugs so that each of many visits to the chemist during a year would now cost them an additional dollar or more. If these sums seem trifling to honourable senators on the Government side, perhaps it is because they do not understand that the economy of many families is now literally balanced on a knife edge and as costs rise steadily, is deteriorating, not improving. If the Government were to say, as has been claimed, that the 25c charge represents merely an adjustment for inflation, I would not be in the least impressed. The additional impost is not necessary, and the amount could even have been reduced without additional cost to the Government, and through the Government to the community itself. Indeed, the cost has been reduced. At this stage I will foreshadow a submission from the Australian Democrats policy group in this area- a group which includes doctors and pharmacists- to the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  which might suggest streamlined methods by which this major item of some $345,000 a year could be very much reduced. But in the meantime I would only say that the amount of $7m in a full year of revenue which this Bill expects to produce could probably be saved by simple, better housekeeping. The Government is saving $20m by tightening the list of eligible drugs. Having done this, surely there is no reason to come in and say that it has to clip from people another $7m on top of that. It has already reduced the charge in this area by $20m by tightening the list of eligible drugs. Perhaps if the Government looked at this matter more carefully it could find that there are other drugs which are not necessary to the list of prescriptions where this $7m could have been avoided. I suggest also that there are perhaps smaller but important areas that the Government could look at in which this money could be obtained. 
If by some strange television process we could look into the medicine cabinets throughout the nation as we all know full well we would find them jammed full of eloquent proof of this. We would find everywhere containers partly full, half full, perhaps quarter full of antibiotics and other remedies which have cost the public revenues a great deal of money indeed. I have often wondered why this is necessarily the case. When a patient uses a drug more or less continuously, of course there is every reason for very large prescribing. But on other occasions it is difficult to see why the actual prescription of drugs should not be for smaller quantities, with more repeats justifiable, to be available if actually required by the patient. Although doctors may not know this, many patients who are given antibiotics will not use them all when they feel perfectly well. I know that the doctor tells them to use them all, but they do not do so. Those things are, in the event, probably wasted. If the patient feels sick and feels that he needs the drugs, he or a member of his family could go and get a repeat. If we work on that basis, it would seem to me that a great deal of money could be saved from that measure alone. I ask the Government to look at it as a practicality. Certainly it is a little more trouble for people, but I think we are getting into the sort of society where we have to be a little more frugal about things like that. There are huge degrees of waste in that area, as we all know, and I think it is something which could be eliminated. 
Certain of these drugs are quite expensive. One figure in common use was quoted to me today by a doctor friend. This involved a payment of $43.91 for 150 tablets by the Commonwealth to a chemist. He said that was perhaps not the most expensive. There may be other tablets that are more expensive. I am getting into a difficult area here, but it does seem to me that most people find unused drugs difficult to dispose of. There are great dangers, of course, in disposing of them by the ordinary means of garbage disposal where they might perhaps come into the hands of children who would find them attractive. They are a problem to most people, and that is another reason why they tend to clutter up people 's medicine cabinets. 
Possibly where the drugs are very expensive they could be packaged in foil or in some other way. I am afraid  Senator Baume  has some of the mystique of the profession. He believes that any suggestion on a medical matter from outside the profession is not even worthy of consideration. But that is simply all I am asking from him. If, when he speaks on this matter, he has reasons to tell me I am wrong, I will be obliged to him for them. Meanwhile, I would be obliged if he would allow me to continue my remarks in peace. Perhaps what I have suggested is not a feasible proposition. Perhaps  Senator Baume  would agree that we must go on wasting valuable drugs and that there is no alternative to simply throwing them away or placing them in areas where they may be a danger to other people. I will be interested in his remarks on that in due course. 
At this stage I should like to refer to the pharmaceutical industry. I assume the industry has the principles and integrity of ordinary law abiding citizens and that it does not particularly want to co-operate in a process of waste. Possibly the industry could co-operate in some scheme where very expensive drugs which were properly packaged and identified could be returned by patients who did not use them, a system where some sort of credit was possible. There, again, I would be interested in the comment on that. Certainly it is a truism that large government finds it very easy to spend money. But it does not find it quite as easy to conserve money. That is why expenditures grow and grow. It is also a truism that any new proposal tends to attract ten people with reasons why it cannot be done for every one who is prepared to get on and try to find some way of doing it. 
I believe there are two basic general matters involved in this question. The first is this growing attitude on the part of the Government, which I can only identify with our friend  Sir Andrew  Undershaft in  Major Barbara  who believed that it was a crime to be poor. I am quite sure that the Liberal Party still suffers from ideological hangups and remnants of the past. I have no doubt that these even include the idea of the deserving poor, people so down-trodden that they will meekly accept whatever their alleged betters order them to do, people who are expected to meet even the odious requirement of gratitude for whatever rags of charity are made available to them. 
This current attitude is being justified to the nation because of the high cost of medical care. Heaven knows it is high enough. I could give the Senate the analogy of a ship with a lot of small holes; instead of plugging them methodically, the Government proposes simply to put in new and more expensive pumps to cope with the water coming in. But the ship is running out of steam. There is not enough to go on driving more and more pumps, to make up more and more payments to catch up with more and more waste. That is what is happening constantly in our society almost everywhere we look at it. 

 Senator Rae has made his point on what he calls Qangoes. I agree with him. I have made points myself recently on the coinage. I have heard from people in this Parliament the comment that an amount of $10-$ 15m is peanuts, that you do not have to worry about it. Of course an amount of $10-I5m is not peanuts, and we should look at those areas, I believe, as well as the great areas that the Government looks at, where $100m is perhaps the smallest sum of money it is capable of understanding. 
I think doctors get a lot of the blame for the cost of medical care, but I do not believe that to be justified. We in the Australian Democrats do not respect those in the profession who do blatantly rip off the community. There are those, the pathologists with their chains of blood-letting shops, helicopters and modern computerised equipment, who are making millions of dollars out of the public without any justification whatsoever. I am told that the Government is looking at that area. We in the Australian Democrats will be waiting very anxiously for some sort of report from the Government on just what it is doing to control that appalling, atrocious situation, which by the way of course is leading substantially to the lowered public opinion of the medical profession. 
The big costs are still hospitals, which I think is relevant to this Bill because the whole area of medical costs is involved here. This $7m is presumably being charged because it is felt that the money is needed because of the higher costs overall. There can be no other possible justification for it. Yet we are still building big hospitals with large corridors that have to be kept clean- 1 am told by our policy group that cleaning is one of the major escalating costs of big hospitalswhereas the pattern in Europe now is for small specialised units. Perhaps here again some look at the policy in this regard and the enormous costs involved might be considered. 
This is a very difficult matter to deal with. Health services are one of the holy cows of the community. They are run by medical authorities, who use the notorious mystique of this profession, and prefer not to explain or justify anything. Therefore, there is probably more waste in the medical area than most other places, except for certain other holy cows like defence and security. I would suggest that honourable senators should talk to nurses to learn more of this subject. My daughter was a nurse for a while and I have talked to a lot of her friends. In most large public hospitals- I have spoken to nurses from quite a few of these hospitals- there is an appalling degree of waste of food, supplies and various things of that kind, I think due largely to a lack of awareness on the part of the medical superintendents of those hospitals that they do not have a divine brief to spend money in tens of thousands of dollars or millions of dollars without any control over it whatsoever. It seems that there is a belief on their part that these things are beneath their notice, like the appalling diet served in public hospitals. 
There is a need for preventative health areas in the society. Surely we must get around to that. Many pious words are said, but little enough is done. Of prime importance in this area- I will mention this only briefly, I think it is important- is the huge cost of self-inflicted illnesses from alcohol and smoking. These are prime areas for concern. 
The words of  Senator Peter  Baume and others on the subject of our hypocrisy and lack of positive action in such matters are very much shared by the Australian Democrats. I can pledge the active support of the Australian Democrats to any government that makes an honest effort to alter those hypocritical attitudes of government itself. I can honestly see very little distinction between certain cinema advertisements for cigarettes and alcohol and active promotion of marihuana. These issues are relevant to this Bill. This Bill is an immensely important one, small and single clause though it may be, because it is relevant to the whole area of the cost of medical services. For instance, if the Government is concerned by the present carnage on the roadsafter all the statistics of alcohol and road deaths are known well enough- they should allow them to speak for themselves. If the Government is sincere about this why cannot it look at what other countries of the world are doing? 
Why cannot it look at what Sweden is doing, and tighten up our own situation? Sweden applies very strict sanctions to driving and drinking. The supplier of the alcohol as well as the person actually drinking has a legal responsibility for an accident. If the Government wants to reduce health costs enormously, I would suggest that that is one place where it should look. If it does that, it would be far better for this society than to come forward with piddling little Bills of this sort which do nothing but annoy society and exacerbate the problems and make it quite plain to society how devoid of real policy is the Government in the medical area. The Australian Democrats oppose the Bill. 
As no other honourable senator has risen to speak, obviously honourable senators, unlike me, are not affronted by the bland statement we have just had from  Senator Knight.  In view of the acute problems of Canberra, I feel impelled to say something on the matter although I have no prepared material. We have in this city one of the most depressed areas of Australia. It is a city that has been so manipulated by government policy that a large number of its citizens are completely in despair. It has an enormous unemployment rate. We have a situation in which young people cannot stay in Canberra because there is nothing for them to do. The city has monstrosities such as the new Belconnen shopping centre where a large number of retailers are slowly going bankrupt. It was a complete affront to me to sit here and watch the Senate accept the sort of statement that  Senator Knight  made. 
We have here, I believe, the beginnings of a great and important city. It is a city which has been messed around by bureaucrats to an extent which is intolerable. The city has been made into a place which cannot support itself. It has been given a thoroughly artificial and phoney industrial area. There has been no real attempt by any government, so far as I can see, to attract a sensible and useful industry to this city, which is a city in which a large number of people have been put I have been told by real estate agents that there are approximately 5,000 houses on the market in Canberra now. 

 - Senator Knight says that that is garbage. I would like him to produce reliable figures. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  There is no point of order. I ask  Senator Mason  to confine his remarks to the report to which he is speaking. 
My remarks, with respect, stem from my moral indignation and I will lay it on  Senator Knight,  who is supposed to represent the Australian Capital Territory. When he speaks in this place or anywhere else he should try to speak on behalf of the people he represents. I have made the points I wanted to make. That is all I wish to say. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 23 August 1979: 
) When will the Government install additional tide gauge telemetry equipment to increase navigational safety in the Torres Strait. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 30 May 1979: 
Do the ownership and control provisions of the Broadcasting and Television Act 1942 prohibit persons or companies from owning or holding a controlling interest in more than one commercial broadcasting station in metropolitan areas only, and therefore do not apply in non-metropolitan towns and cities: if so ( a ) what are the reasons for this anomaly; ( b ) do the present ownership and control provisions discriminate against non-metropolitan towns and cities because, whilst the independence of capital city radio stations is statutorily guaranteed, radio stations operating within any other city may all be owned or controlled by one person or company with legal impunity; and (c) will the Minister consider amending these provisions to guarantee the same legislative safeguards to non-metropolitan towns and cities as those applying to metropolitan areas. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health, relates to reports in today's Press concerning the United States Senate subcommittee's inquiry into the use of the drug Valium, in the course of which 8 witnesses are said to have testified that they had become addicted to the drug. Is the Minister aware of the reported comment of the  Chairman  of that Committee,  Senator Kennedy,  that: 'If you require a daily dose of Valium to get through the day, you are hooked and need help.'? Also, is the Minister aware that at that inquiry the  Chairman  of the company which manufactures Valium in the US, 
Hoffman la Roche Inc., admitted that the company was now embarking on a program to warn users of possible withdrawal symptoms? I ask the Government to institute inquiries into these reports and, if they are confirmed, to proceed to establish a new status for Valium in Australia, as a drug of habituation, and attempt to limit the rate of its prescription in this country which is reported to be as high as 10 million prescriptions a year. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 23 August 1979: 
1 ) Will the Minister outline the Core Force program as adopted for the Royal Australian Air Force 's F 1 1 1 C Strategic Reconnaissance Aircraft. 
Docs this Core Force program allow familiarity with the technology acquired within industry and the services. 
3 ) Are any other Core Force programs planned or being implemented. 
Could a similar program be adopted, as the Minister has previously indicated, using four Fremantle Class Patrol Boats being fitted with Surface-to-Surface Missiles, to allow such familiarity within North Queensland Engineers and Agents (NQEA) shipyards and among Navy personnel so that the other Fremantle Class Patrol Boats may be speedily re-equipped if necessary. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 23 August 1979: 
1 ) Did the Minister state that the Fremantle Class Patrol Boat will be readily adaptable to Surface-to-Surface Missile (SSM) armament. 
Does the structural design of the Fremantle Class Patrol Boat contain deck stress points and other structural strengthening to enable missile launchers and pads to be fitted and to operate effectively without alteration; if not, what specific alterations would be required. 
Is accommodation allowed, in the construction, for the necessary fire control computers, display units and operators; if not, what alterations would be required. 
Have wiring channels been allowed for, in the design of the Fremantle Class Patrol Boats, to permit efficient total connection of SSM-related equipment; if not, what specific alterations would be required. 
Does the electricity power supply for operation of computers and radar for SSM fire control exceed normal needs by a magnitude of two to three times. 
Will the planned generating equipment on the Fremantle Class Patrol Boats be able to cope with this excess capacity without alteration; if not, what specific alteration would be required. 
Will the airconditioning equipment planned to bc placed on the Fremantle Class Patrol Boats be able to sufficiently cool fire control computers required for SSM equipment without alteration; if not, what specific alterations would be required. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 23 August 1979: 
1 ) Were problems experienced by the Royal New Zealand Navy with their Lake-Class Patrol Boats when masthead radar fittings disturbed hull stability. 
Docs the design of the Fremantle Class Patrol Boat allow the stability required for Surface-to-Surface missile fire control radar in the masthead; if not, what specific alterations would be required. 
-I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That the Senate take note of the first report of the Uranium Advisory Council for the period ended 30 June 1979 and the statement relating thereto by the Minister for Trade and Resources tabled in the Senate on 13 September 1979. 
-I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That the Senate requests the Government to re-examine the requirement, contained in Public Service Board General Order 3/D/4, that an officer or employee of the Public Service who wishes to nominate for election to a House of Parliament must resign 'before nomination', on the ground that the wording and effect of that provision may be contrary to the provision of section 44 (iv) of the Constitution, which provides that any such person, holding an office of profit under the Crown, shall be incapable of being 'chosen or of sitting' as a senator or member of the House of Representatives, in relation to which a conditional resignation, contingent upon being chosen, might be regarded as sufficient. 
My question of the Minister representing the Minister for Health follows my question last week requesting an investigation into the rate of use of the drug Valium. Is it a fact that 9, 1 1 8 prescriptions were written last year under the national health program for Valium in the form of a paediatric syrup for use by young children? Will it extend any inquiry it is making to include an urgent survey of the rate of prescription of Valium to children, the reasons for such prescription and their justification? 
1 present the following petition from 158 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members ofthe Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That wc the undersigned, believe in and support the idea that Australia should join in with the current American. Russian, and Candian efforts for SETI- Search for ExtraTerrestrial Intelligence- using existing facilities and personnel. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
The Australian Democrats would like the opportunity to second this amendment- if it were necessary to do so- because we certainly support it, very much for the valid reasons that have already been stated at some length by  Senator Grimes.  I think the matter goes a little further than that. Certainly, the Australian Democrats believe that in a society which permits inflation- I believe I use that word 'permits' advisedly- the principle which maintains a parity of financial reward or compensation to all sections of the society is necessary as well as being equitable. Such is the principle of indexation which the Government now appears to be abandoning in a particularly confused way and, I might say, a very mysterious way. Perhaps this is what worries me more than anything else about the figures in the amendments to the Compensation (Commonwealth Government Employees) Amendment Bill. The second reading speech of the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  states: 
The main purpose of this Bill is to provide for increases in benefits payable under the Compensation (Commonwealth Government Employees) Act, which provides workers ' compensation for employees of the Commonwealth Government and its statutory authorities. 
The speech goes on to mention that the legislation was last amended in 1976. It then states: 
Since then there have been significant increases in the cost of living . . . It is therefore necessary that the benefits under the Compensation (Commonwealth Government Employees) Act should be increased. 
The point of the matter is that the cost of living increase has been 36.5 per cent.  Senator Grimes  has made that point. But the increases in the benefits proposed in the Bill are only 12 per cent. My puzzle is this. Where did this figure of 12 per cent come from? There is not a hint of it anywhere in the second reading speech or in the notes for the Committee stage. There is no indication of why this should have happened. It is a point of principle. The Government has suddenly decided- there have been some indications of it recently- to alter this kind of payment apparently on purely arbitrary criteria, which it does not at any time explain. We have the situation where some people do not get any indexation at all. In this category are the single unemployed and, strangely enough, postgraduate scholars, who get no indexation or increase whatsoever. In spite of a number of questions I have asked in this place, I have had no indication as to why this making fish of one and fowl of the other should occur. I would have preferred the amendment moved by  Senator Grimes  to go further- I think he might have preferred it too- to state that the words 'or such higher amount as is prescribed' should be removed from every line of the Schedule. 
How can honourable senators trust a government which appears to believe that it can make increases of this type, by apparently plucking a figure out of the air and saying that this is what the increase will be? It is bad enough when the Government does that. At least we can speak on the matter in this place. But how much worse would it be if the Government decided that it wanted a situation in which never again would it be compelled to bring these matters to the attention of Parliament but would be able to make changes by regulation? As  Senator Cavanagh  and  Senator Grimes  have remarked, it is very difficult for any honourable senator on this side to move a motion for the disallowance of a regulation. The Government would then have the situation completely under its control. It could pick out another figure, which may be onetenth, one-fifth or one-third of the increase justified by the cost of living. I suggest that if the voting power of those who were affected were sufficiently low- in those cases I have mentioned, such as post-graduate scholars, there is some reason to believe that that is at least a basis of motivation- there would be no increase at all. We oppose those principles in the Bill and support the amendment. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 30 May 1979: 
) How much time was made available to broadcast election speeches or political advertisements in respectof each political party on each radio broadcasting station and television station for the State election in Victoria on 5 May 1979. 
What (a) was the percentage distribution among political parties of time purchased by parties and candidates on metropolitan and country commercial broadcasting and television stations; (b) were the  costs  charged for this time; and (c) what was the percentage distribution of these costs among political parties. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 30 May 1979: 
1 ) Has concern been expressed by amateur radio organisations in relation to the use of channel 5a (139-144 Mhz 
ls there a possibility of mutual interference between channel 5a and the International Amateur Band ( 144- .148Mhz) if extended use is made of the channel. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice, on 7 June 1 979: 
1 ) Have rates notices now been issued to the residents of the Kingston/Griffith redevelopment area since 1976-77. 
Have these notices not been issued because the Minister has not assessed what the residents should pay; if not, why have the notices not been issued. 
How does such a failure to collect this revenue equate with the Government's policy regarding budgetary/fiscal 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, relates to the persistent and numerous complaints which I and no doubt all other senators receive from constituents about the practice of Ansett Airlines of Australia and 
Trans-Australia Airlines of running so many of their services in parallel- that is, departing at virtually the same time. I ask the Minister: In view of the many times that this issue has been raised in the Parliament over the years, why has the Government not taken some effective action to end the dangerous, wasteful and inconvenient nuisance to the public which is involved in parallel timetabling? Can the Minister inform the Senate what basic reason the airline companies advance to defend parallel timetabling? Would the Minister agree with our reading of the Airlines Agreement Act 1952-73 that if timetables are operated 'at such times, having regard to the relative closeness in scheduling of flights of the two airlines, as to give rise to substantial grounds for complaint that the services are not operated at intervals that adequately serve the public interest'- I stress those words- the Minister, under clause 5 of schedule 3, may use a discretion to refer the whole matter to the Rationalisation Committee established under the Act to deal with matters of dispute between the airlines? Will the Government now ask the Minister to exercise such a discretion immediately so that this whole matter can be aired and, I hope, resolved once and for all? 
I want to speak briefly on the matter of funding of voluntary conservation organisations because I believe it is of considerable importance. To begin with, I would like to congratulate the Minister for Science and the Environment  (Senator Webster)  and the Government on one point. The Minister rightly says in his statement that he is making these grants earlier than in past years so conservation groups will be able to plan their activities. That seems to be a valuable, thoughtful and considerate point of view. 
Beyond that, I want to speak briefly about the Australian Democrats' concern for the whole area of conservation and the Government's attitude to it. Of course, this is something that  Senator Gietzelt  mentioned and which is stated quite clearly between the lines of the report by the Minister, who as good as says that if there are citizens who feel strongly enough about conservation, let them raise some money; if they can do that, the Government will subsidise them dollar for dollar. The Minister gives a very curious reason for this in his statement. He says that the Government is concerned to see that the voluntary conservation movement should be seen to retain its impartiality and independence. If honourable senators look at that conversely, do we then have to accept the situation or imputation that every research organisation which is publicly funded is not impartial or independent? I suggest to honourable senators that that reason is not one which can be accepted without reservations. In this statement, the Minister states: 
Funds will bc provided, up to the limit of the Budget provision, on the condition that each organisation raises an equivalent amount of money to that allocated by the Government. I confidently expect that all bodies will qualify for the maximum grant allocated to them, thus demonstrating the wide level of community support which these bodies enjoy. 
Surely the point is that the natural environment of Australia is not a sectional interest; it is not a sectional viewpoint because it is a common heritage of benefit to the entire community. The Australian Democrats feel it is wrong and unfair that the attitude should be taken that these are groups of people who, for some weird reason, are concerned about the environment; that it is something they own or which is to their benefit and therefore they had better get out and raise some money to protect it. However, that is not the case. From my experience of environmentalist groups, like other public causes a lot of the work is carried out by a few people. They are not in it because they have some perverse desire to carry out voluntary work apart from their own jobs and earning their own livings; they are there because they see this as an important national task and also, as  Senator Gietzelt  has mentioned, because they see arrayed against them a formidable amount of money and influence which can take the other side. 
There has been a fair example of this recently in the Terania State Forest episode. I do not think it is necessary for honourable senators to make any judgments on that issue, whether it is right or wrong, or whether milling should proceed. Although I have my private views on that matter, I would not assert them in this debate. The real point of the matter is that that was a confrontation between business and people concerned with the environment. Those commercial interests have a great deal of money behind them. It is right and proper that there should be adequate Government funding of those concerned enough about the environment to allow them to proceed with their work. Indeed, if the environmental organisations and the people who work for them have to devote a lot of their spare time to raising money, they will have less time available to do the job that they should be doing- acting out a watchdog role over environmental matters. That applies regardless of the best will in the world of the community. The community may well hand out the money the groups need; however, the environmentalists are people who are concerned about this national problem but who are being put at a disadvantage because effort has to go unnecessarily into that part of their task. 
I was advised by the environmentalist movement this morning that the dollar for dollar basis will have serious detrimental effects on a number of environmental centres that are finding it hard enough to raise funds in today's economic climate. It will cripple substantially the Darwin environmental centre, possibly the one at Townsville, and at Cairns as well. Probably the only viable environmental centre left may be the Total Environment Centre in my electorate of New South Wales. I challenge the Minister by saying that, because of its hard campaigning and active attitudes in the past, it has received no support from the Federal Liberal-National Country Party Government. 
The Total Environment Centre in Sydney. It has established self-funding through its maturity. It is good that it has done that but it is wrong that it should have been compelled to take that course of action. I challenge the Minister on the basis of selection when it comes to giving support. I think that is another relevant matter. The Minister has stated the Government's concern for the impartiality of these organisations and, in the same breath, respect for the assistance that the organisations have provided. However, the Government has ended the technical assistance grants, established under the Whitlam Government- grants of $5,000 to $7,000-which were made specifically for research into areas of concern for the environment which cannot be carried out without money. Those valuable grants led to the consultant study on the Border Ranges- a most important and valuable contribution to this country's literature on the environment- and the book entitled  Native Forest Ecosystems,  which are good results from what was a generally useful series of grants. I think the Government must realistically realise that this sort of work cannot really be carried on without assistance. 
It is also a point that governments- not only this Government but others as well- have supplied millions of dollars through assistance directly and indirectly to companies such as those involved in mining, whereas they do not give more than a paltry $350,000 to the environmental movement. There has been no change in this total grant since 1974, despite inflation and consistent requests from the environmental movement for the indexation of the benefits that it gets. I will not detail these examples in tedium, but I mention that, for instance, the Wran Labor Government supplied $1,250,000 for roads, et cetera, to a 100 per cent Japanese owned corporation, the Harris-Daishowa company, which is involved in woodchipping at Eden. Of course, the controversial New South Wales Forestry Commission has been involved in a tremendous deficit. There is a $35m deficit on top of a $26m deficit last year. Certain causes are being taken against both these organisations by environmentalists. It is their watchdog activities which draw the attention of the public and the media to reasonable causes in that area. 
It is a fact that the viability of certain of these organisations is steadily increasing. I am delighted to be able to tell the Minister that the Australian Conservation Foundation had 1,500 new members last year, on top of the 9,000 it had previously. The National Parks Association of New South Wales has experienced a 20 per cent growth of membership. So, I think the Minister would have no worries about public response, and a good indication of community support. Surely these organisations increasing their membership of people who are prepared to pay an annual fee is an indicator of community support, rather than the Government requirement stated in the Minister's statement that additionally they must go out and whip up funds from somewhere to do this work. 
Finally, let me repeat that the work these organisations are doing is for the benefit of the people of the nation and the nation as a whole. There is no way in which it can be said that they are doing it for their own benefits, be those benefits for crippled children or other groups for the worthiest of causes. This is in a different category. It is a national cause. On behalf of the Australian Democrats I would implore the Government to look very carefully at, firstly, altering this policy which has come in this year of dollar for dollar grants and, secondly, to improve and increase the amount of funding available for this important area and to look sympathetically at requests for relatively small $5,000 to $7,000 special purpose grants. I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
In general, the Australian Democrats approve of the basic sentiments expressed by the Minister for Science and the Environment  (Senator Webster)  in this statement providedSenator Wriedt made this point- that those sentiments are supported by concrete facts; in other words, provided that the plan which emerges for the Great Barrier Reef is one which is definite and not merely, as so much of this statement is, an utterance of generalities. For instance, we applaud the statement at page 3 which reads: 
Both the Prime Minister and the Premier in their joint agreement confirmed that it was the policy of their respective governments to prohibit any drilling on the reef or any drilling or mining which could damage the reef. 
I suppose that the word 'could' is there with intent because it does imply that that would take into account the views which have been expressed both in debates and in this place and in the media in which experts have said time and time again that it is extremely plain what could damage the reef. So I would say that we could not have a situation in which there was any oil exploitation, no matter how well intentioned it was, no matter how genuinely it was felt somewhere that it was to be incorporated in some sort of zoning system. Frankly, we do not trust the word 'zoning' very much when it appears in this statement. That is because oil spills, well head breaks and accidents of that sort do occur with monotonous regularity in all parts of the world. Nobody wants them to occur, nobody likes to predict that they will occur. They are not allowed to occur with malice or any particular desire to destroy ecologies or the environment, but they happen. Every time they happen we are told that it will never happen again. Then it happens again. 
If it happens in a large area of the Atlantic or in some other place where there is time to control the spills, not so much damage is done. But in the Great Barrier Reef area, we will only have the time up to the next low tide because once large areas of the reef, which virtually are exposed at low tide, are exposed to either oil in its natural form or oil which has been treated with dispersants, we know from what marine biologists have told us over and over again that there will be damage and that it is not possible to get into those areas with anything bigger than a rowing boat and not even that. There is no question of taking the vessels, booms and the like into the reef area to clean up a spill. Once a spill occurs there it stays and goes on doing damage for months and years, perhaps decades, afterwards. The sperm of the coral is affected by oil in its breeding procedures. That is known already from experiments conducted overseas. One would hope that that will be confirmed by experiments conducted in Australia. We know enough about the matter to realise that damage could occur quite readily. I am a little concerned at the Minister's words at page 4 of his statement. I would like to hear them spelt out a little further. The words to which I refer are these: 
It might be helpful to the Senate if I mentioned the marine park concept- a concept which is certainly not familiar to most of us. A marine park differs substantially from a national park which typically protects the natural landscape and allows only limited human use. 
Frankly, I cannot see how a marine park is so categorically different from a national park. After all, both have a regulated and controlled recreational use. Surely that is one of their prime functions. Hence, at page 5 of the statement we see these words: 
. the marine park will need to be designed to allow reasonable use while conserving the reef. 
What might be defined as 'reasonable use'? What will the designs be? Those are matters on which the Australian public will seek reassurance from the Government and I think the public will need that reassurance to be given in the form of a detailed explanation. These comments are not intended to be merely carping. What I am trying to convey is that every activity proposed for the reef will need to be defined precisely at the proposal stage so that it can attract public debate and consideration. I do not see that as imposing any limitation on the rights of the Queensland Government or, indeed, of this Government; I see it merely as an earnest of the desire of Australians to protect what is a world asset which is in our hands for protection. 
The Minister's statement that the public will be extensively consulted is very welcome to the Australian Democrats. I am quite sure from the feedback we have had that he will find plenty of people who will want to be consulted. I suggest that there will be a very lengthy period of consultation and the people requesting that consultation will want to know exactly what is going on. I note that the final plan will be submitted to this Parliament. I tend to support  Senator Wriedt  's point of view. I think that it is not really good enough to come to this Parliament with a final plan; rather, I think it would be courteous and respectful to this Parliament to come along with some proposals and at least let us express our views on them. One tends to find that the legislation and plans which are brought forward by the Government are immutable. No matter what discussion takes place, once the Government has committed itself to a course of action or a Bill it does not change it very readily. 
Finally, I turn briefly to the communique of the Great Barrier Reef Ministerial Council, the terms of which have been incorporated in  Hansard.  I refer particularly to what seems to me to be a curious sentence which appears at page 3 of the communique, which states: 
That Plan will be directed towards minimizing the effect of clashes of incompatible activities on the Park . . . 
I would have hoped that the plan would be able to do rather more than simply to attempt to minimise the effects of clashes of incompatible activities on the park. It should be possible- indeed, it seems to me that it is very necessary- to make sure that no such clashes of incompatible activity occur. The world 'incompatible' is very strong. It involves all sorts of implications if it is allowed merely to go at that. In other words, one would assume from that that there may well be clashes of incompatible activities on the reef and that we would have to wash our hands of them after making a jolly good try at resolving them. That is not good enough, for our money. The other points I wish to raise relate to page 6 of the communique. They have already been referred to briefly by  Senator Wriedt.  The communique reads: 
. only those areas of the Reef that have been assessed and surveyed as having prime ecological significance and which are considered suitable for declaration as Marine Parks should be included on the World Heritage List. 
Those words imply to me that areas of the Great Barrier Reef will be neither national parks nor nominated for inclusion in the World Heritage List. Certainly that possibility is implicit in those words. The views expressed by the Premier of Queensland- that is his statement; it is his view that that should happen- cannot alter the facts. I sometimes think that the Premier of Queensland believes that by saying something for long enough and often enough he can alter facts, but that is not the case. It is a fact that the ecology of the reef is a total concept. In the view of experts, there cannot be any question of picking out bits here and bits there and turning them into national parks which may be used in a variety of zonings- again, I am not quite sure what 'zonings' means- and then apparently allowing unfettered exploitation of the bits in between. 
I believe that that suspicion is what has created the persistence with which certainly the Australian Labor Party and the Australian Democrats continue to attack this matter. We are worried and frightened that that is really what is intended. I believe that the whole of the Great Barrier Reef, its waters and its contiguous land services should be declared a national heritage, that they should be a national park. We would then have created the largest and grandest marine national park in the world and, I think, we would be regarded as being a people of great vision and stature and as having done something of value to the world. I hope that on this point the Government and the Minister will take a very firm line with the Queensland Government. That certainly is a responsibility of the Government and the Minister to the Australian people. They will be looking to him for that. I think that the reef should be nominated for the National Heritage List. It should also, in itself, be a great marine park. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
asked the Minister for Science and the Environment, upon notice, on 13 September 1979: 
1 ) Are Canada, the United States and the USSR conducting programs to search for intelligent extra-terrestrial life through the detection of artificial extra-solar radio signals; if so, what funds have been allocated to these programs by each of these nations. 
Is the radio telescope at Parkes, New South Wales, suitable for participation in such a program because of its southerly location. 
Has the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organization (CSIRO) Division of Radiophysics kept abreast of developments in the Search for Extra-Terrestrial Intelligence (SETI). 
What are the estimated costs of: (a) the CSIRO Division of Radiophysics using the Parkes instrument to conduct an Australian SETI program; and (b) Australian participation through the Parkes instrument in any or all of the Canadian, American or Soviet programs. 
What action is proposed: (a) for the Division of Radiophysics to investigate and report on the potential for Australia participation in any or all of these programs and for an independent Australian program; and (b) to make funds available for an Australia SETI program using the Parkes radio telescope. 
Will any study which has been, or may be, conducted by the Division on this subject be made available to the Parliament. 
I present the following petition from 100 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. 
The petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth: 
That the lead content levels in Australian motor spirit have been proven to have detrimental health effects on our child population. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled should: 
Take legislative action to reduce and ultimately remove lead concentrates from motor spirit in Australia. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will every pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-by leave- I wish to refer to the procedure at Question Time. It has been constantly abhorred by the Australian Democrats. We support the Labor Party in this matter. On our timing, probably 40 minutes of Question Time today was devoted to Dorothy Dixers which are prepared answers to questions which Ministers know about beforehand. There is no way in the world that these answers could be given unless the Ministers were informed beforehand. I think it is time the public knew about this procedure. It is a fact that Question Time is one of the valued privileges of this place. I ask you,  Mr President,  to cause a study to be made of the actual time in Question Time today and yesterday which has been occupied by the answers of two Ministers,  Senator Webster  and  Senator Carrick. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 29 August 1979: 
1 ) Will Australia shoulder half the cost of uranium exploration projects in the Philippines, as reported in the  Canberra Times,  27 August 1979. 
Has Australia also proposed a five-year, on-the-job training program in uranium exploration in discussions between officials of the Philippine Energy Ministry and three Australian uranium experts. 
What are the estimated costs involved in ( 1 ) and (2) above. 
Who are the three uranium experts referred to in (2) above, and what are their affiliations and qualifications. 
I present the following petition from 34 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members or the Senate in Parliament assembled. 
The petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth: 
That the lead content levels in Australian motor spirit have been proven to have detrimental health effects on our child population. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled should: 
Take legislative action to reduce and ultimately remove lead concentrates from motor spirit in Australia. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Resources and concerns the dangerous, uneconomic and impractical proposals of the Tonkin Government of South Australia to market the uranium by-product of the Roxby Downs copper, gold and rare earths field. Did the Minister note an editorial opinion in the  Australian  on Tuesday that 'coal- not our uranium- is emerging as the wonder fuel of the 20th century'? Is it a fact that on the best possible estimates there will be a world oversupply of uranium oxide for at least the next decade of as much as 20,000 tonnes a year by 1985? Is a price drop inevitable, probably from the present $43 per lb to as low as $28 per lb? Will it not prove difficult to sell uranium oxide even at that price which is one which would barely cover the cost of production in Australia? In view of these economic factors, will the Government now use its influence to persuade the Government of South Australia to support the recently expressed policy of the Australian Democrat Legislative Councillor,  Mr Lance  Milne, to mine copper, gold and rare earths at Roxby Downs and to return the uranium ore to the ground as mine fill, as is being done elsewhere in the world? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 13 September 1979: 
1 ) Will the Industries Assistance Commission complete its inquiries into the Textile Clothing and Footwear Industries. 
Will it report to the Parliament in due course, according to its current reference. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 13 September 1979: 
1 ) How much time was made available to broadcast election speeches or political advertisements in respect of each political party on each radio broadcasting station in connection with the State election in Tasmania on 28 July, 1979. 
What was the percentage distribution of time purchased by parties and candidates on metropolitan and country commercial broadcasting and television stations. 
What were the costs charged for this time and what was the percentage distribution of these costs. 

 Senator CHANEY-The Minister for Post and Telecommunications has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: (1), (2) and (3) The information required is contained in the following tables. 
My question is addressed to the Attorney-General who is in charge of film censorship and classification. In view of changing community sexual attitudes, will the Minister consider introducing a new film classification to modify the present R rating for restricted viewing? Could that R classification remain for films which have a restricted viewing because of their sexual content and a new classification be introduced- possibly V for violence- for violent films? 
asked the Minister represent  ing the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 13 September 1979: 
Is the Government planning to build a $30m 12-15 storey Government centre in Toronomon district in Tokyo, Japan, as reported in the National Times for the week ending 1 5 September 1979. 
What rents are being paid by the Australian Government at present in Tokyo. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 13 September 1979: 
1 ) Is Valium only a trade name for diazepan. 
What is it generally prescribed for. 
How many members of the benzo-diazepine group are there, and what are their trade names. 
Are these drugs now doing most of the work of barbiturates, which were much cheaper but more dangerous. 
What are examples of the cost differences in the two drug-family groups. 
How many prescriptions have been written for: (a) barbiturates; and (b) members of the benzo-diazepine group by type, during each year since 1 955. 
Are benzo-diazepine drugs generally safer than the barbiturates, both medically and sociologically. 
I present the following petition from 20 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. 
The petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth: 
That the lead content levels in Australian motor spirit have been proven to have detrimental health effects on our child population. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, should: 
Take legislative action to reduce and ultimately remove lead concentrates from motor spirit in Australia. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
Preservation of Parklands in the Australian Capital Territory 
I would like to speak to this motion. I seem to remember speaking to a similar motion last year, and I will speak to this one in much the same terms. The Australian Democrats naturally oppose this motion. We seem earlier and earlier to be getting into the habit of having all matters, other than Government Business, thrown out of this place, no matter what they are and how many members of the community might be interested in them. According to the list of sittings that I have on my desk it will be some six weeks before we are due to rise. I had hoped that the four sitting weeks listed for November would provide enough time for the Government to get through its legislation without having to butcher General Business five or six weeks before the end of the session. We will soon get to the stage at which the tiny allocation we make to General Business- the minute bone that the Government throws under the table to private members- will be removed completely. At the beginning of sessions the Government will say: 'Government business is so busy, we have so much legislation, that we cannot have such a thing as General Business'. The role then of this place as a House of Parliament will have disappeared forever, as it is now well on the way to disappearing. I have found that out in my short time in this place. I assure the Government that this motion is another nail in the coffin. If the Government does not see it that way but sees it merely as a matter of convenience to itself, I suggest that it should have another hard look at it. 
I hope that the Government, as  Senator Georges  suggested, is not proposing merely that we are to go home a week or two earlier in November and that because of that it proposes to throw out matters of General Business which are on the Notice Paper. I have one notice of motion on the Notice Paper which I would have liked to get on perhaps as early as tonight. It is not of importance that it is a motion that I have brought forward, but it is significant that I have brought it forward and that nobody on the other side did so, although it is a matter of crying public importance. 
I am referring to the Government. This is a matter which the Government should have dealt with years ago, as the honourable senator knows perfectly well. It is a matter which concerns and affects the rights of close on half a million people in this country who I believe have been affected unjustly. If it is not the job of honourable senators opposite to look after injustice, I do not know why they are sitting there. 
The point is that those members of the community who feel that, through General Business, they can put forward matters which do not necessarily have to be vetted through a party machine- that is, the party machines of either of the major parties; honourable senators can take that whichever way they like- will not be particularly pleased if these matters, having been raised as serious notices of motion and with good justification, are to be destroyed simply because the Government says that it wants to get a Bill through today. The Government will not get that Bill through today. It knows that perfectly well. It has had a clear notice served on it by the Opposition that its cancellation of General Business tonight will not make a tittle of difference. That time will be occupied in another way when it could have been used to bring on notices of motion. We do not have many of them. They could have been disposed of reasonably quickly. 
I cannot see how  Senator Chaney  's statement that the Government wants to get its Conciliation and Arbitration Amendment Bill through today has anything to do with whether General Business should be cancelled at this early stage in the session. I cannot canvas and do not want to canvass why the Government should want to get it through today. It does not seem to be a matter of such urgency that the Government might want to drop on the unions or prevent certain things tomorrow. Is the Government wanting to do all that tomorrow? Are we to expect dramatic consequences on the industrial scene over the weekend? I assume not. Therefore, why can we not continue in a normal way and retain the meagre privileges which are available to those members of the Senate who wish to bring forward matters of General Business. Why can we not allow discussion of them to proceed in a reasonable way? I do not think that any of us present these motions in a flippant way; rather, we do so because they involve something that is of importance to this community. 
-Did the Minister for Science and the Environment notice statements in the media this week that Japan plans to spend $35,000m, no less, on a huge plant to develop alternative energy sources and that her investment in solar energy, geothermal power and coal conversion is expected to create 300,000 new jobs in Japan between now and 1990? I ask again- I raised this matter before: Will the Government now actively consider a similar program for Australia, especially in labourintensive solar appliance manufacture and installation, which would provide a two-pronged attack on both unemployment and the present excessive use of oil fuels? 
The Australian Democrats support the Australian Labor Party's amendment for the obvious reason that if the Government in these days of continuing cost increases, is to provide the same facilities and assistance as it has in the past, it will have to increase any subsidy or benefit to an organisation which it wishes to assist. This is a basic principle which many times in the Senate this year we have seen the Government either ignore or neglect. I feel it is one principle that the Government can hardly be ignorant of. It seems to me that this Bill amounts to a rather despicable form of cheese paring in that it takes away from those who need the most to benefit those who in fact can manage very nicely. Of course, that is the situation obtaining with the majority of society at present. 
I was interested in  Senator Grimes'  hope that if we are to operate on this legislation again we will do something more with it. Last year we had a debate which followed very similar lines, I believe, to this one, in which the growing dimensions of the problem were stressed. I find it most disappointing, and the Australian Democrats find it most disappointing, that in the meantime nothing has happened. In effect the Government is perpetuating a status quo situation based on a concept of charity. That is what this Bill does. We do not think that it goes anywhere near far enough. The situation concerning homeless people in this country has changed dramatically and will continue to change with every month that passes because there is no indication to the contrary. Even the latest figures out today show that youth unemployment is increasing. We now have a stubborn backlog, a basic group of people who are now apparently to be the derelicts of this generation. I do not believe that we can afford to have a society in which large numbers of new and oncoming generations who should be taking up their responsibility are derelicts in the sense that they would see themselves as derelicts. I think that is perhaps one of the most important aspects of this problem. The skid row archetype of elderly and frequently alcoholic derelicts no longer obtains. I would say that it is impossible to obtain accurate figures on this, but I would suspect that probably that archetype of skid row derelict is very much in the minority. Most homeless people now are young. The figures which are being guessed at in an informed way by organisations throughout Australia concerned with the problem, tend to support that point of view. 
We now have doctors and media people talking about a new disease in our society called the unemployment syndrome. This is a disease fundamentally, I believe, of the homeless young. I think that most of the people who are unemployed, who have homes, who have not alienated themselves from their parents, retain some degree of hope; they probably do not stay unemployed for very long and they get back into work. It is this group of homeless young that we have to consider most of all, and that is the group that certainly concerns the Australian Democrats most at this time. 
This disease has been created by the policies of the Government which seems to believe that anything- the sacrifice of the hopes, life and aspirations of tens of thousands of people- is justifiable in the interests of reducing the inflation rate. But we are not really reducing the inflation rate at all. If we were honest with ourselves I think we would admit to ourselves that basically inflation is a means of redistributing wealth in our society as it is in any society. It tends to take money away from the poor and people who do not have a surplus of assets and to redistribute it to those who do. This is a very simple process which is organised basically by the increase in value of equities in property. While that happens there must be a situation where there is this disproportionate and unfair transfer of wealth. Until we recognise that, some sort of control is necessary- perhaps some type of capital gains tax, not like the one the Labor Party brought forward, but one that is honestly indexed to inflation. If we have that control I think we are beginning to be honest with ourselves and I think that a tax such as that might do a lot more good in reducing inflation than any amount of depriving young people of work. That now seems to be the situation- unemployment versus the inflation rate. I do not go along with this idea of keeping people unemployed in this way and saying that sooner or later they will be given work. That is not working; it has not worked out that way at all and I do not see that it ever can. 
One aspect of this unemployed homeless situation in the community which is very damaging and very dangerous is what I would like to call the scapegoat principle. It is very easy in any society for those in authority- the Government particularly or the media- to incite generally in the community a feeling of hostility towards a disadvantaged minority. It has happened regularly down the centuries. Anyone who reads history can see this. It has always resulted in incalculable agony and injustice. It is particularly unpleasant- one would hope that one learned through the centuries, but apparently not- to see tendencies in our own society to play on the collective guilt feelings of the majority of our society, who do still get a comfortable income and have profitable work, and turn this into hostility for not just those people who are without work but the most vulnerable and the most disadvantaged of those who do not have work. 
It is very easy for society to make a convenient rationalisation and say: 'These people are dole bludgers; they are lazy and do not want to work; they are enjoying a pleasant surfing life at the expense of society'. These things have been said through the years over and over again. They are a rationalisation of the very justifiable guilt feelings of society. When it comes to government and those in authority encouraging them, I think we are seeing a very dangerous and harmful situation and one I feel that all honourable senators should deplore. I do not think that those things are true of most people who are out of work. I am sure there is a very tiny minority who exploit the situation and that the majority will always be there. The majority want work, or they have wanted work. We are reaching an important point in that regard because it is true that long periods out of work can so attack the morale, will and self-regard of the youthful unemployed especially as to make them virtually unemployable unless some special measure is taken to bring them back into society. I think that is where the Homeless Persons Assistance Amendment Bill lacks imagination. Here we are talking about a group of people who need help urgently, imagination, and some type of assistance to get them back into the mainstream. They are not getting those things. There is nothing in this amending legislation which begins to hint that the Government is even considering those problems. 
Many of these young people in this category are among the homeless because the length of time they have been out of work and their own lack of self-esteem have driven them away from their home environment. This is happening to Australians in increasing numbers. I wish that somebody somewhere, perhaps the Government itself, could do an intelligent survey of how many people there are in this category so that we would all know and be in a position to do something about this growing problem and recognise the dimensions of it. 
Is there not something more positive that could be done for these people rather than just the making of vague suggestions regarding a retaining program? If we try to analyse the program, perhaps it emerges like this: Many of the homeless are young; they are alienated from their families; they did not do especially well at school; and they cannot find work or they are so demoralised they have given up trying. In many cases they have retreated into a peer group situation such as a commune- a group of perhaps six to a dozen people who are living in the country and who have no real wish or courage left to emerge from that situation. Perhaps in this situation we see a hint of what might be useful for the Government to consider doing. These young people need training; they need a useful work situation that could begin to restore their selfrespect and give them a feeling of being of value to society. 
I suggest,  Mr President,  and to honourable senators through you that this is not something we can expect these individuals to do for themselves, or to do easily as individuals, because I believe that many of them have been so bruised and damaged by what society has done to them after their years of schooling that they are no longer capable of making this effort for themselves. I am tempted very much- I do not believe in compulsion of any sort of organising people in a military way- to the thought of something approximating the Israeli kibbutzim, or some type of youth co-operative which would not be a charity but which could provide motivation to a group of young people who might be induced even by old-fashioned words which perhaps may now be so old hat that they are almost bad words. I refer to such words as 'idealism' and patriotism' and words of that sort that nobody mentions any more because presumably it is regarded as too idealistic even to mention them. We prefer a sort of hopeless cynicism which abandons these young people to their fate. 
We have a lot of work that needs to be done in this country. It is ridiculous that we should have large numbers of people wandering around the streets homeless as they are and not able to work. A concept of this sort ought to give a group responsibility for a specific task or area of work and provide incentives. Rather than being State employees, or going out wandering around doing up national parks on some sort of lower salary, the Australian Democrats would rather see a contract with a group for certain work or some group of activity. Ideally everybody in Australia should have work under award conditions. I am coming to very delicate ground here and I am doing it deliberately because I think this has to be considered. Everybody should have work under award conditions. While this remains impossible- at the moment it appears to be impossible- surely some other arrangement seems necessary, and the sooner we have one the better. It is all very well to say that we want an ideal situation for everybody but if we cannot give it to everybody, and if we are going to deprive some people by doing it, what good are we doing? I think something else has to be tried. 
This is a special problem and it demands a special answer. I plead with honourable senators on this side of the chamber who are connected with the trade union movement to think about that deeply and realise that those of us making this sort of suggestion are not trying to undermine the union movement; we are not against principles of fair and equal pay, but we see this problem and the difficulties that have come about. 
No,  Senator, that  is not true. I do not just want cheap labour, but I believe young people would rather work and feel they are doing something for their country in a reasonable way than to sit around on their backsides doing nothing for years on end. I think the honourable senator would probably agree with me basically on that. 
The Australian Democrats have no basic objection to what the Bill is doing, namely, extending indefinitely provisions of the three year program. We only say that it fails to solve the most important part of the problem. As  Senator Grimes  has said, the funding is scandalously inadequate. This is another problem to which the Government should be addressing itself at this stage. On figures I have there are an estimated 7,000 homeless people in Melbourne, comprising about 5,000 men and 2,000 women. Up to 1,000 people are sleeping out in Melbourne on any given night under bridges and in parks. In Sydney the problem is probably considerably worse, although it is perhaps not as well recognised because there are not as many people working in that area in Sydney as there should be. 
It is a fact, I am assured by people working in the Kings Cross area, that the rate of child prostitution there has increased three to four hundred per cent in the last year. I am speaking here of male and female prostitutes aged as young as 1 1 years. These facts can be authenticated. One has only to go to places like the Wayside Chapel to find out that this is going on. If honourable senators go through Kings Cross on any day of the week they will be propositioned by such young people. The young people are in that position, I would say, through no fault of their own. 
They are in that position through the fault of this society. I think that honourable senators would agree that when a problem reaches those dimensions it is time for something more than the introduction of this meagre Bill to be done. That is my basic point. 
As it stands, organisations providing free accommodation cannot keep up with the demand. Other organisations which charge for accommodation are now finding that their traditional client group cannot afford even those modest prices any more. For instance, I have had brought to my attention the circumstances of Gordon House in Melbourne which is run by the Hanover Welfare Services. A new building was under construction but it was modified to conform to the higher standards recommended under the appropriate program. The organisation applied for funds for some of the equipment, but missed out when new funding was frozen in 1977. It is now finding difficulty in running economically the upgraded accommodation. These organisations are caught in the middle of a problem for which to them there is no apparent solution. 
Let us look again at the subsidies of 75c a day for accommodation and 25c for meals which, as  Senator Grimes  has said, were calculated by a working party back in 1 972 and which are quite ludicrous seven years later. That 25c would nouite t even pay for a secondhand pie or a hamburger. I am not joking when I mention secondhand pies. I am informed that homeless men often have been fed on unsold pies donated by department stores and the like. In other words, we are feeding these human beings with food which might otherwise even have been rejected by a pig farmer for his own animals. That is what the 25c subsidy means. With food costs and especially meat prices skyrocketing how can this ludicrous figure of 25c towards a meal have any meaning whatsoever? How can the Government have the coldness and hardness of heart to bring forward these subsidies to the public and to the Senate as a serious contribution towards anything of value at all. 
Gordon House is an example of an organisation's providing this quality accommodation for a moderate charge. Its clients were not derelicts but seasonal and casual workers who were used to a standard of work and finance certainly adequate for self-respect. Now large numbers of those people cannot get any work at all. Since nearly all are single their unemployment benefit is not automatically indexed and it stands at $5 1.45 a week. They can barely afford that type of accommodation unless they get an additional handout from some emergency relief agency. 
Another example in Melbourne is Ozanam House which provides free services. A report in the Melbourne Catholic newspaper the  Advocate  of 1 3 September this year stated: 
At the end of June the house owed nearly $70,000 because of the number of men needing shelter and rehabilitation and also because of inflation and a shortfall in promised government funds which had not become available. 
Finally, at the risk of becoming tedious- I think this is an enormously important problem- I return to the question of homeless young people. According to an estimate in the report of the Victorian Consultative Committee on Social Development Youth Accommodation there could be up to 15,000 young people in Melbourne who are absolutely homeless. Figures have not been taken out, but one suspects that the number could be approaching 100,000 throughout the country. Page 2 of the Minister's second reading speech shows that in total there are 113 centres approved at present and that these provide overnight accommodation for 3,600 men and women. We are speaking now of a problem concerning tens and probably scores of thousands of people. The figure is increasing every day. These people in Sydney sleep regularly under bridges and in parks. 
Part of the problem is the unemployment benefit. Let us have another look at that. For under 1 8-year olds the benefit has been frozen at $36 since 1975. An amount of $36 is not very much these days to keep body and soul together. I know people who spend more than that feeding large dogs. This amount is $33.40 below the poverty line, and we call ourselves an enlightened and civilised society! It is impossible for a person of any age to provide food, shelter and clothing in a decent way on that amount. Those people on that meagre $36 are relatively lucky. One emergency shelter found that 80 per cent of the young homeless people coming to it were not on benefits at all due to bureaucratic complications, fear, shame or confusion. I suggest that we should keep these benefits as simple as possible. Every time they are further complicated, some unfortunate person, through no will of his own, gets himself into strife because he is placed in a situation where his natural shame and fear and wish not to be on the dole is compounded by these extra regulations which have the effect of forcing him into absolute poverty and degradation. 
Social consequences were mentioned by  Senator Grimes  and for the future they are immense. This is not a minor problem; it is one of the most serious and important problems facing our society. Young people are being driven into crime, prostitution, drug peddling and all kinds of squalor. These are not just cliches. Representatives of any organisation working amongst young people will have a long list of facts about all those points. The special youth program which the Minister mentioned in the second reading speech is quite inadequate to meet the needs which are already obvious, much less the needs of the future. 
The situation needs a new dynamic exercise of imagination, tolerance and compassion on the part of the Government which it so far has shown no signs of displaying. I think the community would support, even more than it has done in the past, any genuine attempt by the Government to salvage these young lives and to do something about the matter. The Government can do so quite easily. It would not even be very costly. Perhaps honourable senators would like to look more at the kibbutzim idea. I commend it. Right through history young people have been idealists. They will work for an ideal better than they will work for money. There is no doubt about that. Let the Government go to the Israelis and look at the Israeli experience and get some advisors out from the Israeli kibbutzim. A lot of work, as I said, needs doing in Australia. It is quite insane that we should allow the present situation to continue for one moment longer than it need do. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice, on 22 August 1979: 
1 ) Are the limits of exemption concerning Sales Tax paid by craftsmen under Items 100 (1) and (2), First Schedule, Division XIV of the Sales Tax (Exemptions and Classifications) Act 1 935 still set at $ 1 ,400 and $ 1 ,000 respectively. 
Were these levels set at 700 and 500 respectively in 1 94 1 ; if so, does this mean that the exemption limits have not changed since 1941. 
Will the Treasurer consider raising the limits to a level reflecting changes in prices and wages since 1 94 1 ; if not, why not. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice, on 27 September 1 979: 
Which properties in the Kingston-Griffith area of the Australian Capital Territory appear to be eligible for notional unimproved values, as the Minister indicated in answer to Senate Question No. 1708 (see  Hansard,  25 September 1979, page 942). 
What is: (a) the total amount of revenue that will be outstanding in rates on those properties as at I October 1979; and (b) the total sum of moneys already paid by 'some ratepayers' referred to in the second paragraph of the Minister's answer. 
What are the legal and administrative problems holding up the issue of rate notices, and in what respects is the present legislation defective or inadequate. 
Has the assistance of the Auditor-General's efficiency audit unit been sought to rectify any of the administrative problems referred to; if not, why not. 
Does the Minister's response to Question No. 1708 mean that some ratepayers in the Kingston-Griffith area already have not paid rates since 1976-77. 
Will the non-payment of rates be allowed to continue for some time, or can it be expected that early action will be taken to send out rate notices for three years of back rates. 
What special consideration, if any, when the rate notices are sent out, will be given to the terms of payment by numerous pensioners and other cases of genuine hardship, who will be faced with rate bills in excess of $1000; and if no special consideration is to be given, why not. 
What action is proposed to: (a) bill the present owner of the land for all outstanding rates and to give rebates on a similar basis; or (b) seek out the persons who occupied the property for the time being and require payment of them, or forward them the rebates that are their due, as the case may be. 
-I would not have spoken again in the Committee stage of this Bill except for the fact that it has been obvious from the comments of the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  and other comments from honourable senators on the Government side that the Government does not have the faintest inkling of the nature of this problem or of its enormous proportions. If it has an inkling of the problem then Government senators simply do not care about it. When I spoke in the second reading debate last night I pointed out, from accounts that I have had from people who are actually involved in working with homeless people, that young people- as young as 11 years old- are wandering around homeless in Kings Cross and are involved in prostitution. They are there through no fault of their own. They are literally adrift in this society. The last thing that I expected was the sort of bland utterances that we have had from the other side that some time something might be done about this problem. Perhaps when there is another Budget the Government may consider these people when they have been well and truly damned to some kind of perdition. 
I raise again some points that I raised in the second reading debate in the form of questions to the Minister which so far I have not had any reply to. My first question, through you,  Mr Chairman,  is: Will her Department at least attempt some kind of assessment or survey of the actual number of young unemployed people who are homeless in our cities? It should not be impossible to come closer to this problem. Earlier this evening  Senator Coleman  mentioned that my estimate of 7,000 homeless people in Melbourne could well be astray. I made that point myself. Surely we need to know about these things. 
I ask the Minister again, as  Senator Grimes  and others have done, to go back to the Government now, not when the next Budget is being discussed, to see whether she can get more than this 25c subsidy to buy, what I think  Senator Georges  charmingly referred to, as half a pie. I think this certainly brings the point home to honourable senators. I also ask the Minister whether she is really aware of the deep disillusionment of the voluntary organisations which are bearing the brunt of this problem. They have been left to carry the can. They have to try to cope one way or another. The Government has washed its hands of the matter. It has said: 'We will give precisely the same meagre amount of assistance that we have given in the past. We will let it go at that'. I suggest that that is simply not good enough. 
I present the following petition from 2 1 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. 
The petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth: 
That the lead content levels in Australian motor spirit have been proven to have detrimental health effects on our child population. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled should: 
Take legislative action to reduce and ultimately remove lead concentrates from motor spirit in Australia. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I present the following petition from 1 80 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. 
The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth that the very survival of mankind is at stake, with the stockpile of nuclear weapons able to kill every person on earth 24 times over and with conventional arms of increasing sophistication having enough destructive power to destroy most life on earth. 
Noting that, while millions starve, expenditure on the arms race is $ 1 , 000m per day for the World, and $7m per day for Australia; and noting that the UN Children's Fund (UNICEF) has listed 'peace and disarmament' as a theme for the International Year of the Child; and further noting that a reduction in expenditure on arms could contribute in both developed and developing countries to the eradication of hunger and disease and to the provision of more adequate housing, education, health services, economic security and social welfare for all people: 
In the interests of children in Australia and around the world, particularly in developing countries, and as a matter of highest priority during the International Year of the Child, 
We call upon the Australian Government to give political leadership both nationally and internationally in working towards: 
general and complete disarmament under effective international control; 
2 ) the establishment of the Pacific and Indian Oceans as nuclear-free zones; and 
3 ) the disbanding of all nuclear bases. and your petitioners, as in duty bound, will every pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. It relates to the method of distribution of Australian aid to Kampuchea. Is the Minister aware of complaints about diversion of some Australian aid supplies to soldiers in Kampuchea and of negotiations currently under way in Phnom Penh for United States aid to be distributed by truck convoys which are planned to proceed across the Thai-Kampuchean border at Arunya Pratet into areas of northern Kampuchea which are reported to be among the worst affected by famine? Since this method of distribution ought to achieve fair and equitable distribution of aid to people who really need it, could we associate ourselves urgently with the current Phnom Penh negotiations with the aim of also providing Australian truck convoys to distribute our aid supplies? 
I rise to comment in particular on the statement of the Minister for Science and the Environment  (Senator Webster)  about the Kakadu National Park. He says in his statement that the Park is an area of outstanding natural beauty and contains much of scientific, cultural and environmental interest. I agree with him; that is certainly no exaggeration. In fact, having looked at the place on the ground recently, I feel that he could justifiably have been more enthusiastic. That is really the basis of this statement. I have been lucky enough to see national parks and areas of natural beauty in various parts of the world. I mention that only as an indication that I may have a basis of comparison for an assessment of Kakadu National Park on a world scale. I do not think that Australians understand yet what a tremendous and enormous asset they have in this place. 
I believe that the Kakadu National Park is outstanding even in world terms and quite soon will be recognised, as is the Great Barrier Reef, as a tourist area of world class which will be visited, I hope with discretion, by tourists from all over the world. That will happen provided one important condition is met- that is, that the Kakadu National Park stays in its present pristine, completely natural state. There are very few parts of the world left where a park of that size and of such tremendous diversity of interestcontaining as it does such things as jabiru birds, saltwater crocodiles and an enormous wealth of natural life- is available to a world body of tourists of increasing size who make a cult of that sort of thing and who are prepared to spend almost any sum of money to go to a place which they regard as being worthy of inspection. In other words, with careful exploitation- I suppose one has to use that word- and the provision of facilities such as accommodation, I believe that a very considerable income will come to Australia, and especially to the Northern Territory, from the Kakadu National Park into the indefinite future, provided that the park is not defaced, contaminated or possibly ruined by industrial and mining activity over the next decade or so. 
While I was in that area I had a look at the extensive total land clearing and other activities associated with the Ranger uranium mine, where the No.l ore body is at present being exposed. The first open cut hole will be 42 hectares in extent- that is something like 100 acres- and it will go down 175 metres, which is something more than 500 feet. Every bit of spoil taken from that mine will go through the crusher and will finally end up carefully contained in a rock and earth tailings dam where it can be held because of the danger to the environment below it of the heavy metals used in uranium processing, to say nothing of the possibility of some residual radioactivity. I believe- I did raise this point with the people of Ranger- that environmental measures there have been scrupulously abided by. A great deal of care has been taken. The fact remains that below the tailings dam proposed at Ranger lie the highly sensitive areas of Magela Creek, which I think  Senator Keeffe  asked a question about the other day. The point was not made by  Senator Keeffe,  nor in fact by the Minister, that at high tide Magela Creek backs up into the East Alligator River, which I found one of the most beautiful, unusual and exotic parts of the Kakadu National Park. 
I am quite sure that we will get into the Park tourists from Japan, England and America, in large numbers provided that they can go there and find it to be an area of natural wonderland. They will not go to an area through which trucks carrying yellow cake regularly rumble which is dotted and spotted with mining operations or the remains of them. In the event of another cyclone such as the one which devastated Darwin so recently, it would be impossible for the miners to guarantee that the tailing dams would not burst and that the residues in them would not be sent down into the creeks and sensitive areas of the East Alligator system. If that happens we can forget forever any idea that we will have a national park of world importance in that area. I will not use the rude word that I should to say what we will do to the area if that happens. At this stage I am not canvassing in any way whether or not we should export uranium. My views and those of the Australian Democrats are well known on that issue. I am putting as a cold economic proposition that there should be an investigation, a careful study, by the Government to consider whether we should go ahead with the mining of the Jabiluka deposits. I believe that the system might sustain Ranger- it is going ahead- but the Jabiluka proposal is much bigger. 
When we look at the map of the park we find that it has a very curious shape. We find that out of the top of it an oblong bite has been taken, roughly between the sea and the Arnhem Land escarpment, which is unnatural and which, when we get there on the ground, we find is the most beautiful part of what should be the park. It has been left out of the park because the Jabiluka leases and another large area towards the coast are where it is believed- I think quite reasonably- that there is a lot more uranium and where further prospecting will take place. How far are we going to let this prospecting go? Are the leases going to go through that whole area and will uranium be mined for the next 30 or 40 years? I believe- and I think many Australians would believe as time goes on- that with the falling market for uranium and the dropping price for uranium and with the damage which would be and is already being caused to the Arnhem Highway by mining operations, it would be a mistake for us to prejudice the Kakadu National Park, an enormously valuable national asset, which could be a world asset and which we have a responsibility to preserve instead of providing the few million dollars which would go mostly to the Getty oil company and to some other foreigners. 
Motion (by  Senator Peter  Baume) proposed: 
The debate be now adjourned. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Motion (by  Senator Durack)  agreed to: 
That the resumption of the debate be made an order of the day for the next day of sitting. 
-There is one point which may not have been raised in relation to proposed new section 107 (4) (b) (i) which I think is relevant. It follows on from what  Senator Grimes  has said. I think most of the reasonable people in this country realise that, as has happened in other efficient and enlightened capitalist societies such as West Germany, there is urgent need for a rationalisation of the number of trade unions in this country and that industrial harmony will probably come only when an effort is made to tackle the already very difficult and complex task of bringing the unions down to a much smaller number than now. As honourable senators would know, for our population we have one of the largest numbers of individual trade unions in the world. With the best will in the world this must complicate and continue to bedevil industrial relations. With this clause the Government has absolutely guaranteed in the most permanent way it could possibly devise if it set out to try a perpetuation of that situation. There is no way with this Bill as law that any union will be persuaded to join with another union. This clause means that in the event of an industrial dispute in one area, huge numbers of people may be involved in non-payment of benefits. 
I think this is a serious matter. With this legislation the Government is guaranteeing a perpetuation of demarcation disputes in Australia into the indefinite future, and probably a future splitting of unions or trade associations into even smaller groups- the definition is very broadsimply for the reason that it is a protective mechanism to defend themselves against what I might say is a very bone-headead piece of legislation. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Home Affairs, upon notice, on 28 August 1979: 
1 ) Has approval been given for an art bank which will hire out Australian paintings to Government buildings and eventually private companies, as reported in the  Sun Herald,  26 August 1979. 
Which paintings are at present out on loan to Ministers and other officials. 
When and how were these paintings acquired. 
Who are the Ministers and officials to whom they are on loan. 
What arrangements have been considered for the loan of Australian paintings to private companies. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Industry and Commerce, upon notice, on 23 August 1979: 
Has the Federal Chamber of Automotive Industries proposed a voluntary fuel code under which the automotive industry will commit itself to achieving a 15 per cent reduction in average new passenger car fuel consumption by 1983 and a 20 per cent reduction by 1987; if so, (a) has the Government considered such a proposal and, if so, what decision has been reached; (b) what method has been used to obtain this 'average' figure approach; and (c) using this 'average' what has been the average new passenger car fuel consumption in each year from 1 972 to 1 979 inclusive. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Industry and Commerce, upon notice, on 23 August 1979: 
1 ) Did a report in the  Daily Mirror,  1 7 August 1 979, say the Government has considered the introduction of penalty taxation rates on the sale of new passenger cars with high fuel consumption. 
Did the Government reject such plans because of its concern for the future of the local content plan in the motor vehicle industry, and because of other disruptions that may have occurred in the industry. 
Has the Government, instead, been considering with the Australian Transport Advisory Council, a broadly based road tax rate to discourage the use of passenger motor vehicle with high fuel consumption; if so, what are the types of taxation under consideration. 
Has the Government received any submission supporting this proposition from the New South Wales Government. 
My question, which is addressed to the Minister for Education, follows a number of questions I have asked him over the last year in which I have sought an admission that government policies of reducing funds for research workers, and especially Commonwealth post-graduate scholarships, are causing a damaging brain drain from Australia. Did the Minister note a number of examples listed in an editorial to this effect in this morning's Melbourne  Age"!  Does the Minister know that a cessation of government funding of research into a disease called Duchesne's muscular dystrophy is considered by experts to result in the certain death of some young Australians who might otherwise have had a chance to live? Is he aware of public statements by  Dr Richard  McCann of Sydney University that research into ethanol as a petrol substitute cannot proceed effectively at that university because of cuts to post-graduate scholarships? Does the Minister now agree that the Government has made an ill-advised miscalculation in this regard? Will he take urgent steps to remedy this matter before there is more serious damage to Australia's health and economy? 
-by leave- The Australian Democrats have great pleasure in congratulating the Committee, especially its  Chairman, Senator Missen,  on the achievement of this report and the work it has done. It would be quite impertinent to try to comment in any detail on a work of such weight and size without having the opportunity to read it thoroughly, which we shall try to do. Meanwhile, I should just like to mention some of the points that  Senator Missen  has been good enough to bring to us as major recomendations of this report. I refer particularly to page 4. In the Australian Democrats this question of exemptions naturally is very close to our hearts. The first recommendation passed, that there should be a listing and a schedule of agencies, parts of agencies and classes of documents, so that they can be considered and discussed, especially in this place, seems to us to be of basic importance. We believe that this whole question of what is secret, what is to be withheld and what is not, should be very much a matter that is closely in the eye of this Parliament and the eye of the public so that they know what it is that is being withheld from them, and why. 
I think recommendation (d) relating to secrecy classifications is an excellent piece of thought. The argument for consistency appeals, because after all principles of consistency can be argued, whereas one can do nothing but protest about an arbitrary statement or decision. The idea of retrospectivity in recommendation (c), that there should be a right of access to prior documents, I think would prove of great enlightenment to the public in this country as it has in others, especially in the United States of Amercia. But not only that; I believe that in the United States it has proved to be a great factor in helping to provide a new awareness of the value of democracy. I feel quite sure that freedom of information would go a long way in this community to taking away that tremendous cynicism about government and about parliamentarians of which we hear so much. I was listening to Carolyn Jones's program only yesterday morning when, as honourable senators may know, the question was raised of the Senate's later starting time of 3 o'clock for the Melbourne Cup. I was shocked at the comments which came in on the phone-in program from members of the public about members of Parliament. I had not realised how their estimation of us had shrunk. I knew that their opinion of members of Parliament was low, but I did not realise that it was as low as that. 
I know that. I am learning,  Senator, one  way or another. The point is that this Committee has done something here which is going to work against that. I think that is of immense importance. One further point of  Senator Missen  's statement with which I shall deal briefly relates to public access, on page 8 of the report, and this question of delegation downwards as much as possible of rights to grant information. There is not very much information, in my opinion, which would be so secret, confidential or important that its release would have to be approved by somebody who would in effect become a bottleneck. I think we are all realistic enough to realise that, granted its natural instincts, sections of the Public Service would be only too happy to create that bottleneck simply because it was a bottleneck. I think that has to be regarded realistically and steps taken against it. 
We are concerned, with other people who have spoken- and especially I appreciate the cri de coeur from members of the Committee, and  Senator Hamer  in particular- about this report not being stifled or hidden or referred to other committees or anything of that kind. We have had a fairly rough run in this place recently in the views of the Executive on Senate committee reports. The woodchip report is a classic example, t would hope that at this time the Government will realise that in this Committee we have worked out an interesting experiment, which has been done with great feeling and great application by the Committee and, no doubt, the people who worked with it. Because of that mere fact alone it is vitally important that the Government take notice of this report, if it does not take notice of any other. I believe that in this way it would be possible for the public to begin a stage where that very low opinion of parliament begins to improve because the public realises that parliament is at last on its side, that it does not want to withhold information from the public, it does not want a mandate just to govern, it does not want people to run around tugging forelocks and saying, 'Yes sir, you tell us what to do and we will do it'. The public does not want that. Now we have a more informed and educated public, and what it wants is more information and openness of government. I believe this is an important step in that painful process in this country towards open government. 
We have also been informed that on the advice of his Department the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  will want to have the Freedom of Information Bill and this report referred to an interdepartmental committee, which would mean, firstly, that it would be buried completely. For example, an interdepartmental committee has sat on the Horton Report on Libraries for three and a half years. Will that happen to this report? I certainly hope not. If it does, I think the Government will suffer at the hands of the public. Secondly, it would mean that it would be watered down at the hands of the same Public Service Departments which have made submissions to the Committee opposing greater freedom of information- because of not enough staff, because it was not practical or was unworkable- but who were in fact unable to justify in a rational way just what it was that would make it more difficult for them, where the extra workload would come in. Would it be in concealing something, in setting something up? I do not know. That is for them to answer. But their instinct naturally is against open government, and this is because of tendencies that have prevailed in this country for so long. I do not think we can blame public servants who have been trained in this idea that they do not give information to people. They cannot suddenly make a chameleon-like change and say, 'Right, here we are. We will do it'. Their natural instinct is not to stick their necks out. I think that is another natural thing which has to be taken into account. 
From the Australian Democrat's point of view we plead with the Government to recognise this as a possible watershed iri Australian government and allow the recommendations to proceed. It should not be necessary for the Senate to take the steps that  Senator Hamer  suggested and take the matter into its own hands. If that becomes necessary, I assure him that he will have our support. But I would have hoped that the Government would be mature enough, that it would have a sufficient grain of sense in view of the future, to see that here is something it could be doing at which we would look back in future years as perhaps the most important thing it has done this year. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice, on 1 1 October 1 979: 
Which community groups in the Australian Capital Territory are actively involved in settling refugees in the Territory. 
How many refugees has each such group assisted. 
Has the Government placed any refugees in Canberra; if so, how many; if not, has it left all the work to community groups to pursue. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 18 October 1979: 
1 ) Has an export licence been granted to the Western Australian Chip and Pulp Company Proprietary Limited for export of woodchips to Japan; if so: (a) for how long has the licence been granted; and (b) when is the licence due to be renewed. 
Are there any conditions attached to the licence; if so: (a) what are they; and (b) what person or body has the duty of seeing that the conditions are being observed. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 12 September 1979: 
Did reports in The Age and The Sydney Morning Herald, 12 September 1979, refer to a United States Senate Sub-Committee's inquiry into the use of the drug valium, in the course of which eight witnesses are said to have testified that they had become addicted to the drug. 
Did the  Chairman  of that Committee,  Senator Kennedy,  comment that 'if you require a daily dose of valium to get through the day, you are hooked and need help.' 
Did the  Chairman  of the company which manufactures valium in the United States, Hoffmann la Roche Inc., admit at the inquiry that his company was now embarking on a programme to warn users of possible withdrawal symptoms. 
Have any inquiries been made, or are they proposed to be made, into these matters. 
What action is proposed, if the reports are confirmed, to establish a new status for Valium in Australia and attempt to limit the rates of its prescription. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice, on 18 October 1979: 
Has the Commissioner of Taxation instituted any inquiries into the tax liabilities of any individual mentioned in evidence at the New South Wales Royal Commission into Drugs, chaired by  Mr Justice  Woodward, or mentioned in comments by Counsel assisting the Commissioner,  Mr Fisher,  Q.C.: if not, when will such inquiries be instituted. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice, on 17 October 1979: 
Has a land owner in the Yeppoon area of Queensland admitted that the Isawaki Sangyo Company had put a deposit on a piece of land there with intentions of purchase; if so, what are the details. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 1 7 October 1979: 
1 ) Did an article in  Electronics Today International,  October 1979, claim that paste compounds containing Berylium Oxide were readily available in both professional and hobby electronics industries without packaging markings to indicate the compound is highly toxic. 
Is it intended to inquire into this matter with a view to determining some action to be prescribed. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice, on 17 October 1979: 
1 ) What is the text of the agreement between the Federal Government and the Iwasaki Sangyo Company. 
Does the agreement: 
state that the Iwasaki Sangyo Company needs Federal Government approval even to negotiate more land deals; and 
specifically forbid any expansion north of the franchise, as stated in the Melbourne  Age,  1 1 October 1979. 
Has the Iwasaki Sangyo Company been granted Federal Government permission to acquire land other than its persent holdings at Yeppoon, Queensland; if not, why has the company reportedly been negotiating for more land. 
I will not spend a lot of time discussing the Australian Democrats' objections to this motion. I have discussed them before. I think all of the arguments that I brought forward in the past are now equally valid. We agree with the opinions on this matter of Australian Labor Party senators. The point I did want to make is that we in the Australian Democrats since we have been in this place- I think I can speak for  Senator Chipp  as well as myself when I say that we are perfectly qualified, perhaps by past experience, to pad out our speeches to our full speaking time- have made an attempt in most cases to use only a little of the speaking time allowed and just to say what we have to say and no more. We have done that as a concession to the carrying on of business in this place because we have felt in our naive innocence that this would have allowed us possibly at some time in the future to bring forward some of the business that had been brought to us by people who have a perfect right to have it presented in this place. I will not say too much about that. 
The point I raise now is that the Government has said for the first time that it has cancelled General Business for the remainder of this session. I make it absolutely plain that there are 400,000 people in the Public Service who would have liked to have known, now that party preselections are going up, whether there is any possibility of a reasonable deal being given to them whether they should be allowed as other Australians are to nominate in a reasonable way as candidates for election to this place or the other place. They will now not be able to do so. In other words, the Government has made quite sure of that by cancelling General Business which includes this matter. Public Service Board General Order 3/D/4 states: 
An officer or employee wishes to nominate for election to a House of Parliament . . . must resign before nomination. 
The Government has ensured by this motion that that matter will not come up in time for any public servants who might feel they wish to be able to nominate for candidates for any political party on a fair and equal basis with other members of the society. The Government is perfectly happy then regardless of the fact that this matter has been raised many times to allow this to continue to be something which is left in abeyance. In other words, the Government has continued under the suspicion- I think, more than a suspicion- that it will allow a large and significant section of the Australian community to operate as a deprived class treated probably unfairly and possibly also unconstitutionally. 
The Government's priorities seem to me to be very strange indeed. There is nothing whatsoever to stop us continuing this session of Parliament into December if necessary. The Government apparently seems to have some sort of priority system whereby it is far more important for it to get Parliament up and to go away than to debate normal and reasonable points of General Business brought before this Parliament and in particular, the Senate. They are not brought forward on our whims but because large numbers of people in the society want them brought forward. The Government is not prepared to have that. It is going to clamp down on this. It is going to make sure that anything that might rock the boat or anything that it might object to in any way can be shut off completely simply by saying that one of the very few avenues of private senators and members of smaller parties- as our Party is for the time being- will be denied. We will not be able to bring these matters forward on behalf of people who wish to have them brought forward. My purpose for rising to speak on this motion is to put on record in  Hansard  that this motion is a deliberate device on the part of the Government to prevent General Business coming forward. I commend to those 400,000 public servants concerned a very careful study of that attitude. 

 - Senator Sheil, in his speech on the second reading, led honourable senators into some rather strange and tempting territory. I do not really believe and the Australian Democrats do not really believe that we have anything other than a responsibility to ratify the Covenant because, if nothing else, it is a forcible example that this country can exert in its own region and in the world. I do not agree with  Senator Puplick  that there is any need for a qualification of ratification; we are not being drawn into some terrible international net of intrigue by ratifying this Covenant after all this time. Finally, I say on behalf of the Australian Democrats that if this cosmetic Bill- for it will be that if it does proceed without amendment and certainly it will proceed without substantial amendment- is to go through in its present weak and flabby form it might as well achieve its primary function, which is presumably a lead-up to the ratification. Why not let us have it here and now in the Bill? 
I address my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Trade and Resources and the Minister for National Development. Is the Minister aware that according to an Australian Associated Press-Reuter message from Abu Dhabi yesterday, the  Chairman  of the Palestine Liberation Organisation, Yasser Arafat, plans to put proposals later this month to an Arab summit meeting for the use of oil supplies as a political weapon? Is it true that several major Australian companies are now preparing to spend many millions of dollars on the production of fuel ethanol to power motor vehicles in this country using known and proven technology? Since plainly the time left to us to provide indigenous petrol substitutes is now very short, will the Government now exert itself to legislate urgently for a pattern of incentives, guarantees and tax concessions which could encourage this new and vital industry, or at least give it some idea of what the ground rules are going to be over a period? Initially, will the Government consider making an early clear statement concerning reduction or elimination of excise duties on fuel ethanol, covering at least the next decade? 
-by leave- I wish to speak only briefly on this matter. I had intended to move that the Senate take note of the paper, but that has already been done. I wish to refer first to the fact that although this report has been presented, honourable senators cannot get hold of it. I have been asking to see it ever since the Senate met today but it has not yet come to my desk. It seems to be a rather strange situation that an important report of this kind can be actually presented to the Senate yet not be available, even some time after such presentation, for perusal by honourable senators. I put that aside because the matter to which I refer is ' one of direct and continuing concern to the Australian Atomic Energy Commission and one which I note occurs in every one of its reports. It is not possible that it has not been mentioned also in this particular report, which we do not have before us. 
I refer to the technical knowledge and expertise that, to my knowledge, only the Atomic Energy Commission possesses, being applied to a more active extent in ensuring the safety of the increasing numbers of persons who are engaged in uranium mining in this country. Very considerable sums of money are being paid to those persons. I heard of a case in which a man and his wife were earning $ 1 ,000 a week. In these days of high unemployment such income presents an almost irresistible temptation to people to engage in this work, whether there be risks attached to it or not. It behoves this Parliament and the Atomic Energy Commission to ensure that such risks as there might be are minimised. 
Recently the committee of which both you,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  and I have the honour to be members, visited this area. I was concerned not so much with the degree of the monitoring of gamma radiation, which seems to be not a problem. It has been said to those who visit these areas that gamma radiation is monitored regularly. All workers wear dosimeters which record progressively the amount of gamma radiation that they receive. Even at Nabarlek, which is processing a very intensive ore body, in the sense that the assay shows a very high uranium oxide content, the greatest degree of gamma radiation incurred by any worker was something like 480 millirems over six months. That worker then approached closely the 500 millirems in one year total that is regarded as the maximum acceptable dosage for members of the general public, but did not approach the considerably higher figure of five rems, which workers in the industry are supposed to be able to absorb. 
Therefore, in our uranium minesremembering that in others the assay shows a much smaller concentration- the question of gamma radiation although important, is not necessarily the most important consideration. That, it seems to me, is alpha radiation which, as honourable senators will know, is very shortrange radiation and will cause damage within only a centimetre or so of the source of origin. This does not mean that it is not a danger. In fact, quite the converse is the case. That is the reason why the control of radon gas and its so-called daughters, particularly polonium and radium isotopes, are a matter for discussion. From the discussions that I had there seemed to be no real monitoring, of which I could see physical evidence, of alpha radiation affecting workers in our uranium mines. On the contrary, there did seem to be an immoderate amount of dust around, particularly at the Ranger site where the tailing dams are being completed. The statement was made that there was no mineralisation at that point, yet at another place in that uranium province I was told that especially close to the main ore bodies, there was no question of there not being mineralisation which might create a danger from alpha radiation. 
One school of thought has it that an assay of anything under .2 per cent is automatically to be regarded as not dangerous. This is a matter to which the Atomic Energy Commission should address itself. The assertion would appear to be complete nonsense. At another site an expert whom I shall not name, but who seemed to be very well qualified, said that dust was dangerous anywhere in the area; that any amount of dust taken into the lungs by a worker is dangerous. 
As I have said, at the Ranger site the main tailing dam embankments are under construction. Despite the watering that was taking place I saw enormous amounts of dust being created. I am not attacking the Ranger administration on this matter. I am merely saying that a sufficient effort is not being made to monitor accurately the amounts of alpha radiation to which our workers are exposed. We learn that at Ranger no effort will be made to ventilate the open cut pits; that natural convection will be relied upon to clear radon gas. It is a fact that the daughters of radon, if they remain in the lungs for continuous periods, can cause permanent physical damage and even death because of the attack by alpha radiation on the cells in the lining of the lung. 
I should like to mention another matter, because I think it is important. Although the underground mine proposals for Jabiluka do seem to be good and to be designed to keep the workers away from the pitchblende ore as much as possible, the management appears not to want to instal proper water scrubbing, filtering or other means of eliminating dust from the exhaust outlets of the proposed mines. The Senate might well suggest that the Atomic Energy Commission consider that aspect closely. The dust is an alpha emitter and, in certain weather situations, would I think certainly reach the Jabiru township, which is now being built to house 10,000 people, including the womenfolk and children of workers. It seems to me to be an unsatisfactory state of affairs that it should merely be said that the dust will be blown through the mine. If the exhaust system is to do its job huge quantities of dust must certainly be a part of that exhaust emission. 
It is not sufficient that it should be permitted merely to fall at will, wherever the wind takes it, certainly not when a whole town is being built quite close by. That matter also relates to what I have taken as my theme: The question of a proper monitoring and supervision of the amounts of alpha radiation to which the workers are subject. I ask that the Atomic Energy Commission direct its attention urgently to this matter, expecially since the levels of alpha radiation that can be regarded as safe are very much a matter of dispute. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 1 8 October 1979: 
1 ) Has the Australian Government been approached regarding the possible purchase of Iranian F14's. 
What are the economic and political advantages and disadvantages of such a purchase. 
Is the Government considering such offers in the light of its TFF program. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice, on 24 October 1 979: 
1 ) Has the Committee of Inquiry into the future development of drama in the Australian Capital Territory completed its public hearings; if so, has a report yet been produced. 
Has the Minister received a copy of any such report; if so, when will the report be released to allow public debate on it. 
What considerations are delaying release of the report for public debate. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 25 October 1979: 
1 ) Do all of the medium range Surface-to-Surface Missiles, of the Harpoon and Exocet type, have basic features in common. 
Are not surveillance and fire control radar, weapons systems computers, operational display consoles, and adequate electrical supply, wiring and cooling to service amongst these basic features. 
Does not the Defence Department need to know exactly how the Fremantle design specifications accommodate the detailed criteria set out in my Question No. 1 8 1 5 if it is to be in a position to assess the Fremantle 's compatability with Surface-to-Surface Missiles (see  Hansard  12 September 1979, page 65 1 ) 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Finance and concerns the easy identification of Australian bank notes by blind people. I am aware that Australian bank notes are of different sizes. Presumbly, one of the reasons for that is to assist blind people. However, I am advised by blind people and other people in touch with them that the present form is not very convenient or easy of identification, particularly when notes are folded. I draw to the attention of the Senate the situation which applies in Holland with its 25 guilder note. Honourable senators will note that there are two small spots on the lower left hand corner of the note. A 10 guilder note has three such spots. I ask the Minister: If the Australian currency were to be redesigned, or even perhaps modified, would it be suitable, in order to expedite the recognition of bank notes by, and to assist greatly, that huge section of our community, to adopt here a similar method to that adopted in Holland? I ask the Minister for her comments on that. 
The Australian Democrats also support the proposed amendment. I point out that we have no particular brief for  Mr Grassby;  he is the person occupying the position of Commissioner for Community Relations at this time. The really important issue seems to me to be that this amendment ought to be considered and carried by the Government. The Government should be aware by now of how close the feeling is in this chamber on matters of this kind. I suggest that that is something which ought to motivate and inform the Government to some extent, particularly as far as this amendment is concerned. 
There are other reasons for supporting the amendment. One is that the Office of the Commissioner for Community Relations, during its existence, has genuinely developed a national character and it has developed that national character in the teeth of very substantial opposition. I suggest that that opposition could have been expected to be displayed against any Federal authority which is attempting, in the view of State and- sectional interests, to interfere, as has been said, with what is seen as the sovereign powers of the States- a misnomer, of course. If the Human Rights Commission Bill and the Racial Discrimination Amendment Bill are passed, that valuable body of experience, going back many years, will be embodied only in the person of the Commissioner. I think that that experience is a valuable tool in the hands of this Parliament and the proposed Federal authority of which the Government should take heed. 
I noted with some interest when I began to read the report on freedom of information of one of our parliamentary commitees that, of the many submissions received, the only really hostile submission received was from the Premier of Queensland. I suggest that that is not completely irrelevant to the matter we are discussing. It is a fact that the Premier of Queensland has made a number of attacks- some covert, some overt- on  Mr Grassby  and the Office of the Commissioner for Community Relations. There has been a suggestion that  Mr Grassby  has become so unpopular because of, I gather, his very well justified interventions into a Federal scene, that he is now to be got rid of. I suggest that that is against the interests of this Parliament, this nation and any genuine Federal authority. I say that with all respect to the rights of Queenslanders, Western Australians, Tasmanians or anybody else to have their own authority. We do not want to infringe on that. 
I will not comment on what  Mr Bob  Bottom has said other than to say that we do not necessarily support  Mr Grassby  in this matter. 
 There are a couple of points that I would like to raise. In relation to  Senator Gietzelt  's point about the role of Parliament, I am wondering just how much detailed work this House physically has time to do when it comes down to matters of perhaps that degree of detail. There is also the point of view of the land councils themselves. They may not want, for a variety of reasons, to have to go through the considerable work and formality that would be involved in a report to Parliament on their own affairs. I suggest that this might attract unfair publicity to the land councils. There is going to be a situation- if all that we hear is true- where they may have considerable wealth. I do not necessarily think that it is a good thing that this should be made a matter of blazing publicity in quite that way. There again, I think that if the land councils have cause for complaint as a result of their reports to the Minister they have other means of recourse. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 30 May 1979: 
Will an Australian delegation be attending the World Administrative Radio Conference to be held in 1979; if so, (a) who will be Australia's delegates; and (b) what are their professional qualifications and experience. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 2 1 February 1 979: 
Who were the members of the ad hoc Committee of Cabinet at thetime of its formation, referred to in the Minister's answer to Senate Question No. 776  (Hansard,  16 November 1978, page 2171). 
Did any of the members have any relationship with the owners of any existing commercial AM radio broadcasting operations; if so: (a) what are their names; (b) what is the relationship; (c) what is the extent of the interests; and (d ) which AM radio broadcasting stations were involved. 
Did any of the members, at the time of the formation of this ad hoc committee, have any pecuniary interest in any existing commercial AM radio broadcasting operation; if so: (a) who are the members; (b) what is the extent of their pecuniary interests; and (c) in which commercial AM broadcasting station. 
by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the papers. 
I wish to comment briefly on this matter. The report of the Australian Ionising Radiation Advisory Council on radioactive waste management is not yet available to honourable senators but, according to the account of the Minister for Science and the Environment  (Senator Webster),  it is a moderate statement. The Australian Democrats are delighted with that. We do not approve of the extremist view which is so often put in the Senate and elsewhere that there is no problem at all with nuclear waste. 1 find that people with that view normally have not done their homework. If we look at the Minister's statement we will see, however, that some points need to be made. Paragraph 5 reads: 
The AIRAC report has emphasised that technology exists for short term storage of spent fuel, and low, intermediate and high level wastes. 
I make the point that the report refers to short term storage. A matter that has to be got into the consciousness of the public and the government of this country is that there really have not been any solutions for long term storage. It is a fact that in Washington State there are wastes which are the result of the United States atomic bomb program and which have been in short term storage for 30 years or more. As yet no definite program has been devised to cope with that situation. I repeat that the Minister's account of this report is notable not only for what it says but also for what it does not say. The Minister said: 
The report notes that a number of approaches for permanent management of high-level waste and spent fuel are under development or have been proposed. Solidification of reprocessing wastes has been developed to an industrial scale and is in use at pilot plants . . . Recent world wide studies suggest that there are a number of geological environments with the capability of safe isolation for all types of radioactive waste. 
Again the Australian Democrats applaud the moderation of this view. Paragraph 8 of the Minister's statement also confirms that when it says:   the Government recognises that validation of some of the technical principles involved in nuclear waste disposal in geological repositories will have to await construction and operation of such facilities. 
The Minister is referring there to permanent facilities which will be the result of experiment and development. The report does not, however, debate the great dangers and possible financial advantages of fuel-rod reprocessing or the enrichment of uranium in Australia. Both would present Australia with an immediate and permanent necessity for a waste disposal program. The Australian Democrats suggest that these matters have to be resolved in one way or another before we go into this sort of dangerous technology. The problem of security over waste is a massive problem which must go on for centuries. 
This report does not discuss that. Once one has committed oneself anywhere in the world to having nuclear waste in storage one also has a security problem because of the risk of criticality and subsequent atomic explosion of plutonium stored as waste or as a result of deliberate action by states or criminal individuals. 
I would like to point out through you,  Mr President,  to honourable senators that there is a very wide range of opinion that an atomic explosion did occur in northern Russia which has been kept secret and which was a result of a small amount of plutonium stored in trenches coming together accidentally and reaching a critical stage. The Australian Democrats view on nuclear energy is well enough known. I would like to stress that at the moment the problem is the improper use of plutonium which is after all, whichever way one looks at it, the result of waste, storage and disposal. It does not matter whether it is reprocessed or stored. Whether it is short term or long term storage there is the problem of disposing of plutonium and other transuranic residues of nuclear fuel. 
Finally, the Australian Democrats look forward to reading this report in detail. We hope that AIRAC will take the matters I have raised on board on a continuing basis so that it can provide the Parliament and the Australian public in the years to come with a balanced, safe and prudent point of view. I might say in relation to an answer by the Minister earlier that it is to be hoped the Minister will ask AIRAC to get a balanced point of view on  Dr Roy's  controversial alleged method which he claims will neutralise atomic waste. 
I am afraid that I cannot agree with  Senator Keeffe  that there is anything malevolent or sinister in the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Amendment Bill 1979. I have looked at it carefully. I cannot really find anything to that effect. The Australian Democrats basically but conditionally support this Bill. I hope that the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Chaney)  does not take the view that he can limit from debate anything which is not strictly in this Bill because there is a great deal implicit in it. I hope to demonstrate that in the course of my speech. For reasons which I will deal with in the Committee stage- I will not take up time with them now- the Australian Democrats do not propose to support the Australian Labor Party's amendments. We will not oppose the Minister's proposed amendments. Our reason for this is partly that we have faith in the present Minister to deal reasonably with situations which occur in the area of Aboriginal affairs. We do not see any justice in taking from him powers which I think he can exert responsibly and putting then in the hands of the Parliament. I do not think the matter has reached the stage where that is necessary. If it ever does in the future, I suggest that the Senate will know what to do about it. 
The honourable senator knows what to do about that. As I have said, we respect the Minister. We feel that he is dealing reasonably and honestly with the Aboriginal people. I wish that we could be as confident that the Government will back him up in this matter. I have said before in this chamber that I hope it does. A matter of credibility is involved in this whole question of the dealings of the Government and this nation with land rights. In that regard I think  Senator Keeffe  has put his finger on an important point. I will refer to some matters which are implicit in the Minister's second reading speech. He has pointed out that these amendments, which are not particularly controversial and are largely machinery matters, were the subject of lengthy discussion with the Northern Land Council  (Quorum formed).  I was pointing out that in his second reading speech the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs,  Senator Chaney,  himself said that although the amendments presented in this Bill are largely of a machinery nature and are not controversial, there was a phase in which the Northern Land Council had not agreed with them. I presume he has reached the stage where they do agree. It is gratifying if that agreement has been reached. 
Yes. That whole point, however, raises the basic issue which I believe to be of relevance to this Bill; that there is a state of fragility in any relationship or discussions between the Government or perhaps any government and the Northern Land Council over this matter of land rights. I think this is a very important matter to understand and realise, lt is certainly implicit in this Bill. It ought to be a warning to the Government to regard such relationships as fragile and to tread very delicately and carefully in any future changes or amendments it might wish to make. This is not intended as criticism but rather as an attempt to assess a situation which has been confirmed by my own conversations in recent months with Aboriginals in the Northern Territory and, indeed, with members of the Northern Land Council. These confirm that if there is good intent and good faith the relationship, as a progressive one, will continue, but if there is any attempt to sell out that fragile relationship will be destroyed, probably permanently. 
I got the impression while in the Northern Territory, both from the Aboriginal people and those close to them, that there is a good deal of worry among them about the proposal to increase the amount of uranium mining in the Kakadu National Park region. Other speakers have mentioned this point. I mentioned it with particular relevance because this whole question of uranium mining in the park and particularly the declaration of the second stage of the park, which is a sacred place and a place regarded as of great value by the Aboriginal people, is relevant to the degree of trust which we have as a people with the Aboriginal people. Indeed, we still are two peoples in spite of what is said to the contrary. I think it is worth asking the Government at this stage, through the Minister or through the Minister for Science and the Environment  (Senator Webster),  just when it does propose to declare stage 2 of the park. Is it going to leave it until the whole region has been scarred and polluted by massive amounts of uranium mining? I do not know. I think it would be a good idea if the Government came out and said what it is going to do. When is it going to allow that second stage of some of the most beautiful land in that park to be declared? If the Minister says that this is irrelevant, I would refer him to something of relevance to any legislation which the Minister brings forward. I quote from page 24 of the Freedom of Information report of one of our own committees, where it says: 
A totalitarian government finds it easy to maintain secrecy. A democratic government, however, though it must compete with these other types of organisations has a task which is complicated by its obligations to the people. It needs the trust of the people. A government which pursues secret aims and which operates in greater secrecy than the effective conduct of its proper functions requires, or which turns information services into propaganda agencies, will lose the trust of the people. 
I suggest that is relevant in this matter. I hope the Government will see the point and make a clear statement very soon to the many tens of thousands of people in Australia who are very interested indeed in what the Government is going to do about stage 2 of the Kakadu Park. Another point is involved here. When I said that the Australian Democrats' support of this Bill is conditional, I meant that it is conditional on the understanding, which we believe we can reasonably assume, that neither the Minister nor the Government intends to bring forward further amendments in the near future to this Bill which might in any way limit the powers of the Northern Land Council to exercise a proper right of veto or otherwise over the question of the proceeding of Pancontinental Mining Ltd at Jabiluka. I quote from yesterday's Melbourne  Age  in this matter. It states: 
The Federal Government will have to amend the Aboriginal Land Rights Act to guarantee development of the Pancontinental Jabiluka uranium project. 
The Act gives Aborigines power to veto the project because pan of the land needed by the company is subject to a claim by the Northern Land Council. 
As we know, that claim is not yet settled but we hope it will be settled by  Mr Justice  Toohey by early next year. The Melbourne  Age  continued: 
It gives the council power to block mining because Pancontinental applied for the land after the Act was introduced in 1976. 
That final statement is not completely correct. An article in the  Australian Financial Review  on 13 November makes it clearer. It says: 
Following on the report of Justice Fox on the Ranger  Uranium  Environmental Inquiry the Government embodied in legislation the proviso that if a mining interest had been applied for before June 1976 on land which subsequently became Aboriginal land then Aborigines could not prevent uranium mining but could merely negotiate terms and conditions of that mining. 
If a mining interest was applied for after that date on Aboriginal land then it became subject to Aboriginal consent. 
Pancontinental, originally, submitted applications for mining leases over areas it thought it would require. 
The subsequent proving up of their ore, however, indicated that the company needed much greater areas to cover its project development. 
It is significant that the Aboriginal land claim over the Pancontinental area has not yet been heard by the Aboriginal Land Commissioner,  Mr Justice  Toohey. 
For while it seems to be generally accepted that the Aborigines will win the land claim there are a number of other technical but critical processes are to be undergone. I suggest to honourable senators and to the Minister that the Government's good faith over land rights will be judged and tested both by the Aboriginal people and by all Australians on this single issue. Will the Government support the national interest, particularly that of the Aboriginal people? Will it do that, or will it sell out to the large foreign corporations such as Getty Oil Development Company Ltd that has an important stake in Pancontinental? I should be fair in this context to Pancontinental, I was there recently and I have heard lucid explanations of how good environmentally the underground mining operations it is planning there will be. I would say, from what I observed, that this is so. 
Perhaps to  Senator Keeffe  's surprise I intend to speak about the Mad Hatter because it is relevant to what I have got to say. Honourable senators will recall that it was the Mad Hatter who said when he proposed to fix Alice 's watch by putting butter into its works: 'Ah! But it is the very best butter'. I think that is relevant to this matter. The real issue is not how good the Jabiluka operation will be technically but whether the Aboriginal people who have this land claim and who morally have it now, want it to proceed. I think the Government's credibility will be tested on whether it will take a firm line, an honest and definite line on that specific point. 
Another point is what environmental effect it will have on the Kakadu National Park in view of the uniquely primeval nature of that park, where we will need to have a guaranteed zero effect on the environment if we are to preserve it into the indefinite future. There again, in view of the impending over-supply situation for uranium oxide, from the point of view of the Aborigines themselves and owners of this land, the Government must assure itself very definitely that there is going to be a financial reward in proceeding with mining at Jabiluka. If on the best assessment there is not going to be, or if the Aboriginal people and the Northern Land Council are misinformed on this matter, there will be a sellout of the worst possible proportions. 
The last thing we want in maintaining faith in the land rights area is to tell the Northern Land Council that there is a tremendous bonanza for Aborigines there and then find in a few years' time that we have made a great big hole in the ground, there is a hell of a mess, we have a bankrupt company which can no longer come and fix the damage and they have just got to live with it. 
Yes, Pancontinental. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 17 October 1979: 
What were the costs charged for the time purchased by each candidate, and the percentage distribution between candidates of the total costs, in connection with the State election in Tasmania on 28 July 1979 (see the answer to Senate Question No. 1933,  Hansard,  1 1 October 1979, pages 1306-9). 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice, on 24 October 1979: 
1 ) What was the total stock of government housing in the Australian Capital Territory, as at 9 October 1979. 
What was the number of: (a) houses; and (b) flats, for which a rental rebate was being granted. 
How many: (a) houses; and (b) flats, were empty because they were: (i) a new addition to the stock and had never been tenanted; (ii) awaiting new tenants; and (iii) awaiting completion of repairs or maintenance, as at 9 October 1979. 
How many: (a) houses; and (b) flats, were being rented  to  Asian refugees. 
Upon what criteria does the Commissioner for Housing determine whether an Asian refugee family is allocated a pre-fabricated house in the 'older' areas of Canberra, as compared with new houses in the outer suburbs. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. Is it a fact that the Labor, Liberal and National Country parties have in the past received millions of dollars in election expenses from interests which will not disclose themselves and which are not disclosed by those political parties? Is it a fact that the policies of those parties in government have been and are influenced by this secret bribery? Will the Government move urgently, in the interests of a genuine democracy in this country, for a system of public funding of all political parties similar to that applying in most Western democracies, to be introduced before the 1980 election? 
The Australian Democrats would like to put in on this subject a few words not unlike some of the comments that  Senator Evans  has made on behalf of the Australian Labor Party. Indeed, the points of the Bill which concern us most are those found in clauses 1 7 and 40, which are concerned directly with the High Court's proposed new powers to control its own finance in certain ways. It is relevant to comment that the High Court appears to have started off very much on the wrong foot, with a reputation for extravagance. I suggest that that is relevant to clause 1 7, because what begins badly can often continue badly. The Australian Democrats feel that it is quite unnecessary to have this extravagant Taj Mahal. If the law needs pomp, ritual and extravagance to justify itself, that is a great pity; it should not need those things. We feel that it is a very awkward precedent to establish in a nation that has, I might say, rather overcrowded, grubby and ancient courtrooms which are an inconvenience to litigants and to everybody who appears in them. If any additional money is to be spent in improving court facilities in this country, surely it should be spent on these lower courts rather than on the High Court which I suggest, because of its stature, prestige and elevation, needs it least. It should perhaps have tolerated austerity better than could any other court. 
While I am on the question of precedent- I think this has a very important bearing- I note that the excuse given for clause 17 is that the High Court must have power over its own finances and spending because only in that way can it be seen to be truly independent. That reasoning could be applied to any other court or tribunal in the land. Indeed, I suggest to other courts and tribunals that if they have any brains they should start using them to that end. Every court and tribunal, at whatever level, should surely be able to be independent and to make an argument for independence. If the principle applies to the highest it must also apply to the lowest. The Australian Democrats would suggest that this is very much an argument against clause 17, to which we thoroughly object in almost every particular. Our second point concerns the fact that the Court exercises legal functions. That is its preoccupation and its work. The people at the head of the Court are the nation's most eminent jurists. It is not in the nature of things that men of this type have the time, the experience or the knowledge to worry about the details of administration of a large building and everything that goes on within it. Yet in this clause we are saying that. 
Where does the matter stop? It might be said that it is the  Clerk  who will decide and have the discretion and that his masters- the justices- will say to him: 'You do what seems right and then come and tell us'. But is he going to run to the justices every time he wants to spend some money and say: 'This costs this and this costs that'? Of course he will not do that. In the course of human nature and the nature of institutions, this matter will descend on to the bureaucracy. Without in advance questioning that bureaucracy in any way, it is the nature of things in this world that such organisations are the very ones which, only too readily and with the best of intentions, and feeling completely justified, are going to spend large sums of money on things which seem to them to be necessary. 
I think that that covers the main points that I wish to make. I believe that the Australian Democrats have made two points which we feel are relevant and to the point. We believe that those points are related to the ordinary human nature of things which is something the Government seems to forget. The Government seems to feel that it can set up an institution which will operate like some machine, but that does not happen. I have one final comment to make on clause 40. We implore the Government to alter that provision for the enormous sum of $100,000 which is to be spent without reference to the Minister on a building completely fitted out and operational. I ask honourable senators: What possible expenditure- perhaps as much as $10,000- would that Court need to incur that could not be referred easily to the Minister? 
It would by a lot of Scotch, but what if the building has to be cleaned after 10 or 15 years? The cost would perhaps be $80,000 to $90,000. Surely that can be referred to the Minister. The Minister and his Department are experienced on these matters and they would have a far better idea of what was going on. The whole question of this $100,000 is an outrage to this country and this provision should be changed. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 2 1 August 1979: 
1 ) Was an Air Traffic Controller Grade 4 with the Department of Transport provisionally promoted to an Airport Manager Grade 2 at the Bankstown Airport, as notified in the  Commonwealth of Australia Gazette  of 19 October 1978. 
Were several appeals against this promotion, from officers within the Department of Transport's Airport Administration Area, lodged with the  Chairman  of the Promotion Appeals Committee in New South Wales, following the notification of this promotion; if so, what were the details of these appeals. 
Was the officer concerned provisionally promoted to Air Traffic Controller Grade 5 in the  Gazette  dated 30 November 1978, and was this appointment subsequently confirmed on 12 April 1979. 
Can the officer concerned now accept the lower promotion on a reduction by consent basis, thus negating the other appellants ' rights of appeal against the first provisional promotion, because the Airport Manager Grade 2 classification is lower than the Air Traffic Controller Grade 5 classification; if so, why did: (a) the Promotion Appeals Committee not hear the appeals lodged against the first promotion in the five month period that had elapsed since the appeal deadline for that promotion and the confirmation of the promotion to Air Traffic Controller Grade 5; and (b) the Department of Transport, knowing that the original promotion of this particular officer was a contentious one, allow the second promotion to be processed, thus negating the other appellants ' basic right of appeal. 
What action will the Public Service Board be taking to prevent a recurrence of this unethical promotion situation. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 25 October 1979: 
1 ) How will equipment possessed, or being acquired by the Defence Forces assist them in expansion as necessary (see the answer to Senate Question No. 1814,  Hansard 12  September 1979). 
In which area should equipment be procured to ameliorate difficulties which would hinder expansion of the Forces as they are presently equipped. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 25 October 1979: 
Why is the Department of Defence not aware of any stability problems associated with the fitting of masthead radar on the Royal New Zealand Navy's Lake Class patrol boats, as was stated in the answer to Senate Question No. 1816 (see  Hansard,  12 September 1979, pages 65 1-2). 
My purpose in rising to speak to the motion for the first reading of the Appropriation Bill (No. 1 ) 1979-80 is that we of the Australian Democrats do not want this session to end without a reiteration of our view on unemployment. We believe that in spite of what we hear about the pressure of time and of Bills in this place, we do not hear enough about the positive actions that could be taken or matters that could be considered by the Government to deal with what has become an urgent major social crisis in this country. We believe that there are things that can be done about it and that they should have been commenced long ago. Obviously that cannot happen now. Because of that we believe that time cannot be allowed to elapse, certainly not a matter of months, before these things are brought to the light of day. Our intention is to bring them to the light of day. 
I will not extensively canvass the effects of unemployment, especially youth unemployment. They have been discussed in the Senate. From a variety of surveys it is now fairly definite that suicide, crime and prostitution among young people are very much higher than they have been in the past. This has been directly related to youth unemployment by people far better qualified than I am to do that. I suggest to honourable senators that such conditions are now beyond doubt. Because of that the Government's attitude of regarding unemployment as an unfortunate area of some son of fiscal or financial problem is utterly unrealistic. It has looked at one narrow aspect of a problem which is looming all around us. It is perhaps like people in a ship who try to plug one small leak and become preoccupied with it. Then they do not notice that the ship is sinking because of other leaks that they have not yet noticed. Other people have noticed the leaks. That is the point 1 would like to make. 
The Australian Democrats have some positive suggestions to make on ways to overcome this which particularly concerns the appropriation of public revenue. So we are not entirely inappropriate in our use of the motion for the first reading of the Appropriation Bill to raise this matter. We think the Government has to start to get its priorities right. It has to end its preoccupation with keeping the deficit down as if that in itself will achieve anything of value when other factors are not being controlled. I would have thought that it would be obvious that one must control all the factors in a situation. To take one and concentrate on it in a narrow way may give some sense of satisfaction, but that certainly will not achieve anything of value for our society. Why has the Government got its priorities wrong? In particular we ask the question: Why is it taking more than $2,000m in energy taxation? Unlike the Labor Party we approve of and do not disagree with the crude oil levy. We think it is right and proper that it should be imposed. However, it should be used not merely in a negative way, as opposed to the deficit, but in a positive way. 
Why has the Government got its priorities wrong? There are those who suggest that the Government is lazy, that it is completely indifferent to the problem of unemployment and that it is even wicked. Some people have suggested that the Government has ignored the problems of the unemployed; that it has taken the cold political judgment that the unemployed are not the people who will vote for it in next year's election anyway and that the people who will vote for it in next year's election anyway are a selfish group of our society who have work and are prosperous. In this rationale, this framework of reason- which I do not necessarily subscribe to- it is said that those prosperous people do not give a damn about the unemployed; therefore it is better for any party that wishes to either regain power or gain power to forget about the unemployed completely. I have not seen any body of evidence to justify or prove those views but I think it is worth pointing out to the Government that these things are being said. Sad though as it may seem to be, the appearances of things are often much more important in deciding public issues or even elections than the actual facts. I suggest that if the Government feels it will go on any longer regarding unemployment as a matter of no importance or something that the majority of the community can be relied on to ignore, it is in for a very rapid shock and some very rapid disillusionment. 
I would like very briefly to quote my friend Professor Charles Birch. He made the point better than I could when he said that the things that are being done now are too negative. In short he said: 'They are a rearrangement of the chairs on the deck of the Titanic'. I think that is worth repeating here because it indicates that there are at least some Australians, as well as eminent Australians, who are thoroughly sick and tired of a lack of leadership and a lack of even an approach by the Government to the concept that we must start to move towards a society which we can in this country sustain over a period and which at the same time does give us an opportunity to make reasonable contributions to parts of the world less fortunate than ours. We believe that a first step should be genuine recognition that the crude oil levies are not a cow that can be milked forever. As our oil reserves are cut back more of our oil must be imported at full world parity price. At present the crude oil levy is bringing in something more than $2,000m a year, a large sum of money which could very effectively be used in this community. We say- I have noticed that the Institution of Engineers and others also say now- that this money should be used for energy replacement substantially and preferably in labour intensive industries. 
Definite proposals which the Australian Democrats would put forward- hard, practical and pragmatic proposals which could be carried out tomorrow and should have been implemented a month or a year ago because they are being carried out overseas- are these: Removal of sales tax, which of course has happened, on solar heating devices. I give the Government credit for at least that. Beyond that we suggest the granting of important and significant tax concessions which would encourage the greater use of solar devices not only in houses but in Australian industry. The evidence overseas has been that there is a threshold of price, and unless one approaches it people will only regard solar energy as an expensive toy. Once one gets to that threshold there is an enormous increase in demand. Because of this, West Germany, France, the United States of America, and New Zealand now are using taxation to encourage the use of solar devices, insulation and anything else that could be a reasonable energy conserving method. The fact that we happen to have what we think is a generous supply of hydrocarbon fuels does not mean that we have the right to use them all ourselves, deprive the world of them and take our time over making this sort of decision. 
The United States offers the buyers of solar, geothermal or wind generated equipment a tax credit of 30 per cent on the first $2,000 spent and $2,000 on the next $8,000 spent. That is a total deduction of $2,600 in $10,000. That is the sort of encouragement that would probably mean that young people building homes now would put solar installations automatically into their houses. Every one of those installations put into our houses would begin to solve permanently some of our and the world energy problems. In America there is also provided a tax credit of 1 5 per cent on the first $2,000 spent on insulation, storm windows and similar energy conservational equipment. It is almost impossible to cost such a program in Australia since to assess the demand is hard. Obviously a method of controlling it is by the rate of tax concession. I suggest that the Government ought to start this concession fairly generously and then take control of it if it thinks the scheme is going on too rapidly or not going on rapidly enough. We of the Democrats want something practical done. We are sick and tired of Government senators referring matters to committees again and again. They again referred the question of methanol conversion to a committee whereas the technology for it has existed for years. There was no need for them to do that. What is needed now is for them to do something positive and the sooner the better. 
The question of manufacturing solar plates and panels in order to make a twofold attack on energy problems and unemployment already has its precedents overseas. I mentioned a year ago in the Senate- it must be as long ago as that or perhaps not- the solar coal program, a major program that the State of California is carrying out. It aims to reduce by half unemployment in that State by the year 1990 while also fitting every possible building with solar heating by that date. It is doing just as we have suggested. It is using labour intensive small industries to do it and reducing the numbers of unemployed. I mentioned this important program in a question here some months ago. Some Minister- I have forgotten which one- answered that the Government would look into it. There is no evidence that the Government has done this. I, however, wrote to Governor Jerry Brown of California and he sent me the material on this matter. It can be organised and got together by the Democrats if the Liberal-National Country Party is too lazy to doit. 
I note more recently that the same idea has been canvassed by the Massachusetts energy policy office which has said that if by 1985 one half of all the buildings in Massachusetts were to use solar appliances for hot water heating only, 32,000 new jobs would be created. It is my understanding that the Government of that State is to proceed with those matters. It was also concluded that the State would save 600 million gallons of fuel oil a year. Massachusetts has six million people but these figures cannot be referred directly to the Australian situation. Massachusetts is a much colder place than Australia. If these figures were referred directly to the Australian situation they would indicate that we could create more than 70,000 jobs in that one area alone. I suggest that that is the possibility that could result from that area. The point is that manufacturing and installing solar panels is highly labour intensive, and likely to remain so. It also involves at present the use of copper, a metal which we produce, and plan to produce in much larger amounts. Indeed, copper is one of the most promising resources at Roxby Downs. I think this overseas experience is important and therefore I would like to mention what is happening in Japan. I will quote from an article in the  Australian  of 22 October. It states: 
Programs for the development of solar energy, terrestrial heat and coal liquefaction will open an $86,000 million market and create jobs for 1 .7 million people in Japan, according to a report released today. 
The report by the Ministry of International Trade and Industry said the three untapped energy sources would account for about 5 per cent of Japan 's total supplies by 1 990. 
Japan has all the disadvantages we do not have. It is almost an arctic area, it has a bad sunlight record and so on, yet it is still going ahead with this enormous spending. The point has been made that the Japanese are creating employment while they are doing it. They are solving two problems in the same way. I quote again from the  Australian  of 22 October: 
Predicting that the price of oil would continue to rise in the 1980s the report said the Japanese Government planned to spend $6,000m for research and development of these energy sources over anil -year period starting in 1 980. 
Which, of course, is next year- 
The report said discussions had been held between the Government and some 70 companies interested in the government-sponsored development. 
That too makes a point that the Australian Democrats would make. Australian industry needs work and its gets nothing from this Government except constant cries that it must make itself more efficient; that it must do this, that and the other thing. But the Government does not do anything to provide our industry with something it could do and at the same time create employment and assist this country. Other countries create employment but Australia does not. The article continues: 
It predicted that Japan had to invest $37,900m - 
An enormous sum of money-  in plants and other projects to obtain 5 per cent of the nation's energy supplies . . . 
Yet Japan considers these methods to be worthwhile. It continues: 
The report specifically called for an expenditure of $23, 700m to turn 8 million of Japan's 30 million homes into solar units - 
I want to stress that point. Almost a third of Japan's homes are going to be converted to solar heating. The article continues:  and to equip another 900,000 houses with solar batteries. 
Another $6,470m would be spent on construction of 10 250,000 kilowatt terrestrial-heat power plants across the country and other $7, 700m for construction of coal liquefaction plants in foreign countries. 
I found this extremely interesting. In the  AM  program of the same day Walter Hamilton, the Australian Broadcasting Commission correspondent in Tokyo, pointed out that every minute Japan spends $80,000 on oil. She depends more on oil than any other country. Seventy-five per cent of her energy needs are met from petroleum. But Japan's plan- the one referred to in the Australian- will cut this dependence to 50 per cent by 1990. That is the sort of initiative that we would like to feel our Government would come up with instead of all the nonsense we hear in the Senate day after day, with scrapping, in-fighting and confrontation. Why can we not get something done here? 
The second point I want to make is that we should get going soon- some of the money from crude oil might be used in this way- on the early use of established technology to build 10 agroindustrial complexes to produce fuel alcohol in the form of ethanol from established and new crops, but especially from cassava in the tropical areas, possibly sugar beet in Tasmania and Victoria- I do not think that is a particularly good option- and wheat in the temperate zones of this country. 
I would remind Government senators, through you,  Mr Deputy President,  that the research and work being carried out by  Dr MacLennan  and the biotechnology group in Sydney on the use of wheat as an alcohol feed stock is enormously important. When I first heard about it I did not like it. I said: 'Why are you going to use wheat?' I was talking to the biotechnology group. I said: 'This is a food crop. 
Why do you do this?' They said: 'We are only going to use the carbohydrate from the wheat; the protein will be a byproduct'- I think this is important- 'which will provide protein food for literally millions of Asian people'. In other words, by allowing from now on a reasonable go-ahead program, which might include concessions to farmers for opening up new countrythe country is there; we have got it- we could not only start to solve our own increasing fuel problems but provide an enormous amount of gluten protein of value to the Asian countries around us who need it so desperately. The Australian Democrats believe we have a duty to do that sort of thing. Until we start doing it we cannot be seen as credible or as having any kind of leadership or initiative in this region. 
Ten regional plants would cost $200m only and they would produce 4 per cent of Australia's motor spirit fuel requirements in the form of an additive to petrol. They would produce half a million kilolitres a year- our present consumption is 13 million kilolitres- and they would provide a useful supplement. As well, they would constitute a major pilot program- we see it as that- which would assist the viability of a larger project to follow aimed at the production of 20 per cent of Australia's motor spirit, at an eventual total investment cost of $ 1,000m. I stress that figure. For half of what the Government is getting now from the crude oil levy we could set up ethanol plants alone that would produce 20 per cent of our current usage of motor spirit. These re not my figures; they are the figures of people who have checked this out over and over again. In addition, we could provide an important new rural industry in Australia and a positive incentive for industrial decentralisation. It might be said that more time is needed for research in these areas. We say no; the time is not available for such a leisurely approach. Brazil is already producing and using its first 'gasohol', which is 20 per cent ethanol with 80 per cent petrol, and we should be doing so as soon as possible. 
We believe even more urgently that there should be incentives to Australian industry, perhaps totalling $200m or as close to that figure as possible, to work, especially with the Northwest Shelf consortium, to ensure that there is rapid construction of at least one plant, possibly two 5,000 tonne a day plants, based on known technology, to produce methanol and other forms of alcohol useful as a motor spirit from the North- West Shelf natural gas fields. It is a factthis can be established from the figures and paperwork- that these plants could be installed for the meagre cost of $2 58m and that they could be on stream in two years ' time. 
The cost of that methanol, which could be used for Ml 5, the additive fuel used elsewhere, would be something like 1 lc a litre. That 1 lc a litre is already less than the present landed cost of Middle East crude. Why are we not doing this? Is it because somebody in the North- West Shelf consortium or the Woodside group is coy about it? If they are being coy about it, it is time the Government got stuck in and saw that something was done. The expenditure of a sum of $258m is comparatively modest compared with the cost of one coal to oil plant which would achieve the same result. The lowest figure I have seen for such a plant is between $4,000m and $5,000m and the lowest cost of oil produced in that way, from the people who are advising me, is 50c a litre. We hear a lot of garbage talked about shale oil. Shale oil might well have a future in 20 or 30 years' time when we get fusion or some enormous source of energy. One gets shale oil by taking a very hard rock and literally smashing it up by other energy reserves to remove the oil. There is no way in the world that that idea is any more than a piece of window dressing. The real goer here is methanol from our natural gas. lt is a crime and a sin that we are going ahead with the exporting of it. I am advised that what we propose to export, if turned into methanol, would provide us with something like 60 per cent of our total motor spirit requirements. I think it is time the Australian public realised this. When they do find that the Government is selling them out on something which they could have obtained cheaper than Middle East crude they will not be very pleased. I leave that point at that. 
At the same time, there should be greater control over the Australian motor industry. If necessary, it should be assisted to fall in with that kind of program so that initially it can plan for a lightweight, low fuel consumption motor car which has an engine type which is definitely a full methanol or ethanol user. This would not be very difficult. The Australian Democrats say that it would be possible for us to get to M 15 within two to three years if we started now. We could then have higher consumption of methanol as we built more plants on natural gas fields. I think we could then rely on the industry to have in four or five years, as part of the world car sold in this country, at least one vehicle which is capable of using methanol straight out of the pump. We cannot expect people to be switching backwards and forwards, and putting special tanks in their cars. That should not be necessary. We believe that there is an obligation on the Australian motor industry to stop building cars which have a petrol consumption as low as 8.5 miles to the gallon. This is the story now with the ranges of nearly all the big manufacturers. I do not think there is one that does not have a car that uses around 8 to 1 4 miles to the gallon as its average petrol consumption. I suggest that that is a disgrace, and it has to stop. We say that this program should be associated with major disincentives to be applied quite soon to the making and selling of cars which cannot achieve at least 20 miles to a gallon of fuel. The Australian Democrats would see those disincentives as involving high annual taxation on such vehicles, on a sliding scale, in addition to a fairly hot supertax at the time of first sale, so that if one wants to have a car like that one will have to pay through the nose for it. 
In the same package, we would suggest pilot manufacture of devices of an innovative nature for the conservation or production of energy, including electric and petrol-electric commuter cars, wind and tidal electric power generators and more efficient solar cells capable of direct generation of electricity with special reference to the 'doped' plastics now being researched in other countries for this purpose. Australia is far behind in regard to modern technology. I do not believe we even understand it. I do not think our energy advisers really know what is going on. One hears constantly criticism of wind generators. I heard that criticism as recently as yesterday from one of our top people in the nuclear energy field, Professor Titterton, who said that a decent wind generator had not been built anywhere. In fact, one has been operating for quite some time at Jutland in Denmark. It was built by amateurs at a cost of only $720,000. 1 am speaking of the Tvind mill, about which Professor Titterton ought to know. It produces two megawatts of power. It is a small power station but the cost is also small. It works out slightly cheaper relative to the costing for the nuclear power house proposed also for Jutland. This prompted the Danish Government, immediately these people finished their machine, to allocate $ 1 1 m to wind machine research. We are advised that such big generators could be located slightly offshore in batteries of 20 to 30 machines and feed into State electricity grids. There are enormous possibilities for Australia in these areas. The technology is there. It is interesting that this work is not being done by the big energy companies. They have apparently brought forth mice in an attempt to persuade the world that there is nothing in wind generators and things of that sort. They have spent huge sums of money on bringing out abortive devices, or something small or hardly worthwhile. It has been left to a group of amateurs, a group of schoolteachers in Denmark, to blaze the trail with a thoroughly efficient machine which is fully computerised and highly sophisticated and which certainly does the job very well. 
The Australian Democrats suggest also in this package that there should be a major public relations and advertising campaign based on the Life. Be In It' campaign to encourage Australians towards conservation and the acceptance of new and unusual energy forms. We suggest that this would be a much better program than the one running now- I cannot use the word I would like to describe it- to persuade Australians to be patriotic. People are not persuaded to be patriotic by being told something on television. They are persuaded by being given decent leadership and by being told that their country has a future. I suggest that Australians would accept a campaign towards conservation and the acceptance of these new and novel energy forms, in which there is already tremendous public interest, a lot more easily than they would accept the garbage that is now being shown at great expense. We feel that if a total of $950m were committed at once to the things I have mentioned- the figures I have stated add up to that- and that if a consistent pattern of development were maintained after that, it might be the most important factor in Australia's national life and future. 
The final point I make is that most of this money would return to public revenue quite soon. For instance, in the case of solar panels we would like to see the Government go to the unemployed and offer them some training in the technology of installing this equipment. Some incentives should be given to the people who want to use them in their houses and businesses. In Queanbeyan, the Coca-Cola company uses solar panels for hot water for its processes. Young people could be offered the chance of training. They could be given some low risk capital and turned into small businessmen. There is nothing we would like better. That is the philosphy of the Australian Democrats. Let them get out and do this work and give them a chance in the world. This way, they would not be paid the dole. Within a short time that money would be coming back in a reasonable way to public revenue due to the increased employment created, and business confidence would be promoted by a program which indicated that the Government had some sense of leadership. Additional payments in income tax and reductions in dole payments would be dramatically greater within two years of the start of a program like that. There is no doubt that it could be got going quickly. There would be enthusiasm and public support for it. There is no way in the world that it would not be a goer. 
Can this be done? Yes. The technology exists and all the opportunities are present. There is nothing lacking. The money is there. The Government has made sure of that with the crude oil levy. That was a brilliant idea but apparently it was devised in somebody's brain as a way of getting down the deficit. It should have been devised- we suggest that this a change of policy that is needed- to take this new line on energy. All that is needed is a government with vision, integrity and a dedication to go ahead and give the necessary guidance and encouragement to Australian industry. I wonder whether we will see this happen. 
I  present the following petition from 1 10 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. 
The Petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth: 
That the lead content levels in Australian motor spirit have been proven to have detrimental health effects on our child population. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled should: 
Take legislative action to reduce and ultimately remove lead concentrates from motor spirit in Australia. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I present the following petition from 34 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable  President  and Members of the Senate of the Australian Parliament assembled. 
The petition of certain citizens respectfully showeth: 
Their support for and endorsement of the National Women 's Advisory Council. 
We call on the Government to: 
Continue to maintain the National Advisory Council and increase Federal Government support for its activities. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 

 -Mr President, I seek leave to make a personal explanation. 
Leave granted. 
This matter arises as a result of an article by Tony O'Leary in yesterday evening's Sydney  Sun  which quotes  Senator Peter  Baume as referring to the Australian Democrats rather quaintly as a 'damp squib'. That report referred to me by name in that connection. The reason for  Senator Baume  's comment was reported to be that he believed that we ought to have voted in a division on an amendment to the Human Rights Commission Bill at the Committee stage last Monday night. This is the point on which I wish especially to comment. I was in the Senate from 10. 15 a.m. on Monday. I asked a question at Question Time and spoke in the debate on the High Court of Australia Bill in the afternoon. I was in the Senate briefly after dinner but left, as  Senator Chipp  mentioned yesterday, because I was going through a difficult phase with a stomach complaint that I picked up recently. 
It is a fact, as  Hansard  shows, that  Senator Chipp  and I have spoken and voted in the Committee stage of the Human Rights Commission Bill, voting in divisions on amendments up to the one of last Monday night. The attitude of the Australian Democrats towards the Bill changed when several Liberal senators made a statement last weekend to the effect that they had withdrawn their significant and important amendments and that these amendments, which we would have supported, were no longer achievable. I have been present in this chamber every sitting day of this calendar year, as the records of the Senate will show. For one good reason or another most honourable senators do not manage that. I think it is fair to say plainly and publicly that there are devices, such as pairing, which enable honourable senators to slip away from this place for hours, days or even weeks at a time. When that happens with Government and Australian Labor Party senators we do not hear an outcry from  Senator Baume  or from the media itself. However, this outcry does come about when a Democrats senator is absent for only a few hours even as a result of illness. We appreciate the interest in us to that extent. 
The effect of  Senator Baume  's reported comment in the  Sun  has been, I believe, to cast a slur on my dilligence in this place. I must reply to that. I think that the record shows that I have tried to raise issues as much as possible in debate and through questions. Indeed, I have asked 105 questions with and without notice in the Senate this year, which is many times the average. Although the Australian Democrats number only two of the 64 senators in this place, at one stage - 
First I ought to make the point which I think a number of senators would wish to make. It seems utterly absurd and ridiculous that we should be considering the important matter of $2, 500m worth of defence expenditure at this hour of the morning. It is completely unnecessary, and I agree with the Australian Labor Party that extended sittings of the Senate would have been the answer. I think the Government is taking a singularly obdurate and not very intelligent line on this matter. The defence matter I want to raise is one I have raised a number of times in the Senate by way of questions to the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen).  I do not regard myself as having had any really satisfactory reply from him on the basic point I have raised, that is, the question of the major part of our naval expenditure- some $100m worth- being devoted to 1 5 Fremantle class patrol boats. They are large, fast boats, ideal for missile capabilityused for missile capability by all other nations in the world with that type of vessel- which alone in the world we perversely propose to arm with one light gun. 
I suggest that in this regard we find the same obduracy. For some reason or other- although we are not a large naval power; we do not have any plans that I have heard of for any large program of naval building- we have committed ourselves to the construction over a period of 1 5 craft which could have a considerable sting, which would inspire respect from our neighbours and which we have deliberately an perversely decided we will not equip in that way. I only ask the Government, when building these craft, not to create a situation whereby in future years this country will have to incur enormous charges for their adaptation to missile capability. I believe that will eventually have to happen. I think events will be forced upon us so that we will have to do this. We will not have time to build more craft of this type. Let us be at the stage now of at least laying some of the wiring, the wiring channels or whatever is necessary in at least some of these craft so that they can be useful men-of-war when they are needed. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 26 September 1979: 
Why has the Government not taken some effective action to end the dangerous, wasteful and inconvenient nuisance to the public which is involved in parallel timetabling between Ansett Airlines of Australia Limited and TransAustralia Airlines Limited. 
Can the Minister, under Clause 5 of Schedule 3 of the Airlines Agreement Act 19S2, use his discretion to refer the whole matter of parallel timetabling to the Rationalisation Committee established under that Act, in view of the fact that relative closeness in scheduling of flights between the airlines has given rise to the complaint that the services are not operated at intervals that adequately serve the public; if so, what action is proposed for the exercise of such discretion immediately so that the whole matter can be properly resolved. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice, on 25 October 1979: 
When will plans be revealed for the implementation of long range weapons systems which would enable the Royal Australian Air Force FI 1 ls to attack well-defended targets with a probability of success commensurate with the aircraft's high cost, as promised in the Liberal-National Country Party's defence policy of 1 975 and mentioned again in the Defence Statement of 29 March 1979. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 12 September 1979: 
1) Is the hormone drug diethylstilboestrol (DES) in use in Australia; if so, for how long has it been in use. 
What action has the Australian Drug Evaluation Committee taken in relation to the drug. 
Did the United States Food and Drug Administration restrict the use of the drug in 1 97 1 . 
Is the drug manufactured in Australia; if so: (a) by whom; and (b) under what brand names is it manufactured; if not, who markets the drug in Australia, and under what brand names. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice, on 7 November 1979: 
1 ) What is the total area of land the Iwasaki Sangyo Company Australia Proprietary Limited has entered into contract to acquire, additional to that set out in the Franchise Agreement between that company and the Queensland Government. 
What is the total area of land the company has proposed to acquire. 
What are the details of each parcel of land referred to in parts ( 1 ) and (2 ) above. 
-by leave- I wish to make a brief statement on this report about the social impact of uranium mining on Aborigines. I have not been able to study the report for reasons that  Senator Gietzelt  mentioned, but I note that in the statement tabled by the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Chaney)  he does not mention the potential effect on the diet of the people of the East Alligator Rivers region of unfettered uranium mining. I would have thought that this was a social effect of some consequence to which we have to give a good deal of attention because it is a fact that the Aboriginal people of that area traditionally rely a great deal on seafood and also fresh water food from streams and billabongs. Therefore, the degree of contamination of those streams and billabongs is of tremendous interest to their future from a social point of view. 
The food sources in that region are very intimately associated with Magela Creek, which, of course, has been mentioned previously in the 
Senate, because it is the area which, for very good geographical reasons, must be used for discharge, drainage or seepage from the tailings dams of the uranium operations of both Ranger and of Pancontinental Mining Ltd at Jabiluka. I understand from the Supervising Scientist's laboratory in that area that the water in Magela Creek at present is unusually clean and pure. Therefore, it is a low threshold situation at the moment which is at risk. The situation is that Ranger will come into operation first. Its tailings dams will discharge water into Magela Creek at a point higher up than Jabiluka. If Jabiluka proceeds, it will be several miles downstream, and that will be an additional burden on the creek. Until my last visit to that region I had thought, perhaps naively, that these rock fill and earth tailings dams would contain fairly substantially all the water put into them. The argument has been that perferably there should be no discharge of water from these tailings dams because it has been realised that it would get into Magela Creek and thus into the East Alligator Rivers region. 
Some work has been done already. I believe work on rock oysters has been started by the Supervising Scientist's laboratory at Ranger. I think there is already some clear evidence that there is a very grave possibility of a build-up of some radioisotopes and, more particularly, heavy metals in those rock oysters which are largely used as a traditional form of food. The fact is that the water does escape from these dams. The figures I got from the Ranger people recently show that the earth dam will lose at least 800 cubic metres of water a day. I have been asked to regard even that figure as only an interim one. Eventually the figure might be higher than that. I am awaiting that figure. This means that at least 292,000 cubic metres of water a year will seep through those dams and inevitably will find its way into these creeks in the East Alligator Rivers region. This water escape contains heavy metals. These are interesting; they are actually radium, copper, lead and zinc. One could not imagine a more dangerous and troublesome group of elements. The geological accident that nature has provided there in association with the uranium deposits, I suggest, creates a problem of major proportions to which we must address ourselves. 
Because the proposed Pancontinental mine at Jabiluka will be underground, loss from its tailings dams will be smaller because it is going to put at least half of the back fill into the mine itself. Obviously the company cannot put in more than that. It cannot put back into a mine as much as it takes out of it. The likely seepage loss will still be another 200 to 300 cubic metres a day. I think that this is a matter that the Australian Institute of Aboriginal Affairs should look at much more carefully. I think it is not good enough for there to be constant assaying or checking on the degree of contamination by radioactive substances, radioisotopes such as Strontium 90, and by heavy metals in this creek system. I think that the Government and the Institute will have to look at this situation and say that there is a level at which this has to stop. Otherwise an environment which is important in many respects and which is socially of enormous consequence to the people in that area may be harmed. One only has to speak to some of them to realise how much they love that place and how much they recognise its beauty, but it could in effect poison them through their food. Those are the main points that the Australian Democrats wish to make and we commend them to the Institute. 
The view of the Australian Democrats is not unlike the view expressed by  Senator Grimes.  We say yes, it is motherhood again- the sort of thing that one cannot say one is against. It is important, good and useful that there should be some study of multicultural affairs in Australia. I think that the initiatives behind this Bill which came from the people who thought of these ideas really intended this. I think the Government has rather let them down by bringing up a Bill like this which is, of course, similar to the Human Rights Commission Bill. It is a sort of tame pussycat thing which will not do any good for anybody. It will be held very tightly in shackles so that anybody who might have any genuine ideas about getting multiculturalism together in Australia will find that he is brought to a sharp and sudden halt by the mere fact that the Government has a system of appointments, not only the appointment of the council, to which the Australian Labor Party has moved an amendment, but also in clause 10 the actual appointment of members of the Institute. There are to be 100 members- if we do get 100- because the clause states: 
not more than 100 persons appointed by the Minister as members of the Institute. 
What kind of Institute will this be? It will be a sort of backroom of a government department. In the second reading speech somebody has used some high flown phrases. It states: 
Over three and a half million people from more than 100 countries have made Australia their home in a magnificent saga of voluntary, planned migration. 
I agree with that statement. But is it not time for a great saga of co-operation and understanding? Surely the Government would realise that this can only come from the co-operation and interested and voluntary activity of individuals and ethnic organisations. There is nothing dangerous about this Institute that I can see. I cannot see that it will ferment revolution or subversion or treason. I can see very remote, sciencefiction, novel-like posibilities in which it might, but I do not really think that if it were given its head it would behave like that. I would have seen it rather as the one place for the study and accumulation of our real cultural background as a multicultural society, where we could let off just a few of the shackles. I commend to the Government the idea that it might do just that. It would be very much in accord with the policy of the Australian Democrats if it did so. I suggest it would immediately overcome the problems that  Senator Grimes  mentioned where the ethnic community would largely walk carefully and quietly around this situation, leave it alone and go about their affairs. We have to involve them. There is no way they will be involved here simply by saying that the Minister will decide which of them will be relevant in this situation, not only on the council but also on the Institute itself. 
Basically, we would go further than  Senator Grimes  on this question of education. After all, education should be the wellhead of real recognition that we are a multicultural society in this country. At present that is not recognised nearly enough. I was reading through clause 5 of the Bill when  Senator Grimes  was speaking and the point struck me that there is a very significant omission here. I have written the word 'education' alongside that clause because the word is simply not mentioned in the objectives for the establishment of the Institute. One gets a picture of a general sort of vague organisation which perhaps at great expense in some remote locality will establish a library of ethnic affairs which nobody will ever go to look at or use. It may from time to time organise a very carefully balanced, non-controversial exhibition. It may be Hungarian dancing or whatever, but it will never really come to grips with real problems which are basic. 
This is part of the Australian Democrats' policy on education, and we would like to see the Government consider a tiny amendment which would include within the objectives of the Institute some relevance to education, and particularly the kind of education which would be recognised in this Bill as having multicultural backgrounds. We are not just an Anglo-Saxon society which has somehow to create institutes and organisations which will compulsorily incorporate a vast number of people from so many rich and varied cultures within it. Those rich and varied cultures are part of our culture and we should be proud of them and we should be proud of the people who brought them here. Unless we do that and if we leave this organisation here as a tame pussycat, at the risk of gravely mixing my metaphors I would say it would be a mixture between a tame pussycat and a qango, and God help us when we consider what the offspring of that might be. But that is what it will be. I suggest that there is time, and that it is in the interests of the nation and of our society generally, in a completely non-political way, for us to have another look at this very tired Bill. It looks very much like other Bills which set up other institutes of this kind. Let us consider that it will cost the Australian people a certain amount of money and that the people who will eventually sit there are appointed to work there. Probably they will have good intentions and they can do good work, but because of the nature of the Bill they will never be able to do so. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice, on 24 October 1979: 
1 ) Has the Department of the Capital Territory allocated houses to Asian refugees, which houses have required considerable repairs and maintenance work, by community groups involved in re-settling refugees in Canberra, before being fit for occupancy. 
Are administrative procedures in the Department delaying the handing over of houses and flats to Asian refugees to the extent that: (a) community groups frequently are denied advice of when houses and flats will become available until the last moment; and (b) the Department is reluctant to hand over the keys to government houses and flats so that responsible community groups can put the dwellings in order before refugee families arrive in Canberra. 
Does the Department lack adequate welfare staff to help the refugees settle into Canberra; if so, what measures has the Minister taken to overcome this problem. 
Will the Minister arrange for the establishment of a unit in his Department to co-ordinate action on the resettlement of refugees in Canberra. 
I wish to speak generally on the Human Rights Commission Bill 1979. I wish to make some final comments on behalf of the Australian Democrats on the so called Human Rights Commission Bill because we believe that the point needs to be clearly made that the Australian public is being sold a pup. 
-On behalf of  Senator Chipp  I present the following petition from 12 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. 
The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth that many Australians are concerned with the inadequacy of Overseas Aid, both Government and Private as well as with support for local charities. Such Aid is saving precious lives, giving undernourished and homeless people encouragement and help, bringing malnourished children to health, education and a better life, giving people friendship and a new hope. A Crusade of Compassion highlights the hope of a brighter and kindlier world in the International Year of the Child- 1979. 
We therefore respectfully request that the Commonwealth Government provide some incentive to encourage such Aid by making the same tax concessions to approved voluntary overseas aid organisations, as are already provided for charities working within Australia. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question is addressed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate as the Minister representing the Prime Minister rather than as the Minister representing the Minister for Defence. It concerns the absurd and dangerous situation in which our 15 new Fremantle class patrol boats- a major part of our naval building program- are being armed with only one small gun even though they are otherwise vessels fully capable of carrying and suited to the use of guided missiles. They are certainly expensive enough. Will the Minister ask the Cabinet to look again at the facts involved in this matter so that a disastrous policy decision, which is in fact creating an Australian popgun navy, can be reconsidered against the real background of a deteriorating world situation? Will the Government consider now, before most of the ships are built, adaptations to the design of the Fremantle class patrol boat that will allow at least some of them to be modern and effective ships of war? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs, upon notice, on 26 September: 
Has the Minister decided to establish an office accommodation suite at NRMA House, on Northbourne Avenue, Braddon, Australian Capital Territory; if so: (a) is this suite for the Minister and his staff; (b) what is the rent to be paid for this suite; (c) what is the cost of the furniture and fittings for the office; (d) what is the estimated telephone rental for the office; and (e) for what is the office to be used, and how often will it be used. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 1 3 September 1 979: 
1 ) Have handicraft imports from Asia traditionally come into Australia at low duties and outside any quota restrictions. 
Has there been a change in the interpretation of By-law 36, which defines handicraft imports. 
Have some businessmen, who recently received written advice from Customs Tariff Officers that certain items have fallen within the definition of handicraft imports, placed orders on the basis of this advice, but, when the goods have been landed, received advice from the Bureau of Customs that the definition is no longer applicable, and that high rates of penalty dudes for 'out-of-quota' imports must be paid. 
Has this happened in respect of large and small businesses, importing such items as: (a) pure wool pullovers from China; (b) long sleeve cardigans from Philippines; (c) ladies' knitted tops from Philippines; (d) ladies' pullovers from Hong Kong; and (e) ladies' cotton blouses from India. 
Why cannot such goods, in respect of which an importer has received written advice from a Customs Tariff Officer that they are 'handicrafts', be allowed in as handicrafts, regardless of any change of definition which may have occurred in the interim, given that advice could also be given to the importers that such goods no longer meet the criteria. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 13 September 1979: 
When may I expect an answer to Senate Question No. 1 32 1 , placed on notice on 2 1 February 1979. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 19 September 1979: 
1 ) How many officers in the Public Service Departments and statutory authorities within each Minister's jurisdiction have resigned to contest elections pursuant to Public Service Board General Order 3/D/4, for each Federal general election held since 25 October 1 969. 
How many officers in each Department and statutory authority were unsuccessful and were re-employed in exactly the same position of employment, in respect of each election. 
What was the average period of the resignations in each Department and authority in respect of each election. 
