I direct my question to the Treasurer. Many pensioners and superannuated persons are now finding their incomes rising by simple and enforced adjustment, as a result of rises to offset inflation, to a level at which their classification as pensioner cuts out in respect of concessions for transport, rates and other governmental charges. Will the Treasurer consider indexing the cut-off point for these concessions now that indexing is such a popular concept so that wage indexation will not be at the expense of pensioners? 
-Thank you,  Mr Speaker.  I would like to add my congratulations to the many and deserved that you have already had heaped upon you. I would also like, if I may as a former journalist, to congratulate the writers of the headlines that formed the only coherent part of the speech just made by the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen ). Macarthur does not need a travel brochure or a tourist guide to commend the electorate to the people. Its attributes are self evident. It is, however, a microcosm of the problems facing Australia right now- problems arising from 3 years of policies which did not do much good to Macarthur and did not do much good to the rest of Australia. In Macarthur there are many pensionerspensioners suffering from the results of massive inflation. There are many young home owners and people trying to be young home owners suffering from the effects of massive interest rates. There are many textile factoriessome of them even still open- suffering the results of tariff policies. There are many farmers suffering from 3 years of deliberate anti-rural campaigning, anti-rural policies. There is a pulp and paper mill which has not worked full time for a year because of deliberate, determined tariff policies. They are the reasons I am overjoyed to see in the Governor-General's Speech positive measures to do something about the problems besetting Macarthur, the problems besetting all of Australia. 
I am the third member for Macarthur. I succeed a man whom I respected and I am certain this House respected immensely. If I can match the amount of hard work that he did on behalf of his constituents then I will be very pleased but of course I have the advantage that I will be voting for measures that do the people of Australia the world of good rather than the world of harm. It is a tragedy I believe- and I believe the former member for Macarthur sums up that tragedythat there were men of talent, energy and integrity on the Government benches before the people gave a very determined view on what they thought of their performance. I am afraid those members of ability and integrity appear to have been decimated in numbers leaving behind, I believe, a Party sadly lacking in those talents. It is regrettable to see, I believe, and bad for the democratic institution that there is a tendency for the talent of the Party opposite to be represented continually in swinging seats so that when the judgment of the people goes against not necessarily the policy of those men in swinging seats but against the policies of the tired war horses who remain we see, I am afraid, a decimation of talent. 
It strikes me that this adds a special responsibility to this side of the House. The vocal, intelligent, opinion forming middle ground of this nation no longer has effective representation on the other side of this chamber. I believe there is a special requirement on this side of the House to represent those views in this House, to stress to those people that this is the home of liberalismliberalism with a small L- not the home of authoritarian do-goodery, not the house of determined pressure on the society, where they will do what is good for them whether they like it or not, not the forced enema approach to welfare. I believe this side of the House represents a liberal view which the middle ground of Australia, having already turned to in desperation at the last election, will in fact see as its intellectual home. 
I want to put to the House that we now have a positive initiative to revive the private sector of the economy, on which I might say most of this middle ground tends to depend and which had been decimated during the term of the previous Government. The oppression of the private sector, under the guise of dictatorial dogooderyunder this subservience imposed upon a society, the subservience of the handout- is, I believe, clearly evident from the official statistics. I have caused the Parliamentary Library to dig out figures for me so that I cannot be accused of distorting any figures. These are the official national income figures. I have asked the Parliamentary Library to prepare for me a very interesting table to establish quite clearly what has happened to the productive sector of this nation in the last 3 years. To make it fair I went back 5 years. 
These figures are appalling. The moral of these figures I hope to draw to the attention of honourable members after I finish outlining them. Net profit- now, there is a filthy phraseafter tax is the thing on which the wheels of industry turn. The profit motive provides wages and provides- this is a really offensive wordtaxes. Net profit in the last 5 years of Australian trading enterprises has fallen by 50 per cent. That percentage is in real terms. It is deflated for inflation. It is seeing what really happened. Net profit is down 50 per cent. One may say: 'All right, this is because all the managers in Australia have suddenly and magically become inefficient, that suddenly the only source of wisdom is in Canberra'. Of course I recognise the Labor Party's view when it came to Canberramany of its supporters apparently holding the same view as the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  that the Treasury is the source of all naughtiness- that it should seek opinion elsewhere. The previous Government having been accused of relying on the advice of the ivory towers of the Treasury, the Labor Government went to a much more practical arena and sought the advice of the academics. This may well help explain the 50 per cent fall in net profit. 
No one on the other side of the House knows what the word 'risk' means. No one understands what the consequences of destroying net profit are in a free society. I submit that a 50 per cent fall in net profit in 5 years is a destruction of a system- a deliberate and determined destruction of a system without ever admitting to the electorate that the Government was destroying that system. At the same time those of us who are concerned about revenue can be assured that the Taxation Office was not suffering any similar fate. In real terms personal income tax, for example, went up 39 per cent over that period. One of the many former Treasurers in the Labor Administration described that sweetly as a transfer of resources from the private to the public sector. 
While that 39 per cent increase in personal tax was going on, luckily the wages and supplements of the workers of Australia were going up too, but at nothing like that rate. The rise in wages and supplements over that period was 24 per cent. That is not a very great rise when one considers that the tax went up so much more and the population increased as well. The significant thing, of course, is that while profits were going down, wages and taxes were going up in real terms. In other words, the capacity of industry to finance itself was being decimated. Its retained profits were collapsing. 
The consequences of that were very simple. Of course it meant that dividends had to suffer, and they went down in real terms by about 24 per cent over that period. Remember that all this was happening after the greatest boom in investment in major new and profitable resources- the most major and significant boom in Australia's history. It was despite that boom and despite that massive investment that we saw this collapse of profitability in Australia; this transfer of resources; this discouragement of people to get off their behinds and work; this active, determined instruction to people not to work, not to risk their money but to sit down and wait for the handout. The depressing thing- I hope that the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  becomes aware of this point- was that because companies were suffering such massive profit falls and because taxes were rising so fast, companies were obliged to borrow more and more, to go into hock more and more. 
The figures for interest paid by corporations in the last 5 years show a 33 per cent increase in real terms. Those are the national income figures. One cannot say that is just because interest rates have gone up although I admit that honourable gentlemen opposite assisted that rise to some notable degree. The fact is that companies are now more in debt than ever in Australia's history. As a result they are more open, more susceptible, to swings in monetary policy than ever before in Australia's history. It was unnerving to see the actions coming out of the Treasury and from the Treasurers over the last 3 years, to see a total lack of awareness of the consequences of massive changes in monetary policy on corporations. They were much more defenceless, much more open to attack. Recognise this: In these figures there are now included the major profit centres in Australia which, as honourable gentlemen opposite are so keen to point out to us regularly, are the major multi-nationals. 
When one considers what Australian corporations have been earning over the last 5 years and what has happened to the profits of this generally less profitable group- particularly when we have so many people in this House who bash the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd- one realises that it is a sadder and more disastrous situation particularly when it is applied to small businesses. I believe that the plight of the small business is under-stated in those figures. The small busines is the most defenceless business in Australia. It is the one that suffered most from the policies which are now so fortunately being reversed almost in their entirety, according to the GovernorGeneral's Speech. 
I want to draw attention to- the tax rise. I have always taken the view that the role of government is to protect the weak from the strong. That is its major role. The role of the police is not to be oppressive; the role of the police is to protect the good citizen from the bad. The role of government is to protect the weak from the strong. The good old-fashioned 1930s myth being perpetuated by the real conservatives in this House who sit opposite says that big business is the strong and people have to be protected from big business. I put to honourable members that these figures most clearly demonstrate that the strongest, the most oppressive, the biggest, the fattest section of Australian society is big government. It is rising faster than any other sector of society. It has been more oppressive in the last 3 years than any other sector of" society. If this country is being controlled, dominated and run by big business what a lousy job it is doing if its profits have managed to fall by 50 per cent in the last 5 years. 
I suggest that the centres of power from which the people of this nation must be protected are two- the major one big government, the second one big monopolistic unions. I do not want to engage in union bashing. As a former executive member of a union I have a great deal of respect for the true, proper role of unions in this nation. What I am concerned about is the extent to which various union leaders, for political purposes, are using those structures without, I believe, the proper support of their membership. I am overjoyed to see in the Governor-General's Speech that measures are being taken to restore democracy to the union movement. 
I conclude by suggesting that some of the comments made by honourable members opposite in this Address-in-Reply debate on the question of indexation appear to me to miss entirely the very clear, positive points made by the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  in his Budget Speech last August. It could well have been that on this, as on so many matters, he differed almost entirely from the rest of his colleagues. Once again, I imagine, this would show his perspicacity. The points he made were very simply these: If you do not exclude increases in government charges from indexation, you effectively deprive the Government of the opportunity of increasing taxes of this nature except against those areas of society where indexation does not apply. This applied particularly to pensioners until this Government promised to introduce such a scheme. It is interesting that this very clear exposition, which I recommend to honourable members opposite, pointed this out so clearly yet we have heard not one word of it from the other side. At that stage the honourable member for Oxley promised that his Government would intervene in subsequent Arbitration Commission hearings to press most strongly the point that rises in government charges had to be excluded from the cost of living for indexation purposes. It may well be that honourable members opposite believe that indirect taxes should never be used and that other methods- direct taxes or a good old tithe- should be reintroduced. I want to stress, with a feeling for fair play, that they should approach this matter objectively, listen to what the honourable member for Oxley says in support of the Government, and endorse it.  Mr Speaker,  I would like to thank you for your courtesy in calling me and the House for its courtesy in listening to me in silence. 
-Would you believe,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that there are no official statistics available on the key word 'profit'? Honourable members were kind enough not to quesiton the statistics I used the other day in a speech in this House. They asked me where the profit figures I was using actually came from. It struck me that it was fairly important that this key indicator of economic trends should in fact be available somewhere. One can look for all one is worth through the official statistics put out by this and previous governments but one will not find the words 'net profit' as applied to corporations. Figures on net profit as generally understood by most accountants are not available for examination. As a result this House and the nation at large have to put up with the most extraordinary allegations by various honourable members opposite about the horrendous profits of the corporate sector in Australia 
I am intrigued to note that when a major corporation increases its profit by a minuscule proportion we see the headline in most newspapers written by my former colleagues saying: 'Record profit for Consolidated Pretzels', or whatever the name of the company is. Yet we notice that when, for example, a boilermaker's wage goes up as result of a cost of living adjustment it goes to a record level. It is interesting to note that the style of reporting, the style of attitude and the style of comment from the informed gentlemen opposite tend to relate to the word 'record' only when we are talking about profits but refer to just, proper increases when relating to wages. I am overjoyed that various members opposite are for the first time coming across the concept of profit. 
We have been at somewhat of a loss over the last 3 years. The whole nation regrettably has been on the wrong end of a set of policies which I believe mainly emerged from the absence of real statistics, or the apparent inability of members opposite to comprehend what the facts really were. The national income figures for example, as any member opposite capable of reading them will know, clearly show an adjusted profit figure. It is the same adjustment that the Mathews Committee made. It adjusts profits for stock valuation. Honourable members opposite may have been able to read the summaries of that report, leaving aside the full report. Gentlemen opposite who may well have stumbled through the summaries would be aware that the stock valuation - 
The gross figures reported in the national income paper give some indication that profit has been overstated both by the Taxation Commissioner and, I believe, by many of the corporate bureaucrats who are content to communicate to their shareholders that they have had good tenancy and that they deserve the support of the shareholders, thereby perpetuating, as the Mathews Committee revealed, a situation in which companies overstated their profits and as a consequence were overtaxed. 
I want to stress to the House that a close examination of the available statistics will give a very clear picture of what has been happening to corporate profits in Australia while everything else, particularly government taxes in the last 3 years, has been rising. By making the appropriate adjustment that the national income figures make for stock valuation, deducting the tax figure which is available from another set of statistics, and then deducting the normal costs from the national income figures a figure for net profit is arrived at. 
It is extraordinary that this net profit figure has not in fact been requested by this House in the past from the keepers of official statistics and that it is not presented to this House and the people in official statistics. So many honourable members from the depth of their ignorance discuss this matter with an abysmal lack of skill. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a set of statistics prepared by the Commonwealth Parliamentary Library which shows the trend of profitability in the last 5 years. 

<graphic href="098131197602244_67_0.jpg"></graphic>

<para pgwide="yes">Compiled at request by the Statistics Group of the Legislative Research Service from 1975-76 Budget Papers Nos 1 and 1 1 and issues of the Australian Bureau of Statistics publication Quarterly Estimates of National Income and Expenditure. 

<graphic href="098131197602244_67_1.jpg"></graphic>

The items in this table are calculated by applying to the corresponding items of Table A the 1966-67 GDP deflator derived from the Australian Bureau of Statistics' Quarterly Estimates of National Income and Expenditure. 
GDP at 1966-67 prices. 
<para pgwide="yes">Compiled by the Statistics Group of the Legislative Research Service from 197S-76 Budget Papers Nos 1 and 11 and issues of the Australian Bureau of Statistics publication Quarterly Estimates of National Income and Expenditure. 
-Thank you,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  I should mention to the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  that I sought the leave of the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass)  when he was sitting at the table. As with Treasurers of the former Government it is difficult to keep pace with who are the Opposition spokesmen in debates. The facts clearly show that corporate profitability adjusted for inflation over the 5 years, as I mentioned the other day, is down 50 per cent. The result is that corporate profits as a proportion of gross domestic product have fallen from 6.54 per cent 5 years ago to only 2.87 per cent. Is this the way one encourages the private sector to employ more people? Is this the reason that we now have, as a result of 3 years of profit bashing, massive unemployment? 
At the same time wages, salaries and supplements, quite rightly, increased over this period to cope with the increasing pressures of inflation, the increasing demands of the population and the increasing right of the people to look to a better life. In real terms wages, salaries and supplements went up over that period by 24.3 per cent. This is an illusory rise because in fact individual tax collected on behalf of the Government went up by 40 per cent over that period. In other words, individual tax as a proportion of gross domestic product went up from 7.5 per cent to 10.4 per cent. 
The statistics, when honourable members eventually get the opportunity to work them out, because they are not available otherwise, show a pattern of disaster. I submit that it would be convenient and appropriate if the House were in fact better advised and better informed through the arms available to it of the very serious trends that have developed in the Australian economy. The statistical officers of the appropriate departments should be instructed to present a coherent and telling set of statistics on this matter. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Transport. The Minister may be aware that on Sunday evening last an Australian orchestra returned to Sydney Airport from a highly successful cultural exchange tour organised by Musica Viva and the Department of Foreign Affairs. I ask the Minister: Could arrangements be made, as they are in every other major city throughout the world, for a member of such an orchestra to be allowed to supervise the unloading of musical instruments by airport baggage staff to ensure that damage is not done to the instruments? For the Minister's information, I mention that this permission was not granted in Sydney on Sunday night and these instruments bumped their way up the baggage chute at the risk of serious and expensive damage. 
I address a question to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. The Australian Broadcasting Commission has decided to drop the early morning regional news in the cause of economies. Can the Minister tell the House whether there is any prospect of restoring this useful news service which has been widely supported, certainly in my electorate? Could the savings be made instead from the Commission's large administrative staff? 
Honourable members will no doubt be intrigued to recognise that the attack once again on profits in the private sector that came from the shadow Minister for Primary Industry fits simply into a pattern of attack to which we have all become very well accustomed. I state right now that I would like to declare an interest in this matter. I own 2,000 50c shares in a meat exporting company and I am a director of it. Its name is Tancred Brothers Industries. It has the honour to have a meatworks in the electorate of the honourable member for Darling  (Mr Fitzpatrick).  Having declared that interest, let me say that I have an awareness of what is going on in this industry. Such an awareness is noticeably lacking in members on the other side of the chamber. I feel that the shadow Minister could have done his cause greater service if he had read the whole sentence in the Industries Assistance Commission report rather than the first half of it. He said that there was uncertainty about whether any producers would get a benefit. The honourable member for Darling had the integrity to read the whole sentence. I think the significance is in the second part of that sentence. I will read the whole sentence. The first part, which the shadow Minister read only, states: 
It has not been possible to determine how much of the benefits of a suspension of the export charge would be passed back to beef cattle producers . . . 
He stopped there. The sentence continues: ... but evidence from the New South Wales Department of Agriculture suggested that where there is effective competition among buyers and exporters some of the savings would be passed back to the producers. 
If honourable members can point out to me a more competitive industry than the beef processing industry I would be grateful for their efforts. In every sense this is a cut throat business. This is a business in which people are competing hard, in the open and against each other with immense determination. This is a business which the competition has been tough. The results of Australian public companies in this area show that. I stress that the company with which I am involved is an Australian public company and therefore has had a bigger belting than anyone else in the last 3 years. Australian public companies compete in the open for cattle and then compete in the open in the selling markets. I stress that there is competition. Because of that competition the benefits and the belting go back to the producer. I suggest that there has been a real belting. 
Look at what this wonderful bit of assistance to the meat industry did. Now 10 per cent of the value of the beast is paid as an export levy. It raised something like $20m, I think, last year. We heard from the Opposition how there are better ways to assist the beef industry than by getting rid of this export charge. Let us look at the method it adopted when in government. Having ripped this $20m off the beef industry it then, with its hand on its heart and with a kind look in its eyes, lent that money back as a special, wonderful concession, at a rate of interest. With that sort of help, lending back the money one has ripped off an industry, who needs enemies? The sort of help which the Opposition has given the industry has brought it to the brink of disaster. I suggest very strongly that the impact of this charge which the Australian Labor Party Government introduced could not have come at a worse time. Someone said, in an interesting mixture of words, that this attack on the beef industry was the straw that broke the camel's back. I do not know who was processing camels, but this report came from the Northern Territory. 
I suggest that this levy, which is now being reduced, has been a major factor in the disaster. It is all very well for the Opposition to say that the main thing wrong with the meat industry is simply the closure of markets overseas. This industry could have got on reasonably well if there had not been a disastrous combination of factors working against it. Some of them were overt, determined and deliberate government measures such as the export levy. Others included the more covert attack on this industry, along with every other industry in the nation. I spoke at some length recently about the realities and the real profit terms of the trend of earnings in Australia in the last 5 years. 
Let me point out the specifics in this industry. I will speak from experience of the company with which I am involved. Last year in our publicly revealed balance sheet, publicly audited, publicly presented, it was shown that the value of cattle purchased by this company fell by more than half, although the number of cattle purchased rose slightly. There was a halving of what the producers got. However, no worry, the main beneficiaries still benefited. The tax man's take out of the industry roughly doubled. I refer to taxes of all kinds. So in the situation where the producers got a belting the Government did very nicely, thank you. It got $3.5m in tax of one kind or another. I must say that I am including the pay-as-you-earn tax on employees because employees are concerned with their take home pay. Their pressures for wage rises relate to take home pay. It is the consumer who pays these additional costs. I stress that the costs in this industry have been rising at a far faster rate then export prices. These costs will continue to rise while there is a high rate of inflation. 
I believe it is essential for the future of this industry that an attack be made on 2 levelsfirstly, on the overt charges imposed on the industry by an unsympathetic and antagonistic government. I presume honourable members opposite remember the occasion on which the then Prime Minister went,  2Vi  years ago I think it was, to Shepparton and advised some very cheerful farmers there that they had never had it so good. One must admire the man. In two years they have never had it so bad. This kind of determined attack is aligned with a massive and disastrous assault on the economics of this industry, arising from inflation. I submit that unless there is a massive rise in export prices there will be continuing disaster in this industry. I submit that the home consumer will have to pay more for his or her meat in future if the current level of returns to primary producers is to be maintained. This is a dreadfully serious problem. 
Costs of production are soaring. The main reason for rising costs in the industry is taxation. It is the fastest rising segment of the cost structure of the beef producing and processing industries. I believe that the sooner this continuing, rapid and disastrous rise is brought to an end, the better. I support this Bill very strongly. I believe it does one major thing. It gets the Government off the industry's back. It should never have been there in the first place. 
-Thank you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  for giving me the opportunity to follow the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  in this debate. It is always interesting to see a half self-confessed socialist- apparently it is not a dirty word- who still wants competition in his socialist dream world. It would be interesting seeing 2 bureaucracies each trying to become less inefficient than the other. The thought is fascinating. If we can have a philosophic diversion, I would suggest to the honourable member for Adelaide that one very good thing about the concept of profit and the pursuit of profit is that it ensures the efficient distribution of resources within a society if in fact there are conflicts in the possible uses of those resources. Obviously the honourable member for Adelaide would rather have some deiform figure, isolated presumably from the real world in such a centre of activity as Canberra, determining the allocation of resources in our society, than the free interplay of competitive forces. He appears to have a total misconception of what profit is all about. It is obviously something by which resources are allocated. It is a thing that creates jobs, creates taxes and creates the pool of wealth from which our predecessors on these benches tried to distribute goodies in handouts, forgetting that that pool had to be replenished from profits. 
Let me come back to the matter in hand. One should not be distracted by such a clearly absurd proposition as that put up by the honourable member for Adelaide, but it was too exciting a thought to pass by. I want to stress that I have a great deal of admiration, as has the honourable member for Adelaide, for Qantas Airways Ltd and Trans-Australia Airlines. My admiration is not only for their technical capacity. As a total layman in these matters I might say that the fact that anything heavier than air can rise into the clouds remains a matter of great magic mysticism to me. Apart from the technical excellence of those organisations, of which I have been assured their financial management has appealed to me immensely. The way in which they have discharged their financial duties has certainly been a matter of commendation of them and a clear indication that government owned corporations can behave in a competitive way- and I agree with the honourable member for Adelaide on that- particularly when they have the stimulus of real competition. 
However, there is one matter which seriously concerns me about their role in a private enterprise environment. I speak as a member of a judging panel over many years which has closely read these annual reports and has given them marks in order to place them in a hierarchical structure of goodness- or 'less worseness' if one would like to call it that -in Australia company reporting. The reports of these government corporations have featured continually among the lists of the best annual reports of corporations of any kind in Australia over the last 20 years. Their standard of reporting has been a matter at which many private corporations could look with a great deal of envy. I regret that so many Australian privately owned corporations have not followed the outstanding lead set by these 2 public enterprise corporations in the matter of reporting to their shareholders. In this case their shareholders are of course the people of Australia through this House. 
This leads me to a very serious problem. There are rules of reporting, rules set by legislation and by stock exchanges, rules which corporations owned by shareholders must follow. They are mandatory rules. It strikes me as curious that in this area of state-owned corporations there is a contemptuous disregard for the rules of company reporting which I believe we should bring to a sudden end. That relates to the timing of their reports. The. annual report of Qantas Airways Ltd for 1974-1975 is an excellent report, as always. The balance date is 31 March. We receive this report within one month of the closing of its books for the following year. That is simply not good enough. Not only is it not good enough; it also breaks the corporate laws in the States in which it is registered. If it were listed on the stock exchanges it would no longer be so listed. It would have been suspended by 3 1 September and delisted by 31 December. I have been assured in the past that the reason for this is that the Auditor-General takes a great deal of time and has many tasks in front of him and that it is his delays which hold up this kind of public reporting. I submit that if that is the case something should be done about the AuditorGeneral's Office. 
There is a clear responsibility on corporations of this kind to report speedily to their shareholdersto their owners- in this case, to the people of Australia particularly when very large amounts of money are involved. For example, the amount of loss which Qantas will presumably face this year could be regarded as a very large amount of money. The same applies to TAA, but one hopes that it will not be in a loss situation. I turn to the TAA report. The balance date was 30 June last year. Its report of directors was signed on 20 January this year. That is almost 7 months after the closing of the financial year. The auditors' report was dated 20 January. If that corporation had been listed on public stock exchanges it would have been suspended by 3 1 December. I want to suggest to this House that we should take a very serious view of lengthy delays in reporting to us and to the people by government corporations which have a responsibility through us to the people. 
I turn now to the matter of the Bills and particularly to the degree of borrowing. I want to draw attention to the serious problems facing Qantas and to the degree of sympathy which I hope aU of us feel towards Qantas in a period of immense difficulty. There is no doubt that the Boeing 747 aircraft is a much more efficient method of transporting people around the world provided there are reasonable load factors. Unfortunately, in the current situation in air traffic, loads are declining. Last year was bad enough. According to its report, Qantas incurred a deficit on airline operations of $4.4m. But things have become so much worse. The report says: 
The current year is notable for its uncertainty and it is difficult to be anything but pessimistic. We are experiencing the continuing effects of adverse influences beyond the control of the Company, including still higher costs, increasingly severe price competition on our main routes, and a marked downturn in traffic. Passenger traffic between April and August has actually declined from the level of the same period last year. A significant upward movement in fuel prices would also have a serious and harmful impact on Qantas' earning ability and, as already acknowledged, can only lead to higher fares. 
Qantas can blame its previous mentors for only a couple of things- higher prices, higher fuel costs and so on. The facts are that in a difficult environment Qantas has to take some fairly desperate measures. There is no doubt that the 747 is a much more efficient animal. Our problem is to see whether or not its seats will be filled. The Boeing 707 has been withdrawn from the 
Pacific route now, and Qantas has ended its services to England via the American continent. That is one of the reasons the loading factor has improved so much because Qantas planes were going to that large area with very few bottoms in very many seats and this was obviously a dreadful loss factor. I am glad to see that economics are playing a very strong role in Qantas decisions rather than nationalistic flag-waving. The success of these improvements is going to depend, of course, on people's willingness to fly and in this context I would like to quote from an article that appeared in the  Sydney Morning Herald  on 30 January. It reported as follows: 
Qantas could face a record loss of more than $20m this financial year. 
With only 2 months left before its financial year ends on March 31, Qantas sees little hope of reversing the continuing down-turn predicted late last year by the airline's  chairman, Sir Lenox  Hewitt. 
The article then quoted from the Qantas annual report. The article continued: 
Until recently Qantas expected to lose several million dollars this year. Now, however, it is believed the loss could rise dramatically to possibly $20m or more. 
This could mean a revision of the less profitable- or as  Sir Lenox  says, more unprofitable- routes Qantas flies, particularly those to South Africa - 
South Africa is not involved any more- 
Hong Kong, Japan and Papua New Guinea. 
It could also force Qantas to consider retrenching staff - 
It might also mean Qantas might have to consider raising its fares although this possibility does not appear to have been discussed seriously yet. 
That article appeared in the Press in January. The points that I am making are that I believe we are going to see from this corporation, this very efficient corporation, a result that is disastrous. I suggest to the House that people who would say in that case 'Why on earth go and buy more big aircraft?' clearly do not understand the economics of air transport. We must get rid of the relatively inefficient smaller aircraft, the 707s which have been going now for, I think, 15 years and whose economic life is certainly coming to an end on the sort of routes on which Qantas has pulled in its horns. Qantas is now flying on high density routes and that is why this bigger kind of aircraft is so desperately needed. I do not wish to comment on various other activities of Qantasits apparent disagreement with American authorities, its withdrawal from charter activity and so on. But what I do want to suggest is that Qantas has shown a capacity on its own endeavours to do something about its problems and certainly the energetic promotion last year of low fares between Australia and Europe resulted in Qantas carrying about 60 per cent of the total passenger traffic on that route. That kind of promotional effort, particularly with the facilities that Qantas will have through continual purchases of this kind of aircraft, will, I believe, be the only way it can get itself out of its present problems. 
I have not dealt in the same detail with the Trans-Australia Airlines situation. I would stress that the one thing that is quite evident from looking at the Trans-Australia Airlines report, as with the Qantas report, is the tragic impact of massively rising costs in Australia on that corporation. Of course with Qantas it becomes more tragic when one recognises that that corporation is involved in competition with overseas airlines even though the extent to which price competition can be meaningful is severely limited. When there is a limitation on pricing capacity and costs are rising far greater at home than they are overseas an intolerable squeeze is put on corporations. I would hope that, as these 2 corporations are so close to the hearts and minds of honourable members opposite, the realisation of the squeeze on margins arising from rapidly high prices at home and prices in the market place overseas will draw some slow, dull awareness of the reality facing most Australian export industries. I commend the Bill. 
Sitting suspended from 6 till 8 p.m. 

 -Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
-I agree with the honourable member for Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh):  The subject of superphosphate in specific terms had been handled very adequately in this debate so far. I rise to make a couple of points, particularly one affecting my electorate. There is in Macarthur a works producing lime. There are many soils in Australia which are highly acid, on which in fact superphosphate application is not necessarily useful. It would be unfortunate if anyone was encouraged to the view, because of bounties, that superphosphate should be spread around with the gay abandon with which various honourable members opposite handle the truth. 
We should look in a longer range policy at establishing perhaps a more coherent view of what we should do to replenish the soil from which so much of our wealth emerges. I am a total supporter of the superphosphate bounty because I believe it encourages us to preserve the value of our greatest natural resource, the soil. I admit that there are additions to that resource emerging from the various kinds of fertiliser produced opposite, but far too often around Australia we have seen so much evidence of land that has been misused, of land that has not had its basic elements replaced following excessive use. We must ask ourselves: Why has this land been abused, particularly over the last 3 years? I submit that in the next few years we will be suffering the consequences of a failure by many people in rural areas to look after their land properly. The reasons for their failure are that they did not have the financial capacity to look after this basic resource, this vital backbone of Australia 's rural industries. 
To speak disparagingly about measures aimed at preserving this resource, as members of the Australian Labor Party have done in this debate is, I believe, totally disgraceful and certainly fits into a pattern of political muck-raking and pointscoring to which I suppose we are all now accustomed from that one-third of the House. I cannot even refer to them as the other side. They do not even come near to filling the other side of the chamber, even if they all come into the chamber, which would be unusual. I suggest that the policy of any government should and must be to encourage farmers specifically to return the essential elements of the soil to the soil to keep it, in fact, as productive as possible. Induced and deliberate rural depression as a result of determined, positive policies of assault on the rural sector will have consequences for many years to come. 
I welcome the superphosphate bounty but, as I said, I have some reservations because unfortunately it will take a while to catch up on the losses of the last three years of disaster. As I mentioned, in Macarthur we have a lime works and I am concerned by the extent to which we are encouraging the use of many other materials like lime in the proper preservation of our major resources, the land. I refer to the book entitled  A Manual of Australian Agriculture,  which was edited for the Australian Institute of Agricultural Science by Imre Molnar. At page 23 of that book, for the benefit of those students opposite who are interested in this subject, he said: 
Lime-reverted super and super and lime mixtures have the inherent acidity of the super neutralised and solubility reduced, thus making it safe to sow at high application rates in contact with seed. A SO/SO mix of super and lime is commonly drilled at 2-5 cwt per acre with inoculated legume seeds in acid soils to promote Rhizobial nodulation Alternatively, special drills can be used to band the seed . . . 
The point I am making is that it is a general view- a widely held view- that in acid soils, and there are many of them in Australia, there should be major encouragement for major applications of lime. I might say that the workers in a factory in Moss Vale, which is in the Macarthur electorate, would be overjoyed if that became a matter of concern to this or any other government. In other words, what I am suggesting is not that we have gone too far by restoring a bounty which in my view, frankly, is too small in view of the price rises in recent times but that we have not gone far enough in encouraging the preservation of a major natural resource. 
Let me explain why it is so self evident that farmers, people on the land, cannot afford to preserve this basic resource, why they have tried to get by for a few years without putting back these essential elements. The facts, I am afraid, are rather depressing. Not only has the rural sector had to work harder and harder to get less and less returns but also the returns it has received have gone shorter and shorter distances in terms of what that money can do anyway. One can in fact see that from the booklet entitled  National Agricultural Outlook Conference- The Farm Situation in Australia,  which was presented to the Conference at its meeting in Canberra between 4 and 6 February. There is an interesting table on page 13 of this booklet. I seek leave to have the table incorporated in  Hansard.  I apologise for not having shown it to the Opposition beforehand. 

<graphic href="098131197603250_76_2.jpg"></graphic>

One can see from this table, which is headed 'Gross Value of Farm Production, Costs and Income', that farm income in gross terms- the gross value of rural production has fallen quite considerably since 1973-74, despite the rate of inflation. The one thing that is rising in the rural sector is, of course, farm costs. They are roaring ahead. I want to draw attention now to the most crucial, the most depressing, part of this table. It demonstrates that in 1972-73 the real farm income- that is not taking into account inflation but seeing what that farm income really buys- totalled $1,367 billion. The estimate for the current year is now down to $854 billion. That represents a 37 per cent fall in real terms for farm income. 
Honourable members opposite can revel in the success of the previous Administration. In 3 years it did a remarkable job in assisting in knocking down the amount of real farm income by more than one-third. No wonder the rural sector could not afford to maintain its natural and main resource- the land. But I point out to the House that while the policies of the gentlemen opposite were pushing down the value of rural production, were assisting in belting the man on the land and were assisting in discouraging him from putting value back into that land, the Labor Government was increasing the taxation on individuals by 60 per cent and it was, of course, increasing wages, salaries and supplements by 24 per cent. So there is an interesting change in attitude. On the one hand it belted the rural sectorbelted a major resource- but on the other hand of course it increased the goodies coming to Canberra for use as handouts so that it could, in fact, attempt to buy votes. How pleasant it was to find that the Australian people in December recognised that there was no point in receiving what was in fact counterfeit money- diminishing value money, bits of paper that were worthlessbecause in fact unless we have a thriving rural sector, a rural sector that is dynamic and going ahead, we cannot have a sound basis of prosperity in Australia. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, I would submit to you also that one of the disasters facing the rural sector is that it has to work harder and harder, as I said earlier, to earn less and less. For example, even though in the current year real farm income is expected to drop from $924m to $854m, production is expected to rise considerably. That is dramatic evidence of how one sector of the economy has to work harder and harder to earn less and less while other sectors of the economy, represented and supported by the gentlemen opposite, must apparently get a special reward by getting paid more and more for doing less and less. 
I would imagine that the facts that I am presenting from the Government 's own statistical material, created, I might say, when those gentlemen were in power, would not interest honourable members opposite very much. I do not think that they are at all interested in facts about the rural sector, and I do not think that their lack of concern is expressed any more accurately than in their failure to pay any kind of attention to the matters raised by this side of the House in this debate. 
Yes, exactly; I think it is distasteful to them and it is a pity some more of them did not spend a bit of time in a rural area and actually get up early in the morning and do a bit of hard work. 
I think their main association with any bit of rural activity would probably be at the wrong end of the bull, anyway. 
-The honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr Connor)  and I are electoral neighbours. We stare at each other across a creek in Dapto called Mullet Creek, and when I perceive the amount of stinking fish being spread around this chamber by the Opposition I believe that creek is appropriately named. I suggest that when the Opposition attacks the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  it is in fact attacking its own Leader. That proposition was put very clearly by the  Deputy  Prime Minister when ne quoted at great and apparently embarrassing length to the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  his own speech. There has not been one response to his very telling points since the  Deputy  Prime Minister made that speech. When the Leader of the Opposition asks a question like the one he asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  yesterday or when he condones the kind of statements made here by his supporters, he is condemning himself and disowning his own words and his own views. 
What the House and the Australian people need to consider is whether we have the right to deny other nations access on fair and reasonable terms to our resources and, if we did that, would other nations feel that they had the right to seek, by whatever means they might consider appropriate, to try to get that access. Would other nations feel, for example, that they could justifiably apply trade sanctions against us? Were the Japanese bans on our meat 2 years ago the direct result of the lighthearted whimsical brutality of the honourable member for Cunningham in his economic blackmail of Japan on minerals? Would our trading partners overall feel that they could retaliate, as they may well have done in the past, in terms of trade arrangements? Might they even feel that in the extreme they would have to resort to what the Leader of the Opposition spoke of when he lectured the United Nations on the threat of war for the possession of resources, as he put it- one of the oldest of all the causes of war. Why does the Leader of the Opposition talk only of Japan? Japan is only one of the many possible users of our resources, and in particular of uranium. It is remarkable that in the debate so far not one member of the Opposition has discussed who are the potential buyers of our uranium. To whom does the very reasonable comment, particularly in historical terms, of the  Deputy  Prime Minister apply? The facts are readily available, but of course facts are not the currency of the Opposition. 
On present indications, the main customers for Australian uranium are the western European countries. Western Europe will presumably and probably buy 55 per cent of Australia's uranium production. I remind honourable members opposite, who apparently have neither a sense of history nor a sense of decency, that Germany has been known to become involved in warfare. Germany is to be one of our major customers. Italy also has been known to become involved, fairly unsuccessfully, in warfare. I suggest not that they are once again potential warriors but that history has a lesson for us. Those wars were not lighthearted wars. They were not wars in ancient history; they were modern history wars. In addition, could I suggest that the United States of America is to be a user of roughly 15 per cent of our production. I want to stress that had the Opposition remained in government and had the various Ministers of that Government continued their hysterical anti-American behaviour, who knows but that in a reasonable amount of time we could have been confronting that nation. Who knows what history will bring? We do know what it has brought. 
Getting back to the general question of supply, let me remind the House of what the then Minister for Aboriginal Affairs,  Mr Les  Johnson, said in October last year in his second reading speech on the Aboriginal Land (Northern Territory) Bill. He said: 
International assurances have been provided by Ministers that Australia will meet the uranium requirements of our major trading partners . . . 
Does the Opposition now seek to back away from that unequivocal statement by its own former Minister? Does the Opposition now suggest that we should dishonour the undertaking given by the Labor Government? Does the Opposition suggest that we should now deny our obligations to the rest of mankind? The Opposition has no answers to those questions and has not even tried in this debate to provide any. It wanted no more in this debate than to drum up hostility in Japan to our Government, to our nation, to our total national disadvantage. That has been the objective of this debate. The only people who have used the words like 'bitterness' and ' hatred ' are members of the Opposition. Bitterness and hatred is not a new ploy for the Leader of the Opposition to drum up. He tried desperately last November to incite the Australian people to violence by using exactly the same ploy then as he is using now to try to drum up hostility in Japan to our Government. He failed last November. He will fail again. 
I want to suggest very strongly that the Deputy Prime Minister's position about how we must develop our resources and make them available at reasonable prices to give reasonable access to potential users also has a very strong economic motive. That point has been made well and truly in a report on uranium by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development in which it was pointed out that there is a growing shortage and that, in effect, the consequences of that shortage have been to prompt, to encourage, to hasten the development of fast breeder reactors in order to conserve uranium. Such reactors do not use as much uranium. I submit that the whole consequence of our determined and deliberate delay over the past 3 years, our deception, I believe, of the world market, has prompted the rush of technology into saving uranium so that in effect we will not have as good a market in coming years as we would have had had the Australian Government been a government which potential users of uranium regarded as honourable. It was not regarded as honourable. It forced the effective dishonouring of contracts for purchases of uranium. It put a question mark over the whole future of the Australian uranium industry. 
It is ludicrous for the honourable member for Cunningham to say what a genius he was in preventing the development of mines in Australia because he saved them from getting a lousy price- I think that was his expression- of $6 a ton. What are the economic consequences of having failed to develop those mines? We will now have a lesser period of time to take advantage of the specific period during which our yellow-cake will have a premium price, and that is not an unlimited time. We must rush to develop this resource which, as the honourable member for Mackellar has pointed out, will have such a magnificent impact on our ultimate wealth. The nonsense expressed in the  Australian  newspaper leader this morning, for example, that we have no impact on world prices should be totally disregarded. We will have a major impact on world prices because we will be providing a very large proportion of the uncommitted uranium around the world. To talk this nonsense, as the  Australian  does, about our not being important because we provide only 15 per cent of the world's resources displays a total misunderstanding of the reality of uranium. To say that is to fall into the same sort of error as I believe this newspaper has fallen into in its total and deliberate misinterpretation of what the 
Deputy Prime Minister has said. I believe the future for uranium is now at last in safe hands in Australia. It is in the hands of a man who understands market realities, a man who will not bludgeon consumers. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. The discussion is concluded. 
-It is interesting to notice when looking at improvements to a superannuation scheme such as this that honourable members opposite have kicked up what might be described loosely as a fuss during this afternoon about the withdrawal of various benefits. The sum of $40 has been mentioned as a disastrous and disgraceful withdrawal of a benefit. I point out that when one is looking at superannuation one should recognise that the consequences of the Budget of the very vocal honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  were in fact to rip large amounts of money off superannuitants. The word 'rip-ofF is the most effective and accurate way to describe what he claimed to be a generous handout type of Budget, a Budget in which taxes would be reduced. The consequences of that Budget on superannuitants are as follows. I should like to read from a document sent from the Department of Social Security last year to a superannuitant to demonstrate that in this case $30 a fortnight was to be ripped off this superannuitant by the new, generous Hayden Budget, presented by the same gentleman who objected so violently about a benefit of $40 being removed once in a lifetime. 
Once in a death time, as the honourable member for Mackellar interjects. The former Treasurer, the honourable member for Oxley ripped off 35 per cent of the income of superannuitants. The letter reads: 
Dear Sir/Madam, 
The new personal income tax system operates from 1 January 1 976. 
That is the Hayden system. 
Under this new system you are required to lodge a rebate declaration form if you wish to gain, in your fortnightly tax instalment deductions, the benefit of - 
Etc, etc. 
If a rebate declaration form is not lodged a minimum tax deduction rate of 35c in the dollar automatically applies. In your case, without the declaration, your fortnightly superannuation DFRB would be gross $86.87 tax $30. 10 net $56.77. 
I wonder whether honourable members opposite believe that superannuitants who have contributed all their working lives to a fund can possibly live on this sort of money. The answer is that they cannot. They have to have another job. That is why a man in this position cannot possibly make this declaration and must lose 35 per cent out of his fortnightly payment for which he has worked and saved and for which he has contributed to a superannuation fund. This is the great benevolence and kindness of the men who cried about a once-in-a-lifetime reduction of a $40 benefit but who happily ripped $30 a fortnight off superannuitants. The absurdity of the the honourable gentlemen opposite is transparent in this situation. I suggest that it is equally disgraceful that the Defence Force Retirement and Death Benefits fund superannuation scheme had not had an adjustment in payments for 3 and a half years. I must say I am glad to hear today's news from the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  that such an adjustment is now on the way. How extraordinary that the gentlemen now occupying the Opposition benches failed to do anything to fix up this disgraceful situation; yet they are prepared to complain about our generous and effective approach to the whole question of superannuation and pensions. 
I submit that unfortunately this new superannuation scheme, in its effect on the Defence Force Retirement and Death Benefits Fund, does not correct all of the old anomalies. There is an anomalous position under the old DFRB scheme which disadvantages members of the forces who retired some years ago compared with those who have retired recently. I understand that a review of the whole DFRDB scheme is presently before the Government and that the Government is looking particularly at these anomalous situations. I only regret that at the moment these corrections are not included in the current Bill, but I am assured that they will be coming up. 
I wish to point out the sorts of things that can happen under this DFRDB scheme and the anomalous situations now existing. One of my constituents has written to me saying: 
I came out of the Navy as one of the highest paid lower deck men, and am now one of the lowest paid superannuees 
The fact is, as he points out, that if the pre- 1959 fund, which has not yet been distributed, is wound up, there is a real risk of unfair discrimination against these older superannuees who are already getting what I consider to be a bad deal. Yet at this stage it is impossible to transfer from one fund to another. There is also another letter from a constituent which I think bears repetition because of its importance to a large number of retired servicemen. This constituent says: 
During my 20 years of RAN service, I did not freeze my DFRB contributions and consider I would have paid at least twice as much into the Fund as others who 'froze' early in their service careers. 
The problem is that when the July 1973 interim pension increase was calculated on a percentage of cost of living increase- that is 12.2 per centand not on the old notional category method, he wants to know what allowance was made for extra contributions that he paid. Of course, none was. The problem that he raised- I think this question must be answered sooner or later in appropriate further amendments to this DFRB Bill- was: 
Why, under the new 1973 Bill, serving members as at 1 October 1972 . . . who joined the Navy prior to 1948 have been able to buy back between 24 and 32 years service each. They had previously elected (repeatedly) to remain on deferred pay after 1948, as this additional pay was to be paid in a lump sum on retirement, in lieu of a pension. 
Surely - 
This is a key point- this is retrospectivity for non-contributors back to before 1948, giving preferential treatment to a select few who repeatedly refused to contribute to the DFRB Fund. Why have a cut-off date ( 1 October 1972) and why have two separate schemes? 
He said: 
Further I should like to point out that should t' e Government decide to continue to adjust pensions on the percentage basis as calculated in July 1973, 1 can expect to receive less than 50 per cent of the increase that will be paid to a pensioner (ex deferred pay member referred to previously) who has paid less than one tenth of my full contributions into the scheme. 
There is no doubt that that certainly shows the degree of anomaly that exists within the current DFRB scheme and the sort of anomaly which is not yet corrected in this particular legislation. For interest sake I add that the Regular Defence Forces Welfare Association has communicated with my constituent saying: 
Our submissions to the Minister for Defence have been duly acknowledged by him. We contend that the pension being received by the pre-October 1972 retiree has been greatly eroded to such an extent that under the present Act members now being discharged are receiving considerably more in pension than members of equivalent rank under the 'old 'scheme. 
The Executive Officer says: 
In my own case my pension is only equivalent to that of an officer three ranks below my substantive rank on retirement. 
You "an rest assured that every effort is. being made to have this, anomaly adjusted. In an effort to secure a correction of these matters each member of the Executive as well as other members, have written to their relevant Members of Parliament, telling them of the shortcomings of the present Act in its relation to the pensions paid to the pre-October 1972 retirees. 
I should have hoped that perhaps this issue would have been raised by honourable members opposite. Presumably they also received some letters. 
I also want to raise a serious point that concerns mi y of my constituents, and that is that defence forces service does not count as government service for superannuation purposes unless the superannuee was in the Public Service before he entered the defence forces. It is extraordinary that if a person is a clerk and joins the defence forces, he gets total benefit. If he joined up dur.ing any of the recent wars or the second World War and then became a public servant he does not get the benefit of what could be 5 or 6 years of service for his country. I believe it is an unfortunate part of this particular Bill that it does not correct this anomaly. 
I am certain that there are many people in the defence forces who feel badly done by. There is no doubt of course that there has been an overwhelming feeling of dismay for the last 3 years among the defence forces about the manner in which they have been handled by the previous Government. They were battered around in terms of prestige and of course were finally and disgracefully assaulted in 'heir hip pockets on the matter of retirement an,1 retirement benefits. There was no adjustment for  3lA  years. What a kind and benevolent Opposition we have! No wonder honourable members opposite are sitting on that side of the House. 
The other point that I wanted to raise was that the new Bill will allow the Superannuation Fund to invest in shares of companies incorporated in Australia or in a building society. I think this is a very important part of this Bill. Australian ownership of corporations in Australia is, I believe, a vital part certainly of our policy and, judging by the words, if they are to be taken seriously, part of the Opposition's policy as well. But when we talk about Australian ownership we talk about ownership by Australian citizens, not ownership by a bureaucracy or ownership by the government. We talk about ownership by the people. The life assurance industry is of course dominated by mutual organisations owned by the policy holders. It now provides the major segment of Australian ownership of corporations in Australia. I believe it has been a great and unfortunate anomaly that one of the biggest funds, possibly one of the biggest contributors to ownership of Australia companies, of development of Australian resources, that is, the Government superannuation scheme, has not in the past been able to invest in Australia. I welcome very strongly this initiative, which is a most worthwhile one. I believe that the more Australian people can be identified with the ownership of Australian companies the better. I might say that this kind of people's capitalism is certainly an effective answer to the continuing cant from the other side about the ogres and demons of control both in non-existent areas of wealth in Australia and the wicked people from overseas. Most Australian companies are owned by Australians and how fortunate it is now that the biggest superannuation fund in Australia will be able to join in the ownership of Australia. 
The last point I want to make about this legislation is that I welcome the changes that have been made to the old scheme to eliminate the disadvantage suffered by women public servants and to achieve a more consistent and balanced scheme in that respect. The changes, as the House is already aware, will enable women to preserve superannuation benefits while their careers are interrupted for such reasons as raising a family. Of course, the changes also mean that pensions paid to spouses of deceased public servants will not cease to be paid on the remarriage of the spouse. It seems unfortunate that it has taken so long for women public servants to be treated fully like people rather than discriminated against. 
In brief, I would like to say that I commend the legislation to the House. There are some very positive and worthwhile improvements in this scheme. There are nonetheless, particularly in respect of the Defence Forces Retirement and Death Benefits Amendment Bill, many more amendments which I believe we need and many more which I wish to see. I am determined to join with other honourable members on this side of the House to press for a better deal for people contributing to the Defence Forces Retirement and Death Benefits Fund who have been so seriously disadvantaged in the past. Under the provisions of some of the old sections of the Fund there are members who I believe are still being disgracefully disadvantaged and are getting a much worse deal than people who have subsequently retired. In conclusion I repeat, how extraordinary it is that honourable members opposite can cry about $40 paid once only and happily rip off $30 once a fortnight. 
Sitting suspended from 5.59 to 8 p.m. 
I was interested to hear what the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  had to say, but for a different reason from the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr Ruddock).  I was interested to note that he has been capable of addressing himself at some stage in this House to a subject other than the subject which seemed to occupy the total Opposition questioning today during question time. It is interesting to note that members of the Opposition are capable of addressing themselves to some other subject. I might say that I was particularly distressed today to notice that the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  robbed me of something of a record by bucking the authoritarian, dictatorial organisation which exists opposite under which single member after single member of the opposition rose today during question time- one at a time in their organised ranks- to pursue their interesting subject. The honourable member for Hindmarsh bucked the system and asked a question about industrial relations. I am, of course, intrigued by the fact that the single subject which members of the Opposition pursued throughout question time apparently is more important to them than any of the matters facing Australia at the moment. Anyway, I do hope that we can pursue the seach of the record tomorrow. Perhaps all of question time tomorrow will be addressed to that same subject. Perhaps even the honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage)  will be able, given another chance, to phrase a question that is in order. 
The matter I want to speak about tonight is one that I raised some time ago. If I may, I would like to read from some correspondence that I have received on the matter, which I raised in the debate on the Loans (Qantas Airways Ltd) Bill. I refer to a letter from the First Assistant AuditorGeneral, which reads: 
In the course of the debate on 16 March 1976 on the Loans (Qantas Airways Ltd) Bill  Mr M.  E. Baume criticised the late tabling of reports of Qantas Airways Ltd and the Australian National Airlines Commission. In the course of his remarks in relation to Qantas he said 'I have been assured in the past that the reason for this is that the AuditorGeneral takes a great deal of time and has many tasks in from of him and that it is his delays which hold up this kind of public reporting. I submit that if that is the case something should be done about the Auditor-General 's Office '. 

 Mr Baume 's remarks in relation to the financial statements of the Australian National Airlines Commission could be interpreted as suggesting that again the Auditor-General's Office contributed to the delay in the tabling of the report. 
By way of explanation I should say that the basic audit of Qantas Airways Ltd is carried out in the Sydney Branch and the Melbourne Branch is responsible for the basic audit of the Australian National Airlines Commission. In the case of Qantas Airways Ltd signed consolidated statements and notes to the accounts were received by the Chief Auditor for New South Wales on 23 October 1975. 
That is, of course, more than 6 months after the close of the books. The letter continues: 
These accounts were examined in the New South Wales Branch and forwarded to the Auditor-General in Canberra on 30 October 1975. The Auditor-General signed the report to members on 1 4 November 1 975. 
That is, of course, a long time after 3 1 March. The letter continues: 
In the case of the Australian National Airlines Commission signed financial statements were received by the Chief Auditor for Victoria on 1 1 October 1975. 
That is not too bad. That is about  Vh  months after the closing date for the books. The letter continues: 
Subsequently, however, amended signed statements were received by the Chief Auditor on 30 December 1975 and on the next day they were forwarded to the Auditor-General for his consideration. The Auditor-General's report on the amended signed statements was signed on 20 January 1 976. 
That, as honourable members opposite probably could work out with some assistance, is almost  1  months later than the balance date. The letter continues: 
It is clear I suggest that in both cases the financial statements of the Authorities were handled expeditiously and it is not correct to attribute any delays in the issue of these statements to the Auditor-General or his staff. 
The letter was signed by R. G. Parker, First Assistant Auditor-General. I certainly thank  Mr Parker  for explaining that the delay, and it was a very serious delay, was not the fault of the Auditor-General's Office. Apparently, judging by their obsessional questioning today, members of the Opposition are quite interested in the Corporations and Securities Industry Act. I remind them that these reports came out far later than the 4 months deadline that had in effect been suggested by them in the legislation that they had proposed on company reporting, because the reports would have to be printed and circulated after the 4V4 months in order to have the annual meeting within S months of the balance date, which is what was their proposal. Anyway, if it was not the Auditor-General's fault, whose fault was it? 
I received a letter on the subject from Qantas Airways Ltd.  Sir Lenox  Hewitt, the  Chairman,  very kindly wrote to me saying: 
Professionally, I was much disturbed by the delay last year - 
He was referring, of course, to my comments about the Qantas report- and we have settled a program for the preparation of this year's Annual Report which eliminates the grounds for censure. 
However, in addition to the rules of reporting to which you referred in your speech we are bound by another, of which understandably you would not be aware, namely the Financial Directive from the Minister of Civil Aviation to the Board of Directors. Suffice it to say that the Directive requires a number of intermediate steps, after the accounts have been prepared and prior to their finalisation, the timetable for which is outside the control of the Board. I can assure you that there was no 'contemptuous disregard for the rules of company reporting' by any at Qantas; and I hasten to add that I would not attribute any to the Auditor-General or his Office. 
In view of the dissolution of Parliament on 1 1 November 1975 - 
That is a matter which seems to excite honourable members opposite every now and again, such as every 10 minutes- 
I arranged for copies of the Report to be delivered to every Parliamentarian on the date upon which it was released by the Minister, namely 5 December 1975. 
That, as honourable members can recognise, is a long time after 3 1 March. The letter continues: 
I hope therefore that you will place within that context your remarks that the House received the 1974-75 report within one month of the closing of its books for the following year. 
The point still remains that it was far too late and certainly far later than any corporation would be allowed by any existing corporate law or any corporate law proposed at one stage by honourable members opposite when the nation went through the temporary aberration of allowing them to govern for a while. The letter from  Sir Lenox  Hewitt concludes: 
We are all endeavouring to ensure that this year's Report will be available at the commencement of the Budget session and I hope that you will find our performance to conform with the high standards which you set and which I share. 
I am most grateful for that comment from  Sir Lenox  Hewitt. In fact, his report will be due at a reasonable time, I think, if it is tabled at that stage. It will be about 4V4 months to 5 months after the balance date. 
I am only sorry that the Australian National Airlines Commission- Trans- Australian Airlines- has not yet felt compelled to write a similar letter explaining what has held it up in the past and what it plans to do about the matter in the future. I submit that there is clearly a case for some instrumentality of this Parliament to require that financial directives from Ministers to statutory boards be so amended, so corrected, as to enable those boards, particularly when they are trading corporations, to meet the normal requirements of reporting which private corporations and non-governmental corporations are required by law to meet. I am certainly grateful for the information I have received, but I believe that this Parliament has many things to do yet to improve the standards. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! It being 11 p.m., the House stands adjourned until 10.30 a.m. tomorrow. 
-It is always interesting to follow Queensland's only Labor representative, particularly after he has been engaged, with some skill, in a 'cheap point scoring' proposition. I am quoting him. At least one can say that under the inflation of his Government cheap political points became certainly cheaper as time went by because the value of money with which they were purchased appeared to be going down with remarkable speed. The honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  said that he thought the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  delivered a very good foreign investment statement because it is like that of the Labor Government. I was wondering what it was that made me uneasy about sections of this foreign investment statement. I am grateful to the honourable member for Oxley for having pointed out to me that it is because of those parts which could well be held to be not immensely dissimilar from the policy of the previous Government. It is similar for example, in the sense that a slow moving bureaucracy will examine commercial propositions with the same sense of urgency as bureaucracies have displayed in examining commercial activities and mergers and so on in recent times. This slow moving factor is a very serious one. It has forced Australian companies that may well have survived in partnership as a result of merger or acquisition in fact to go to the wall because mergers and acquisitions have either not been agreed to or have not been agreed to in time. 
I must say that I have a residual twitch about the excessive bureaucratic intervention in various parts of proper commercial activity. Having said that, I must stress that it is vital that in Australia 's best interests there should be supervision of foreign investment in Australia. But I want to stress that I see this statement by the Treasurer as perhaps more of the skeleton of a policy than the flesh and blood of the policy. I look to the Foreign Investment Review Board to provide that body. I say that because the outlines within which the Foreign Investment Review Board is to advise appear to me to be the real guts of foreign investment. The debate on this matter on this occasion and on previous occasions has revolved around an emotional nonsense about what foreign investment is all about. The realities of foreign investement have been totally avoided, I presume, because the gentlemen on the other side of the chamber basically have not understood what they are all about, but secondly, I believe because the concepts are perhaps difficult to grasp. 
Let us recognise that the Foreign Investment Review Board will in effect determine the guts of the policy. It will look at inter-company pricing and profit arrangements, royalty and licensing arrangements, availability of technology, patents, etc, export franchise arrangements and the extent and nature of parent control of Australian operations. While everyone has been fussing about equity control, shareholdings and foreign proportions the facts are that many foreign corporations in Australia have been taking far more out in licensing fees, patent fees and management fees than they have ever taken out in dividends. Yet we have this obsessive involvement with the farce, the fiction of proportionate ownership. The companies could have a $2 paid capital and borrow all the money in Australia .and they could have differential interest rates and do what they like. There is nothing in this statement nor in the existing legislation to prevent it. 
To a large degree all of the legislation in this area, and particularly the nonsense that came from opposite, had an element of window dressing and political catch cry about it. Let us get to the guts of the issue. Let us look at what in fact would be the best way to control this sort of thing. I have generally taken the view that the best method of control is simply to reveal. If everything is forced to be revealed honestly and truthfully public opinion is the great controller. When we had huge dividends going to overseas and large foreign investments in real estate there was an emotional response locally. There was then pressure on politicians and as a result we got this kind of nonsense. But the public has not seen what are the licence fees, patent fees and management fees. I am putting to the House that it would be a good idea if we started to deal with what really matters- how much money is flowing out from this nation in payment for things that perhaps are overpriced by multinationals; perhaps, but we do not know because we do not see the figures. We get fixated about dividends. 
I have a lot of reservations about this policynot, as I said, what it says. It is the framework, the bones, the skeleton of the policy. The reality is that the Foreign Investment Review Board will have to do the essential key job of determining what in fact will be the real rules about investment in Australia. So an independent board will create our policy out of a mass of uncertainty. We cannot go round the world, and have not been able for many years to do so, and say: 'This is Australia's policy on foreign investment', because whenever one has a board, a bureaucratic structure making decisions, creating the law in effect, one has uncertainty. When one has uncertainty one has a disastrous investment scene. I am suggesting that it is about time that both sides of this House recognised that we should face up to the realities of the problem of foreign investment instead of dealing with the shadows of it. 
I have been intrigued by the manner in which we- all of us- respond emotionally to the question of profits in real estate. For heaven's sake, what policy impact does the ownership by foreigners of an office block have on Australia? It intrigues me to see Australians jumping up and down complaining about foreigners making profits out of office blocks when they apparently do not care so much about foreigners making major investments in major Australian resources. Surely it is in the areas where policy decisions matter, where policy decisions count and wherepolicy decisions have an impact on our future that we should be expressing concern, rather than having this emotional response to the fact that some foreigners have made a quid out of trading in bits of land. Let us impose a differential tax on them, then. There are many things we can do. But to respond in what I believe to be an emotional way about real estate simply because there was a boom, and to say that if foreigners made money out of that boom they must be naughty, I find to be a curious approach to government. 
I am much more interested in seeing in this statement- I presume it will emerge from the establishment of the Foreign Investment Review Board- something about, for example, the pricing policies of multinational corporations owning Australian resources. What is there in this statement, for example, to prevent a multinational corporation wanting to do so from selling its product to its parent at a phoney low price? Sure, the Commissioner of Taxation can take a view on that and has done so. It has been going on in the meat industry for years. But does that disadvantage Australia in foreign exchange terms? Should we be looking at areas of control of that kind? Should we have a differential tax structure to encourage multinational corporations to go into partnership with us rather than set rules the meaning of which is still to be determined to a large degree by the Board? I have referred to the matters of pricing policies, licence and patent fees and gearing differential tax structures, and on gaining- which, much to my disappointment, is not dealt with in this statement to any degree. It says: ' We will not worry about that at this stage'. I hope we will worry about it. I hope that this Parliament worries about this subject and I hope that it worries about it in the future with more depth than I believe it has given to it in recent years. 
It is a pleasure to follow my neighbour and friend from Eden-Monaro  (Mr Sainsbury).  With him, I look forward to a satisfactory result in an election this Saturday in a State sphere which covers part of his electorate. 
The matter about which we are speaking is one that is of vital concern to many beef producers in the electorate of Macarthur which has many high quality beef studs and cattle studs. I hope that the people of Australia will recognise and appreciate the hard work and dedication of those in this industry because there is not much reward for the dedication on the part of the many people who are committed to the view that they should try as hard as possible to bring a good quality product to the Australian people and to assist Australian exports by providing a top quality beef product which will attract additional export income for Australia. 
I commenced my contribution to this matter on the last occasion when it was raised by disclosing an interest. I wish to do so again. I have 2000 fifty-cent shares in a meat exporting company, Tancred Bros Pty Ltd. I am also a director of that company. I hope that other honourable members who have interests in matters which come before the House will follow a similar course of action and reveal the nature of their interests. I commend that proposition to the House. 
Even though my financial interest in the industry and in the company is not very great, I will admit, I do feel a great degree of commitment to the welfare of the Australian beef industry. It has had a most terrible battering- a disastrous battering. That battering to a degree resulted from the anti-rural policies of the Labor Government at the time. That Government imposed a levy at a period of temporary boom in the meat industry without any care, concern or worry at all about the consequences of that levy when the economic cycle turned, as it inevitably had to. That Government demonstrated a degree of arrogance and disregard for a major Australian primary industry and exporter that is typical of those in the Labor Party who appear to consider that Australia does not exist past the boundaries of its capital cities. 
What that Labor Government appeared to forget was that if its campaign of continual attack on primary industries in Australia, particularly the beef industry, achieved the end which apparently it was seeking- that was to drive producers out of business- it would have resulted in a massive increase in costs of all foods produced in Australia. The Labor Government that introduced this vicious charge on the beef industry set out to damage the farmers, who are supposed to be so well off, without any concern for the realities of the cycle, the ups and downs of any export industry. That Labor Government looked only at the 'ups' and forgot about the 'downs'. I suppose this attitude was reflected in its political activities; it continually thought of its temporary resurgence in 1972 and failed to look to its ultimate demise in 1975. 
There is in fact a cycle in all things and the only trouble with the Labor Party's political cycle is that it has a slightly eccentric wheel. When the meat export charge was imposed there was no doubt that the charge did not create a massive burden on the industry. Unfortunately the collapse of export markets created a disastrous impact on the industry. I would like to read a passage from the Industries Assistance Commission's report on this matter because I think it is an important reference. It states: 
The meat industry export charge was introduced in November 1973 when the market was still extremely buoyant. In introducing the Bill in the Parliament it was emphasised that currently there is a very strong export demand for Australian meat and in these circumstances it is not expected that the charges will be passed back to the livestock producers. 
That position was true when the charge was introduced but so inflexible, so stubborn, and so determined are the residue who remain opposite; so obstructionist and antagonistic are they to the meat industry and in fact to any rural industry that when the circumstances changed they refused to change as well. The winds of change did not blow through their policies and as a result it blew through their numbers. 
Instead of representing something like 4 per cent of the saleyard price of cattle the charge now represents something like 10 per cent. This is the position at a time when most primary producers are losing money, when most beef producers are struggling to make ends meet and are going to the bank to look for their next quid. The Labor Government determinedly kept that levy on and in fact told the primary producers of Australia to go to hell. That is its positive contribution to the beef industry. 
There is no doubt that we face some degree of recovery in the beef industry. But it is a question of degree. We are not going back to the boom times, the exciting times of a few years ago when the Japanese suddenly discovered the particularly high quality of our chilled beef and rushed into our market to such an extent that they overpurchased and, I regret to say, entered into commitments that they could not meet. They encouraged many Australian companies to go into feed lots, for example, as joint ventures with Japanese operators. These ventures involved the investment of many millions of Australian dollars and they were undertaken on the understanding that the beef would be bought by Japan. There were contracts and arrangements. Regrettably these arrangements were not maintained when the Japanese Government took the view that the Japanese nation was over-supplied with cattle. As perhaps one or two honourable members on the Labor Party side know, cattle in Japan are fed on grain, and when the price of grain went up - 
If the honourable member for Hindmarsh can point out to me the great open plains of Japan where animals graze at will, I will be most intrigued. I was unaware that Japan had large areas available for normal grazing. I thought it tended to be a fairly small place populated more by people. 
I am well aware that there is a difference between Kobe beef and other beef. There is no doubt about that. There is also no doubt that all stall fed beef is not Kobe beef. I state for the benefit of the honourable member for Hindmarsh that stall fed beef is grain fed. Stall fed beef cattle require grain to eat. Regrettably for the stall fed industry, a couple of years ago there was a massive increase in the grain price with the result that the Japanese faced great problems in feeding their animals. At the same time, of course, American stall feeders who like the Japanese produce a grain fed beef which I state for the benefit of the honourable member for Hindmarsh is not Kobe beef, also suffered a decline in their market. The results were that both nations wished to reduce the very large size of their cattle numbers and consequently there were reductions in Australian exports. 
It was a situation which the Australian producers or the Australian Meat Board could not have sensibly forecast. It cannot be forecast that there will be a collapse in a grain crop around the world forcing the price of the grain up to high levels. The immense impact that this has on the stall fed cattle industry is severe. It also had an effect upon Australia. The result was that the Japanese Government effectively broke undertakings that various Japanese companies had with Australian companies causing massive financial losses to the Australian beef industry and to Australian cattle producers. 
I mention by way of background, so that there is no suggestion of stupidity or foolishness in the sudden decline in the fortunes of the beef industry, that while all this was going on the Australian Labor Party Government at the time was totally aware of what was happening. Of course, it did not know what to do about it but it was aware of it. It did nothing despite the huge slump in the market and despite massive publicly reported losses in public companies. One pastoral company reported one of Australia 's biggest ever losses largely emerging out of the reverse in the beef industry. The Government was well aware of these losses and it still did nothing. It still levied this rip-off charge that knocked $20m out of this industry at a time when in many areas it was going broke. 
However, at the same time, the Government thought that perhaps something should be done. Of course, it did not know what to do because, frankly, in that Administration there was no one who understood the first thing about primary industry. The Minister for Agriculture at that time,  Senator Wriedt,  is a very nice fellow from a most worthwhile State which nonetheless tends to have a fairly limited grazing capacity. It appears to produce apples with a greater capacity and skill, which it also cannot sell, rather than beef. The fact is that the Labor Administration knew nothing about this industry. As a result of its accumulated wisdom it then decided to do something to help the industry in its time of strife. So having ripped off the industry $20m by way of an export tax, it decided to lend the money back to the industry with interest. That is a most curious way to help an industry. In fact, it put primary producers further into debt. 
As the honourable member for Denison from the sunny apple isle says, the Labor Government put Shylock to shame. The key point I want to make is that this decision now to change the levy- to remove the serious burden on our beef exporting industry which is still in trouble- is a sensible, reasonable and proper approach. It is an approach that should have been taken a long time ago. I have heard honourable members opposite ask: Is it going to go back to the producers? The key thing is a suggestion that someone in the middle will get rich and fat as a result. Although I stress that the cattle market has improved a little and that our export markets have improved a little, let me read from the  Revised Outlook Statement on Meat  from the National Agricultural Outlook Conference in February this year. It states: 
Overall, there is likely to be some improvement in market opportunities for exporters in the coming year. However, the likely expansion in the volume of imports permitted by major importing countries is still likely to be less than the potential increase in beef supplies available for export by major exporting countries. 
The market conditions clearly indicate that the scope for price recovery is strictly limited. So there is no question of being generous, over generous or anything like that to favoured sons in the beef industry. All that is happening is that the Government is at last getting off the back of the beef industry. The Government that got on the back of the beef industry was, of course, a Labor government. The present Government, which understands the beef industry, is the Government that is in fact getting off the back of the beef industry. 
A most curious proposition has been raised. It is that some fat cat in the middle will benefit from this whole business. I do not know whether honourable members directly opposite believe this. I do not include honourable members diagonally opposite who at least understand this industry far better than any member of the Labor Party could ever hope to understand it. The facts are that there is massive competition among processors in the industry. An appropriate expression would be that they are cutting each other's throat. There are many competitive processors. The profit margin that most processors earn is much less than 1 c in the $ 1 . 
-Well worked out. Exactly. It is less than 1 per cent. Yet we hear these absurd remarks. Honourable members can check these figures. The profit margin is less than 1 per cent. We hear absurd remarks about the rake-off in the middle. In fact one honourable member opposite had the wit to produce a statement from official statistics showing the apportionment of the returns, before costs, from I lb of meat. The way the statistics were used showed a total lack of understanding by the Labor Party of what the whole industry is about. 
The things worrying this industry now are the massive rises in costs. It is absurd to produce statistics showing what happened to the return on 1 lb of steak or a piece of meat, without showing what happened to the costs as well. It is typical of the dishonesty of the gentlemen who occupied the Government benches that they would follow that kind of faulty reasoning. The facts are that the labour costs, for example, in this industry are now far higher than they were ever before. It now costs far more to process an animal than it does to buy it in the first place. That is a total disaster. The main rip-off comes in tax. Taxes and wages are the 2 big factors that are pricing Australian beef our of world markets. There are massive 23 per cent and 24 per cent wage rises in one hit, and the industry is expected to compete on world markets with countries which not only do not have our current rate of inflation but also which are devaluing. Our major competitors in the beef export markets are devaluing while Australia faces a very moderate change in its exchange rates as a result of its activities in a basket of currencies. Our costs are still rapidly rising as a result of 3 years of disastrous inflationary policies. 
I put to the House that this industry has had a belting as a result of the last 3 years of misdirected and disgraceful, I submit, governmental policies. It is now quite clear that it is to the industry's benefit as a whole- not just to one section of it- that the meat export levy has been removed and the brucellosis charge spread over all cattle instead of unfairly over one section of the trade, and that is the trade that goes to export. 
I expect that we will hear members of the Opposition reading the section of the IAC report which says that it may well be passed back. They will probably read half sentences that say that perhaps not all the benefit will come back. I submit that unless the beef processing industry gets a fairer return on its money than it has been getting over recent years, when the average return to beef producers has been something like onethird of the amount that honourable gentlemen opposite were prepared to pay out to investors in government bonds, this major export industry will continue to be in trouble. It is wonderful to see this Government trying to reverse the disgraceful and disastrous policies of the previous Government. I totally support this Bill. 
I support the Bill. I am concerned about the very large backlog of worthwhile organisations which are desperate to commence projects. I regret that in my electorate, in particular, some people have sold their homes in expectation of going into such establishments, believing that there was every prospect of an early start. This was as a result of expectations 6 to 12 months ago. While I support the Bill, I hope that when the economic situation improves something can be done to assist these people, many of whom are now in serious economic plight because of the failure of administrations for a variety of reasons, obviously for economic ones, to meet the expectations created in this area, expectations which I hope this Government will be able to fulfil in the near future. 
-I direct my question to the Minister for Transport. Is there any conflict, as reported, between statements made by the Minister and those of  Sir Eric  Willis relating to official investigations into a second airport for Sydney? The Minister will understand my concern as the Bringelly-Rossmore area in my electorate has been reported as a possible site for such an airport. 
It is interesting to follow the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  and to hear an attitude for which I suppose the polite word is 'oldfashioned'. It seems so out of keeping with the reality of the world today to hear a man talk about what is happening to textile factories, for example, in his electorate. I can assure him that this situation applies to those factories in my electorate. The honourable member did not mention the fact that his Government introduced a 25 per cent tariff cut which did more than any single thing to destroy employment in the textile industry, particularly the employment of women who, in many areas of Australia, do not have alternative employment opportunities available to them. I know that in my electorate it is a shattering blow to look through the empty, partly used, or certainly under-utilised in almost every case, textile factories in the area. 
It is also interesting to hear the old-fashioned view holding that 'profits' is a dirty word. Once again the honourable member for Wills chooses to ignore the fact that if it were not for the profits earned by companies and their capacity to invest in new plant and equipment and to employ people there would not be any employment. There would be the sort of downturn in employment, the inactivity and the economic disasters we are now having. The honourable member has yet to wake up to the fact that one of the major reasons for the current economic uncertainty, for the current high unemployment, for the current failure of the Australian economy to be expanding its productivity is exactly the profit bashing that he supported. When an ordinary person goes out to work he is seeking to maximise his own profit. He is trying to make as much money as he can so that there will be a suitable gap between his costs and his income- that personal gap in every household which gives him a disposable income; an income which he can dispose of by choice is a degree of profit. 
It is a curious thing that it is worthwhile and honourable, according to the Opposition, for people individually to pursue profit, but it is disgraceful if it happens to be a corporation that is pursuing profit. What a curious idea particularly when even the Opposition must by now recognise that it was a failure of the private sector in Australia to earn profits- this was under the Labor Government's profit bashing activitieswhich brought about a diminution in the pool of resources from which we were trying to pay for welfare, from which we were trying to meet all the demands of our society. If you do not replenish that pool, if you do not provide the money or the national wealth from which to meet the demands of welfare, if you keep paying with non-existent Hayden cheques on a nonexistent bank account, then you simply destroy out society. That is what destroyed the economy of this nation more that any other single activity. It is extraordinary to hear still from the Opposition this sort of 1930s mentality. Honourable members opposite are the true conservatives of this House, people who have not progressed past the depression psychology, the anti-business psychology, the anti-profit psychology, the antiwork psychology, the anti-effort attitude. It would be a wonderful day when the Labor Party progressed its thinking past 1930. In the meantime, I suppose that we at least do know where true conservatism lies in this House. 
I should like to deal now with a matter which is of real concern to me and, I know, to many other honourable members on this side of the chamber. It is the extent to which any government's capacity to make welfare payments to the needy in the society is being diminished by the massive cost of making those payments, the huge rises in administrative costs. This is not a subtle attack on the Public Service. This is not an attempt to say that the public servants are not doing the right thing or are not working hard enough. That is not the issue at all. The facts are that as a result of massive increases in administrative costs there has been a reduction in the capacity of the Department of Social Security, for example, to meet many of the commitments that I believe that that Department should be looking to meet. An increasing amount of its moneymoney that should be going in welfare payments -is now going in administrative costs. Surely we should be looking at this whole matter of administrative costs if we are really trying to increase the amount that is going to pensioners of all categories within the economic constraints that have been set upon us by a reckless administration over the last 3 years. The Labor Government showed no restraint in looking at administrative costs. There were massive increases and, I would submit, to a large degree inefficient increases in the actual methods by which welfare was handed out. What I am distressed to see is that in this legislation before the House we see that for the appropriation for the Department of Social Security there is a necessary increase of $21m in the current year in order to meet the commitments under the previous Government's Budget. It is reasonable- it happens every yearthat there has to be an additional appropriation. But what I want to stress is that of that $2 lm, 73 per cent- almost three-quarters of it- is going in higher administration charges, that is, salaries and administration expenses. The fact is that the major single item is postage, which is up $7.2m. Here, in fact, we have a simple juggling trick. On the one hand the Government is paying an extra $7. 17m and on the other hand that government commission is taking it. We are seeing money that we would have hoped might have been available for welfare ending up in the hands of the postal authorities which are now, of course, in a separate organisation. 
One wonders really what is the cost to this nation of having this curious kind of accounting where money goes from one pocket to another. It  is  as if this were all done with mirrors. It appears that the social security vote has gone up when in fact really the postal and telecommunication sections are benefiting. I stress, however, that there has been a $ 15.1m rise in this kind of expense over the Budget allocation. 
Let us look at what really has happened compared to the situation last year. Let us look at the consequences of the Hayden Budget because the allocations we are now considering are simply an updating, a putting into current terms, and a providing of the money needed for the programs that were instituted under the Hayden Budget. For example, salaries of the Department of Social Security in 1974-75- that is exactly one year ago in terms of the measure we are now looking at- amounted to $56.56m. As a result of the additions in the legislation before us they will be $72.24m. This represents a total rise of $ 15.7m or 28 per cent in one year. At the same time administrative expenses have gone up from $ 17.07m in 1974-75 to $27.5m. This is a rise of $ 10.4m or 61 per cent in administrative expenses. The total result is that the rise in this one Department in one year for salaries and administrative expenses has been $26m or 35 per cent. 
It strikes me that this is a most unfortunate feature of what inflation does to our capacity to pay welfare to the community of this nation. As a result, $100m of the social welfare vote is to go into the area of administration and salaries instead of to pensioners. It could be said that it is going to public servants, not to the needy. It is obvious that a large proportion of this amount would have to go to the administrators anyway no matter how well organised the payment of welfare was in this nation. But I submit that there is a degree of misspending. This is simply not because- I would not argue this in any way -the Department is inefficient. I do not believe that the Department is. I believe that public servants work hard. I believe that the public servants in this Department as in many others are dedicated and seek to serve the public and the pensioners whom they are there to protect. What I do say is that many of the welfare benefits that over the years have made up a large part of the spectrum of welfare in Australia are inefficient. Many welfare payments, particularly small once off payments for special historically sound but now economically unreasonable benefits, simply cost too much to administer because of the massive rise in wages that has taken place, particularly over the last 3 years of uncontrolled and irresponsible inflation. 
It strikes me that when we are looking at ways of saving money, or conversely of increasing the proportion of the welfare vote that actually goes to pensioners or to others in receipt of welfare, surely we should be examining how to make certain that these inefficient benefits can be replaced by efficient ones. I would presume from my own experience that it would probably cost something between $10 and $15 to make a once off payment to a pensioner. The once off payment of $40 in the case of the funeral benefit indicates to me that surely there must be a better way of handling such payments. It costs $ 1 5 to administer the payment of the $40 funeral benefit. Is that really the right sort of proportion at which we should be looking? My understanding is that about 2 per cent of the total vote of Social Security is taken up by administration. Yet here we have some specific benefits where the administrative content is something like a massive 30 per cent of the total expenditure. 
I believe that we should be looking for ways, as the Henderson report on poverty recommended, of diminishing the administrative cost and increasing the size of the benefit to pensioners. This, of course, could be done in many ways. My own view, for what it is worth, in respect of the payment of the funeral benefit is that surely we could have examined, and I hope we still will, those areas in which we could have saved a good deal of the administrative cost. For example, in the case of the death of a single pensioner the Department could arrange for the pension cheque to continue to go out for one extra week which roughly equals the amount of the funeral benefit. Pension cheques are paid by way of computer. Surely one could press a button on the computer and overprint a pension cheque. For example, one could overprint the cheque to the effect that it is negotiable with any recognised or approved funeral parlour. Of course, there would be no administrative cost beyond the normal costs of providing the computer with the information that a pensioner has died. The same process could be carried out in respect of the death of a married pensioner. The Department could add another 2 weeks of the married pension to the cheques which are sent to the remaining spouse which could be overprinted in exactly the same way at no major administrative cost. The cheques could be overprinted to the effect that they related to the funeral benefit and could be negotiable with any recognised funeral parlour. 
In other words, I am suggesting that there are many opportunities for looking at the efficiency of welfare payments, many of which could well be removed because they involve single one off payments or are expensive to issue. Such benefits could be grouped into other larger packages. In other words, although not taking anything away from welfare we should make certain that the bulk of the welfare money goes to the people who should be receiving it. We should replace inefficient benefits with efficient benefits. We cannot afford, and the pensioners of this nation cannot afford, to see such ever increasing proportions of the welfare dollar going in salaries and administrative costs. 
The situation is even more dramatic. In fact, salaried administrative costs are up to $100m in the current year. Only 2 years ago salaried administrative costs of the Department amounted to $52.3m. They have almost doubled in 2 years. This situation has been more the consequence of inflation than of major adrninistrative needs to provide major administrative services. Certainly there has been a factor of increased employment in the department. It may well be that if one becomes more efficient and chops out some expensive benefits and replaces them with benefits which are less expensive to administer, the trend of last year can be reversed. Last year the Department of Social Security increased its average employment from 7400 to 8500. I suggest that there is massive scope for this kind of saving. I stress that in the current situation the one year rise of $26. lm in salaries and administration would certainly have been sufficient, if one had to keep the vote steady, to have wiped out things such as the maternity allowance of $7.6m, the handicapped children's allowance of $7.8m, the orphans pension of $2m and the funeral benefit of $ 1.8m. What would we rather have? Would we rather have money going in public servant wages- not as a result of inefficient public servants but of inefficient benefits- or would we rather have the money going to pensioners? That is the simple problem we face. I believe it is a problem we can resolve. 
When talking about the pool from which welfare money is distributed- that is, the pool of accumulated profits of the society and wages earned in the society as a result of active profitability and an active private sector- the PA Consulting Services Pty Limited report on business profitability showed that almost three out of every four industry groups in Australia suffered a lower return on shareholders funds after tax and interest in the latest year. The pool is still going down. The magnitude of the fall in return on shareholders funds compared with the fall on total assets was largely due to the heavy interest burden. In other words, we can see the continuing impact over the last 3 years of the attack on profits. It has attacked everything in this nation. It has attacked our capacity to have the resources to pay welfare. Let us now look at ways by which we can improve our payment of welfare, within the constraints that have been set upon us by the chaotic and inefficient economic policy of the last 3 years. 
I intend in fact to speak to the House rather than to read to it. 
I intend to speak rather than to read or quote. A most regrettable aberration took place in New South Wales quite recently where as a result of some promises, some deceit, and some misstatements the people of New South Wales were convinced that a gentleman known loosely as Nifty Neville but otherwise I believe described as the now Premier of New South Wales advised the constituency that in fact he would not impose double taxation unless it happened to be by indirect taxes, and he also brought into power a collection of people who have a degree of responsibility which is evidenced in the  Sydney Morning Herald  of yesterday. One of his Ministers, allegedly an expert in the area of health, said- and I quote, if I may: 
People in New South Wales would now be forced to carry the full burden for heavy cost of health care without any Federal financial assistance. 
This is the sort of material which is run in the Press in New South Wales, which according to honourable members opposite is in the hands or is the plaything of this side of the House. I might say that that story has not been denied in this newspaper. It is totally untrue. The facts of course, as I presume even some members of the Opposition would be well aware, are that $ 1,000m of Federal Government funds-that means taxpayers' money- will go towards medical care, Medibank or whatever its subsititutes or alternatives are in the coming financial year. An amount of $800m will in effect be provided by these money raising procedures, which of course are simply aimed at requiring those people who can afford to pay for medicine to contribute to that cost. It is extraordinary, it is unbelievable that a Minister of the Crown of a State would not only be ignorant but also would be deliberately disruptive, deliberately misleadingdisgracefully I believe- and determined to set out to mislead the people of New South Wales about Medibank, about its future and about what is I believe a right and a proper end to a situation in which the workers of this nation have subsidised the health care through their taxes of the silvertails of this nation, to use an expression of the gentlemen who sit opposite. It is absurd and disgraceful that this gentleman in New South Wales should reject out of hand the proposition that the charge for private and intermediate hospital beds should, in fact, be something approaching- not close enough in my view- their economic cost. Do the Premier of New South Wales and the well-informed  Mr Stewart,  who can tell such unspeakable lies in the newspapers, knowing them to be untrue, support the view that pay as you earn tax collections from workers should go towards the maintenance of beds in private and intermediate wards? Do they support the view that the workers of this country should be subsidising the unnecessary health care, as it is described by the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman),  that goes on in private and intermediate wards. The honourable member for Prospect has some flashes of brilliance. I used to see them every now and then when he and I played football together. I support him very strongly in the comments he made last night. I entreat him to go along to  Mr Stewart  in New South Wales and inform him of the facts as he endeavoured to inform the people of Australia yesterday. 

 Mr FitzPATRICK (Darling) (10.52)- It was very gratifying this evening to hear the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  mention that excellent newspaper, the  Southern Cross,  and tell us how concerned it was about the tragedy of labelling sincere Australians as dole bludgers. It reminds me of my approach to the Liberal-Country Party Government some time in 1972 concerning the closure of the South Mine at Broken Hill. On that occasion 750 miners were concerned that they may have to go on the dole and a big delegation came from the mine to confer with the Government of that time. To  Mr Street's  credit, he went to Broken Hill to investigate the matter. 
The reason for my rising tonight is that the honourable member for Adelaide reminded me of these things. I have been informed by telephone today that of the 350 workers remaining, 250 will be retrenched. Only the residue dumps will be worked to keep these employees working. I think it is tragic that a body of men who will go to any extent, even to the extent of accepting a worsening of working conditions and putting in their own money to get the company operating, will be unemployed. Fortunately, the company was able to borrow money and the employees did not have to forgo the first 6 weeks wages although they did buy a lot of shares in the company, and that is what helped keep it going during that period. 
I ask the Government to consider this situation because there is every possibility that if the Government contributed half the amount of the social security benefits that would be payable to the 250 workers this mine would be able to keep going. One must remember the great amount of money that was paid into both the State and Federal Treasuries from the production of this line of lode. It started in 1S83 and is still going. Rich and wealthy mines are being worked at both ends of the lode. With some Government contribution the possibilities of the Western Mineralisation are enormous. There is a theory that as well as the main lode which has been mined since 1883 there is another major lode. This possibility is borne out by the fact that the North Mine was able to find another lode which was an extension of the main lode. A lot of low grade ore with pockets of good ore in it has already been found. I appeal to Government members to do their best to give these employees another opportunity to work the South Mine. 
I direct my question to the Deputy Prime Minister. I ask this question in the spirit of trying to make fully available to the public information on important matters. Has the Minister seen the very authoritative reports establishing clearly that carbon dioxide emissions from fossil fuels pose a far greater threat to the atmosphere and the environment in general than does nuclear power? Could the right honourable gentleman ensure that the Queensland railway unions become aware of this fact before they make any further disastrous attempts to impose their uninformed minority opinions - 
I must say that I listened to the remarks of the honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage)  with great attention, but I apologise to him for the derisive remarks that came from this side of the chamber. The points he made were as cogent as I would have expected from him. I consider his position to be truly representative of the positions being maintained opposite. I think that he expressed the views of honourable members opposite exceptionally well. I commend to those honourable members who missed his speech the reading of  Hansard  in order to establish quite clearly in their minds why the House is split in the way it is. I would think that the speech of the honourable member for Chifley is such as would endear him to his colleagues sufficiently, I would imagine to make him a serious contender for the position of Leader which I believe is an incipient vacancy. Given more speeches of that calibre, the manner in which obviously he can reflect the collective views of his Party would, I am certain, endear him to all his colleagues. 
Having recognised the merit of his speech, may I address myself to a speech of less interest and less enthusiasm, but nonetheless a very interesting speech that came from the Opposition side from the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  who led for the Opposition in this debate. This was a different style of speech from that of the honourable member for Chifley; it was in fact addressed to the subject. The speech of the honourable member for Adelaide was interesting because it maintained many of the positions that the Government has maintained. I think it was an interesting speech not because he ended up agreeing with us- of course he did not do so in many of his conclusions- but because much of his analysis of what was wrong and what is wrong with the economy was correct. It is an analysis that is not shared by other honourable members opposite who spoke after him. I would like to quote various sections of that speech to remind honourable members opposite that there is a view on their side, even though it is not a very widely supported one, that does approach at least the direction of rationality. The honourable member for Adelaide said at page 2390 of  Hansard: 
The rate of return in the business sector is too low. 
The honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  does not seem to agree with that view. The honourable member for Adelaide said: 
In a mixed economy like ours, where the private sector is responsible for the employment of three-quarters of the work force, it is important to encourage firms to invest again. 
Here we have a man who at least recognises the problem even though he has no solution, even though the Government which he supported played a major part in creating that problem. Our big question now, the problem that faces us tonight is whether we are resolving the problem in the best possible way. There is a problem. The honourable member for Adelaide, leading for the Opposition in this debate, has recognised the areas of problem, as has the Government, of course. 
What we have been putting up is a package which I believe deserves the strong support of not only this side of the chamber but also the people of Australia. It is a program not to be taken in isolation. Of course everyone can complain about specific items, but the package as a whole is designed to get Australia on the move again. It is designed to restore individual effort, individual incentive. It is designed basically to restore the pool of wealth from which this nation can pay its welfare, from which it can pay for all the things that it should be doing in the total welfare area. There are many projects, many worthwhile, sound, outstanding projects which are currently being deferred. They are being deferred because there is no money left in the pool. Over a period of 3 years someone turned on the tap and it all ran out; and someone forgot to refill the pool. It is a simple rule, an uncomplicated rule, that you cannot keep drawing water from the dam unless you keep putting some back in. I am afraid that what has happened in the last 3 years is simply that someone kept on pulling out more than was put in. This year, for example, with the Hayden Budget it was proposed to take an additional $5,000m out of the pool. Actually it only budgeted for $2,700m but it was obvious that the Budget was a hoax. The figures at the time the Budget was put down clearly demonstrated that the deficit was going to be at least $5,000m. That was said at the time but was laughed at by those particular gentlemen in the Press who appear to have ears very close to- I am not quite certain what orifice, but let us presume it was the mouths of honourable gentlemen opposite. The facts are simply that if you draw too much out and do not replenish it you go broke, and this country was in the middle of going broke. We have tried, desperately - 
That is the sort of interjection I would expect from the honourable member for Chifley. We have tried desperately to restore the pool, to put money back into that pool. 
-If I am the expert on that matter, it is a shame that honourable members opposite apparently have had no experience in any real terms of effort or endeavour and have obviously shown their lack of experience and lack of knowledge by trying to ruin this nation in 3 years of incompetent administration. The simple proposition is that if we do not have an economy that is in fact stimulated, an economy that is working hard, an economy that is producing revenue and gross domestic product, we do not have the surpluses available to put back into welfare. It is not simply a question of saying 'too much of the cake is going to the business sector, let us put some into welfare'. What we have to do is increase the size of the cake. 
-I suggest that the honourable member for Prospect stop eating so much cake. 
I can now understand your attraction for it. 
That joke has been cracked already. As I see it the problem we now face is how to make certain that we replenish the pool with funds so that we can in fact go ahead with many of the welfare initiatives that I believe were quite properly supported by the Labor Government. My complaint with those welfare initiatives is that the Labor Government endeavoured to pay for them with non-existent money. My complaint is that the Labor Government destroyed our capacity to pay for those welfare initiatives. I am distressed that many of those initiatives now must be deferred. Having built up the expectations of the people of Australia those initiatives must now be deferred until we can restore the wealth of society- the wealth of this nation- sufficiently to be able to pay for those welfare projects. 
What we have to ask ourselves is this: Is this package of Bills that has been presented the right way to go about it? I believe that in general terms it is. There are some specific areas in which I must say I have a degree of difference with the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch).  In fact the Minister Assisting the Treasurer  (Mr Eric Robinson)  has been kind enough occasionally to listen to discussion on these matters with the Government committee of which I must say I am very pleased to be a member. There has been great discussion, for example, about the investment allowance, whether this is the best way to try to redress this disgracefully unfair collapse of real profits of the business community. My personal view is that I would much rather have seen us go about it in a slightly different way. 
I would much rather have seen the Government introduce that section of the Mathews report which relates to indexing depreciation charges. I would much rather see us, for example, force upon the business community the requirement to report profits accurately; in other words, not to say that a piece of plant or equipment is valued at the historic price which was paid for it, but that the piece of equipment should be shown as being depreciated according to what it would cost to replace it. That would mean that every company's depreciation provision would be massively higher and its tax therefore much lower. The significance of this, I believe, would be that it would enable companies to build up a pool of resources to be able to finance the replacement of plant and equipment. In other words, it would enable them to maintain an ability to be competitive. Unfortunately, at the moment many of them do not have that capacity. They do not have the retained profits, because the profits are not there. The companies are being taxed on non-existent profits under an archaic tax system. 
I submit very strongly that if the Government were to force upon the business community the requirement to report depreciation provisions that related to the replacement value of plant, in other words, if it said to the business community that it would get this special depreciation provision provided it reported its accounts to the public in that way, then there would be a massive fall in reported profits by Australian companies. These profits would in fact fall to something approaching reality. At the moment Australian corporate profits are massively overstated. I believe that the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Antony Whitlam)  would be well aware of the degree of overstatement of Australian profits if in fact coherent taxing and reporting systems were adopted. 
I believe that in this way we could offer some stimulation. The honourable member for Prospect, a doctor of medicine, has a great interest in stimulation, even if it is only vicarious. I am certain the honourable member for Prospect must realise that if the private sector has the capacity to increase its employment levels and to expand its productive capacity it will do 2 things. Not only will it diminish the number of people who are dependent on handouts from the state by way of unemployment benefits, which is a drain on our national pool of wealth, but also it will increase that pool of wealth because salaries will then be paid to people and they will be paying taxes. It is a beneficial, progressive idea to have the nation at work and business investing. I am glad to see that at least the honourable member for Adelaide can grasp that concept, even if he then cannot progress to the next logical step of how to correct it. 
Having raised the matter of depreciation allowances, I am also concerned that up to this stage there has not been enough discussion in the debate on these current Bills of the question of stock valuation adjustment, towards which I believe the private sector desperately needs some movement if it is to survive. One of the serious problems to emerge as a result of massive inflation and excessive governmental taxing is that the private sector's capacity to retain profits and therefore to finance its own expansion has been decimated. The private sector has been maintaining its dividend payments; it must. In fact it has even been increasing them a bit, but its retained profits in real terms have been falling sharply, particularly in the last 3 years. This means that the private sector is more and more dependent on borrowing money to finance its continuing activity and its expansion. It must go more and more into debt. The consequence of this is particularly serious when we look at the increasing use made of monetary policy by governments, particularly amateur governments like that which existed for 3 years of temporary aberration until last December. That amateur government did not recognise that monetary policy would have a much more direct and serious impact on the business community than ever before because of its massively increased vulnerability to movements in monetary policy. Those sorts of people could bring about, and indeed did bring about, a destructive and disastrous fall in the private sector in Australia. 
The simplistic line we hear from honourable members opposite that what the Government is trying to do is to take away from the poor and give to the companies is totally, maliciously and wickedly untrue. We are trying to stimulate, to increase the activities of the private sector so that from their taxes, what they contribute to society, we can afford to pay more to the poor, the oppressed and the unfairly dealt with. The policies of honourable gentlemen directly opposite which aimed at destroying the wealth- it is not a dirty word- of the nation would have continually reduced the power of this nation to feed, to pay for, to clothe, and to look after, in the medical and every other sense, the oppressed people of this nation. The facts are very simple. At the moment the population is aging. More and more pensioners will have to be supported by a smaller and smaller proportion of the work force. It is desperately important that this nation become increasingly efficient and productive so that this bigger and bigger proportion of our nation can in fact be supported by the smaller and smaller proportion. The Opposition does not appear to recognise the desperate measures that are needed as a result of their own incompetence combined with the pressures of the times. The pressure of the times are leading us to disaster if major, significant, important measures are not taken. 
However I believe there are many more things at which we must look urgently. I do not take the view that the economy is moving ahead fast enough yet. I do not take the view that we should be obsessive about the size of the deficit. Honourable members opposite know all about deficits. In government they had one which they did not try to control. They did not know what it was all about. They were quite happy as long as they were spending money and making handouts. That was all that mattered. My view is that we need a continuing high deficit at this stage. I do not believe it will have the monetary impact that many of our commentators appear to think it will. I believe that if we have perhaps a higher deficit than the Government is at present aiming for we will, as many honourable members opposite have said, be able to keep activity in various sections of industry which depend on government spending at a much more satisfactory level than if this government spending were suddenly withdrawn before the private sector could take up the slack. Obviously it will need very fine tuning. 
The Treasury and the Treasurer appear confident that they will be able to bring about this subtle move, the subtle removal of the Government as the client for large sections of private enterprise and the replacement of the Government by other sections of private enterprise as the client. I believe we are running a bit of a risk in adopting this approach. I would much rather see us not so obsessed about the size of the deficit but concentrating much more on maintaining private sector activity, recognising that if we increase the activity of the private sector we will increase the likelihood of imports. About 80 per cent of imports are used in the manufacturing process. If a large amount of the deficit goes overseas in the form of payments for imports it will not have the serious monetary effects about which so many internal commentators seem to be obsessed. Nonetheless I must stress that I totally support this overall package. It is an excellent overall package. I believe it will lead us out of Labor's induced recession. It will lead us to a far better economy and a far better nation- a nation that can afford more and more welfare that is real rather than illusory. 
I think that the atmosphere and the air must get clearer the further one goes down the south coast of New South Wales. Obviously just out of Sydney in the area of Hughes the atmosphere must be particularly confused if it has any impact on the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson)  who has just given a most confused and curious speech on this matter. It is not in any sense possible to argue with any degree of reality that this Medibank package, this Health Insurance Levy Assessment Bill, in any way prevents people, discourages people, induces people not to go to public hospitals to get the best treatment they can. 
I totally agree with the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass),  who has the benefit at least of knowing what he is talking about, unlike the honourable member for Hughes. The honourable member for Maribyrnong was totally correct in saying that the best medical treatment a person can get is in the great public hospitals. The fact that the honourable member for Hughes is apparently incapable of grasping is that what we are presenting in this package enables everyone to get the benefit of public hospital service. For heaven's sake, a person can, if he likes, accept the Medibank package and take the medical treatment from the doctor nominated by that public hospital. He has that choice. He also has the choice of going to the great public hospitals, in particular of New South Wales, with their magnificent traditions of excellent medical service and saying to them: 'I would rather have the specialist that I nominate '. That will cost him an additional fee. The choice is up to him. He can get the best of all worlds. Under our system a person has the choice and the capacity to get the best of all worlds. Under Labor's system he was not given the choice of the best of all worlds. Honourable members opposite cannot understand the concept of freedom of choice because basically they are opposed to it. 
Let me say for the benefit of the honourable member for Hughes, who obviously is still confused, that if a single person wants public hospital treatment and the right to nominate his own doctor in whom he has confidence it will cost him an estimated $68 extra a year. It will cost a married person an estimated $135 a year for the right to select the doctor of his choice for his family. Again for the benefit of the honourable member for Hughes- obviously his only involvement with psychology and psychiatry has been at the wrong end of the machine- I submit that confidence in the doctor treating you is a major factor in your rate of recovery, in your capacity to recover from an operation or any severe trauma I am certain that the honourable member for Maribyrnong would be well aware of that. Confidence is a major part of the recovery process. Psychology plays a very important role. 
I submit to the honourable member for Hughes that if he were prepared to put the same degree of fervour, violence and excited arm waving into finding out the facts of this scheme before damning it, without knowledge, concern or involvement in what is best for the people of Australia, the Opposition would not be maintaining the absurd propositions and the ridiculous and unknowledgable attacks that have been going on against this excellent, outstanding program. I can speak with some experience. The honourable member for Maribyrnong referred to a simple operation like a gall bladder operation. I had that operation last year. So proficient were the doctors at the public hospital at which I had that operation that within a month I was fighting a successful election campaign. I remain indebted to the doctors and nurses of that public hospital for what they did. I stress that I was in a public ward. I got very good public hospital, public ward treatment. But I wanted my own doctor. 
The Government scheme provides that, at a very moderate cost to a single personsomething like $1.30 a week- he can insure so that he can have his own doctor. It may not be the doctor who is his local general practitioner. It is absurd for honourable members opposite to say: 'You might pick the wrong sort of doctor'. A person's general practitioner or his own knowledge of who are the experts, specialists or top people in this arena will encourage him to pick the person in whom he has confidence. It is confidence that matters. Many doctors are excellent technicians. Maybe they are all the same. Maybe there are not some who are better or worse. The fact is that a person's recovery rate depends on his psychological response to that operation. I think that it is about time that members of the Opposition recognised that the people of Australia are not automatons, digits, or people whose lives are completely encompassed by a Medibank computer. They are not people who can be pushed into corners or shovelled around. They are people who want to make their own choice. In medicine in particular the capacity to make that choice is vital. 
It is essential for the people of Australia to realise this fact through the flak, the nonsense, the barrage of misstatements and deliberate distortions, particularly the nonsense coming from the New South Wales Minister for Health whose approach to his portfolio might simply be summed up as being sick. I suggest that if the honourable gentlemen opposite and their cohorts who are setting out to destroy this magnificent social advance, this terrific improvement on the shambles which they created, continue to create the sort of uncertainty, disturbance and unhappiness in the minds of people- particularly the migrants whom they pushed into rushing into Medibank offices fearing that Medibank was being destroyed, because that is the nonsense coming from honourable members opposite- I believe that they will be doing a disservice not only to the great medical services that exist in Australia but also to the people of Australia. The people of Australia had 3 years of being misled and lied to by honourable gentlemen opposite. That is why honourable gentlemen opposite are opposite. 
The facts are very clear. If a person wants his own doctor, if he wants the doctor in whom he has confidence to treat him, if he wants the best doctor in Australia to treat him, if he happens to choose that way, he can insure for it if he so wishes. If he does not wish that, if he is content with the very high quality doctors, the outstandingly high quality doctors, who are available in the public wards of public hospitals he can do that. The salaried doctors are first rate doctors; no one is denying that. AH I am saying is that we take the strong view that people should have the right of choice. I am intrigued to see a continual denial and continual rejection of this concept by honourable gentleman opposite who refuse to give the people of Australia the right of choice, who deny our attempts to do so, who disregard the wishes of the people of Australia in this area. We will have- we do have- the people of Australia behind this project. We will have their support when the waters- deliberately muddied by honourable gentlemen opposite for political purposes- are eventually cleared. The health system is far too important to be played with politically by honourable gentlemen opposite. I hope that the people of Australia recognise that. 
I rise to draw the attention of the House very briefly to some interesting statistics issued by the Australian Bureau of Statistics on new capital expenditure.The latest statistics for the quarter ending 
March were released on 26 May and were reported in the Sydney newspapers this morning. They show a 10 per cent increase, March quarter to March quarter in total capital expenditure. However, I do submit that the Minister should consider a better break-up of these figures because, as the  Sydney Morning Herald  pointed out, total manufacturing appears to have fallen in investment terms in these figures, whereas leasing, which is included in all other nonmanufacturing, is in fact rising substantially. It appears very strange to me that total manufacturing investment is rising. 
I wish briefly to complete some remarks I was making the other night when the debate was interrupted about the quality of some official statistics that are available on investment in Australia- statistics as a result of the study of which the Government is obliged to make decisions. The statistics on investment in Australia lump together in an item called 'other' matters such as leasing. So, in fact, when one looks at manufacturing industry's investment level one sees a decline in the latest March to March figures, whereas the reality is, as I understand it, that there has been a considerable increase in the leasing done by manufacturing industry, with the result that the 'other' category has gone up substantially. It is a totally misleading set of statistics. 
I regret to say that I believe that many of the statistics put out, as a result of very hard work by the Bureau of Statistics, rely on old fashioned styles of classification which should be updated. The quality of information available to the Government, to committees, to back benchers and so on should be improved greatly. I believe the reclassification of considerable amounts of statistical material is long overdue, particularly when one sees that information being misused by the Opposition in, I believe, an unthinking way and misused also to a degree by those members of the Press who do not bother to check. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! It being 1 1 p.m., the debate is interrupted. 
I ask a question of the Minister for Transport in the hope of increasing everyone's understanding of public relations. Has the new Labor Government in New South Wales upset proposals to provide federal finance to export roads in New South Wales by deferring indefinitely the Botany Bay port project? Does this threat of cancellation of the Botany Bay project create a serious risk that the Wollongong area may be subject to a massive rise in export traffic as Port Kembla is required to take up the slack? Will the Minister favourably consider transferring federal funds from Botany Bay to the Wollongong area which is now clearly being sold down the river by the New South Wales Labor Government? 
-I would like to ask the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson)  a very simple question. 
I would expect that kind of helpful comment from the western suburbs. 
The south west has a far greater capacity for intellect, at least in selecting its members of Parliament. I suggest that there is a degree of problem- the officers of the Minister's Department have assured me that it is not a problem- in the wording of various sections which say 'such a licence ' or 'recommending that a licence be granted'. The word is repeatedly used in the singular. I believe that in the initial Act the words 'licence or licences' appeared. I am concerned, for example, that in clause 7, in sub-section (3), given various conditions the Board may recommend that a licence be granted for a broadcasting translator station to serve the needs of the community in the first mentioned area. I wondered why it was specifically limited to 'a licence' rather than to 'a licence or licences' in the sense that there may well be 2 neighbouring areas and a degree of choice may need to be allowed to the people in the dead reception area. Despite the assurances I have received from the Department some legalistic views are that the expression 'such a licence ' limits to one. 
It is fascinating to listen to a man who looks like a heavyweight but who sounds like a lightweight. I can only presume that as a result of too many political fights- no doubt with some dirty in-fighting in the party room- there is a degree of political punchiness about the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  who has just resumed his seat. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order!  I suggest that the honourable member should take his point of order without debating an issue that is not concerned with his point of order. 
I direct a question to the Treasurer. How do allegations that the Budget will reduce the real incomes of employees equate with Budget Statement No. 2, which states that real average earnings per employed person will remain approximately unchanged as a result of the Budget and that real disposable household income of Australians will increase because of lower rates of personal taxes and higher benefits? Is it true that Australian employees, on average, will be better off following the Budget? 
I rise tonight to express the gratitude of my electorate, particularly the aged people of my electorate, to the very generous, the very sensible and the very just decisions of the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  in respect of the aged persons' homes policy. I am overjoyed, as I would imagine any sensible member of this House would be, at a program which over 3 years, will provide $225m for aged persons' homes. It represents the restoration of a policy which collapsed under the previous Administration. It collapsed when in fact it was cancelled, halted, because of a mixture of incompetence and uncertainty on the pan of the previous Administration. The electors of Macarthur have every reason to be very pleased with the Minister for Social 
Security and her Department, and certainly with the Government 's policy. 
The allocation to Macarthur, which honourable members will know has a very large population of pensioners and aged people, has in fact been generous. Of course, it ought to be generous because when one looks at the neighbouring electorate of Werriwa, which is represented I believe by someone of some significance in the Party opposite, and at the electorate of Cunningham, which is represented by someone who used to have some significance also, one notes that those electorates, when compared with the electorate of Macarthur, for some curious reason appear to have many more aged persons' accommodation units provided so far. As a result, I know that my constitutents will be overjoyed to learn that they are catching up and that in the current year $lm is being allocated for aged persons hostels in Nowra and in Kiama, that next year $2.5m will be allocated and in the following year almost $3m will be allocated. The impact of those allocations will be to increase the number of units of accommodation for aged persons under the relevant Act from 3 10 to 782 units. A further 120 accommodation units have been approved but are not yet scheduled into the 3 year plan which will result in a total of approximately 900 aged persons' accommodation units being built in the electorate of Macarthur because of this Government's generous, sensible and just program. 
That program represents a trebling of the initial number of aged persons' accommodation units in my electorate. By making these announcements now in relation to the sensible and proper course which is to be undertaken, the Government, in addition, is effectively guaranteeing the capacity of the organisations which build these aged persons' accommodation units to borrow against them. They can now immediately start to develop their projects. 
-They can now plan ahead without the degree of uncertainty and hysteria which took place during the running of the scheme by the previous Government when all of a sudden the tap was turned off. There was no water left, except that on the brain of the honourable member opposite who interjected. There was in fact a dripping tap, and perhaps there still is in one corner of the chamber opposite. The fact is that now they will have the capacity to plan ahead. Because the Government has established very clearly what amount of money will be made available, these projects can go ahead now, even though the money will not in fact be allocated for one year in some cases and for 2 years in other cases. This is a magnificent indication of self help. 
-A set of fantasies have been spread around about what this Government plans to do to pre-school teachers and their subsidies. A particular fantasy relates- and it should be seen in this context- to the fact that the Government is endeavouring to divert welfare to the needy. That is a curious concept to the honourable gentlemen opposite who felt that welfare was something you bought votes with rather than looked after people with. As a result, I wish to put to the House a little bit of interesting information about a meeting held by the Children's Services Resources Group held at 9.30 a.m. in Pitt Street, Sydney, on 17 August. Some of those present- people who are concerned about the expense of pre-school and day care centres, particularly for working mothersfelt that the licensing requirements relating to the number of trained professionals necessary for the centres at all times were unreasonable and made long day care very expensive. They felt it was necessary to have a teacher at the centre for the bulk of the day but could not accept the necessity for a teacher for early and late periods. 
My next point is one I wish to draw to the attention of the House with great vigour. Those pre-school teachers and child care educators present at the meeting objected strongly to this point of view and argued that only a trained professional has the capacity to enrich the experiences of young children. I ask the House to note that they used as an example the need for the teacher to be present early in the morning to enrich the breakfasting experience. When my children have that problem I usually give them All Bran. But this kind of attempt to run a closed shop, which is what it is all about, is an effort to jack the cost up and it does not matter because the Government will pay. Curiously enough, this kind of effort was followed by a set of claims being formulated by this group which involved a massive increase in their salaries and a massive increase in their holidays to make them equivalent to primary school teachers who of course have to do other things like preparing lessons and actually marking the lessons. 
This attitude that it does no matter as long as the Government pays is interesting. This is the sort of attitude that the policies carried out by the previous Government have brought upon the country. The attitude that it does not matter because the Government will pay means that it does not matter because the workers will pay, for the workers' tax was the fastest rising element of tax collection under the Labor Government. The workers were going to have to pay for this kind of rip-off. What interested me was a copy of a letter I received from the Kindergarten Union of New South Wales telling me that 30 per cent of the children attending kindergartens and preschools in my electorate were in need. The Union asked what I was going to do about this dreadful Government. I wrote back to the Union thanking it for its statistics which, I said, demonstrated quite clearly that 70 per cent of the children attending pre-schools in my electorate were not in need but nonetheless were in receipt of a 75 per cent subsidy. 
With the assistance of a pocket calculator, the honourable member for Prospect may well be able to work out that the reciprocal of thirty is seventy. We do not have as our basic god, as our basic gaol, the purchasing of votes through the welfare system which was the sole motivation in assisting the middle class twoincome family at the expense of the worker in this kind of situation. 
I asked the Kindergarten Union of New South Wales whether it thought it was reasonable that the subsidy should remain as it was- in other words, with 70 per cent of the subsidy going to people who were evidently not in need. I also asked the Union whether it would favour a situation in which the needy benefited from welfare payments and whether welfare should be redirected to the needy. I asked the Kindergarten Union those questions on 16 August 1976. Unless the Post Office is again on strike, I have not been favoured with a reply. I simply suggest to the House that the attitude held by this group of people, many of whom may well be very dedicated and may well be very good pre-school and day care teachers, that welfare is a bottomless pit to be sucked dry is one which cannot be allowed to persist. Taxes pay for welfare. Is it not about time that members opposite who have been interjecting throughout this short dissertation tonight recognise that fact? 
I wish to discuss the Australian Broadcasting Commission. Having been, if you like, a failed employee of the ABC, and having gone on to something better or worse- who knows what- I feel a continuing interest in the activities of the ABC. I am not what one would describe as an ABC basher. The point I wish to make about the ABC is that it does broadcast some programs which appear to have a one-eyed view. I do not object to those programs. All I ask is that the ABC perhaps consider opening the other eye at a different time. 
In particular I want to refer to a matter which seriously affects my electorate, and it is related to the pulp and paper industry. The Shoalhaven paper mill which is located near Nowra is, of course, a major employer in the area and is now again operating full time, fortunately, after operating only part time for 2 years as a result of the tariff measures taken by honourable gentlemen opposite. Fortunately that paper mill is working but, nonetheless, it is now being subjected to a lot of propaganda which in fact is being disseminated by the Australian Broadcasting Commission. I have from the company that runs that paper mill a letter complaining about the unfair treatment that the pulp and paper industry has been getting. That company is an employer of many thousands of Australians. In particular the company says: 
In recent months the management of APPM has become increasingly disturbed by the amount of time and scope given to anti-forest industry opinion- on radio and television- particularly in that given by the ABC, without compensatory attention to the views of the industry and the forest services. Even more disturbing has been the partisan approach of some ABC reporters and comperes. 
In illustration of our complaint, I should like to draw 2 recent programs to your attention. They are: 

 The Science Show broadcast ... on Saturday, 29 May, and 

 Lateline broadcast . . . on Tuesday, 13 July. 
I must say that I am not opposed to the existence of  Lateline.  I think that its viewing audience, which is . less than 0.5 per cent, probably represents a reasonable assessment of its value. I do not seek equal time for people like the employers of labour in my electorate to defend the industry on  Lateline.  I would prefer them to do so on a program which people watch. It would be nice if they were given an opportunity to discuss their position at some time. The letter continues: 
Five people were interviewed on these 2 programs. Without exception these programs were strongly opposed to the operations of forest industry. Between them more than 8000 words of attack on forest industry were broadcast with no attempt to provide a balanced viewpoint to include the other side of the story. Some of the statements made in those programs were seriously in error. For example, the  Lateline  compere, Bob Davis, told listeners that 'there has been no significant public inquiry into forestry ever'. This is quite untrue. The facts are that there is, at present, a Senate inquiry proceeding into the effect of the woodchip industry, that the Mouse of Representatives held an inquiry into the softwood planting program last year and that the ALP Federal Government held an interdepartmental inquiry into the woodchip industry last year, too. These matters are wellpublicised knowledge. 
In addition, the Australian Forestry Council authorised a forestry and wood-based industries development conference, which involved intensive study of the industry, between 1969 and 1974. 
The facts are that there is continued and unfair attack on one industry which is a big employer in my area and also in Tasmania. I believe that the ABC should give equal opportunity to industries like this to state their position fairly. We are getting a very one-eyed view. There seems to be little reason why this industry, which was promised a fair go by the ABC when it complained and was promised a chance to state its case, should not be given that chance. That chance has not yet been given to it. I want to stress that when the people of Australia listen to programs which get stuck into industries like this they should recognise the employment consequences of damaging them and they should recognise how many people will be out of work in Australian industries if this kind of unfair and unreasonable attack is allowed to be continued so that it influences the people of Australia. 
Has the Minister for Transport seen reports from the New South Wales Minister for Transport claiming that the Federal Government had withdrawn Federal funds from the proposed extension of the East Hills railway to Glenfield and from the building of the Campbelltown railway station in my electorate? Could he say whether those reports are correct? Could he tell the House which government in fact decided not to proceed with those projects? 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
-Yes, I do, by the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  who claimed in a speech in the adjournment debate last night that I had in the adjournment debate on 1 5 September attacked the parents in my electorate who were trying to send their children to the kindergarten and that I supported a Government that is not prepared to help people to send their children to pre-schools. That is patently untrue. It is evident from what I said that I clearly supported payments, subsidies and support to pre-school kindergartens and day care centres on a basis of need. It was clear and unequivocal in the statements I made and, with your permission,  Mr Speaker,  I would like to read what I said on that occasion. I said:  a letter I received from the Kindergarten Union of New South Wales telling me that 30 per cent of the children attending kindergartens and pre-schools in my electorate were in need. The Union asked what I was going to do about this ... I wrote back to the Union thanking it for its statistics which, I said, demonstrated quite clearly that 70 per cent of the children attending pre-schools in my electorate were not in need - 
Under the classification of need- 
But nontheless were in receipt of a 75 per cent subsidy. 
The whole burden of everything I said was that there should be support for people whose children are attending pre-schools and day care centres in my electorate when they were in need. To suggest the contrary, is I submit, mischievous. 
I rise to discuss the Budget of the State of New South Wales. But in passing, as it is a related subject, I wish to remark upon the extraordinary attitude still being maintained by the honourable gentlemen opposite who still take the view that the Federal Government has a right to try to buy votes by buying into areas with taxpayers' money that quite properly should reside with the States. It is quite clear from the Budget Papers that the States have received effectively a 15 per cent increase for their outlays for this year compared with only a 12.9 per cent increase provided by the Federal Government last year. The States are getting a better deal. As a result, the specific vote buying gimmicks introduced by honourable members opposite to try to con their way into power have been done away with. This Government will win its votes by its efforts and it will not buy them with the taxpayers' money the way the Labor Government did. 
The point I make very strongly is that the Budget of the State of New South Wales dramatises the absolute nonsense of the submission made by the honourable gentlemen opposite and thenNew South Wales counterparts that the impact of federalism was totally dishonest. The New South Wales Government has brought down a Budget which shows the degree of economic health in that State. There will be a minute deficit which could not have been the case but for the federalism policies of this Government. New South Wales would be bankrupt if the sorts of policies put forward by the honourable gentlemen opposite continued. The fact is- the New South Wales Budget dramatises this-that that State has far more to spend on matters upon which it wishes to spend money. If the Premier of South Australia chooses not to spend his much greater amounts of money on specific things like welfare, that is his responsibility and the voters can judge him on his performance. The facts are very clear: The States have a far greater amount of money to do with as they will. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The time being 11 p.m., the debate is concluded. The House stands adjourned until 2. 1 5 p.m. tomorrow. 
I ask the Prime Minister Is the healthy financial position apparently revealed by the recent New South Wales State Budget a direct result of the Federal Government's federalism policy? 
-I want to introduce into this debate a discussion of the coal industry, which is both a resource of great significance to Australia, certainly in the electorate of Macarthur, and a significant major export industry, providing more export earnings last year than did wool. Macarthur has one of Australia's richest and highest grade seams of coal, and in the Burragorang mines a great degree of development is proceeding, providing more employment not only in the mining industry itself but in associated industries, and bringing increased benefits to the whole community However, there is a big 'if involved, and that 'if depends on the capacity of the industry to export its product through the ports of New South Wales. In particular, the bulk of the development in the Burragorang area, which envisages something like a 50 per cent increase in production in the next few years, depends on the State of New South Wales deciding whether or not it is in favour of loading coal. The new Government in the State of New South Wales at this stage cannot make up its mind whether it is in favour of loading coal on ships. As a result, the development of the mines in my electorate and the job opportunities which flow as a consequence of that development are in jeopardy. If it is possible to have mines up in the air, this is where they are at the moment. 
-This is what has happened thanks to the indecision of a Labor Government which at the moment is conducting a window dressing inquiry into Botany Bay, despite the fact that all the work has been done in examining the reality of using Botany Bay as a coal-loading port. But I guess that political window dressing is more important than getting on with the job which brings employment into my electorate. Of course, if the development at Botany Bay does not go ahead- it is the natural place from which to export the major increase in coal production that will be available in my electorate- I put to the House that these consequences will follow. They were stated in a submission to the Botany Bay port and environment inquiry a few weeks ago. 
Clutha Development Pty Ltd submitted that if further export coal loading facilities were not provided, coal output could not be expected to increase greatly. Additional jobs, with their multiplied benefits for the community, could not be created. Without extra coal loading facilities, additional output by 1985 of 3.5 million tonnes a year would be lost, 600 jobs would not be created, $ 10.5m in wages would not be generated, $97m of additional capital would not be spent and $83.2m in revenues would be lost to the State and Federal governments, the Public Transport Commission, and electricity and port authorities. The fact is that the coal industry- a major export industry in my electorate- is now on the point of being held to ransom by a State Government involved in some heavy politicking over 'environmental questions '. 
I stress to the State Government involved that if it would like to take the responsibility for failing to provide these jobs, failing to provide this development and failing to provide the export revenue, it should keep going about things the way in which it has been proceeding. I will concede that there is a plan to increase the capacity of the Port Kembla coal loader. But the Port Kembla coal loader is not ideally suited for the task. I will read from the report on the adequacy of Australian ports which was presented to the Parliament in February. I regret to say that it states quite clearly: 
Vessel delays caused by labour problems in the hinterland or by waiting for a berth or by waiting for the tide suggest to some that the port has a limited future. 
The Opposition spokesman on these matters who is at the table, the honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr Connor),  may have different views on that. I would be interested to hear them. But the problem is that if we proceed to increase the load on the Port Kembla coal loader, as is the proposal, we may well be able to obtain an increased capacity to export coal, provided that the wind is in the right direction, is not blowing at more than 10 knots and the waves are not too high. I submit that the facts suggest, even though it is essential to increase the load at the Port Kembla coal loader with the export of local coal, if we did that on its own it would cause a serious disaster in transport within the Macarthur area. I point out to the Committee that at the moment there is massive road transport of coal from the Burragorang Valley right from the north section of the Macarthur electorate to the coast. This has created an unspeakable hazard. There are countless accidents and deaths on that road going through Appin. In fact, I was pleased to see that a Liberal-National Country Party Government Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  acted to alleviate this problem earlier this year by granting export road status to that road and to provide some finance at least to help - 
-He is a good Minister. I thank my colleague. He provided a grant to increase the work being done on that road. However, there are far too many movements of trucks there now. It was submitted to the current Botany Bay inquiry that coal truck traffic on the Mount Ousley road on the southern freeway would double to about 1400 movements a day when the $55m expansion of the Port Kembla coal loader was completed. Already the coal truck movements are absurd. Already they are causing immense disturbance to the residents of the area. Already they are causing far too many deaths and accidents. But even worse, coal will be hauled at night from the mines above the BulliPort Kembla escarpment to avoid increasing daytime traffic. I am taking this from a report by the New South Wales Department of Public Works. As a result, noise levels on the road and freeway will increase significantly at night. In addition, rail traffic on the Moss Vale to Unanderra Une will eventually more than double, thus increasing level crossing hazards until the next stage of the freeway is built. 
I put to the Committee that it is all very well for a Federal government to do what it can to encourage exports and to remove from the southern mines the grossly unfair coal export levy which was applied by our predecessors equally to the high cost underground mines of the Macarthur electorate as it was to the low cost mines in Queensland. It was an intolerable levy in an area like Macarthur where this high grade coal is won at much greater cost than in the north. There have been suggestions that this levy should not be withdrawn and that the money raised should be used to increase the transport capacity from the Burragorang and Tahmoor areas to the coast. That is saying that an unfair levy should be maintained on a relatively higher cost operator in order to put in a facility. I suggest that it is an unreasonable and unfair way to go about financing this facility. It is essential that there be better transport. The simplest and most direct way would have been for the previous New South Wales Government, and I will concede - 
-Tonight I wish to refer to 2 matters. The first is the application of the telephone charges prevailing within the Sydney telephone charge area to Campelltown, which is within my electorate. It is conventional, boring and usual for honourable members to get up and say that it would be a nice idea if the local call charge rate were applied to their electorates, particularly when they are found around the fringe of cities. That is a dull, boring and usual occurrence. The point that I want to put to the Committee is that there is a special reason for the Government's giving very serious consideration to the case for the inclusion of at least part of Campbelltown in the Sydney telephone area. 
The reason is that Campbelltown is, in fact, a growth centre. There is a large section of the area within the Macarthur growth centre which is within the Sydney telephone directory and there is a section of the growth centre outside it. 
Regrettably, the dividing line between the Sydney telephone area and the subscriber trunk dialling or trunk line area runs through the middle of the industrial estate being created at great expense to both the State and Federal governments. In fact, one corporation which has agreed to develop a large industrial complex within the Macarthur growth centre has had to go to the absurd limits of purchasing a small section of land at the northern extremity of the industrial estate on which to build an administrative tower. It just happens to be across the magic line dividing the Sydney telephone area and the STD area. 
This absurdity is compounded when it is recognised that unless there is a large degree of industrial and commercial development in a growth centre like Macarthur, unless one provides job opportunities inside the Macarthur growth centre, unless one gives the massively increasing number of residents in Campbelltown the opportunity of getting jobs near to home rather than simply adding to the strangling of the roads and the congestion in the trains taking people from Campbelltown to Sydney, and unless one does something positive about creating job opportunities in the Campbelltown area one is subverting and defeating the whole object of having a growth centre. 
There is no doubt, as I mentioned earlier, that sections of the industrial estate being developed in the valley leading down to Campbelltown, at Minto, are within the Sydney telephone district. However, it is impossible to convince businessmen that they should face the added expense of moving into a subscriber trunk dialling area because of a few kilometres when we are endeavouring to encourage them to fill that industrial estate which is being developed at the mutual expense of the State and Federal governments. 
No one has denied the merit of bringing jobs to Campbelltown, of bringing jobs to the people, of diminishing the burden being placed now upon the transport systems. In fact we cannot have coherent development of such a growth centre so close to Sydney unless we can provide jobs in the area. I submit that there is no prospect of attracting industries to Campbelltown, there is no prospect of attracting commerce there, commerce being inclined to use telephones more than industry, unless we have a degree of flexibility about where this telephone area should end. The present  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren),  in one of his more expansive and, I submit, less coherent moods, in 1972 promised the people of Campbelltown that given a Labor 
Government, which they were then given, Campbelltown would be included within the Sydney telephone district or else a telephone receiver could be inserted- I am not quite certain which orifice he had in mind- with vigour. 
I have not seen a telephone receiver in any of that honourable member's orifices. Despite that promise there was no attempt in the past 3 years to bring Campbelltown into the Sydney telephone area. One is accustomed to that kind of promise being ignored by honourable members on the Opposition side. I must say, with respect to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson),  that we on the Government side made no such promise and gave no such undertaking. As we are providing an immense amount of money to develop the Macarthur growth centre, to provide industry and commerce there, we should look at the reality of encouraging businessmen across a magic line which happens to be drawn, I think, 38 or 39 kilometres from the General Post Office in Sydney. In Melbourne you can go 41 kilometres from the GPO and still remain within the Melbourne telephone area. If only that same largesse which expresses itself in our southern neighbour were extended to the industries of Campbelltown rather than to the suburban elites of the Mornington Peninsula we would be able to include the Minto industrial area within the Sydney telephone area. I suggest that when people want to draw little lines they should look at the situation of Mount Eliza, which I believe is 41 kilometres from the GPO in Melbourne, and at Campbelltown, which is 41 kilometres from the GPO in Sydney. I wonder what the magic difference is. I wonder what were the special considerations which enabled the Labor Party to break its promise to Campbelltown, a promise which enabled a temporary aberration to take place in 1972 and a Labor member to occupy the role of the honourable member for Macarthur on the basis of a broken promise. 
In the few minutes remaining to me I want to switch to another matter, the Australian Broadcasting Commission. The ABC has been subjected to a lot of criticism, much of which I believe is unfair although some of it is fairly accurate, on the matter of pornography and so on in television. I believe the problem could be largely resolved if we had a much more coherent method of restraint- I use the word 'restraint' rather than censorship- in the ABC. At the moment in the commercial area there are only 2 restraints in terms of censorship on television programs. They are that something may appear up to 8.30 p.m. or after 8.30 p.m. That division is an artificial and absurd one. The people likely to be corrupted, influenced, excited or whatever it is that happens to people who watch  Alvin Purple - 
-Bored it may well be. These people do not magically change at 8.30 p.m. All the children who may be influenced or other people who may be badly excited by the nude form do not magically go to bed at 8.30 p.m. I submit that the ABC and the Minister for Post and Telecommunications at least should consider the introduction of another category. Just as there are several categories for films, why should not the ABC and the commercial stations be subjected to the same principle of restriction instead of separate principles? Why should there not be 3 principles, one operating up until 8.30 p.m., one operating between 8.30 p.m. and 10 p.m. for mature audiences and another from 10 p.m. for restricted audience participation? I cannot see why the same principles applying to the film media should not be applied to the television media. I believe that in that way we probably would get a lot of problems off our chests. Who would care if  Alvin Purple  appeared after 10 p.m.? The rating would be lousy anyway. 
-Is the Minister for Post and Telecommunications aware of reports that the recommendations of a departmental inquiry into broadcasting will be shelved or re-examined? If so, how does this affect the hiatus that has developed over the granting of a much needed new radio licence for Wollongong which has resulted from court action by an unsuccessful applicant? 
I think I should make a few points in reply to what the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  has said. In the first place, it is extraordinary that after 3 years of economic policies which created inflation and which created an atmosphere in which Australian exports are no longer competitive, the honourable member should once again be calling on the Australian Government to pour more money into somethinginto anything. He suggests that Government spending will fix all; it will fix our export markets; it will help our manufacturers. The fact is that 3 years of pouring government money, which did not exist, into the Austraiian economy, into areas which happened to be attractive, which happened to be good, was clearly disastrously inflationary. It is extraordinary that in those 3 years the government of that time- the Opposition as it now is- learnt nothing. The honourable member has suggested that the answer to every problem is to pour in more government money. The reason that our exporters are doing badly in the manufacturing sector is very simply explained. Inflation has priced them out of overseas markets because our rate of inflation has become so much worse than that of other nations. It has become so much worse for one simple reason and that is that, as in Great Britain, the level of government spending has risen at a far faster rate than in any other developed country in the western world. The answer put up by the honourable member for Port Adelaide is nonsensical. This was shown in the period of the Labor Party's disastrous control of the economy. That is not the answer at which this Government will look. 
The honourable member for Port Adelaide says that there is no difference in this amendment, that it is a negative sort of amendment and that it really does not do anything to improve the situation. The point is that in the past, and certainly under the Labor Party Government, nonexistent money- it was financed out of an inflationary deficit- was being directed to assist the private enterprise sector. In other words, money was theoretically being taken out of one private enterprise pocket and put into another. This Bill, quite properly, redirects that finance and, in fact, reintroduces a level of sanity in the government role in financing exports. 
No longer will it be government money, taxpayers' money, or in fact deficit money that is going to assist exports. It is going to be private sector money assisting the private sector. That is what our economy is all about. It may well be that honourable gentlemen opposite wish to have a different kind of economy in which the Government provides all, dictates all. It was interesting to hear the honourable member for Port Adelaide say that exporters needed direction, and one wonders who is going to provide the direction. The power mania that I submit is centred in the few tattered remnants of the Party opposite manifests itself once again in their determination to maintain control over the financing of exports in this way so that they will have power of direction over a large section of the private enterprise sector. I believe that this is not a proposition that this Government can or will wear. 
I submit that the proposition this Bill puts forward is very sensible. The fact is that in future the banks- the ordinary banking system- will provide loan funds to the Export Finance and Insurance Corporation at the commercial rates of interest applicable to this category of business. For its part, the Government will provide an interest rate subsidy which will enable EFIC to on-lend these funds on internationally competitive terms. Very simply, that means that the Government will not be putting up its own money; it will simply be guaranteeing the loan and providing an interest rate subsidy so that exporters will be no worse off than their competitors. The one thing on which I do ask the Government for an assurance is that this interest rate will be no higher than it would have been had all the money been coming from the Government in the first place. I believe that is implied in this statement but it is not exactly stated. I must say that the exporters to whom I have spoken would like a degree of assurance that there is no risk of the interest rate paid after subsidy on EFIC loans being greater than it would have been had the Government provided all the money. That is implied in the Minister's statement but not clearly asserted. 
Of course, the change will enable our exporters to match the credit terms being offered by their competitors. So the clear situation which will emerge is that the only reason any of our exporters will be disadvantaged in any way as against their competitors will not be government action, as the honourable member for Port Adelaide so wrongly asserted, but will be that the competitive position of Australian industry has been decimated by 3 years of deliberate and encouraged inflation under the Labor Government. It was ludicrous to expect money to keep on being poured into the economy when in fact the money was coming from nowhere. It was paper money being printed at a reckless pace. &gt;ur wages are such that many trade unionists unwittingly have priced themselves out of jobs in the export industries. They have priced themselves out of jobs internally. That is not the unionists' fault; it is the fault of massive inflationary pressures created largely by the reckless deficit funding of the Labor Government. 
One point I should like to make in relation to the technique, a most admirable technique being used by the Government, which limits the Government's role to underwriting the contingent liabilities involved in this and to making up the interest rate gap, is that I believe the Government should look to extending the principle into many other areas. It is a useful principle. It saves the taxpayers' money but still provides a much lower rate of interest and guarantees the provision of private sector money to finance private sector activity. The Queensland Government has been doing this quite successfully in a commercial way for some time and I submit that there are many commercial situations where the governmental role should simply be to guarantee and subsidise the interest payment rather that to lend taxpayers' money, for example in growth centres. There is no doubt in my mind that many of the commercial activities of the Macarthur Development Board in the Macarthur growth centre, which is in my electorate, could well be financed in this way by the Government's guaranteeing the borrowings of that Board if in fact it were allowed to borrow. This would diminish governmental involvement directly, would not mean a diversion of Government funds and would certainly not be inflationary in the sense that it would not be creating new money. Let us face it; The Macarthur land acquisition program is commercial in the sense that theoretically money is supposed to be put aside now to purchase land which is not going to be used for some time. There is clearly a benefit to the society doing that and I believe that is how it should be financed. 
One could also guarantee the borrowings of sporting organisations. For example, I know that in my area the Campelltown Rugby League Football Club has of necessity a rather chaotic borrowing structure. It would strike me as a very useful system if this method of guaranteeing, evidenced in this most sensible Bill, were extended into other areas. This would mean that the Government would not be obliged to subsidise in actual money terms the large requirements of growth centres and of sporting organisations, for example, and the principle could be extended to many areas throughout society. One would simply be asking the Government to guarantee the provision of funds and this would reduce the rate of interest that would be payable by the people concerned, while not diminishing the reasonable rate of return that should be expected by the lender. I put to the Minister that this may well be a useful area of activity emerging out of this very sensible Bill. 
Finally, there have been some comments from some of the exporters to whom I have spoken about the nature of EFIC itself. In general, there is no doubt that the Export Finance and Insurance Corporation has performed an excellent job for Australian exporters. However, there is a realisation- and I think we all must have itthat it is not ideally perfect. There are perhaps some small blemishes in its operations. I have heard from some rural exporters in particular that it has a tendency to be a little too inflexible, that in many instances proposals cannot be amended after they have been put up. I believe that that is probably because there is not a sufficient degree of discretion available within the organisation. I am assured by exporters that they are always very courteously and very cooperatively dealt with by the people in EFIC. It has also been put to me in relation to the insurance section that in many instances in commercial terms the assistance being provided is far too low per customer. I know of one instance where a shipment to a European nation worth $400,000 was taken to EFIC, which said that the customer would merit a $50,000 limit. That meant that it was simply not practicable. Nonetheless, given those very minor reservations, may I say how much I welcome this Bill, how much I welcome the efforts of EFIC, how much I welcome the Government's determination not to undertake the sort of reckless throwing around of money demanded by the honourable member for Port Adelaide, and how I welcome the Government's positive initiatives to restore the capacity of Australian industry to export by stopping the main thing that is killing our exports. That main thing is inflation. I believe that this Government's determined policy to stop inflation is the only way we can save our export industries. 
-The road grants that the Federal Government provides to the State governments under the export roads scheme are a very useful and very important part of the provision of major roads leading to the coast. Unfortunately, the new State Government in New South Wales has not made up its mind what it wants to do about Botany Bay. This means that about $5m to $6m of Federal money is at present lying idle because the New South Wales Government cannot make up its mind whether or where it wants to use it. The fact is that this money could be very well used in the Illawarra region. 
-Thank you  Mr Deputy Speaker.  It is very kind of you. 
-As I was saying earlier, the $6m provided by the Federal Government to New South Wales could be used in the Illawarra area to relieve the massive unemployment which regrettably exists there as a result of 3 years of the Australian Labor Party Government's inflationary policies. The $6m could be provided to help unemployment. 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Transport. On 3 June I asked him whether he would agree to divert to the Illawarra region export road grants made to the Botany Bay area. That request was followed by his recent announcement of a $2m export road grant to the Illawarra area. I now ask the Minister whether $5m still remains available in Federal funds for New South Wales because of the decisions of the New South Wales Government to delay the development of Botany Bay. Will the Minister divert more export road grants to roads linking Wollongong with the inland coal mining areas and, via the Macquarie Pass, with the Southern Highlands if the New South Wales Government makes this request? 
I had the very good fortune on Saturday night of going to a dinner addressed by the former honourable member for Grayndler- the Honourable Fred Daly. It was a cricketing dinner and he described the events of last November in cricket parlance. He said that Gough had appointed the umpire, had been given out caught, stumped and bowled and still claimed that it was a no-ball. I am glad that at least the former honourable member for Grayndler is aware of the absurdity of the position currently being maintained by his former colleagues. 
I believe that the House should be made aware of the historic significance of tomorrow in Australian political terms. It is, of course, the day on which the first automatic adjustment to Australian pensions will take place as a result of the introduction of legislation by this Governmentlegislation which it had undertaken in its policy speech to introduce. The pensioners of Australia probably will have cause forever to celebrate 1 1 November on 2 counts now. Firstly, it got for them a government which promised to introduce such just legislation. Secondly, 1 1 November marks the day on which payment in fact will be made automatically and without reference to Parliament, so that there can be no political intereference with the rights of pensioners to receive adjustments in accordance with rises in the cost of living. 
Exactly. Because this Government has a deep concern for the welfare of pensioners, particularly after 3 years of massive inflation which did more to damage pensions and more to damage the position of pensioners than can be conceived by people who have not been in that situation. The people who are now quite justifiably in Opposition are in Opposition because of the votes of the people. It was not the Governor-General who put honourable gentlemen opposite where they are now with the numbers that they have now. It was the people of Australia who did that. It was done by the same people who had been conned in 1972, and who were not prepared to admit by 1974 that they had been conned, into believing that they were going to be given something on a plate without noticing that that something on a plate was coming out of their own hip pockets. I believe that the facts are very clear. I believe that the pensioners of Australia have a great recognition of the things that are being done for them by this Government compared with what was done for them by the previous Government, which, for example, taxed their pensions. 
I must say that I was intrigued to hear of the great interest of the honourable member for Wills (  Mr Bryant  ) in at least the consumption of the products of the dairy industry. I have greater good fortune than he because I represent an electorate which covers Australia's greatest milk producing area. It is renowned, of course, for the development of the Illawarra Shorthorn, one of the great dairy cows of our nation, and it is renowned certainly as one of Australia's richest and best producers of milk. Unfortunately, this area is suffering, as are all dairying areas for one reason or another. Regrettably, the bulk of the reasons for its suffering can be laid at the door of changes in the milk quota structure within the State of New South Wales as a result of most unfair treatment by the New South Wales State Government. 
However, having listened to the honourable member for Wills and the honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Simon),  there is no doubt that there is a desperate need for research to be applied not only to the maintenance of the quality of our dairy cattle but also to the use of milk protein, particularly in export markets. We have seen some endeavours to produce particular kinds of biscuits which can be sent overseas. Unfortunately, at the moment they are not all that palatable. I believe that unless we can establish some method of exporting milk in one form or another we are going to continue to have massive problems in our dairy industry. I hope very sincerely that a greater research effort will be directed towards finding appropriate methods of exporting protein to the millions of people around the world who the honourable member for Wills quite rightly pointed out are suffering from protein deficiency. 
It strikes me that that is the sort of aid we should be looking at. We would be much better off spending in that way a lot of the money which appears to be going into curious hands, not only, for instance, in our local forms of relief, such as was done in Darwin under the previous Government. A lot of the money which goes overseas appears to be wasted in some of our aid efforts. I would much rather see a lot of this money directed towards stimulus in export sections of the dairy industry, say, so that we could provide real help to the people who are in need, the people who are actually starving. 
-Yes, from contented cows, particularly in the Illawarra and South Coast regions of New South Wales. The problems which have emerged for the industry certainly desperately need immediate attention. As was recently pointed out, real farm incomes are collapsing all around Australia, particularly in the dairy industry. The gross market value of dairy products for the current financial year is forecast to fall by 5.5 per cent. Average yields will be reduced in southern dairy areas and the falling trend in cow numbers is expected to accelerate. Milk production is expected to decline by 12 per cent to S.S60 million litres, the lowest level since 1953-54. That is a great development, a great march forward! Our milk production is now down to the lowest level since 1953-54. The fall will be reflected in declines of over 20 per cent in the production of butter and skim milk powder and a slight concentration in cheese output. Fortunately, my electorate is heavily directed towards supplying whole milk to the Sydney milk zone. 
Debate interrupted. 
-The other day some discussion took place in this chamber about the profitability of meat companies. I know that members of the Opposition take the view that profits are something disgraceful and should not be earned by anybody. In particular, the honourable member for Fraser  (Mr Fry)  made some comments about a company- 
-Thank you,  Mr Speaker.  The question of profitability of meat companies is, of course, particularly interesting and was intruded, if I might say so, into a debate with which it had nothing at all to do. It seems unfortunate that that intrusion into a debate on another subject should inhibit me in this way. Nevertheless, I point out that the profitability of meat companies has been spoken of here and in other places as being something disgraceful and tables of great length and significance and complication have been presented here and elsewhere. There has been an immense amount of discussion before the Australian Meat Board recently about quota programs and quota plans. These discussions have tended to point out that some companies have been making profits, and profit is a naughty word. 
I simply point out that the company of which I am a director has done this disgraceful thing. It has, in fact, made a profit. I wonder whether this is the sort of profit that it has been claimed to be by some people. It has been alleged, for example, that this profit is huge; it has been described as such. The fact, which is readily available to the Australian people, is that the company involved releases an annual report which is made public. This report is available to people if they want to know the facts about this industry. It is a report which very fully describes not only the amount of profit earned but also the amount of work done to earn the profit, and the amount of funds employed in earning that profit. These facts are totally overlooked by people who like to attack companies of this type. They show that in the latest year the profit of this company, Tancred Bros. Industries Ltd, represented a return of less than one-half of one per cent per pound of products sold. 
I might say to the honourable member for Fraser that not even the chicken industry is as bad as that. The table which was presented concerning the profits of this company, for example,  suggests that in the period  from  1968-69 to 1975-76, the amount of profit, in real terms, has doubled. What the table does not show is that the volume of production has increased by 4 times so that the profits of the company, at its present rate of production, have been cut in half over that period, to the significant benefit of cattle producers. 
The company has, in fact, reinvested as much as possible of its profits into expanding its investment to deal as cheaply and as efficiently as possible with the cattle that is processed, for the benefit of cattle producers. The company has a great deal of concern for cattle producers. If the cattle producers did not exist, the company would have no product to process. There is a great Unking, a great understanding and a great community of interest which not even the efforts of gentlemen opposite can break down between the processing and the cattle producing sections of this nation. Unless the cattle producers survive the processing industries Will not survive. It is nonsense to describe the profits of the processors as huge. They are reinvesting those profits for the benefit of the producer. 

 Mr Les McMAHON (Sydney) (10.49)- I refer to the Australian Assistance Plan which the Australian Labor Government instituted in 1974. In July 1977 there will  be a change in the structure of this scheme. If this worthy scheme survives and if the State government, under the new federalism pOliCY of the Government, receives the finance, I shall work to help the needy and other residents of the electorate of Sydney. 
Last Friday night, 5 November, I was invited to a meeting of the Inner Sydney Regional  Council  for Social Development at Chippendale. The Council released a report for the period from 1974 to 76. 1 must congratulate the local  councils  in the area: the City of Sydney Municipal Council, the Leichhardt Municipal Council, the Marrickville Municipal Council, the South Sydney Municipal  Council  and the Botany Municipal Council. The contents of the first report for 1974-1976 include the election of officers, the Chairman's report, activities such as the  family  support program, housing, planning and community structures, and reports from South Sydney, the City of Sydney, Leichhardt, the staff, the treasurer and a financial statement. The theme of the office bearers was survival, but after reading the report and being involved at the general meeting I must congratulate them for the work in supplying this Government with the necessary data for future improvement and involvement in the Sydney electorate. The Chairman's report sums up the feeling of the meeting. It reads: 
It gives me great pleasure to present this report of our Council's work over the last thirty months highlighting our aims and achievements. As I have only been  Chairman  for a short period I feel almost as if I am imposing my view on what so many of you know so well, I therefore intend it to be very brief. 
I must start by saying that if there is one thing we have learned over the last few months, as we see ourselves being gently swept under the carpet by both Federal and State Governments, it is that we have not blown our trumpets loud enough. 
I would draw your attention to the activities outlined in this report and would ask politicians reading it if they would pass on to their colleagues the contents of these reports. For if ever there was a short sighted policy, it is not realising the immense work that the AAP has been able to do, particularly in the Inner City, at such minimal costs. 
It has acted as a liaison between Government Departments, agencies, parliament itself and particularly in helping the residents express their wishes and desires. So I would just like to briefly draw your attention to some of the areas in which the Regional Council has been most effective. 
The rehabilitation Seminar (within our Housing Activities) drew participants from as far afield as South Australia with a representative of the South Australian Housing Trust here to snow us how their admirable program is working. This was a most effective Seminar in which a great number of people were drawn together to discuss the potentials of rehabilitation. The papers have now been published and are available at the Regional Council Office. 
Within the housing ambit, we have been able to liaise with the Housing Commission and the Residents of Waterloo in setting up the Residents' Committee. These are remarkable achievements indeed. 
The work that is going on in Woolloomooloo is well known to everyone and our CDO in that area is preparing a book on the 'Loo. She has also been an active facilitator in other areas such as housing for the rehabilitation of alcoholic women. 
In family care we have highlighted many aspects of problems in the Inner City. It might be argued that we were among the initiators of the Child Care Program within South Sydney, and we have co-operated with many group as well as the Council in seeing that the people of South Sydney were able to express their views. Our Project Officer has indeed worked hard and tenaciously for well over eighteen months in this field. She has opened avenues whereby child bashing problems can be examined 
So much is said in this report that I shall have to select some of the Chairman's remarks. He said: 
A series of Tenants' Rights Workshops were held by Robert Mowbray under the co-sponsorship of Shelter N.S.W. and the Regional Council. These have been of immense value to people working or living in the area. The furtherance of these lectures at the local level have readily been welcomed in Darlinghurst, Kings Cross, Surry Hills and Glebe. His knowledge is slowly becoming part of the communities knowledge. 
Let us protect the vision of people having an organisation through which they could be heard. To help with submissions, to explain bureaucratic jargon, to give them resources so that they have a voice of their own. 
If this is lost it will be to the shame of the Federal Government, and the newly elected State Government. In winding up I would like to urge - 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
1) Is tendering for Telecom Australia and Australia Post construction jobs open to all applicants or is it on a selective basis. 
If the latter is the case (a) who determines the list of acceptable tenderers, (b) what criteria is used to select and exclude contractors from these lists and (c) does this mean that some Australian-owned contractors are being denied the opportunity to tender for these Australian Government projects. 
-I wish to conclude the remarks which I was making concerning this matter when the House rose last week. At that stage I complained bitterly about the decline in both production and returns to the dairy industry. I claimed that these declines had brought distress to a large and economic group in Australia, particularly in the electorate of Macarthur. The point has, in fact, been well made by the  President  of the New South Wales Dairy Farmers Association,  Mr Jack  Eggert, who pointed out that Australian milk consumption had dropped by 4 1/2 per cent since 1973. There is no real reason for this drop except the fact that marketing is not properly organised. Last week I pointed to the need for further research into methods of increasing exports of milk protein. I hope that a fair proportion of the research undertaken under the Dairying Industry Research and Promotion Levy Amendment Bill will go towards the provision of finance for finding methods of exporting dairy protein. 
There is no doubt that the domestic marketing situation also needs a great deal of stimulus. We should look at the promotion part of this activity in the Bill now before us with a great deal of interest. There has been a degree of attempt at self-help within the industry. I know that New 
South Wales dairy farmers are keen to get together to pay a levy from their own incomes to mount a massive drink milk campaign. Of course their cause was not at all helped by the removal of the free milk scheme to schools by our predecessors. There is no doubt that the declining returns to the efficient sections of this industry have brought immense distress. One of the major reasons for this immense distress is what the New South Wales Labor Government has done to the dairymen of New South Wales and particularly to those in my electorate. No matter what sort of promotional efforts are made there seems to me no doubt that the actions of the New South Wales government in mucking around with the quota system will mean greater inefficiency and greater distress. 
It is extraordinary that the New South Wales Labor Government can claim that it will be cheaper to bring milk into Sydney from hundreds and hundreds of miles away than it will be to provide milk from the richer pastoral areas of, for example, the south coast of New South Wales. If members of the Opposition ever get into the country- they have an urban bias- they would see on visual inspection that these areas are green, rich and lush and produce much better milk. The facts are that these areas are close to markets and are being disadvantaged. The existence of quotas is to make certain that there are no shortages of milk. There is no point in having promotion levies, as this Bill provides, if there will be no milk in winter to promote. It was a Labor State Government which introduced the quota system in New South Wales. The reason it did so was to avoid the habitual milk shortages which occurred every winter due to cows drying off. Another reason for the quota was to encourage dairy farmers to suffer a loss in winterwinter feed can be provided only at great costand offset it in summer by getting higher prices than would normally be available in the flush milk periods. It was a sensible scheme and it worked. It brought justice to the industry and in fact maintained the most efficient dairy producers in the most efficient areas in a reasonable way. 
The system is now being destroyed, curiously enough by a State Labor Government which apparently has never read about, listened to or taken notice of its Labor predecessor which introduce the scheme in the first place. The fascinating morality of the situation strikes home I believe at the very heart of what so many governments believe they have the right to do; and that is to change the rules in the middle of the game. Dairymen have been buying quotas. 
Let us face it: The quota is an asset. The Industries Assistance commission's report on dairying has recognised that the possession of a quota is a real asset and yet these quotas will be taken away, wiped out, by a stroke of the administrative pen. There will be no compensation whatsoever. There has been a suggestion by the New South Wales Dairy Farmers Association that something like $150 should be paid to the dairymen for every gallon of milk lost over the quotas. The abolition of quotas will send people broke. Efficient producers will be sent broke not because they have done the wrong thing, not because they are getting rich and not because they are doing anything disgraceful, but simply because the State Government has decided that in order to hold the seat of Casino in New South Wales, it will sacrifice the efficiency of this industry and the producers who are nearest and most capable of coping with the local demand for milk in the city areas. It will be interesting to see what happens in the first winter of the milk discontent after this system is destroyed by the State Labor Government. Who then will provide milk that the cities will need? Who will care at all whether there is a promotion levy to promote the sale of non-existent milk? 
The general problem facing the dairy farmer has been well recognised not only by the IAC which, as I said, recognises these quotas as a real asset, but also by the Australian Agricultural Council which met on 8 October this year in Sydney. The Council quite clearly recognises that orderly marketing of both manufactured products and market milk continues. I think the House should note what the Agricultural Council- composed as honourable members know, of representatives of all States, including Labor States- had to say. It stated: 
Preservation of orderly marketing for market milk was seen by certain States particularly New South Wales as an essential condition for participation in the new marketing arrangements. 
If orderly marketing is required for heaven's sake let it be done on a fair and reasonable basis. Let us, if we can, encourage the New South Wales Government to recognise the injustice of what it is doing to the producers in New South Wales. Recently the Jamberoo Co-operative Dairy Society, which is in the Macarthur electorate, expressed its concern to the Federal Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  on this matter. I want to stress that pamphlets put out by the Labor Party have been going around in my electorate claiming, quite improperly, that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Minister for Primary Industry are opposed to the existence of quotas for milk producers. These pamphlets are, of course, utter nonsense and nothing that either the Prime Minister or the Minister for Primary Industry has said could be judged to be any rejection of the principle of having quota entitlement for capital city milk suppliers. The facts are that to guarantee supply an incentive must be provided for people to keep cows productive in their dry periods. Winter feeding is a costly practice. 
I have here a letter from the Minister for Primary Industry which I hope gives the lie to the statements being made by the Labor Party in New South Wales. In a letter to me he said: 
While we believe that there is a need for a closer integration of market milk and manufacturing milk sectors at a time of major adjustment within the industry, the steps taken by the New South Wales Government to cut down market milk quotas certainly seem inequitable. There are other ways by which some adjustment in returns could have been made without severely prejudicing the entitlements of market milk producers. 
It is quite important that this Government's position, vis-a-vis the New South Wales Government's disgraceful and serious attack on an efficient and hard working industry, should be clearly stated as it was in that letter from the Minister. There is no doubt that this Commonwealth Government is making a very strong and determined attempt to fix up what is obviously a difficult and disturbed industry. 
Admittedly, the underwriting arrangements for butter, cheese, skim milk powder and casein for 1976-77 season are only a holding operation. We must get longer term marketing arrangements implemented for the dairy industry. The Government has set forth a policy of introducing methods by which the industry will be improved and the people within the industry will not be on the starvation line and will not be struggling to survive in a prosperous world where, as usual, the city people seem to do so well but the people who work from before dawn to after dark in the country seem to get a bad deal. At least this Government is aware of and is concerned about those people, which is more than was the case with the previous Government. The interim measures which we have introduced at least will help out the industry until the further consideration of the very detailed recent report of the Industries Assistance Commission on the marketing arrangements in the dairying industry has been completed. 
There is no doubt that the underwriting arrangements for 1976-77 must be accompanied by appropriate adjustment assistance measures to help potentially viable dairy farmers to remain in the industry. That is obviously the Government's policy. At the same time, there is no doubt that some dairy farmers would be better off out of the industry producing something else. There is no doubt that measures taken against our export industries by the previous importers of our products- the countries which have been our customers in the past- have in effect destroyed the prospects of many of our dairy farmers. For example, an extraordinary position arises in respect to the European Economic Community. The organisation was allegedly built up for the betterment of the world and to increase stability. In fact all that happens within that organisation in terms of its trade dealings is that it tells the rest of the world to go to blazes. The export dairy farmers of Australia have been told to go to blazes by the Common Market. It seems distressing that the most industrialised and developed section of the world- the Common Market countries-should be taking measures which grind down and attack the developing areas. They attack the most efficient producers in the world. These countries are involved totally in an introspective approach and an attempt to make Europe a sort of grand extension of the old Napoleonic French empire. It is some kind of extension of the French dream of honour and glory to the exclusion of all else, particularly the dairy farmers of Australia. I regret that so many dairy farmers in Australia who have been hard workers, people who have dedicated their lives to an industry which has never given then immense returns but which in the past has enabled them to live reasonably, are now suffering to the extent that they are being forced off their farms. I hope that the Government's discussions and implementations of measures arising out of consideration of the dairy industry inquiry by the Industries Assistance Commission will result in a great period of stability for this industry. I hope that the dairy farmers of Macarthur, at least within 2 te years, will be able to look forward to a situation in which a government will be returned in New South Wales which will enable their just right of access to the city milk market to be restored to them. I think that what has happened in New South Wales is a typical example of the attitudes of Labor parties throughout this nation to the rural sector. I think that it is typical of the approach that is antagonistic to the people who work on the land. I use the word 'work' in a very real sense. For farmers there is no six or seven hour working day as now seems to be the popular approach in the cities. There are no demarcation disputes. There is no refusing to do the job because you do not like the look in the foreman's eyes. The facts are that people engaged in the dairy industry work. I am afraid that it is one of those situations in which people have not been receiving a just and adequate reward for that work. This Government at least is endeavouring to do something to improve the lot of the dairy farmer. I trust that this Bill- the Dairy Industry' Research and Promotion Levy Amendment Bill -will be only one part of a great collection of measures aimed at assisting those people who so very dearly and sincerely deserve our help and support. 
-The problem that concerns me tonight in the adjournment debate is the question of workers representation on boards. This is a matter that in theory I have supported in the past. I believe that employees should be given the right to be involved in and to have an understanding of what corporations, including public corporations, are doing. There is no doubt that one of the major problems we face in Australia at the moment is a lack of understanding and unity of purpose between management and worker. Apparently many union leaders who appear to be able to influence employees have a deliberate determination not to understand what corporations, including publicly owned or government owned corporations, are all about. It way well be that the only way of extending that understanding is, in fact, to encourage workers to have representatives on those boards. 
We have seen in the last week or so one unfortunate consequence of this very good theoretical proposition. That unfortunate consequence occurred because a representative of the union was a member of the board of an Australian governmental commission. That union representative encouraged the commission to take action which, in fact, was not in the best interests of either the Government of the people of Australia. I refer to  Mr Slater's  role as a commissioner of the Australian Postal Commission. It strikes me that there is a real conflict of interest when a union acts illegally against the instructions of a court and takes on the Postal Commission. There is a representative of that union on the Postal Commission encouraging it at the time, apparently, to take a view which was, I suggest, a disgraceful one. That Commission had to be instructed by this Government to take certain action. It so happens that amendments that were made in the Senate to the Bill establishing the Commission enabled the Government to give that kind of instruction. I want to stress to the House that had the Senate not amended that Labor Government legislation, there would have been no opportunity for the disgraceful lack of action on the part of the Australian Postal Commission to have been corrected in the public interest by the Government. 
I suggest that this does raise a serious matter of principle concerning conflict of interest between the pressures upon a union or worker representative actually sitting on the board of a corporation like the Australian Postal Commission. I think that it probably puts him in an unfair position. Perhaps there is another way out of the problem. Perhaps the management of the Commission could also be represented on the union executive. In a kind of tit for tat situation it too could be privy to what the union executive was all about and could endeavour to suborn them away from what the rest of the union executive might feel to be its rightful interest. But there is no doubt that the activities of  Mr Slater  were clearly involving him in a conflict of interest. 
Of course, that raises an interesting question about  Mr Marius  Webb being a commissioner of the Australian Broadcasting Commission. I must say that  Mr Webb  has done a very good job as a Commissioner. Certainly my former colleagues in the ABC have a high regard for him and are pleased that there is such a commissioner. Nevertheless, I raise this general question: Is there, in fact, an impossible conflict of interest as was shown in the Slater affair involving the Australian Postal Commission? In that case, the union representative was in a conflict situation. He was a representative on the Commission when his union was in direct and in this case illegal conflict with it I believe that such a situation raises serious problems. I believe that the Government should look at the whole question of union representations on corporation boards controlled by it, particularly when they are directly in conflict. 
I wish to make one very simple point in the minute remaining. It is all very well for members of the Opposition to rise in this place and abuse journalists, using such well considered and eloquent words as 'idiot'. The facts are, of course, that it is a difficult profession. 
Exactly, and it is intriguing. I thank the Minister for that interjection. This land of personal abuse is apparently the only weapon available to people ofthe capacity of the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  who just attacked the Press in that personal and offensive way. Whether or not  Mr Kavanough  is an effective or good journalist is a matter that any honourable member has his right to determine. I feel that no honourable member, and I stress the word 'honourable', has the right to use the terminology and style of the honourable member who just resumed his seat. I think his attack is a disgraceful one and I think his use of language is appalling. 
I have been an enthusiastic viewer of a fascinating battle that is being fought by the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  with his opposite number in the State of New South Wales. It is a battle that I hope the Federal Minister is going to win. It is a battle on which he so clearly is in the right and about which the proposals he has put are so clearly the proper proposals that I believe it would be most unfortunate if he were to fail in his endeavours.  His  endeavours are on behalf of the local councils of New South Wales. The Federal Minister has been endeavouring to do the right thing by the councils that have been, in effect, starved by the New South Wales Government. The New South Wales Government has rejected a very reasonable proposal put forward by the Federal Minister that State financial assistance be given to local government for its rural roads programs. 
Many questions have been put to the Minister in this House and the Minister has quite clearly indicated that he believes that it is only right and proper and, under the federalism proposals, which already have been discussed here today, evidently in keeping with the co-operative federalism supported by the Government that the State governments contribute something to local government for local government's road programs.  Mr Cox,  the New South Wales Minister for Transport, has rejected the Federal Minister's suggestions and in fact has been very difficult to get on with about how the extra $ 11.3m in Federal money being allocated to New South Wales for roads should be distributed in the country areas. In fact, the State Government wanted to grab most of it for its own main roads operations. Of course, the residual amount that would then go to local government simply would not be enough to sustain the essential work that is required in the country areas. 
This seems to be a typical example of the Australian Labor Party's attitude that the rural areas do not matter a damn. That policy- those attitudesare clearly reflected in both the previous Government's attitude to the rural areas and, of course, the attitude of the present Labor Government in New South Wales. There is a massive concentration on the more dramatic expenditures, such as the expenditure on the Hume Highway. I must say that I am very grateful to see a large amount of money being spent in my electorate on the Hume Highway. I would like to take this opportunity of thanking the Minister for allocating half, I think, of the total amount of money to be spent on the Hume Highway this year to the electorate of Macarthur. But the facts are very serious when one takes into consideration the obstructionism in terms of assisting the rural sector, where there are many centres that are far flung from each other, where the road is in fact a vital means of communication, where other systems of transport are not available and where the road is the link between people in the country. 
It is interesting that the 1975 report of the Bureau of Roads recommended in recommendation 101 that the Australian Government should request the New South Wales Government to make appropriate contributions for rural local roads under the control of local government authorities. That report was presented in 1975, when a different government was in power here. I believe that the report is a very sensible one. I wonder how a Labor Minister for Transport in this place would be now responding to the obstructionism of the Labor Minister for Transport in New South Wales. There is a clear need for this money to be directed to local government. 
Of the $1 1.3m provided by the Federal Government to New South Wales, $6.63m is to go towards the State's expenditure in rural areas, leaving only $4.67m. That alone is probably not enough. That is what we have recommended.  Mr Cox,  of course, is reluctant even to allow that level of funds to be spent among the local councils. 
The fact is, of course, that we do not have the power to direct, nor should we have the power to direct, the State Government how to distribute this money. I agree with the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Wilson)  that federalism should in fact mean a withdrawal of even some of our existing powers of direction and that we should leave it to the good sense- in this case the absence of good sense- of New South Wales to direct where the money should go. But the fact is, of course, that, left to themselves, governments like the present New South Wales Government have not done their bit- it may well be that previous governments in New South Wales have not done as much as I believe should have been done- for the rural people of New South Wales. For example, the Bureau of Roads has advised that the States themselves overall, throughout Australia, increased their outlays on roads at an average rate of only 8.7 per cent per annum from 1970 to 1975. This means, in fact, that they did not keep pace with inflation over this period. That means that the amount spent on roads in real terms has been declining on these kinds of roads compared with a 16.4 per cent growth in total State budget outlays. 
Apparently the States no longer consider that maintenance of roads at this level is an important function. I suggest that one of the reasons this has taken place is because of the intrusive role that the Federal Labor Government played in giving the States the false impression that the States could abrogate their responsibilities because of the paternalistic, oppressive, centralist role which was being played in Canberra. I hope the recognition that this Federal Government is trying to do the right thing is widespread. I hope there is widespread recognition of the failure of the New South Wales Government to contribute at all to local councils in the State. In fact it is something which should be changed. It is true that the State legislation does not allow the New South Wales Government to make these contributions to local government but there is nothing to stop that Government from changing the legislation. I believe it is only right and proper that that legislation should be changed. Let us face it, that Government does have a responsibility for local government. Local government in fact comes under the legislative control of the State of New South Wales and I think it is quite disgraceful that it should continue to duck for cover in this area. 
In conclusion may I commend the Minister for Transport in this place for what he has achieved. There is no doubt that this Government has increased the total amount of funds provided over that provided by the Labor Government, which regrettably was here for 3 disastrous years, by $7. 15m to $5 1.52m or 26 per cent. That is $820,000 above the level recommended in the report by the Bureau of Roads. No one can say that this Federal Government is ducking its responsibilities, that it is not meeting the objectives set, and quite properly set, in the report commissioned by this Government's predecessor. It is important to recognise, when we hear the Opposition spokesman on transport complaining about lack of money and saying that not enough is going in this direction, that this Government is exceeding the target set and in fact is endeavouring to do the right thing by the local councils in New South Wales, which concern me in particular, whereas a Government of his political persuasion in New South Wales is still refusing to meet its responsibilities to improve and maintain the roads in that State through the proper authorities, the local government authorities. I commend the Minister in this chamber for what he is doing and I wish him well in his continuing battle with the State Labor Minister in New South Wales. I trust that  Mr Nixon  will triumph over that kind of adversity. 

 -Mr Speaker, I seek leave to make a personal explanation. 
Yes. 
It was alleged incorrectly just now by the honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage)  that I had 'not admitted it before'. He was relating to what one could call a temporary aberration on my part, the enthusiasm of youth, the time when I was a very good secretary of the Gordon Branch of the Australian Labor Party. What the honourable member said was totally untrue. Before my preselection for the Liberal Party I stated very clearly at that preselection meeting, and in fact in many meetings, that I had been a member of the Labor Party. In fact I put very strongly at such meetings that as a member of the Labor Party I had come to realise the dangers of the authoritative nature of that Party and for that reason I had left it. 
I ask the Minister for Primary Industry: What will be the effect of devaluation on the incomes of farmers? Is it true that these incomes will still be about $50 a week lower than average city workers' wages for the current financial year? What steps will the Minister take to reduce further this unfair gap that not only leaves rural people with a lower standard of living but also provides no effective return on their large investments in their farms? 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, the forms of the House appear to me to have been sadly abused - 
I must say that I am fascinated and overjoyed by the degree of interest which members of the Opposition are showing in what is happening in our nation. I evidence this by the number of questions upon notice that have been submitted in the last 4 days by the Opposition. I believe that it is an interesting comment on the determination and enthusiasm of some members of the Opposition to find out the realities- for the first time, presumably, for some of them-of what is going on in our nation. I point out to the House that in the period from 1 December to 6 December no fewer than 78 questions have been put on notice by honourable gentlemen opposite.  ( Quorum formed) 
I was congratulating Opposition members on their determination to learn a little by putting 78 questions upon notice in the last 4 days. Lest the House feels that this shows an overwhelming desire by the bulk of the Opposition to learn a thing or two, I assure honourable members that this is not the case. I point out to the Opposition that it costs a fair amount of money for the Government to provide replies to questions. It is a reckless and wanton waste of money for them to put on notice questions which clearly could be resolved by a simple letter or telephone call. I would say, if I could say over the babble of the rabble opposite - 
-During the lengthy recess we had the opportunity to get around our electorates on many occasions. Unfortunately I came across a report in one of the newspapers in my electorate, the  Shoalhaven and Nowra News,  which requires a reply from me. In most matters it is a most reliable and a very sensible newspaper. In fact it has received commendations from the Press organisations for its competence. However, during the recess I noticed an unfortunate article in which the  Shoalhaven and Nowra News  had unwittingly printed as fact statements made in this House by the honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage).  If the editor of that newspaper had been more experienced in matters of this House he might have recognised that he was obviously at risk in undertaking such a venture. He would have recognised the reputation of the honourable member, quite generously earned I would imagine, in this House. The honourable member for Chifley, from the fancies of his mind, claimed that I had been a member of the Australian Democratic Labor Party. He outlined this at great length. The only reason I raise this matter tonight is that it appeared as a Press report. The newspaper ran it as fact. At the time I did not consider that the whimsical activities of the honourable member for Chifley merited an answer, because they were obviously so ludicrous. The facts were available to anyone who wished to find out. The honourable member for Chifley is not and has not, to my knowledge in the year that I have been a member, been terribly concerned with facts. I was obliged to deny this report in the subsequent issue of the newspaper. It expressed its regret for having accepted the word of the honourable member for Chifley. 
The facts are that contrary to what the honourable member for Chifley said, I left Sydney in 1953 because I had been appointed to a post in the Policy Division of the Department of National Development in Canberra. As a result, I had ceased to be a member, as he alleged, of the Gordon branch of the Australian Labor Party in 1956. 1 had left to come to Canberra in 1 953. The honourable member for Chifley went on at great length about how this branch had split. He obviously knows an immense amount about the DLP. One wonders whether he must have been under some alias or whether he was an undercover agent of it, otherwise how could he possibly have such detailed information? In any event, his speech was a total fancy of his imagination. At no stage did I have anything to do with the DLP. That is in no way a reflection on the DLP, nor will I hope it be taken as a reflection on me. 
I am not a martyr to any cause, unlike the honourable member for Swan. But the fact is that the honourable member for Chifley was trying to create an atmosphere of sinister wickedness in my past. I regret that I cannot satisfy the honourable member's desire for drama. I have had a very dull life. Probably one of the dullest things I did during my life was to spend 2 years playing football with the honourable member for Prospect. Apart from that I have no misdemeanours of the order that the honourable member for Chifley finds attractive. I wish simply to place on record that at no stage ever in my life have I been a member, comtemplated or been aligned with such attitudes as one could regard as belonging to the DLP. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Armitage)Does the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented? 
Yes,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  During his speech on the Address-in-Reply the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  made some statements that, had I been in the chamber, I would have taken exception to as being most offensive to me. Unfortunately, the Leader of the Opposition did not observe the usual courtesies of the House to advise me of his intention to discuss my position during the debate. 

 Opposition members interjecting- 

-The statement of the Leader of the Opposition about me is untrue. I have not been, as he asserts, 'shielded' by anyone, nor have I sought it. No one has 'covered up' for me because I have nothing to cover up. I have totally faced up to my proper responsibilities and have been held by the courts to have done so. 
The honourable member for Melbourne is not in his seat,  Mr Deputy Speaker. 
I wish to speak to the point of order,  Mr Deputy Speaker. 
I wish to congratulate the Government for this week's news of an 8.2 per cent rise in pensions. This rise demonstrates the major benefits that the Fraser Government has brought to pensioners by introducing automatic indexation of pensions. The effect of the pension rise to be paid out in 2 months ' time is that pensioners will really receive $1.50 a week more than their cost of living has risen. As a result pensions will increase as a proportion of the average wage, provided of course that the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission does not allow the full indexation of workers' wages to destroy our economy. The pension rise going to 1.5 million Australians puts together the 2.2 per cent and the 6 per cent cost of living rises in the last 2 quarters as measured by the consumer price index, but 3.2 per cent of this was entirely due to Medibank and more than 80 per cent of pensioners receive Medibank absolutely free. They will receive the full cost of living rise for the December quarter nonetheless. 
This means that for most pensioners the cost of living has really risen over the last 6 months by only about 5 per cent but they will be receiving an 8.2 per cent pension rise. This is solely because the Fraser Government introduced a law providing for the automatic indexation of pensions. Some pensioner groups were foolish enough to criticise the law. The proof of this pudding is well and truly in the eating. Nothing that the Australian Labor Party did in office was guaranteed to preserve the living standards of pensioners in the way in which the Fraser Government's automatic indexation has done and will continue to do. 
Details of the rise are that single pensions will increase by $3.60 a week and pensions for married couples will rise by $6 a week lifting the maximum standard rate single pension to $47.10 a week and the maximum combined married rate to $78.50 a week. This will mean an annual extra cost to the taxpayers of $335m a year. It also means that in the 15 months since the Fraser Government took office single pensions will have increased by $8.35 a week or more than 20 per cent, and married pensions by $12 a week, a record of which any government would be proud. This represents a rise in real incomes for pensioners, not just paper money incomes as was the case under Labor. There has been some criticism to the effect that the social service pension rises will also flow on to people on the dole. There is no doubt that if the dole keeps moving up automatically there will be an increasing need for the Government to make certain that taxpayers' money is not being wasted on people who are unemployed by choice rather than by force of circumstance. To this extent there seems huie doubt that the rules should be strictly applied. But it also seems clear that the great bulk of the unemployed who genuinely cannot find work should be entitled to at least the maintenance of their benefit in real terms, and indexation does no more than that. 
In the past people on pensions have had to carry most of the burden of inflation, yet they are the very people least able to do so. The Fraser Government by indexing pensions has brought a major improvement in justice to pensioners. Of course, it is not only the social security pensioners who will benefit from the automatic rises. Repatriation pensions will also rise, with the totally and permanently incapacitated rate increasing by $6.90 a week to $90.15 and the general rate pension rising by $2.60 to $34.05. Pensions for war and defence widows will increase by $3.60 to $47.10 and standard Service pensions will have a similar increase, all to be paid on 5 May and having an annual cost of $53.2m. The facts clearly show the degree of effective and real concern that this Government has for pensioners. The facts are shown by the amount of money paid out, not by the empty words nor by the nonsense coming from the Opposition. 
-Has the Minister for Health seen recent Press reports concerning alleged ineligibility of professional sportsmen for Medibank benefits? Can he indicate whether these reports are accurate? Can he also undertake to examine the apparent anomaly whereby persons injured while playing sport are not entitled to reimbursement of dental bills? 
-May I say how much pleasure it gives me to joining in this debate on the Address-in-Reply to  Her  Majesty and how grateful I was to be present on the historic occasion of her delivering her Speech to this Parliament. May I also thank the honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins)  for raising the matter of Patrick Partners. May I thank him for asking the question: May we expect a by-election in the seat of Macarthur? The answer is very forcefully no, you may not expect a by-election in the seat of Macarthur despite the vicious, malicious, disgraceful statements made within the privilege of this House by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam).  It is extraordinary that in a debate on an Address-in-Reply to a Speech outlining the future economic direction of the nation, outlining certainly in brief terms but nonetheless in very cogent ones, the course of action of this nation, at a time when, according to the Opposition at least, there are serious problems in front of this House, the Leader of the Opposition decided to spend 3 pages of his speech attacking me, attacking one back bench member of the Government. This was a most interesting exercise by the Leader of the Opposition- an exercise aimed more at consolidating or attempting to consolidate his shaky position in his Party than at dealing with the matters of moment in front of this House and indeed in front of this nation. 
Regrettably I was not in the House at the time because he had not done me the courtesy of advising me that he planned to attack me. I believe that was a grossly discourteous act. I also suggest that many of the things that he said at the time he could not have- if I may use the expression- 'got away with' not only because they were untrue as they were patently untrue but because the forms of the House would have allowed me to protect myself had I been in the chamber.  His  determined decision to made certain I was not in the House in order to get his scurrilous attack on the record is, I believe, another example of the desperate things a desperate man will do to stay in power even though the power base that he enjoys is one that I certainly do not look forward to occupying from this side of the House for many, many years, if at all. I would suggest that when the Leader of the Opposition so scurrilously attacks a member of the Government or any member of this House with points that are totally untrue, he should have those points thrown back in his face with extreme vigour. 
The facts remain as I have always stated them in my relationship with the Patrick Partners. I left Patrick Partners in February. The Masterman report very clearly and distinctly states what  Mr Masterman  takes to be my relationship with that firm.  His  statements, the statements of the official investigator in New South Wales, in no way support the vile accusations of the Leader of the Opposition; they do exactly the opposite. They also deny in their entirety the smears of the former member for Macarthur who, I might say, was foolish enough without the benefit of parliamentary privilege to say things of which not only he ought to be ashamed but for which I hope he will be brought to account. The former member for Macarthur stated in a Press report in my electorate that the Masterman report said that I was involved in and aware of the firm's difficulties and the actions taken. It would have been a good idea had his stooges in this place provided him with the full report instead of the selected bits with which they let him go into bat.  His  friends here let him down. According to the former Labor member for Macarthur, I was involved in and aware of the firm's difficulties and the actions taken. I quote from page 129 of the Masterman report wherein  Mr Masterman  says: 
I am satisfied that at the very least by the end of May, and certainly before the Application for Renewal of Licences on 4th June 1975, all the Partners (with the exception of  Mr Baume)  were fully aware . . . 
This situation persists. It is repeated 4 times in the report. There is no way in which an honest, decent person making a fair and just comment on what that report says could have failed to note that. There is no way in which someone with any sense of justice in his heart could have deliberately ignored it because that report quite clearly, quite strongly supports the proposition that I have been maintaining in this House ever since I got here. It completely denies the sorts of attack that the Labor Party, both within and without this House and in other Houses, have been maintaining scurrilously against me. Yet the previous member for Macarthur says I was involved in the situation. 
Let me point to another section of the report. This is very curious because it is the section of the report that follows immediately after a long quotation given by the Leader of the Opposition when he attacked me. Immediately after that long quotation there comes this passage: . . . in February 1975 and thereafter had minimal contact with the financial affairs of the firm. 
Is that involvement? Does that justify the smear? The Masterman report clearly stated that I was not aware of all the accusations. It clearly stated that I was not involved. Yet smearing by the Opposition continues. It is extraordinary. May I go back to the basic trustee or partnership deed of that broking firm- a partnership deed which I did not sign because I was not a person who would be obliged to sign it. I was not a party to that deed. That deed stated: 
Staff partners shall have no right to or any interest in, the goodwill or capital of the firm. 
When I became research manager of that firm I was obliged to sign another deed, a supplementary deed, clause 3 of which stated: 
That the equity partners do, and each of them doth hereby covenant with Baume to pay and discharge all the debts and liabilities of the firm and to keep him indemnified from all actions, proceedings, claims, demands and liabilities on account thereof. 
Everything which I have said is truthful and honest and can be shown to be. Everything which the Opposition has hurled at me has been vicious, untrue and with malice aforethought. The facts clearly show that I was not and never had been an owner. The facts clearly show that I was not involved. The facts clearly show, I believe- I hope I will be judged as such- that I was not aware of all these disgraceful accusations, none of which has been proved. The facts will show, and have been shown in the Masterman report, that I was not involved in or aware of these things. Yet there is this persistent, vicious, personal attack. It is extraordinary that in the face of the facts these people, both inside and outside the House, should be prepared to carry on in this disgraceful way. 
I know it is an extraordinary thing that in such a debate the economy should arouse any interest in members of the Opposition. It appears to me that at least the speeches of its leaders are more involved in scandalmongering and buckettipping than in discussing matters of any moment. However, I would like to raise economic problems which are, I think, of great concern to all of us. In particular I refer to the scope- it is a serious problem- that remains for this Government to provide the sort of relief that is so desperately needed by large sections of the economy which are being obliged to pay for the programs that are still, regrettably, heavily under way, and solidly under way as a result of the nation being set on a disaster course under the 3 years of Labor. 
I presume that most people are sick and tired of hearing the Government say that this is all the fault of the Labor years. The extraordinary thing is that when one looks at the scope in the present Budget for making the sorts of reforms which we need to restore incentive and to restore a sense of purpose, we see that something like threequarters of the Government's likely expenditure is totally committed to existing programs and that there is very little or next to no scope for making the dramatic reforms that are needed to restore a sense of purpose, a sense of drive and a capacity to work and get rewarded in the society. It is a most depressing situation. I can assure the people who are saying 'for Heaven's sake, stop blaming the previous Government for the current problems', that just as prosperity continued for a while under the Labor Government as a result of effective years of administration before 1972, just as prosperity continued until roughly the middle of 1974, disaster has a momentum which is just as effective. That disaster is still well and truly upon us. 
What interests me very much is that when the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  introduced his curious 'reformist' Budget he managed to do a sucker job on most of the financial commentators in Australia. So effectively did he do it that the present Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  when he made a very strong and a very effective speech in 1975 attacking that Budget, was universally howled down. Yet what the honourable member for Wannon, the present Prime Minister, said at that time was accurate. He said: 'The Hayden Budget is a hoax'. It was a hoax. It was shown to be a hoax. Yet the situation now is that the man who introduced the tax on pensions, the honourable member for Oxley, is now seriously putting himself up as the likely Leader of the Labor Party. I earnestly hope that he becomes the Leader. I know that the 14 000 pensioners in the electorate of Macarthur would be overjoyed to know that to vote for me would be voting against the man who introduced taxes on their superannuation or pensions. I have a letter, recently received, from a voter in which he said: 
I recently received my tax assessment for the 1976 year and was so stunned by it that I inquired from the Department whether there was  some  mistake. I was told that there was no mistake. The vast increase was caused by the new method of assessment. 
Me gave figures showing his tax payments for the past 4 years. They show a massive and an unbelievable increase in his tax. The increase in his gross income between 1973 and 1976 was not much more than $1,000. This is a man on superannuation. Yet his tax rose by over $1,400. I hope that he writes a letter to the honourable member for Oxley- I have suggested that he do so- thanking him for his 'reformist' Budget and asking him whether he has any further reforms in mind if he achieves the role of Leader of the Opposition. This is the story throughout my electorate and, I believe, throughout Australia. This chap wrote: 
I am retired, and am trying to live on an income from investments which I made with the idea of keeping myself in modest comfort without having to call upon anyone for help. 
He does not want to call upon the nation, the state or the taxpayer for a hand-out: 
The only way I can increase my income is by saving something each year and investing it. 
There is a whole host of people in similar situations who will certainly, determinedly vote against the honourable member for Oxley or any Party he leads or in which he is involved- the man who has destroyed the standard of living of people who endeavoured to look after themselves. 
I earnestly seek and have earnestly sought the present Government to act as soon as it can to change this situation that was introduced by the Labor Government. The serious problem is that three-quarters of the Government's expenditures are now totally committed to maintaining existing programs introduced by the Labor Government which we have not been able to wind down sufficiently to enable the sort of justice that these people need to take place. There is a cost of everything. I am afraid that the pensioners in Australia are carrying the cost of Labor's excessive and reckless financial waste. 
Debate interrupted. 

 -Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 

 -Yes, Mr Speaker. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  has just claimed, once again falsely, that I was protesting at his quoting from the report. That is totally untrue. I protested at his selective quotation; at his deliberate leaving out of sentences, conclusions of the report, which gave the absolutely opposite impression to those about which he was endeavouring to mislead this House. I seek the indulgence of the House to read those sections of the report that the Leader of the Opposition deliberately avoided in making his statement. I seek leave now to read them into the record. 
-Thank you,  Mr Speaker.  I will read the continuation of the section which the Leader of the Opposition avoided. 

 - Mr Speaker, I would rather read these sections into the record. They can be tabled. The full report is there. I can give honourable members opposite the quotation and reference numbers but I would rather - 
At the end of the section quoted by the Leader of the Opposition it says that from the end of February 1 975,  Mr Baume: 
. had relatively little contact with the affairs of the firm thereafter. 

 Mr Masterman says in the conclusion to the report:  in February 1975 and thereafter had minimal contact with the financial affairs of the firm. 
These sections were deliberately left out of the statement by the Leader of the Opposition. On page 129- again not quoted by the Leader of the Opposition in his attack on me- it states: 
I am satisfied - 
This is  Mr Masterman-  that at the very least by the end of May, and certainly before the Application for Renewal of Licences on 4th June 1975, all the Partners (with the exception of  Mr Baume)  were fully aware that it was at least a real possibility that Patrick Corporation Limited would be placed in liquidation in the near future. I am also satisfied that all the Partners (again with the exception of  Mr Baume)  were aware of the involvement of Patrick Intermarine Acceptances Limited in any downfall of Patrick Corporation Limited and also of the likely consequences to Patrick Partners itself. 
These statements were deliberately left out and another section from the conclusion to the report was left out by the Leader of the Opposition.  Mr Masterman  repeats: 
I am satisfied that at the very least by the end of May all the partners (with the exception of  Mr Baume)  were fully aware that it was at least a strong possibility that Patrick Corporation Limited would be placed in liquidation in the near future. I am also satisfied, as already indicated, that all the partners, (again with the exception of  Mr Baume)  were aware of the involvement of Patrick Intermarine Acceptances Limited in any downfall of Patrick Corporation Limited . . . 
The point I wish to make is that in his misrepresentation of me the Leader of the Opposition claimed that I was objecting to the presentation of material in this report. The facts are that this report quite clearly clears me of accusations of being aware of anything improper. In fact to my knowledge no charges have been made. No accusations have been supported by charges. To my knowledge there is nothing that I should have been aware of in any event. It may well be shown to be so later on, but I have been totally misrepresented in a disgraceful way. 
-I substitute the word 'accidentally',  Mr Speaker. 
-I want to draw the attention of the House to a very lengthy notice appearing on the notice paper. It took 20 minutes of the time of the House to be read yesterday. I draw attention to it because that notice, in effect, appears to challenge my right to sit in this House. It is a challenge by the Labor Party. I am not quite certain who was the creator or the generator of the challenge. I know that the honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins)  presented it but I know not on whose behalf he spoke. I want to stress that there are no legal or moral grounds for suggesting that I should resign as the member for Macarthur. The Labor Party knows that perfectly well. I suggest that this is part of a lengthy, involved and hypocritical campaign, a cynical and desperate effort by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  to hold on to his job as Leader of the Opposition. He apparently believes that if he can create an atmosphere, however false, in which there may be the possibility, at least as far as his Party is concerned, of a by-election, he may be able to convince his loyal supporters who stand behind him with their knives poised, that they should not plunge those knives into his back. If he can create such an atmosphere he no doubt believes he will be able to recall the heady days of his entry into that role of Leader of the Opposition when he was fortunate enough to lead a win in a by-election. 
It cemented his role as Leader of the Opposition. I suggest that the only cement that will emerge out of this little venture is a cement suit, politically speaking, for the Leader of the Opposition. The facts of the matter are, in fact, indisputable. I was never liable for the debts of Patrick Partners and therefore have never come to any assignment or composition with its creditors. I simply do not have any such creditors with whom to come to an assignment because I was never an owner or part-owner of the firm. The House knows that. The House has documents which establish it and yet this campaign of vilification continues against me as part of this campaign by the Leader of the Opposition to create a phoney diversion to cement his position. But I believe that this only follows a general pattern of noisy accusations that have been going on for quite some time. If there was any substance at all in these noisy accusations, the Labor Party could have made an application to the High Court to have my seat declared vacant, as the law provides, long before this. It has had since December 1975 to do so and it has not done so. Its failure to take such action exposes its cynical use of the forms of the House to attempt to harass a member. This only follows a pattern that has been set by the Leader of the Opposition when he recently tried to give a false impression of the conclusions of the official New South Wales Government report by  Mr Masterman  into Patrick Partners. 
I suggest that the Leader of the Opposition stands condemned for his leading role in the Labor Party's series of personal attacks on me for political purposes. The personal reputations of other people appear to mean nothing to those on the other side of the House in their apparently obsessive determination to retain the Leader of the Opposition in his job. 
I did not interrupt on my own motion because the honourable gentleman was taking an opportunity to defend himself. When an honourable gentleman wishes to defend himself, unless a point of order is taken, I would not stop him of my own motion. 
It being 1 1 p.m. the debate is interrupted. As no Minister wishes the debate to be extended the House stands adjourned until Tuesday, 1 9 April at 2.15 p.m., unless  Mr Speaker  shall, by telegram or letter addressed to each member of the House, fix an alternative day or hour of meeting. 
House adjourned at 11.1 p.m. 
I ask the Minister for Primary Industry: Has the Government any advice on when Japan will announce its next 6-monthly quota for imports of beef? Can the Minister indicate what that quota is likely to be? 
-Thank you,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  I am glad to follow in the debate the honourable member for Kalgoorlie  (Mr Cotter)  who has presented what I believe is the practical man's approach to this debate. I think it is a contribution which is essential if there is to be a sensible and balanced debate on this matter and if there is to be an understanding of the realities of the issue. We need to look not only at the evidence which is being widely presented by one set of scientists in various disciplines, some of which are even related to the matter in hand, but also at the evidence being supplied by people with an expertise in the matter. I think it only right that all participants in this debate should recognise the genuine concern being rightly expressed by conservationists, for example, about the problems- to an extent, the unknown problems- of nuclear development. It is a concern which, I think, is properly expressing itself in a national debate on this problem. My disappointment is that in fact this debate appears to be taking place only within this House. For example, I do not know of any major public involvement in the matters of great concern. It may well be that the public is sufficiently convinced by the practical men- the men like the honourable member for Kalgoorlie who I believe presented a very strong case for the immediate mining in Australia. On the other hand, it could well be argued that there are some members of the anti-uranium lobby whose motives are dramatically suspect. 
I do not want to develop at great length an anti-Arab line of reasoning, but I think it would be recognised that there is a curious link between various left-wing forces in Australia and various Arab forces in the Middle East. It seems more than a coincidence that those Arab forces in the 
Middle East appear to have a dominant position in the supply of a major energy resource, that is, oil. There is no doubt that the group which will benefit most from the strong anti-uranium activity in the world are the Arab oil producers, who have managed, because of the energy shortage, to hold the rest of the world to ransom with their energy source. It seems to me unfortunate that large sections of the anti-uranium lobby appear to be identified with the same people who take very strong pro-Arab positions on other matters. To that extent I would say that there is a degree of risk that sections of the anti-uranium campaign may well be tainted. However, I stress that the bulk of conservationists are expressing a real and genuine concern. My only worry is that some of them may be misled, some of them may be misinformed, and some of them may in fact be deceived- I put that point as strongly as I can- by people with a vested interest, people who are working in Australia's worst interests and who are trying to keep Australian uranium in the ground in order to maintain the international price of oil which is owned by the Arab producing nations. 
I then proceed to outline some of the major problems with which I believe conservationists have not adequately coped. I stress the points made by the honourable member for Kalgoorlie about carbon dioxide. He certainly stated the position very clearly; there is a real risk to our existence on this planet from carbon dioxidefrom the burning of fossil fuels. I would like to hear the same kind of analysis of the risks applied to our existing fuel usage as has been applied with extraordinary enthusiasm to the projected fuel usage of a material which is available in Australia and whose development would be to our national advantage. When I hear a comparable analysis from the conservationists group, I will believe that they have a far sounder basis on which to approach the people of Australia with a rational argument. 
As has been pointed out by  Dr Weinberg  in the paper to which the honourable member for Kalgoorlie referred, the  CO2  catastrophe-the carbon dioxide catastrophe- is possibly the most portentious aspect in our entire long range energy policy. If the carbon dioxide concentrations increase, more radiation from the sun is directed back towards earth and the earth's temperature increases. It is, of course, the green house effect. Since the mid-nineteenth century there has been an estimated 10 per cent rise in carbon dioxide levels in the atmosphere. About 50 per cent of the carbon dioxide from burning fossil fuels goes into the atmosphere and stays there. If the world continues to increase its usage of fossil fuels at a rate of 4 per cent, atmospheric concentration of carbon dioxide will double by the middle of the twenty-first century, according to  Dr Weinberg. 
Let us see that kind of position attacked. Let us see the evidence against it. Let us see the evidence against the continued use of fossil fuels. Then when we produce an argument on the same level, adopting the same criteria, it may be conceded that the conservationists have a point. I believe at the moment in the absence of that evidence and in the face of the clear evidence of the risk to our survival as a world as a result of the increasing burning of fossil fuels that there is a desperate and urgent need to develop uranium which is a far cleaner fuel, with far fewer dangers, than any of those that are clearly established to be evident from the burning of fossil fuels at the rate which appears to be likely. 
That is not the only problem, I believe, that emerges from taking a position against uranium. I believe that in a misguided way- in most cases, it is genuine but misguided- conservationists who are opposing the development of Australian uranium are forcing the world into the plutonium age. If we refuse to supply the energy hungry nations of this world with our uranium at reasonable prices, what are the alteratives? Are the major energy users going to say: 'Okay, we will not use energy any more', or are they going to say: 'Let us see where we can get energy'? In the first place the simple thing to do, of course, is what the Japanese are doing, and that is to produce, at a cost, uranium from sea water. It is extraordinary that the uranium debate in this nation appears to be based on the fact that if we do not provide uranium the consumers will not be able to get it. That is unutterable garbage. It is established to be untrue, and yet we keep hearing it being pounded forth. I cannot understand the logic which suggests that because we have a cheaper form of uranium we should therefore keep it because it will not be available otherwise. Not only will it be available otherwise, but also will users be forced to look seriously at plutonium and to move towards the plutonium age where in fact hardly any uranium is used at all. 
I point out to the people who are so opposed to uranium what will happen if they pursue the perhaps' proposition. Their 'perhaps' proposition is that if we do not supply it perhaps other nations will not get it from anywhere else, which is nonsense. In pursuing that proposition, all they will achieve is the denial to this nation of export income because the uranium age will be a shorter age if users are forced instead into the use of plutonium. In other words, instead of having a 25-year market we will have, say, a 20-year or 15-year market. Heavens above, who knows what the motivation would be for the consumers of energy consuming nations to spend millions of dollars pursuing the plutonium age if nations like Australia refuse to supply them with uranium for their present reactors. 
Let us be clear that the level of danger in the present breed of nuclear reactors is minimal compared with the risk of using fast breeder reactors and the risk of using plutonium. The major risk we run with the current level of reactors is in their waste products, which do contain plutonium but not in a concentration which can be easily or readily used for any improper purpose. It is true that the waste products can be used; that has been demonstrated. But the point I am endeavouring to make is that surely we can do nothing about the fact that these waste products will be available. They will be available anyway and as I have demonstrated, the risks of their being available are far less than the risks that emerge from the continued use of fossil fuels. 
There is something even more disgraceful than that if we refuse to allow our uranium to be made available. I believe that if we force energy short nations into the nuclear club we will be doing something that we should carry on our consciences forever. The point is that if we do not supply many energy short nations with our material we will face a disaster because as fossil fuels continue to run out their price will continue to rise. The honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  talked about the length of time that our reserves will last. In view of his interesting figures I think I had better produce some others which are slightly different and in which I have much more confidence. If the consumption of coal, oil and natural gas continues at the same rate as in 1975 present recoverable reserves of coal will be exhausted in 206 years, all oil reserves will be exhausted in only 39 years and natural gas reserves in only 55 years. If we deprive the energy hungry developing nations of oil by keeping prices up because of our massive demands for it we will in fact be denying those nations the opportunity of getting a reasonable energy supply. I believe that we have a moral requirement to substitute our wasteful use of fossil fuels with nuclear power in the major developed nations which are the main users of nuclear power. A massive increase in the substitution of fossil fuel power by nuclear power would have an immediate market impact on the price of fossil fuel. It is self evident that such a course would have a major impact on the poor nations which are being priced out of the fuel business, particularly in respect of the oil market. As a result of this the developing nations are being priced out of the opportunity to develop their industries which are so essential if they are ever to establish a reasonable standard of living. If the conservationists do not give a damn about the standard of living of the developing world, that is fine. But I believe that the consequence of such an attitude ought to be on their consciences. 
In conclusion, I believe that Australia, a major potential supplier of uranium, has a major role to play in policing the use of this mineral. We can exercise our power as a policeman in this area only if we are in the market place and if we are conditional suppliers. If we do not make our supplies of uranium available I believe that other nations will avoid using our uranium and will either go to other sources or other alternatives such as sea-water, or, as is the case in South Africa, to the production of uranium as a byproduct of gold rnining. Other nations could turn to plutonium. It is extraordinary that so many people in this nation are concentrating on the dangers of going nuclear whereas the indisputable evidence is that the dangers and risks involved in not going nuclear are so much greater. The dangers are greater not only in strategic terms in the sense that we will create a large unhappy element in the world if we do not supply this energy source; in economic terms they will be intolerable. We have a moral duty to develop and export our uranium. 
I ask the Minister for Transport a question which is supplementary to that asked him yesterday by my friend and colleague the honourable member for Macquarie. What influence can his Department have in convincing the New South Wales Government that it should proceed with the urgently needed coal loader in Botany Bay? What can be done to remove the risk of new coal mining projects in the electorates of Macarthur and Macquarie not going ahead at the cost of hundreds of jobs, as a result of the New South Wales Government's failure to proceed with the loader? If alternative export facilities could be provided who would have to pay the multi-millions of dollars of additional costs involved? Finally, what can be done to avert the transport chaos that would result from Botany Bay not being available and all coal having to go through Port Kembla? 
-It is rather cheering to a newcomer to be the subject of 2 criticisms, attacks- I suppose the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  would say congratulations- in this chamber in the space of 10 minutes. I express the hope that the next time the honourable member for Prospect reads one of my articles in  Quadrant  he understands it. I suppose that would be a hope that many of us here would share because if he read the article and understood it he would realise that it dramatised and pointed out the significant and magnificent social welfare reforms that this Government has introduced. That was the burden of the article. Everyone I have spoken to appeared to understand that, with the exception of the honourable member for Prospect who is incapable of recognising that it was not the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  who introduced the great social reform of getting rid of tax concessions of either kind for children and replacing them with this magnificent family allowance. The allowance provides for the poor of this nation at last their proper due whereas in the past, and under the Hayden Budget, the rich got more for having children than the poor did. 
The richer you were the more tax benefits you received for having children. 
This was not true. There was a tax rebate of $400. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member knows that that is not a point of order. 
It seems that any tactics will be used by the Opposition to prevent me from telling the truth to this House. I am also intrigued to note that the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James)  said that there was a cloud over my head. I can assure him that the only cloud over my head is the cloud of nonsense that is being spread around by the Opposition. It might be cirrus cloud but it certainly is not serious. I wanted briefly to express some concern at the apparent inactivity of the Government on a matter of immense seriousness; that is, its inability to provide sufficient information to exporters of uranium so that they could in fact guarantee to export that material. Two corporations which had been assured by the previous Government and by this Government that their exports contract would be honoured have been obliged to declare  force majeure.  It is a matter 1 think this House should take very seriously indeed. 
Basically the reasons for this decision by the corporations is that the stockpile available from the Australian Atomic Energy Commission of roughly 2000 short tonnes was not to my knowledge adequately tested. In other words there is a degree of uncertainty about the quality of that stockpile. I believe the corporations involved have had great difficulty in getting assays of it. I believe they eventually got them towards the end of last year. The Commonwealth is not guaranteeing those assays yet it requires the corporations when repaying that stock which is being borrowed to guarantee that they will do so with stock of a commercial grade. It strikes me that if in fact we are to honour obligations made to the Japanese we should not put impediments in the way of corporations being able to meet those undertakings. 
I hope that the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Newman)  will do what he can to make certain that we will be able to meet solemn undertakings made. Certainly there will be some problems about price. I am concerned that we do not delay this undertaking so much- the first shipment was supposed to be on the water by 30 June- that we will effectively blackmail the Japanese into accepting a questionable material- that is the stockpile material- because in fact they will not have any alternative source since we have left it so late. I do not believe that is the way we should conduct our trade. 
-Has the attention of the Minister for Primary Industry been drawn to a report that the Mayor of Kiama, a dairy farmer in my electorate, has had to resign from that office because of the savage impact the New South Wales Government's cutting of milk quotas has had on his income? Is any method available to the Federal Government to provide some relief to those New South Wales dairy farmers, who are now having an asset for which many of them paid dearly- their milk quota- taken away without any compensation whatsoever? Can any Federal pressure be brought to bear on the New South Wales Government to end this injustice to this hard working section of the Australian people? 
I am always pleased to follow in a debate the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean),  whom I respect. I regret that in many of the matters he raised today I am unable to agree with him, particularly his comment that if someone is going to get more it follows that someone else is going to get less. I believe that that is the style of thinking that led to a reduction in the gross domestic product of this nation. We have to recognise that if we increase the size of the cake- if someone gets more because there is more- we are not taking anything away from anyone else. I would like to see a little more positive thinking on the other side of the chamber. 
-Under the Whitlam Government the cake was continually getting smaller and everyone got less. We can have this type of legislation because it is aimed at increasing the size of the cake. I feel that it is very important to comment upon one remark that the honourable member for Melbourne Ports made, that is, his remark that companies could still earn profits by increasing the prices of their products to take account of the stock valuation adjustment. The fact is that these are fictitious profits. What happens if action is taken to increase those fictitious profits? There is an impression in the community that corporations are sufficiently profitable to be able to finance extraordinary, irresponsible wage and condition claims. What has happened is that on the basis of a community expectation about profits, which is based on a lie, not only have there been excessive, unrealistic efforts by the unions to get such high levels of benefit that they have destroyed many corporations but also there was acceptance of that view by the government of the day when it set out to redistribute resources from the private sector to the public sector. 
I submit that it is vitally important that the corporations that receive the benefit of this stock valuation adjustment be required to report their profits in those terms so that the nation will see what is really the level of profitability. We have far too many managing directors of corporations who are keen to show that they are doing well in order to get the support of their shareholders when in fact they are doing badly. If they are required by the introduction of this kind of legislation to report accurately what are their profits after the stock valuation adjustment, I believe that we will have achieved something in communicating to the nation the reality of life in the real bad, hard world. I regret that there is no requirement in the Bill that makes certain that corporations will receive this benefit only if they report their profit after stock valuation adjustment. I hope the Minister Assisting the Treasurer  (Mr Viner)  will take that into account. 
I want to mention now very quickly the position of wine companies, which will not get the full benefit of this legislation. I have expressed my view on this matter to the Minister. They are to get roughly 75 per cent of the benefit because of an existing benefit. In other words, the principle appears to be that even though for other policy reasons a benefit in terms of back tax has been given to wine companies, that benefit should result in a diminution in relative terms of the new benefit being introduced. I believe that when a policy decision results in the granting of a benefit to a group in society the introduction of another universal benefit should in no way diminish it. I point as an example to the manner in which the estates of farmers now pass probate free as to $48,000 between a husband and wife on the death of the husband or wife. That $48,000 benefit has been in no way diminished by the introduction of a $50,000 general exemption. So farmers can now benefit to the extent of $98,000- in other words, there has been a lumping of the 2 benefits together. This principle has not been followed in this Bill. I believe that the failure to follow this principle is a mistake. I regret to see the Government making that mistake. 
However, I am much more concerned about another mistake. I refer to that section of the Bill which seeks to change the rights now established before the High Court of Australia of disabled ex-servicemen to have their pensions tax free. The Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  said in his second reading speech: 
In a setting where tax is levied on pensions paid under other occupational superannuation schemes, the Government thinks it only equitable that all DFRB and DFRDB pensions be taxed and the Bill contains provisions to this effect. 
That seeks to reverse the decision that the High Court held when Lieutenant-Commander Goodfellow a constituent of mine, succeeded in the case that he put to it. He objected to the tax he was charged on a pension he received as a result of an accident he had. That accident happened several years ago. It happened before the Repatriation Act was changed. I put it to the House that if Lieutenant-Commander Goodfellow had crashed the aircraft in which he was on active service after 7 December 1972 he would have been entitled to tax free repatriation benefits because that is the date on which the amendments to the Repatriation Act became effective, amendments which made servicemen who had at least 3 years effective full time service entitled to repatriation benefits, which had always been free of tax. Lieutenant-Commander Fred Goodfellow is being penalised because he crashed his aircraft at the wrong time. A matter of principle is not involved; it is a matter of timing. I believe it to be totally wrong for this House to be presented with a Bill that perpetuates a system that I believe is totally wrong and a system that relates only to servicemen of under 3 years service or servicemen who had not completed 3 years service by 7 December 1972. The basic rule has been changed. For heaven's sake, why are we going back to catch Fred Goodfellow and the 1050 other people who receive Class A disability pensions? I believe that this is a totally wrong principle. I believe that it would cost the Federal Government $lm or so to remedy this morally wrong situation. In the context of the $360m a year that we are looking at in relation to another section of this Bill that amount does not seem a very large amount. 
I am asked by my honourable friend from Wakefield whether it will be $lm a year. It will naturally be a diminishing amount because the number of people becoming eligible for this will be diminished by the action of the Act that amended the repatriation legislation, which changes the situation of people in Fred Goodfellow 's place. Lieutenant Commander 
Goodfellow is in fact being penalised for 'choosing' to crash his aircraft at the wrong time. I ask whether the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  and the House would do me the courtesy of allowing me to incorporate in  Hansard  a letter to me from the man who was the initiator of the action which has brought about this section of the legislation- Lieutenant Commander Fred Goodfellow. 

 The document read as follows- 

F.W. Goodfellow 34 Plunkett St. Nowra.N.S.W.,2540 Tel: 23117 27 April 1977 

 Mr Michael Baume, M.P., MHR for MacArthur Parliament Bldgs Canberra, A.C.T.2600 
Dear  Mr Baume 
I beg the pardon of the honourable member for Adelaide. I showed the matter desired to be incorporated to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. The points strongly raised by Lieutenant-Commander Goodfellow include this one: 
If a civilian factory worker is injured through the negligence of his employer, he may sue his employer for that negligence. If the crown is negligent in causing a serviceman to be maimed however, the serviceman has no redress for that negligence. Whether this should be so may some-day be open to serious challenge at law but for the moment, this is the commonly understood position. 
It is true that the Commonwealth- my general criticism relates to successive administrations, not just the present one- has allowed servicemen to bring legal action. I believe LieutenantCommander Goodfellow has such an action before the court in New South Wales. The Commonwealth has done so by simply avoiding to object to the court actions. But there is no basic right to the serviceman to carry on such an action, and that is intolerable. We are denying ex-servicemen- this relates only to people who are not covered by the  Repatriation  Act, those ex-servicemen who were not injured in act of  warfare- the right to sue, while at the same time saying that we should regard them simply as civilians. It should be remembered that civilians in all instances have the right to sue. Either we grant the Fred Goodfellows of this world the right to sue, a right which cannot be taken away from them, or we give them some offsetting benefit, for example, tax free compensation in the form of a regular weekly payment, not simply a simple superannuation payment similar to civilian superannuation payments. 
It may well be. This matter should be examined by the Government. I would be content if the Government gave me and my constituent an assurance that it would examine this and provide either the inalienable right to sue or the tax free benefit. I also seek an assurance from the Government that it will examine the position of the pre- 1972 people like Commander Goodfellow, who appear to me to be discriminated against because of the date of operation of the Act. Another section of the letter to me which should be emphasised states: 
The real anomalies that the Treasury should concern itself with are the fact that no other common law or Commonwealth country taxes on invalided ex-servicemen. 
By the way, this relates to past administrations as well as the present one. The letter goes on: 
If the Australian invalided ex-serviceman could take his pension to other countries, as he should be able to do, such as New Zealand, Canada or the United States, his Australian invalidity pension will not be taxed. But if he stays in the country in whose service he has broken his body, he will be taxed if Treasury has its way. At present and since at least 1919, the English ex-serviceman coming to live in Australia does not have his invalidity pension taxed. If Treasury does succeed in getting this Bill through, the Digger will pay but the Tommy will not. The New Zealand tax legislation may interest the Commonwealth Parliament and is fairly representative of most other countries. The New Zealand Land and Income Tax Act 1 954 reads . . . ( 1 ) The following incomes shall be exempt from taxation: . . . (h) Income derived by any person from any pension or allowance . . . granted in New Zealand or elsewhere by any Government - 
That could include former enemy governments- in respect of any war or in respect of any disability or disablement attributable to or aggravated by service in any naval, military, air, or police forces: 
The essence is that this is the general situation which exists. There may well be an effective answer on the Government's behalf. It may well be that the level of pension available to disabled ex-servicemen in Australia is higher than pensions in those countries in which they are not taxed. If the Government wants to make that point it should advise us of the sizes of comparable pensions in those countries related, say, to the normal social security pension. We have to be very careful when we dismiss the Goodfellow objection by saying that the situation has existed since 1948. 1 do not want to be overcritical of the Returned Services League or the returned active servicemen group in Australia, but I believe that as a nation we have tended to concentrate too hard on the return from war style of thinking when we think about servicemen. We currently depend for our security on servicemen. We have no right to distinguish in such a serious way as we have in the amending legislation coming forward now between the war veteran and the current serviceman, particularly when we have recently passed, recently being four or so years ago, an act which clearly states that a person who has completed 3 years of effective full time service should be treated as a serviceman who has returned from war. We cannot have it both ways; yet this is what this Bill is effectively trying to do. 
It is disappointing that such a large section of the returned services movement should be taking so little interest and taking what appears to me is a relatively ineffective role in supporting the proper claims, I believe the just claims, of current serving members of the forces. I have in my electorate a large naval area and many serving officers and men. I know the morale in that area will certainly be diminished by the passage of this legislation. It appears, and it may well be an unfortunate appearance, to be a slightly vindictive effort of 'correcting' a situation in which the administration of the law has proved to be wrong. The High Court found in Goodfellow 's favour. That is something we should not forget. We have to recognise that servicemen take greater risks than civilians. They are obliged to take greater risks. They give up many of their rights, not simply the right of action against the Commonwealth for negligence. I might say that serious related problems were stated by  Mr Justice  Windeyer, I think it was, in obiter dicta when he said that where there were 2 employees of the Crown and the accident to one was caused by the negligence of another there could be serious doubt about the right to take action. 
Overall, then, I suggest that because the number of people involved is diminishing, because there is clearly a matter of principle involved in the sense that Goodfellow is being discriminated against because he crashed his aircraft too soon, because the Parliament now clearly takes the view that if a person has had 3 years service he is entitled to repatriation benefits which are tax free, the Government should reconsider the position. I understand that the honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Bonnett)  will be submitting a report to the Government on the whole question of Service pensions, and I believe that the Government has given an undertaking to consider those recommendations. I ask that the Government not only consider them seriously but also accept the points which I hope the honourable member will raise in his submission which support the position of people like Lieutenant-Commander Goodfellow who I believe have been badly treated in this legislation. 

 -Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes, I do. During the recently concluded debate the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  alleged several things which are untrue. These were presented as facts in that debate; facts which affect me and certainly damage me. The honourable member said that I had clearly used the provisions of the Bankruptcy Act. That is untrue. At no stage have I used the provisions of the Bankruptcy Act to seek any special privilege. He said further that I was given special privilege as a member of this House. No privilege was sought; none has been received. He claimed that I had executed a deed of arrangement under the Bankruptcy Act. That is false and is known to be false. It was claimed by the honourable gentleman that $106,000, which was to be paid under a deed that I had signed but which had nothing to do with the Bankruptcy Act, had not, in fact, been paid. That is untrue and is known to be untrue. An amount of $80,000-odd of it was paid in cash. 
It was alleged that this debt was not paid. It has been paid. It was alleged further that this was a debt to the creditors of the partnership. It was not. It was an alleged debt to the partnership itself. 
In brief and in summary, statements purporting to be fact, affecting me and damaging me, were made in the debate. They were not fact and are known not to be fact. 

 Mr LIONEL BOWEN (Kingsford-Smith)  -Mr Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
I want to draw the attention of the House to a local newspaper in my electorate, the Campbelltown district  Star  which, in its latest issue, points out that the growth of Campbelltown and the activities of the Macarthur Development Board could be halted. The newspaper reveals that a New South Wales State Government report could spell the end of the residential and industrial growth of Campbelltown. I believe that this very significant matter ought to be drawn to the attention of the House because the implications of this report on the environment and on the future of the Macarthur Growth Centre as seen by observers, according to the newspaper, are tremendously frightening. Briefly, the report says that a large part of that development should not go ahead. This is development which to a considerable degree was financed by the previous Federal Administration. Many millions of dollars have been poured into industrial development in particular in this beautiful area, and this was a sensible decision in the light of providing jobs for people who move out there. Many .millions of dollars have been poured into this area which is now shown by this New South Wales State Government official report to be an area in which dangerous pollution will follow as a result of such development. The newspaper points out that on the one hand the State Government is pouring millions of dollars into the development of the area and, on the other hand, a department of that Government comes to the conclusion after a long, detailed and, no doubt, expensive study, that it is all happening in the wrong place. I have a copy of the relevant sections of that report, along with the statement made by  Mr Paul  Landa, MLC, the New South Wales Minister for Planning and Environment. He says that the report sets out clearly and cogently the vital need to relate Sydney's urban development to the capacity of its waterways to cope with urban wastes.  His  statement goes on to say that as far as practicable future urban and industrial growth should be concentrated where sewage could be channelled into ocean outfalls and at the same time acceptable alternatives to ocean outfalls should be examined. 
According to the local newspaper, the essence of the matter is that the gravest blow to Campbelltown 's continued development came from the suggestion that industrial development should be diverted to other areas. It states that industrial and commercial development which produced toxic effluents, high volume discharges of high strength or coloured wastes should be discouraged in areas likely to drain to inland treatment works and inland streams. In particular, it pointed to the dangers, the risks, that would emerge to the Georges River system as a result of industrial development of that nature in Campbelltown and also to excessive suburban growth in that area. 
Yet the previous Federal Government, without making such a study and without concerning itself with the implications and the consequences to the environment of such development, poured multimillions of dollars of taxpayers' money into such development. I think it is an indictment of the former Minister for Urban and Regional Development, the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  that he should spend multimillions of dollars on such development which may well rove to be disastrous, according to this New South Wales Government report. I urge the New South Wales Government to decide whether or not it intends to implement the recommendations of that report. Multimillions of dollars of further development are involved. As a consequence, the Federal Government is still committed. It is an absurd situation when a State Government report recommends so strongly against development in an area in which multimillions of dollars of Federal funds are involved. 
It was claimed this afternoon that I had not paid my full debt to Patrick Partners. I have here a letter from the trustee of Patrick Partners stating that the amount owing has been paid in full. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
-I direct my question to the Leader of the House. In view of the presentation of the Fox report last night, will the House be given an opportunity to discuss uranium this session? 
-As a representative of an electorate which contains several meat works and as a director of an Australian owned processor and exporter in an industry that is dominated by some very large multi-national companies, I certainly have a degree of concern about the clause. I recognise the immense difficulties with which the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  is faced in trying to resolve the irreconcilable objectives of various sections of the industry and I congratulate him on the skill with which he has avoided the twin rocks. I hope that he will look very seriously at the question of representation of the processing and exporting industry. Only one processor is to be represented. I suggest that when he is looking at the special representation, where there is a capacity for the Minister to appoint 2 people to the Corporation, he might give some kind of assurance that, if the one representative of the exporting and processing industry is not a moderately sized or small Australian owned processor, that section- the Australian owned sectionof the industry will receive some sort of representation. I believe that it is vital that this take place. 
In particular I draw the Minister's attention to his recognition in his second reading speech of the importance of having a meat exporter and processor on the Corporation he said: 
Meat exporters also have pressed for additional representation. An increase in their number would lead to increased pressure for more producer members to maintain the kind of membership balance which most producers consider necessary, The end result would be an unwieldy, more costly and less efficient organisation. 
At no stage do I deny the merit of having people who are experts in this industry effectively represented on this Board. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)-I  take the view that the honourable member declared it at the start of his speech. 
I declared at the beginning of my speech that I was a director of an Australian owned meat processing company. I thank the honourable member for the interruption. The Government has recognised, as it appears in the Minister's second reading speech, that it is vital for the Corporation to have available to it the expert knowledge and advice that can only be given by exporters who are involved in the market place day by day. I submit to the Minister that his recognition of the role which they can and should play in such a Corporation seems to merit either an additional member by right or else the special consideration of the appointment of one of the 2 special representatives from the industry. It is self-evident that one processor cannot represent the conflicting interests of Australian-owned as against multinational processors and small local operators. By the way, some of those small operators are in fact producer co-operatives. One processing representative reporting back to his consultative group will not have in this situation another representative from the same group monitoring his performance at the Corporation or monitoring his reporting back to the consultative group. I am not making any comments on the calibre of the people who would not be so monitored but it would be a safer procedure if at least 2 people represented such a diverse industry with so many different motives. 
Finally, I suggest that the 50 per cent reduction in the representation of the processing and exporting industry seems to imply some severe and, I would submit, unwarranted criticism of processor representation on the Meat Board in the past. If it is claimed that processor members of the Meat Board have acted improperly, I believe we should hear the accusations out in the open. 
I must say a word in defence of the old Meat Board. There has been a lot of criticism of the Meat Board for its misjudging of the market. I do not believe that in any reconstitution we will be able to achieve a better result in terms of judging the market than we had in the past. Let us face it; the collapse of the beef market was simply and directly the result of a bad grain crop in the United States, of all things. If anyone wants to follow that situation through, the impact on feed lots was dramatic and unexpected, and the impact on the Japanese market was similarly so. Certainly that was the basis on which the collapse of the industry began, aided of course by the anti-rural domestic financial policies pursued by the Government of the day, a Government which is now in Opposition, a Government which imposed a levy of roughly $20m a year on the industry and then lent it back at interest to the industry which it had so destroyed. I merely ask the Minister whether he can give the industry some kind of assurance that all sections of the industry, particularly the Australian-owned sections, will be represented on the Corporation. After all, the industry owns the product with which the new Corporation will be dealing. 
I have been interested to hear, as one should in the tradition of a debate on such a serious topic, the points being presented to endeavour to convince this House and the nation of the merits of the case of the Australian Labor Party. I do not know whether the Labor Party has yet convinced itself about what is its overall case. What now appears to be the case of perhaps a narrow majority in the Labor Party is that we should do nothing until the problem apparently solves itself. 
That is what is called a policy, as the honourable member for La Trobe quite correctly interjects. It is, in fact, a policy of political expediency. It is now recognised as a useful emotional vote catching gimmick to discover suddenly that there are such serious risks in uranium mining in Australia that it should not take place. Of course, this is in total contradiction of the proposition maintained earlier by most of the leading members of the Party opposite. In the halcyon days of their power all they were concerned about was getting the most money for uranium. The question of morality apparently did not appear so large as magically overnight it has now become. Professor Heinz Arndt made a couple of interesting points on this topic of the morality of the uranium debate in a recent speech. Of course, he is professor of economics at the Australian National University. He pointed to the comparisons between the long campaign against fluoridation of the water supply and the anti-uranium proposition. There was no doubt that the anti-fluoridation fanatics continued their fight against fluoridation despite being trapped by an experiment in a United States mid-western town. The water engineer announced that the water supply for March, I think is was, had been fluoridated. The city council was inundated with letters complaining about people's teeth falling out, their hair falling out, people becoming pregnant magically and people becoming unpregnant even more magically. Only at the end of this period he announced that in fact, the water supply had not been fluoridated at all. This did not discourage the wild campaign which, of course, was based on something of a paranoid streak which I suggest tends to run through many protest  movements. 
As Professor Arndt pointed out, the general thing about protest movements of this kind is that the questions at issue are seen as matters of conscience. It was curious that that exact phrase was used by the honourable member for Chifley.  His  conscience has been prompted suddenly after so many years to come to the fore on this matter for the first time. Such people are also involved in value judgments which cannot be proved right or wrong. The other point that Professor Arndt made was that the issues often turn in part on highly technical matters which layman find it hard to understand, let alone assess, while the experts as in all matters of applied science can never be absolutely certain but nave to base their opinions on the weight of evidence. Professor Arndt points out that the present antinuclear campaign, which in Australia concentrates on opposition to mining and export of uranium, is clearly in this tradition of conscience radicalism. The issues, of course, are technically difficult. The points that seem to be raised by the opponents are based on an attitude of fear, risk, terror and confusing people by appealing to their emotions. What is not discussed by such people are the benefits, the need to go nuclear or, in fact, the risks of not going nuclear. 
Fortunately I had the opportunity earlier this session to discuss the first Fox report in the House. At that time I pointed out the serious consequence of carbon wastes in the atmosphere if we continued to use fossil fuels or continued to increase our use of fossil fuels at the dramatic and drastic rate of recent years. This will have a climactic effect on our capacity to survive on this planet. 
The alternative proposition with respect to uranium is that nuclear fuel is much safer and much cleaner, and that has been demonstrated very adequately to be the fact. The other point I made at that time and I want to repeat it as quickly as possible, is that the failure to provide uranium to power users will force the earlier arrival of the plutonium economy, which is the dangerous economy. That is the product which can Lc used in atom bombs. It is the area where the scare technique, the scare campaign, may well ultimately have a degree of accuracy. It is fascinating that the people who are opposing the use of nuclear power and the mining of Australian uranium are by their very actions forcing the power hungry nations of this world into a technology which uses hardly any uranium at all but which is desperately dangerous. It is an irony that this campaign will achieve exactly the opposite of what it hopes to achieve. 
One has to ask whether that campaign is based on a degree of integrity in many areas and I submit, as I did a few weeks ago, that that campaign largely seems coincidentally to be protecting the interest of Arab oil producers in an energy hungry area. There is no doubt that the provision of large quantities of uranium from Australia would help reduce the stranglehold that the Arab nations have on the fuel situation in this nation, and one does not have to breakfast with an Iraqi to understand that simple economic fact. 
The other points which Professor Arndt made are very real. They deal with the question of risk which clearly is the crux of the anti-uranium debate. He underlines the fact that it is in the next stage, and not in the current stage which, as we know, Australia is opposed to developing out of, when we would see plutonium used that there is a real risk. President Carter and the Australian Government oppose the development of that stage, and very sensibly. Apart from the moral position in opposing it there is the simple economic fact that if the world went into plutonium there would be no market for our product. The harsh commercial reality, as well as morality, forces us into supplying uranium without further delay. Already there has been a 5-year delay in the development of this energy source in an energy hungry world, and even if the Government goes ahead as fast as it can it will be probably 1980 before we could see a reasonable level of uranium production in Australia going to meet the markets for energy in this world. 
The general question of risk is raised by the anti-uranium people when they talk about terrorists. The fact about the terrorist threat is that there are many more easy ways readily available to terrorists to hold the world to ransom, and we have seen them used repeatedly. I do not believe that this is a real case against nuclear power. For heavens sake, the opportunities for using the most horrible chemicals have been with such terrorists for many years, and we have to live with that problem. Another question that arises from the anti-uranium position concerns moral suasion. It is held out to us that if Australia does not develop its uranium resources, if we do not supply this fuel for nuclear power stations, it will dramatise the situation and encourage the rest of the world not to do likewise. This is a very charming proposition but I would like to point out that the only people who could be influenced by such moral suasion are people in countries which are governed by the democratic process where the voice of the people can be heard. Let us face it: There is not much point in people in Hungary trying to use moral suasion; it did not work too well against the tanks last time. The people of Czechoslovakia did not find moral suasion very effective against the Russian military machine. The only place where it would have any effect is in the democracy where the people's voice is heard. There would be only one effect of moral suasion, assuming that it were successful, and that would be to further diminish the relative strength of the Western democracies against the totalitarian nations which are proceeding apace with nuclear power. The Russians have no such scope for moral scruples even if one concedes that there is a moral point to be had in failing to use uranium. The fact is that the moral suasion point is not only assinine in its effect but also terribly dangerous for the world. It increases independence from fossil fuels of a rival group of, say, totalitarian nations over democratic nations. 
Here we have on 2 scores the position being put by the Labor Opposition in this House and by the anti-nuclear campaign around this nation and benefiting a group of people who are in a very interesting situation in this world. In the first place there are the Arab oil producers, and in the second place there are the totalitarian nations. It is interesting to see the Labor Party assisting their cause with such enthusiasm. The fact is that there is no real point anyway in Australia having a moratorium or refusing to supply uranium to the rest of the world. As the Fox Commission has pointed out, if Australia were to stop uranium mining and exports further low cost supplies would become available from higher cost grade ore deposits in other countries to meet any deficiency created by Australia not exporting uranium. Withholding Australian supplies would not appreciably affect United States uranium prices, at least until 1990. The principal effect of not making Austraiian supplies available would be to make it necessary for other countries to put more effort into developing their resources. 
The Fox uranium inquiry. It seems curious that this sort of evidence is dismissed by the Opposition when it makes the curious points it does. It reminds me of the opposition which I suppose the women's hysterical lobby had at the time the wheel was introduced. _ _ 
Probably it would have been called the women's hysterical lobby at that time. No doubt it would have objected to the wheel even though ultimately a Miss Boadicea developed this dreadful weapon to its ultimate by fixing very dangerous sabres to the wheel and rushing through the ranks of her opponents with it. The point one should remember about Miss Boadicea is that despite the indiscriminate use of this new and terrible weapon she was eventually defeated by the use of conventional weapons. I do not know which weapon it was but the thing is that it was the wheel and not Boadicea which survived. Certainly there were dangers. Pregnant women riding in carts on wheels may well have suffered miscarriages as a result of the jolting. People could well have been run over by wheels being driven by reckless people. The wheels could have been used to carry guns and other wickedness around the place. People could have suffered heart attacks from driving wheels too fast. There was a dreadful attack on civil liberties because wheels made noise which affected people in the middle of the night, and further, they had to get out of the way of the wheels if they were coming towards them. There is no doubt that if the world had not recognised that the benefits of the wheel were far greater than its risks the wheel would never have been developed. Exactly the same situation exists in relation to nuclear power. ___ 
I wish briefly to support the honourable member for Braddon  (Mr Groome)  in his complaints about the misleading effect the investment allowance rules is having on many small businessmen. The way in which the Taxation Office applies the formula is totally different from the formula applied by any State government in establishing what is a one ton vehicle. When is a one ton truck not a one ton truck? For an answer we go and ask the Taxation Commissioner. The formula is absurd in the sense that the Taxation Office seems to have gone to a position which is as far removed as possible from the registration requirements for one ton trucks in all States. The word in the legislation is 'load', not 'payload'. If the legislatorsthat is, us- had wanted the word to be 'payload' they would have said payload. Many of the people who complain to me wonder, in fact, whether the Taxation Office is implementing the legislation in such a way as to take the burden of the decision making away from the legislators and give it to the Taxation Commissioner himself. I regret that the Commissioner can take the view that 2 people are not part of a load for the purposes of this section but that 9 people are a load in terms of a full load in a passenger vehicle. That is a most extraordinary piece of interpretative gymnastics. I join with the honourable member for Braddon in hoping that the Government either instructs the Taxation Commissioner or changes the law appropriately. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 24 May 1977: 
1 ) How many public telephones are currently in service within that part of the City of Campbelltown within the borders of the electoral division of Macarthur (a) as an absolute number and (b) as a proportion of the population. 
What is the comparable proportion for the metropolitan area of Sydney as a whole. 
How many public telephones are being installed in Campbelltownduring the 1976-77 financial year, and what effect will this have on the ratio of telephones to expected population at the end of 1976-77. 
What is the ratio of private subscriber telephones in dwellings to the population in this area compared to the ratio of private subscriber telephones in dwellings for the total of the Sydney metropolitan area. 
-I address a question to the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, and I express my pleasure at seeing my New South Wales colleague on the front bench. Has the Minister given consideration to requesting the Prices Justification Tribunal to disregard cost increases due to wage rises granted outside the arbitration system? If so, is any action proposed? 
I wish to add my small tribute to Rex Connor on two grounds: Firstly, like the honourable member for Cook  (Mr Dobie)  I have been an electorate neighbour of Rex Connor. I had the opportunity to attend many functions with Rex Connor and his wife in Wollongong. I certainly found on those occasions all the personal characteristics which have been so accurately ascribed to him in this chamber today. 
In particular, I speak of Rex Connor in another context for me; that is, as an exjournalist. Only a few weeks ago the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  and I attended a function in Wollongong in honour of Rex Connor. It was a function put on by the journalists of the Illawarra area. It was. attended by the leading members of the Australian Journalists Association in Australia. One could say that it was a function at which the Press made its peace with Rex Connor. I certainly am grateful that that took place. I regret that Rex Connor was too ill to attend that function, but I am sure that what could have been called the burying of the hatchet or the making of peace between the journalists of Australia who have been referred to today and this very strong and determined Australian took place to the benefit of everyone. . &gt;  
I am certain that the House is as disappointed as I am at the extraordinary attacks on New South Wales dairy farmers which have come from Victorian dairy farmers and from the Victorian Minister of Agriculture. It seems extraordinary to me that a man in charge of an industry which is in serious trouble- as is the dairying industry in Victoriashould have taken such an aggressive and unhelpful view of the problems facing the industry overall. The facts are pretty simple. Eighty-five per cent of the production of the Victorian dairying industry is directed towards milk production for manufacturing purposes. Only 15 per cent of that industry's production is directed towards whole milk consumption; that is the marketing of milk to the cities and towns of Victoria. That means that 85 per cent of Victoria's milk production is simply carried out on a seasonal basis. In other words, when there is grass for the cows to eat they eat the grass and produce milk. When it is the winter season and there is very little grass growth there is a tendency for milk production to go down except, of course, for that small proportion of the industry in Victoria which winter feeds. The farmers bring in fodder or grow fodder, which is an expensive process, in order to guarantee the supply of milk to the cities and towns of that State. Only 15 per cent of that industry faces that additional expense, and a very significant expense it is. 
On the other hand, in New South Wales roughly 60 per cent of the dairying industry production is directed towards the supply of market milk. The significance of that, therefore, is that 60 per cent of the New South Wales industry faces the very heavy expense of winter feeding and of all-year-round feeding of dairy cattle. Because of this huge cost involved in winter feeding it is inevitable that the average cost of producing milk in New South Wales must of necessity be far higher than the cost in Victoria. After all, only 40 per cent of New South Wales milk is produced by cows which depend for their food in general on grass grown where they are kept. 
It is staggering that spokesmen for the Victorian industry- I regret to say spokesmen for the Victorian industry in this House- have presented to this House what I submit are totally misleading figures about the so-called efficiency of the Victorian dairy farming industry compared with the dairy farming industry in New South Wales, particularly in relation to the electorate of Macarthur and also the Hunter Valley area which is another great milk producing region. It is nonsensical to compare the costs of an industry in Victoria, where only 15 per cent of the milk is produced by cattle which have to be winter fed, with the cost of an industry in New South Wales where 60 per cent of the cattle has to be winter fed because their production is aimed at the cities. The fact that the export markets for Victorian manufactured milk have disappeared as a result of the negative and oppressive attitudes of the 
European Common Market does not give the Victorian industry any justification for attacking the industry in New South Wales or for its spokesmen to act in a disgraceful way by trying to establish a degree of inefficiency in New South Wales which is nonsense. I regret that even within this House there has been a tendency to denigrate the New South Wales dairying industry which, I submit, on the statistics available, is just as efficient as the industry in Victoria. That can certainly be established in respect of the more productive areas of New South Wales. I believe that if comparisons are to be made between those two industries they should be made in a fair and honest way. I submit that the Victorian dairy farmers are simply endeavouring to destroy the New South Wales industry which is in fact dependent only on local consumption of milk because its market for 85 per cent of its production has been jeopardised by what has happened on the export markets. I do hope that in future when statistics are presented to this House, particularly by Victorian members, to illustrate an argument, they are honest. 
-The speech made by the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  sums up everything phoney about the uranium debate that has been carried on by the Opposition in this House. The phoniness of the proposition put by the bomb happy honourable member for Port Adelaide is to try to relate as closely as possible for emotional and I would say totally political purposes our uranium with someone else's bombs. The essence of this debate, if it is to be related in these terms, is to establish, I believe, the closeness of such a possible link. I believe that the Australian public has a right to know on what basis the emotional nonsense being presented by Opposition members with a bomb in each pocket can really be defended in this House. There is no evidence. There has been no attempt to do anything but frighten the Australian public on an issue which is of major significance to them. 
The campaign of fear and terror being presented by members of the Opposition is one of the most disgraceful and cynical campaigns that that disgraceful Party has presented in this place. It is a campaign aimed solely at political expediency, a campaign which differs so dramatically from their attitudes when they had the opportunity to state a policy about uranium that could in fact be effected. The irresponsibility of the Labor Party in Opposition is being once again manifested in this debate. Of course, that suggests that members of the Opposition are less irresponsible in government and strangely enough on this occasion, on the matter of uranium, they were slightly less irresponsible in government than they are now proceeding to be in opposition. 
What is essential to establish if we are to listen to this nonsense coming from the other side of the House is this: What countries that we would be selling our uranium to would not get their uranium but for us? That is the issue. Is there any country to which we would be selling uranium to which no one else would sell it? Is there any nation that would not have access to this bomb making material, this material that the honourable member for Port Adelaide is telling this House will create a wider and more serious risk to the world? The facts are that this material will be available, particularly from those nations which the honourable member for Port Adelaide has just demonstrated to the House are nations which should not have uranium. He said would it not be terrible if South Africa had a nuclear capacity? For heaven's sake, South Africa is a major potential producer of uranium. What arrant nonsense even for the honourable member for Port Adelaide, who has a reputation for arrant nonsense, to come into this House and present - 
-I rise to support the Budget. It is interesting to follow the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris)  having heard his views on the way in which the major problems of the economy should be resolved. I was interested to note that while his leader speaks in terms of deficits or multi-billions of dollars the honourable member for Shortland talks in terms of a few thousand dollar here and a few thousand dollars there. It perhaps suggests a reduction in the economic stature, if nothing else, of the honourable member. It seems to put into perspective the sort of sniping attitude of so many of the Opposition members when they endeavour to deal with the major economic problems facing the nation in such an important debate as this, the debate on the Budget. We hear the piddling complaints on minor matters such as whether a tea set was bought- 
I thank you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  and bow to your guidance. I must say that I was stimulated to excessive response by the curious approach by the honourable member for Shortland to the nation's major problems. He sees them in terms of whether someone spent a couple of thousand dollars on a dinner service but I would have thought that this House was more interested in noting the difference between the spending of billions of dollars which his Party sees as the only way to get us out of our economic problems- it's solution, in other words, is to throw money around the place and bring about the same sort of disastrous inflation that took place under the administration of which he was an insignificant member- and the situation that we now face where responsible administration is taking the place of financial ratbaggery. 
It is most disappointing to note that the honourable member for Shortland continued the disgraceful and misleading attack on the Government's taxation advantages, the new systems which bring benefits to all taxpayers. There has been a deliberate policy of knocking the Government's magnificent new tax reductions and this unfortunately has succeeded in confusing the people of Australia. Quite frankly, I regard it as one of the more extraordinary examples of political dishonesty. Critics have tried to prove that taxation has not been reduced and that somehow the poor are being disadvantaged to the benefit of the rich. That was the line that came across from the honourable member for Shortland. It is, of course, utter and complete nonsense. The facts are clear and simple. There will be tax savings for everyone and, just in case under some hypothetical rate of inflation, the new system does mean, with half indexation plus the new exemption rates, that someone will suffer a disadvantage- this is possible but unlikely- the Government has guaranteed and the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  have given an assurance that in 1978-79 all taxpayers will be better off than they would have been under the present system with full indexation. Yet in the face of that statement the Opposition still deliberately maintains that nonsense that some people will be worse off. 
The facts about what has happened to taxation under this Government compared with what happened to taxation under the previous Government should be stated with extreme vigour. Let us recognise that under the Hayden 
Budget pensioners were taxed for the first time. Pensioners were taxed under a system that was supposed to be a great and revolutionary improvement. I have superannuated pensioners in my electorate who were faced for the first time with paying taxation as a result of the Hayden Budget. They have said to me: 'What are you people going to do about it?' This Budget does something about it. One quarter of a million people in Australia now will no longer have to pay tax as a result of the new system. I submit that the bulk of those people are pensioners. Let us look at the reductions in the tax rates as they affect single people. For example, someone on $60 a week, who under the Hayden Budget had to pay $3. 1 2 a week tax, has had his obligation to pay tax completely removed. Someone on $80 a week, who under the Hayden Budget paid $8.52 in tax, will pay only $2.52 a week tax from 1 February 1978, a reduction of 70.4 per cent at the lower end of the scale. A person on $100 a week has had a tax reduction of 37.3 per cent. The person on $120 a week has had a tax reduction of 27.8 per cent, and so on. As income increases the tax saving goes down. In other words, poorer people do better than the richer people. This is clearly shown in a table which I have prepared. I seek leave to incorporate the table in  Hansard. 

 The table read as follows: 


<graphic href="106131197709084_86_3.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="106131197709084_87_4.jpg"></graphic>

-I thank the House. A taxpayer on $100 a week with a dependent spouse, who used to have to pay $6.54 a week in tax, now will pay no tax. He has had a 100 per cent tax reduction under this Government. A taxpayer on $120 a week with a dependent spouse used to pay under the Hayden Budget $13.54 tax a week. He has had a 65 per cent reduction. So, it is evident that there have been major and significant tax benefits given to the people of Australia by this Government thereby significantly offsetting the massive disadvantages which so many sections of the Australian taxpaying public had to face under the Labor Government's last Budget. I say  last ' in hope as well as in history. 
In addition the new system whereby everyone gets the first $3,750 of his income totally tax free brings very significant advantages. Because this new marginal tax rate of 32c in the dollar will apply only to income over that level, workers no longer will get pushed into higher tax brackets if they work overtime or get a rise But despite all these benefits this cynical attack continues to be mounted. I attended a recent seminar at Wollongong University at which it was claimed that this new system was unfair to those on lower incomes because someone on $5,000 a year paid the same marginal tax rate as someone on $16,000 a year. This piece of intellectual deceit ignores reality which is, I suppose, a common failure in some universities these days. The reality is that someone earning $5,000 now has to pay tax on only $1,250. He will pay nothing at all on the initial $3,750. As is pointed out in the table which I incorporated in  Hansard,  it means that on average he will be paying only 8c in the dollar on his total income. Next year, of course, this will go down to about 7c in the dollar. If this is not a reduction, for heaven's sakes, what is? 
In recent years there is no doubt that incentive to work has been diminished by excessively high taxes on all levels of income. This new scale has been introduced to restore incentive. In the past, particularly in the Labor years of 1973, 1974 and 1975, there was a massive increase in everyone's tax. Honourable members will remember that the Hayden Budget clearly set out to increase pay as you earn tax collections by 44 per cent, even though it was only budgeting for an increase in wages of 22 per cent. In other words, tax would go up under the Hayden Budget at double the rate of wages. That was the approach of the Australian Labor Party to taxing the worker. This Government has set about to reverse that trend. 
There is no doubt that the people of Australia very clearly showed in December 1975 that they would rather have more of their own money to spend than have it taken from them and spent by the Government. The most significant factor of the new tax system, as I stated before, is that the Fraser  Government  has introduced a system which totally exempts lower income earners from tax. I stress this situation because it is a major matter of concern in my electorate. So many superannuated pensioners who had suddenly been forced to pay tax for the first time as a result of the Hayden Labor Budget will now end up having to pay no tax at all as a result of the present Government's policy. Those superannuated pensioners whose incomes are over this level will now pay tax at a far lower rate than Labor's so-called reforms put them on. There is no doubt that our tax reform is a real benefit to all taxpayers, particularly the poor and those on low incomes. What is astounding is that the Opposition has managed to confuse the Australian people and also sections of the media about the reality of these benefits. The Opposition did the same thing in relation to tax indexation when we introduced it in the first place. It brought clear benefits to taxpayers through their pay packets at the beginning of last month. Taxpayers' pay packets will snow the benefits from the latest tax reforms when the new scheme becomes effective next February. As far as I am concerned for the Australian Labor Party then it will be money up shut up. In February the extra money in each pay packet will tell the story as it did in the first pay packet in July when people got the first clear benefits of indexation in substantial form. 
I believe there is a general lack of awareness of the thrust of the Government's economic policies. Once again I think this is emerging from a confused response to last year's Budget. This year's Budget clearly continues the style of approach adopted last year. Last year's Budgetonce again this is clearly evident from the Budget papers- succeeded in almost all its major objectives. It achieved its targets with one major exception and that one major exception was unemployment. It would be foolish of us to pretend that the Budget had done anything but fail to meet that target. There is perhaps one less significant point where there was a failure and that was in the sense that there seemed to be some excessive governmental activity relative to private sector activity. In other words, despite the immense attempts by the Federal Government to limit growth in Government activity in order to allow greater scope for the private sector, there was nevertheless a continuing increase particularly, for example, in Government consumption spending. 
It is interesting to note that despite the massive and continual attacks by the Opposition on the way in which this Government is alleged to have slashed Government spending the statistics available in the National Income and Expenditure Paper which is Budget Paper No. 9 are worthy of being pointed out to the House. Table No. 14 shows that Government final consumption expenditure increased by $ 1 ,903m or 1 7 per cent in 1976-77, which is a rise of 5 per cent in constant prices after accounting for inflation. Let us note that fact. There has been a 5 per cent rise at constant prices or 17 per cent overall for government final consumption expenditure. Let us look at private final consumption expenditure which, at constant prices, rose by just under 3 per cent- 2.7 per cent to 2.8 per cent. In other words, government consumption expenditure increased at a rate almost double that of the private sector. Is it not extraordinary that even in that situation honourable members opposite are bellowing about savage cuts in the government sector. The fact is that, if anything, the Government is continuing to be intrusive into the total level of activity within the community. To my mind it is disappointing that the private sector consumption level increased by only 2.7 per cent or 2.8 per cent as against a 5 per cent growth in government final consumption spending. 
The side issue which emerges from this is fascinating. I hope that honourable members who have difficulty trying to counter the nonsense put out by various premiers on the matter will note the extraordinary well-off situation of State and local governments as a result of this Government's federalism policies which are demonstrated in the Budget papers. In this government final consumption expenditure, although Federal authorities increased their expenditure by 13 per cent which is very little in real terms after inflation, the increase for State and local government authorities was 19 per cent which is a very significant increase over the Federal spending level. Federalism is working. The organs of government which are well off these days are the State governments and local governments as a result of this Government's clear policy. These Budget papers clearly demonstrate that to be so. When State authorities complain and bellow about not having enough money for specific programs because the Federal Government has cut back that program, they clearly refuse to concede the point that, overall, they are getting a substantial increase over what they were getting in the past. They are certainly doing far better than is the Federal Government. 
But let us get back to the major disappointment which, of course is unemployment. Why did last year's Budget fail to meet its employment target? Let us Face it. The Government met the target of 4 per cent growth in gross domestic product but let us remember that in that Budget it was estimated that of that 4 per cent growth, 2 per cent would be provided by increased productivity and 2 per cent by the increase in the work force. As the work force was expected to rise by 2 per cent the number of jobs available was to rise by 2 per cent. Therefore, there would be only moderate scope for reduction in the number of unemployed. The hope, the intention, the Budget strategy was that that 4 per cent growth in gross domestic product would bring about a reduction, even though slight, in unemployment. But more importantly, it would provide the basis for a gradual, strong, firm economic recovery and would provide capacity for further reductions in unemployment. That did not happen last year because productivity went up by 3.6 per cent. After some curious adjustments were made to the previous year's figuresquite frankly, I think the adjustments were of an extraordinary large variety; I do not think they reflected terribly well on the quality of statistical collection- instead of a 4.3 per cent increase in the gross domestic product, the figure came out at about 3.5 per cent. 
In other words, there was a 3.5 per cent rise in the gross domestic product and a 3.6 per cent rise in productivity. This was not necessarily because people worked harder or better. It was because m the Labor induced recession many employers failed to dismiss staff, particularly skilled staff. They preferred to keep them on, underemployed. The recovery we have had is a substantial and significant recovery which is budgeted to continue into this year. In that recovery these people could be more effectively and more fully employed. As a result productivity would increase. In addition, many industries were required by the force of external competition to increase their capacity for plant improvement. This meant that many people were pushed out of jobs or else there was no need to increase the number in the work force. This does not mean that the Government's overall strategy failed by any means. 
It is particularly disappointing to follow the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  who once again has done what he can to create as much uncertainty as possible about the future of the Australian exchange rate. This seems to be an Opposition tactic which is as muddle headed and as much in opposition to Australia's best interests as in fact were his financial policies during that unfortunate period in which he took a role in the government of this nation. The points he made in general were so nonsensical that I do not want to spend much of my time countering them. However, I must say this: The honourable member repeated an absurd statement that never had there been a transfer of resources as rapid as this, and he was referring to what he claimed to be a transfer of resources from the poor to the rich. It is, of course, nonsense to say that there has been a major transfer of resources from the consumers of this nation to the rich. The Budget Papers clearly show that. Anyone who has the capacity to read those Budget Papers will see that 
-The Budget Papers show that household income- as even the honourable member for Port Adelaide will be able to understand this if he reads the Papers- have been maintained. The honourable member's question concerning the point at which resources were transferred at a rapid rate can be resolved by looking at a Labor Budget. Under a Labor Government the government's share of gross domestic product in one year went up from 25 per cent to 3 1 per cent. This was a rapid and disruptive change in the basis of the Australian economy. It was the major single reason for the massive rate of inflation which has so damaged this country. 
That brings me to the point I want to discuss, namely, the need for greater assistance to the man on the land. I welcome the news that the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  will be making an announcement in this respect later today. It is absolutely vital that the rural sector, despite the continued attacks and criticisms of the Opposition which generally takes a very strong anti-rural position, receives some continuing recognition in addition to what it has already received from this Government. Some extraordinary claims of great concern have been made in recent times by people with an 'immense rural background', from the inner suburbs of Sydney who have had concern for the rural sector thrust upon them. They certainly do not have any basic concern or understanding of the situation. 
A recent announcement by the Australian Woolgrowers' and Graziers' Council sets out very clearly the real problems facing the man on the land and why specific measures must be taken to help him. The first point made by the Council is that there would be no beef crisis if market access was not restricted. There is no doubt the beef industry has suffered very severely from the actions of overseas nations restricting the export of Australian beef. I speak here not just of the European Economic Community but also at various times of the actions of Japan, the United States of America, Canada and Sweden. The Government has taken the very dramatic step of appointing the Minister for Special Trade Negotiations  (Mr Howard).  If the disadvantages faced by the beef industry at the moment, and indeed by many rural industries which have exported to Europe particularly, have emerged from oppressive governmental decisions in other nations the need for something to be done is clear and evident. This Government responded to that need; it was totally ignored by the previous Government. The reasons for other nations taking a hostile view to Australian primary products is a matter for their internal politics but it is certainly a matter requiring political weight on our part. Quite properly the Government has applied full weight by appointing a Minister to handle this task. 
I expect that there will continue to be an improvement in Australia's capacity to get into these markets. It may purely be coincidental that they were closed to Australia during the administration of the previous Government. I do not know to what extent the Japanese may have closed their market to our beef simply because of fairly tough lines taken by the previous Labor Government in relation to raw materials. I think this is called resources diplomacy. It may well be that the Australian beef producer was the person who carried the can for that kind of diplomacy. Certainly it is now evident that this Government is doing what it can at diplomatic levels and by the appointment of this special Minister to get increased access to overseas markets for Australian primary products. 
Probably the key problem facing rural industry as a whole, apart from access to markets, is inflation. As the Australian Woolgrowers' and Graziers' Council said, there would be no beef crisis if present prices to producers were associated with 1973 cost levels. It is self-evident that inflation in Australia has done an immense amount to destroy the capacity of Australian exporters, particularly rural exporters, to compete in overseas markets, yet these costs rises have brought no benefit whatsoever to producers of cattle. Unfortunately the only people who benefited from the increased costs, the people who got the increased amounts of money from this industry, basically have been the workers, the employees, in the industry. 
The Minister for Primary Industry recently made a speech in which he pointed out that the average earnings per week of boners in the beef industry had risen from $102 in 1973 to $302 in 1977. Their earnings almost trebled in that period. That has been the experience of the industry throughout Australia. A company in which I have an involvement has faced a labour cost rise over the last six years which has been overwhelming and most distressing, particularly when it is recognised that at the same time the return to growers has gone down simply because of the impact of overseas market conditions. Let us face it; even if our costs go up it does not necessarily mean that people are prepared to pay more for our beef simply because employees in the industry want a threefold increase or because the other costs in Australia are going up so rapidly under inflation. The company I mentioned in which I have been involved in the past had a labour cost per pound of product only six years ago of about 2.8c. It is now 9.6c a pound. That increase, almost 3 te times, has been accompanied by only, roughly, a 75 per cent increase in the cost of the product to the consumer over those six years. The person who has been squeezed in the middle is the primary producer. That is why it is essential that measures be taken to combat inflation. That is why the fight against inflation is the major thing that primary producers hope for from a government. That is why I believe primary producers recognise, and certainly should recognise, the benefits emerging from this Government's anti-inflation policy. 
The Woolgrower' and Graziers' Council also made the point that tariff protection adds about $8 a beast, or $232m in total, onto the beef industry. No one in the rural sector should complain about the need to create employment opportunities in Australia through a tariff structure. All that the rural sector recognises and requires the Government to recognise, and requires the Opposition to recognise also if possible, is that if the employees of Australia are getting a benefit through tariff protection, the benefit of having more jobs than would be the case otherwise, then surely it is only just that the rural sectors gets some offsetting benefit against the substantially increased rural costs that emerge because of tariff protection. The rural industry is not being especially looked after, it deserves help. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Has the Minister for Health noted the political criticism of the Federal Government by Labor parliamentarians at the official opening of the federally financed Campbelltown public hospital last weekend? Could the Minister tell the House how much money the States, particularly New South Wales, have available for new hospital construction this year compared with previous years? Could the Minister ensure that at future official openings of federally financed public hospitals in Labor governed States a member of the Government will be guaranteed the right of reply to improper and untrue propaganda speeches such as those made in my electorate last weekend by the honourable member for Werriwa, the New South Wales Premier, the New South Wales Minister for Health and the State member for Campbelltown? Could the Minister also answer allegations that there has been widespread abuse of the benefits paid to private nursing home proprietors to care for bed-fast patients? 
-I refer to the Cunningham by-election for the seat made vacant when the Honourable Rex Connor died recently.  Mr Connor  served the people of Cunningham well. We were on opposite political sides, and we disagreed very strongly on many issues. But he was a man who, I think, would have been appalled by the remarks made publicly by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  on the television program  This Day Tonight  and in the Wollongong area in which he accused the former Attorney-General of being a factor in  Mr Connor's  death. The Leader of the Opposition stated: 

 Mr and Mrs Connor died earlier than they would have because of this persecution. 
He was referring to the Sankey prosecution. Relating specifically to the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott),  the Leader of the Opposition said: 
He tried to get some victims and he did of course. 
He was referring to  Mr Connor.  As I can hear my colleagues say, that is a shocking and shameful thing to say. But for it to be repeated in a byelection situation is, I think, a sign of utter dismal desperation by the Leader of the Opposition. I know that the response in Wollongong has been one of shock and dismay that such tactics would be used. I took part in a radio talk-back program recently in Wollongong. The telephone calls that came in on this matter were consistently critical of the behaviour of the Leader of the Opposition in this way. I would like to stress that if anyone did anything to break  Mr Connor's  heart and spirit it was the Leader of the Opposition. The honourable member for Werriwa, to use the good old political expression, stabbed his colleague in the back. He sacked  Mr Connor  in what must have been the most bitter disappointment in  Mr Connor's  life. I am not raising the question of whether  Mr Connor  was a good Minister for Minerals and Energy. The question I am raising is that for the Leader of the Opposition in such a cavalier manner to dismiss and reject his long-standing colleague in such a way and then to endeavour to drag the name of that man who has died into a by-election campaign in a situation in which he was endeavouring to attack the honourable member for Wentworth shows not only a lack of respect but also a level of political activity which I submit is far below the standards we should expect in this House. I suggest that if any single action by anyone in this place contributed to the death of the honourable member for Cunningham, it was the brutal sacking he suffered at the hands of his leader. 
I hope that on reflection the Leader of the Opposition will withdraw the disgraceful and uncalled for comments that he has made publicly about the honourable member for Wentworth. I hope that if he is to continue to participate in the Cunningham by-election- for the sake of our candidate I hope that he does continue- the level of political discussion is lifted. I congratulate the Liberal candidate on the style and manner of his campaign so far.  His  campaign has not descended to that sort of level. In fact, when the Prime Minister spoke on a radio talk-back program in Wollongong, a caller raised this matter. Naturally enough, the Prime Minister refused to discuss such a vile accusation as that made by the Leader of the Opposition against the honourable member for Wentworth. I hope that we have a good successor to  Mr Connor  in this House,  Mr Griffin- Mr ACTING SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
-It has been disappointing to hear the same old nonsense brought out yet again. The complaint from the Opposition that members of the Government front bench once again did not reply to a matter of public importance in almost identical terms to half a dozen that have been introduced fruitlessly in the last little time is a nonsensical objection. The facts are that the matter before the House is such a vital matter that five members of the Opposition have bothered to attend. This matter, which was put to us as being of such major moment that Government front bench members should reply to it, has no effective support from the Opposition. I think it is worth while to deal not only with the diagnosis but also with the solution that has been presented by the Opposition.  ( Quorum formed). 
Before an additional audience was brought in kindly by the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James),  I was pointing out that the solution that Opposition members have to this problem is as nonsensical as their solutions have been in the past. They are simply talking about increased public sector spending, the formula that failed last time and which will certainly fail again. The question to which they do not have an answer is where the money is coming from. Let us get back to the allegation that the Government is deceiving the people. That is an absurd allegation. The matter proposed for discussion here today is totally nonsensical when one considers that the person who raised this matter of public importancethe Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)-  was the person who said in May 1974: 
Employment is high, profitability is high, trading is good and business expectations for the future are that this situation will continue. 
-That was the Prime Minister at the time, now the Leader of the Opposition. That statement was probably the greatest piece of economic deception that this nation has met from a man of so-called responsibility. After that statement was made, we had a situation in which the unemployment rate trebled and the gross domestic product actually fell. This leads me to the general question of unemployment which has been raised by the Opposition today. Some really serious mis-statements have been made, which clearly set out to distort the situation and to smear this Government. The facts are very simple. There has been a significant increase in the number of people at work since this Government came to power. This is the conclusion one must reach if one looks at the figures honestly and compares them with the figures for comparable months during the term of the Labor Government. Even members of the Opposition who are amateurs when it comes to dealing with statistics- I suppose one could include the former Prime Minister, now the Leader of the Opposition, in that category as a rank amateur- surely should be able to understand that employment trends change during the year. I seek leave to incorporate some statistics in  Hansard. 
-These are statistics of employed people. I have cleared the table with the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford). 
-The table has been cleared. 
-Has the attention of the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs been drawn to a report that a number of Iraqi representatives are about to visit Australia for a breakfast? If that report is true, can the Minister advise whether all precautions will be taken to prevent sums of illegal money entering the country? Can the Minister also advise with whom the Iraqi visitors will be meeting on this visit, which is timed to be in late November or early December? Can he also assure the House that all precautions will be taken to prevent the Leader of the Opposition and his colleagues from suffering from migratory flatulence? 
It is disappointing to see not only the negative approach of the Opposition to the positive programs of this Government in the rural sector but also the unfortunate response of sections of the rural sector to those initiatives. This matter has been before this House on previous occasions and the complaints by some sections of the beef industry in particular have received a degree of attention, perhaps a greater degree of attention than their case really merits. The substantial expenditure that is involved in the recent package of assistance to the beef industry will be of major assistance to that industry. The only problem- and I recognise it as a real problem- is that such assistance could well have taken place some time previously. 
However, there has been no doubt that the forecasts that there would be an upturn in the industry as a result of the normal effect of market forces did not prove accurate. 
It is very difficult to forecast a world market for beef, as was shown by the very widespread view a few years ago that the right thing to do was to produce more and more beef, to breed more and more cattle because there was a great protein need around the world at the time- and that protein need still exists. The problem is- and this is self-evident- that forecasting the demands of the cattle market is not necessarily the same as forecasting consumer demand for beef. In very simple terms, the reason the Australian Meat 
Board was wrong when it forecast substantial increases in Australia's exports of beef was simply that the American grain price went through the roof. This made it impossible for feed lot operators, both in the United States and Japan, to afford to hold beef cattle stocks. I am giving this background information because I think it is important to recognise the reasons for the need for substantial allocations of funds to assist this industry right now. 
When the grain price went through the roof and domestic feed lot operators in the United States and Japan were forced to decide whether or not they would pay much more for their grain or whether they should run down their holdings of cattle in feed lots, they took the view that they should run down their feed lot holdings. As a result, a great deal of meat domestically grown in the United States and Japan then became directly competitive with Australian exports to the extent that the Japanese Government prevented Australia from exporting any meat whatsoever to Japan for a period. The Americans imposed a quota system which, I might add, was quite reasonable in view of its own internal problems. As a result, all the forecasts in Australia were wrong and the beef industry found itself in an over-supply situation. 
Cattle producers have been going broke. I believe that this has caused an immense amount of unhappiness in this industry, largely to people who have, I believe, not a full awareness of the things this Government is doing and has done for the cattle producer. It has been forecast that $100m-odd will come from the Federal Government program of providing a grant of $10 per head for normal veterinary procedures and/or spaying of young heifers. The program will provide up to $2,000 per cattle producer and certainly will provide some help to an industry that is in severe distress. 
In addition, of course, dairy producers in every State except New South Wales are getting a magnificent deal from the Federal Government. The New South Wales producers are not getting as good a deal as they ought because the New South Wales Government has refused to contribute on a matching basis the underwriting that has been arranged by the Federal Government. 
As the interjector states, a mean and unnecessary action by the State Government. It simply follows the pattern of attack on the dairy industry by the Labor Party in whatever government it has a role. I suppose the 
Labor Government in New South Wales is directly and solely responsible for the disaster in the dairy industry in that State. I refer to the financial uncertainties. The closure of farms and a trend towards economic size and greater efficiency had been proceeding under the previous Liberal-Country Party Government in New South Wales. In that State the proposition had always been that it was more efficient and would provide cheaper milk if a lot of the small operators were collected together into larger groupings. In other words, there are economies of scale that are clear cut and evident in the dairy industry as they are in any industry. 
The dreadful situation now is that after there have been amalgamations in the diary industry and after the industry has very properly done what it can to make itself more efficient by getting economies of scale, the New South Wales Labor Government is doing what it can to break down these larger groupings in order to make the production of milk in New South Wales less efficient than in the past. This is a disaster, I believe, in terms of the proper trend for the industry. It is a disaster for the consumer who will be faced with a less efficient dairy industry as a result of these pressures on the industry by the New South Wales Government to disadvantage the bigger producers more than the smaller ones. Apparently, the New South Wales Government takes the view that it is prepared to do anything to the New South Wales dairy industry in order to buy the seat of Casino for the Minister for Primary Industry in that State. Frankly, that seat has been bought for that Labor member on the backs of and with the reasources of the dairy industry in the rest of New South Wales, particularly in the Basic Milk Quota area, which has had its milk quotas expropriated by the New South Wales Government without any recompense whatsoever. Obviously the New South Wales Labor Government is an expert in the kind of procedure to use to buy a seat. 
I want to stress that the reasons for the specific assistance which this Government is obliged to give the primary industry sector emerges from one major problem- the massive rise in domestic farm costs in Australia. There is no doubt that there are serious problems in export industries, problems which I believe will be resolved with the passage of time. This Government is giving assistance to the rural industry, which is a major difference from the activities of the previous government which, from memory, added something like $2Sm a year to the cattle producers' bill by putting an export tax on beef. This Government instead is providing assistance. The amount of assistance which will be needed continually, even if there are substantial improvements in export markets, will depend to a large degree on the extent to which we can defeat the inflation in farm costs. It is distressing to note that even though there will be increased returns to farmers this year, according to the latest Bureau of Agricultural Economics report, farm income is expected, despite the big increases in gross returns, to decline by 8 per cent. If the rate of inflation is assumed to be about 10 per cent, real income per farm is expected to fall by 1 4 per cent. 
It is vital to note that assistance given by this Government is not in fact handouts to some specially well-off sections of the community, which is the Labor Party argument when it attacks assistance to the rural industry. It is in fact a requirement to assist this major section of the Australian people to survive and to retain this major industry, which is still a massive export earner, and to enable it to continue giving benefits to the whole of the people of Australia. It is divisive and offensive for some newspapers and for most of the spokesmen for the Opposition to continue to attack as a handout anything that is done to help rural industry. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drummond)  -Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I ask a question of the Minister for Transport. Is the Minister aware of the statement made by  Mr Gruzman,  Q.C., that in future all flights from New South Wales country areas, such as Nowra and Camden in my electorate, will terminate at Bankstown and not Sydney Airport because Sydney Airport has been given to international and interstate carriers, leaving no room for country services? Can the Minister say whether these allegations are correct and also whether recent allegations that fire fighting services at Sydney Airport are inadequate because of a cutback in funds by the present Government are correct? Will the Government consider making arrangements to provide adequate accommodation for commuter airlines, thus assisting airline services to and from New South Wales country areas to maintain and to improve the already valuable transport services they provide to country people. 
I want to raise tonight a serious problem affecting many constituents of the electorate of Macarthur whose land has been designated under the Macarthur growth centre proposals. I want to say at the outset that I have a great deal of respect for the capacity, hard work and integrity of the Macarthur Development Board and I regard what they are endeavouring to do in that area to be certainly visionary and I hope ultimately successful. However, there is a serious problem that has emerged as a result of the designation of a very large area of land to the south of Campbelltown which will not be used for many years to come. 
As of this week it appears that Campbelltown and Appin, which are two sections of the growth centre, will no longer be in the Macarthur electorate. Nevertheless there are sections of Camden which remain in Macarthur and which will be affected by this growth centre. As a result I feel not only a specific responsibility for the people in the new Macarthur electorate but also for many of those in the old Macarthur electorate who are being disadvantaged so seriously by this situation. 
The fact is that in 1974 an Act was passed when the Australian Labor Party took the view that money grew on trees. It then started to chop the trees down. It took the view that anything could be achieved with money, including buying votes. Unfortunately the money ran out even under the Hayden Budget, with the result that the grandiose plans for purchasing with Federal money large tracts of land could not be proceeded with. Nevertheless the present Government last year provided $5m to buy designated land from people who were in distress. I thank the Government for the kindness it showed to those people at that time. In the current year the Federal Government offered $ 1 for every $2 provided by the State Government to finance the growth centre. That offer was rejected out of hand by the Wran Government for petty and, I would say, disgraceful political purposes. I hope that those people who are unable to sell their land will recognise the reason for it. The fact is that now there are many people who are tied into the ownership of that land and who are unable to sell it but who at the same time are obliged to pay very high council rates upon it. 
The people on the development board for the Macarthur growth centre are very concerned about the situation. They are endeavouring to establish appropriate ways of allowing people either to dispose of their land or to keep those small portions of their land which would be nondesignated. I commend the board for its endeavour. What concerns me greatly is the fact that the State Government has been crying poor and accusing the Federal Government on this matter. But at the same time it has been selling at undisclosed prices large tracts of industrial land in that area. As I understand it, that land has brought in very substantial amounts of revenue. That money has not been returned to the Macarthur growth centre; it has gone into the State coffers. It has gone into the State's Consolidated Revenue. At the same time, the State of New South Wales has been bleating to the Federal Government to provide more finance. That is basically dishonest. 
What is even more dishonest is the fact that the State Government refuses to reveal to the people of the area the price obtained for the land that has been sold to various industries, including the Ford Motor Co. of Australia Ltd- I am overjoyed to see this happening- or the terms on which the land has been leased, if it has not been sold, because it appears to me that in order to attract people to this outstandingly good area the State has been prepared to enter mto deals which are non-commercial. As a result the people whose land has been proclaimed are not getting a fair deal because the Macarthur development board is not getting a decent return and as a result the money is not being paid out to the people who are in distress. It is disgraceful that those people should suffer as a result not of the 
Federal Government's failure to offer funds- the funds it offered have been rejected by the Statebut of the State's secret deals with major industrialists, and as a result of the State not revealing the basic price and the basic returns which it is getting on that land. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Can the Prime Minister indicate whether his Government has ever considered cutting tariffs by 25 per cent, similar to the cut introduced by the Labour Government which brought unemployment in my electorate in 1974 and 1975 - 
asked the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in the Arts, upon notice, on 24 August 1977: 
What subsidy per issue does the Literature Board of Australia give to the monthly magazine  Quadrant,  to which I am a regular contributor. 
What subsidy per issue does the Board give to the other literary magazines. 
How many times do these magazines appear per year. 
Does this mean that  Quadrant,  which appears 12 times a year, is receiving far less per issue in federal subsidy than other literary magazines. 
If so, why is  Quadrant  being discriminated against. 
Would the Government prefer  Quadrant  to appear less frequently. 
Is the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs aware of complaints regarding unfair treatment concerning taxation refunds to overseas born people? Has he received correspondence in relation to such taxpayers in the Macarthur electorate? What action has he taken? 
-I was one of the 38 newcomers to this House in 1975. We were elected by the people of Australia. Tonight I heard some comment that perhaps the Queen's representative elected us. I can assure anyone listening that the people of Australia elected us when they gave this Government a record majority. It exceeded by six, I believe, the previous record of 32 in 1966, if one leaves aside the occasion on which the size of the Parliament was greatly increased immediately after the war. We have been called many things. One of the things which we have been called is, of course, oncers. That appellation will be put to the test shortly. There is no doubt, of course, that there is very little job security in this industry. Some of us, I imagine, will find out about that. 
However, the reason I have risen tonight is that on behalf of the 38 newcomers of 1975 I would like to thank the older and, if I may say, in most cases much wiser heads on both sides of the House for the guidance and assistance that they have given to us in these two years. I also mention some people who no longer are involved in the running of this House-the former SerjeantatArms, Don Piper, and his assistant, Lynn Berts. 
I, too, have suffered at the hands of the distribution commissioners in an electoral redistribution which I find illogical and insupportable. One of the consequences of that redistribution is that about 28,000 people are being taken from my electorate and given to Werriwa. In future these people will have the privilege of having the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitiam)  looking after them. I wish them luck. Whether I return here or whether any of us in this chamber return here, of course, depends on the judgment of the electorate. I hope for only one thing- that the people judge us fairly. 
I draw the attention of the House to the sinister implications of the point being parroted forth regularly, at least twice a day, by the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young).  This relates to his desire to see party structures and their campaigns financed by the taxpayers. We have already seen in New South Wales a desperate attempt by the Labor Party to destroy the small parties in that State, in particular the Australian Democrats. This attempt was in the changes that were proposed by the Labor Government in New South Wales to the method of election of members to the upper House in that State. There was an attempt through a system called the 'list system ' effectively to destroy the prospects of any small party ending up with a representative in the upper House. This was simply dishonest. It was a system that was not used even by the Labor Party in its own elections. It was the system that was withdrawn in one of the many shameful retreats that the Labor Premier of New South Wales has been obliged to make. 
That has been cancelled, but there we saw one direct attempt to destroy the possibility of new smaller parties achieving any place in the political scene. It was done because the New South Wales Labor Government realised that the threat to the Labor Party was a real one from these new parties. The same thing has happened in the federal scene. The proposal by the honourable member for Port Adelaide is an attempt to ossify the existing political structures so that the only way one would be financed at taxpayers' expense would be through the existing political parties on the basis of the votes received at a previous election. This would destroy the prospects of a new party getting any support whatsoever. It is part of a long term apparently consistent campaign to prevent the growth of any new parties and it is being done by a party which realises it is losing more and more the support of the bulk of the people who had supported what was once a great party. This is a desperate attempt to keep - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER  (Mr Millar)Order!  It being 1 1 p.m., the debate is interrupted. The House stands adjourned till 10.30 a.m. tomorrow. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  agreed that leave would be granted. I do not know whether this is another of the usual delaying tactics. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="108131197802283_68_0.jpg"></graphic>

I thank the House. The statistics in those days clearly demonstrate that in 1933, 17.6 per cent of the work force was unemployed compared with a seasonal peak at the moment of 7.2 per cent. Also, the year book which relates to those times, the peak of the Depression, shows that up to 28 per cent of the registered work force was unemployed. We must treat those figures with some care because in those days the unions rather than the statisticians were obliged to report on how many people were unemployed. It may well have been that for political reasons the unions decided to inflate the figures or to muck around with them. Who knows? What is evident is that the figures show that about 28 per cent of the work force was unemployed compared with 7.2 per cent of the work force now. Yet we still hear the nonsense being perpetuated by the honourable members opposite that we now have a worse level of unemployment. One assumes they mean in honest terms- I could not imagine that they would speak in dishonest terms - unemployment as a proportion of the work force. The figures demonstrate clearly that what they are saying is nonsense. 
I simply conclude by commenting on some points made the other night by the honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr West)  about immigration and migrant education in Wollongong. May I say how disappointed I was that in his critical speech of this Government he did not bother to mention that the adult migration program, in particular the telephone interpreter service, will, as an initiative of this Government, for the first time be opening in Wollongong. It was not opened by the previous Government, and I can assure the honourable member for Cunningham that the volume of immigration in the last two years has not been so dramatic that the situation has changed monumentally in Wollongong. The Government is meeting the needs of the migrants in Wollongong that the Labor Government failed to meet. 
I wonder what on earth honourable members of the Australian Labor Party will talk about in future adjournment debates in the House after their enthusiasm and interest in interring the public status of  Sir John  Kerr has declined. It is intriguing to note that they are so bereft of comments to make about their own electorates, which apparently are doing reasonably well under this Government, and they are incapable of raising matters of national moment during the adjournment debate. I wonder whether in fact we have done them a great disservice by accepting  Sir John  Kerr's resignation from the post at the United Nations Educational Scientific and Cultural Organisation. We have now left them bereft of a current topic to discuss. I suppose the last flutterings could go on for a little while. 
Opposition members have spent half of the time allocated for this adjournment debate being excited about the matter. That is particularly so of the new honourable member for Bonython  (Dr Blewett),  who presented to the House the sort of dispassionate academic approach which I suppose one expects to be heard in universities these days. If one was in fact examining an issue and had a genuine concern to express a fair and justifiable position, I should think that one would cite authorities which have expressed both points of view. We heard only one side of the proposition put. We heard authorities being cited ad absurdum. As the honourable member for Bonython may well know, although with his academic background I doubt that he would because it relates to the other side of the issue, there are authorities which can be effectively cited to establish a proposition exactly opposite to that which the honourable member presented. There is a host of authorities, including that of a professor of law at Sydney University, which is a university that has a far greater reputation, justifiably earned, than that which the honourable member for Bonython graced. 
The proposition maintained by the Opposition is that there has been a great debate. We are asked whether we are aware of the great debate. Of course we are aware of the great debate about  Sir John  Kerr. It was a debate in which the people of Australia participated. They participated in it in such a way that they voted overwhelmingly in favour of what  Sir John  Kerr did. The Opposition Party was annihilated at the polls. I submit that the only area of grave concern, deep current division and great debate at the moment is within the Labor Party. While the Labor Party has been tearing itself apart trying to work out whose fault it was that it lost the last election it has in fact thrown a Christian to the lions. There is nothing within the Party opposite that can generate a genuine and proper opposition in this place. As a result honourable members opposite are spending their time fighting about who caused their latest disaster. They say that the disastrous results of the previous election were the fault of  Sir John  Kerr. 
As the honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil)  says, the wounds were totally self-inflicted. It would be nice and such a pleasant surprise if some honourable member opposite were to come into the House and say something that was new, interesting and accurate about the Kerr affair. If honourable members opposite are endeavouring to demonstrate that the bulk of academic opinion or senior legal opinion is of one mind, would it not be more honest to admit that there is a substantial body of legal opinion which takes the view that constitutionally and legally  Sir John  Kerr acted totally correctly and with propriety. What concerns me, however, is that now that  Sir John  Kerr is without the protection of his former office apparently we are to witness scurrilous attacks continuing to be made on him, despite his decision not to accept the role as Ambassador to UNESCO. One wonders whether the attacks on him are simply viciousness. 
-Is the Minister for Trade and Resources aware of a long-standing dispute between the New South Wales Water, Sewerage and Drainage Board and the Department of Mines over mining coal from beneath water reservoirs to the south of Sydney? What effect would the banning of beneath-reservoir coal mining have on the south coast underground coal mining industry in general and on my electorate in particular? 
-This is a very serious topic and I am glad to see that the Opposition is approaching it in such a serious way. Even though the speech of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Haydon)  may have represented the dragging out from some old closet many of the old catch-cries we heard during the election campaign, I think it demonstrated that there is a recognisable difference between the policies of the coalition parties and the Labor Party on which the people of Australia made a choice only last December. The decision that they made related to whether they wanted the policies which are now being espoused by the Leader of the Opposition or those being maintained by the present Government. It is evident from recent economic history in Australia that these different approaches have brought different results. Under Labor's policies there is no doubt that there was a trend to higher real wages. The figures demonstrate quite clearly that there was an increase of about 10 per cent in real wages during the period of the Labor Government. But those higher real wages went to fewer and fewer people. 
In only two years of Labor Government the unemployment rate trebled. The number of people actually employed, the number of people actually at work, in only one year under Labor declined so that fewer people received those higher wages. That is history, and I imagine that it is undisputed history. It demonstrates simply that that was a conscious economic policy from the gentlemen opposite and apparently it is being maintained here today. The difference between that policy and the Government's policy is that the Government is determined to provide wages to more and more people. If the cost of getting wages to more people means lower real wages to some people, that is in effect a far greater degree of wage justice than ever took place under the Labor Government. The facts are- these are facts that the Labor Party endeavours to pretend do not exist- that more people in Australia are employed today than there ever were under the Labor Government. The statistics which are available from the Australian Bureau of Statistics clearly demonstrate that. The statistics of employed persons show, for example, that in August last year 5,867,000 people were at work in Australia compared with only 5,688,000 people in the same month under the Labor Government, an increase of 1 80,000 people. 
I want to stress that more people are employed in Australia now than under Labor. If one wants to go back in history one can see, however, that the number of people at work actually declined under Labor when it pursued the policies which it is now endeavouring to force upon the people, at least through this Parliament. The facts demonstrate clearly that the policies the Labor Party is pursuing now are policies which did not work before. Even more disturbing than the selective use of statistics by the Leader of the Opposition to demonstrate that real wages had declined was the simple basic economic dishonesty involved in pretending that wages are the only component of consumer spending. 
That is arrant and straightforward nonsense. It is incompetent nonsense from a man who holds himself out to be a responsible economic commentator. It distresses me that the Leader of the Opposition has been able to maintain this facade of responsibility when in fact the economic claptrap he uses is so facile and nonsensical that I imagine a first year student in economics would be aware of the fact that wages are only one component of household disposable income and that in effect we can have the slight reduction in real wages that we have had (as a matter of determined economic policy) while at the same time having an increase in household disposable income, that is, the money that people actually have to spend, that they are capable of spending. I point out to the Opposition that in the Budget Speech that was clearly spelt out, if only honourable members opposite would turn their attention to it and understand it. On page 37 of the Budget Papers it is stated: 
Projected growth in average weekly earnings and prices would lead to some decline in real average earnings per employed person over the course of 1 977-78. 
In other words, what we are debating here today is what the Government said clearly would happen when the Budget was introduced in August 1977. It was on that Budget that the people of Australia judged us. The Budget Papers went on to state: 
Employment growth of the anticipated magnitude would, however, be sufficient to mean no decline in real aggregate earnings over the period. Given the actual and projected changes in personal taxes- the indexation reduction of 1 July 1977 and the new scales of 1 February 1978- cash benefits and other income components, aggregate real household disposable income would in these circumstances show a noticeable rise over the course of the year. 
If the Opposition needs a simple lesson in economics perhaps it could look to the various items on which the Government has legislated to provide for increased real income. Not even the Opposition can duck the reality of the tax cuts. They are a magnificent way of increasing the capacity of people to spend without adding to the cost burden of the Australian economy. That is something that the Opposition simply cannot conceive. It does not understand that the only coherent positive way in which we can get Australia out of this mess- the mess resulting from three years of hopeless spending under Labor- is the way we are doing it now, that is, reducing inflation and reducing costs. Since this Government came to power it has cut the inflation rate in half. That is the first basic essential way of getting Australia out of the spending-induced mess of 1973, 1974 and 1975. 
However, we agree with one point in the Leader of the Opposition's speech. We agree that it is essential to have a strong level of consumer spending. So here we have the Government and the Opposition agreeing with the basic point that the Leader of the Opposition tried to make. The point that we disagree about dramatically is the way in which we should go about doing it. The Leader of the Opposition wants increased spending power for people as a result of higher wages, which bring higher costs, which price people out of jobs, which make imports much more attractive than Australian goods and which rob us of our export markets. That is the pattern of what happened under the Labor Government and it is what the Leader of the Opposition now says should take place. On the contrary, we say that we must surely have a strong level of consumer demand, as Labor says, but we want it without increasing the cost to the nation, without pricing people out of their jobs and, as a former Federal Labor Treasurer once said, without meaning that 'one man's tax rise is another man's job'. The statistics of recent economic history demonstrate so clearly that that is exactly what happened under Labor. 
In brief, instead of bringing higher real wages to fewer people, we are endeavouring to bring smaller real wages to more people but at the same time to increase the total aggregate of household disposable income in Australia. I have since spoken to the Treasurer's office to see whether the expectation in the Treasury document, which I just read of higher domestic household disposable income will in fact be realised, whether the results are as expected. The answer I got today is that it is definitely correct; those projections are 'spot-on'. I think honourable members will find the Treasury managed to be pretty 'spot-on' last year. So there is higher disposable income for the average Australian. That is definitely part of Government policy. 
I think the facts are underscored by what has happened in retail sales since the tax cut took effect on 1 February. It is fascinating that in his lengthy quotations of many figures and his decimal points, which were probably the only sound points he made, the Leader of the Opposition failed to mention what had actually happened as a result of the tax cuts of 1 February, to what extent our policies are working not only in reducing inflation but also in increasing the capacity of Australians to buy products. This morning's  Sydney Morning Herald  had an article on this subject. In it it quotes  Mr R.  M. Lawrence, the Executive Director of the Retail Traders' Association of New South Wales, who said that a much brighter scene had appeared in the past few weeks following the tax cuts which applied from the first pay period in February. The article states: 
People have been realising particularly in the past two weeks that they have more take-home pay and that inflation is being brought under control. 
The two essential features of Government policy are confirmed here by the experience of retail traders, surely the very area where one would see a failure of Government policy if in fact there had been a failure. If there had been a failure we surely would have heard of it from the Leader of the Opposition. But instead of that the Executive Director of the Retail Traders' Association pointed out that because inflation is under control and take home pay has gone up people are prepared to get out and to spend. That is the way the economy will emerge from the terrible problems that were generated by the massive inflation of the Labor years.  Mr Lawrence  continued: 
In January there had been a lot of concern about unemployment and this had an influence on consumer confidence. It certainly was a disappointing month. 
The author of the article,  Mr Pierce,  stated: 
The pick-up reported by retailers is in line with economic forecasts that an increase in consumption spending should follow the tax cuts. 
These tax cuts were outlined in the August Budget and were a significant part of the Government's election campaign. They were understood by the voters of Australia who recognised that they provided a much better way of restoring economic confidence and therefore restoring the level of employment in Australia than anything that the Labor Party was suggesting. The article continues: 
On the basis of data from the Household Expenditure Survey ... the ANZ Bank estimated that there would be an increase in spending equal to about two-thirds of the amount of the tax cuts. 
Using this ratio the bank forecast that there would be an increase of around $270m in consumer spending for the rest of 1977-78. 
So the evidence clearly shows that the Government's policies are the right policies and that the Opposition's attacks on them are nonsense, and are shown to be nonsense in view of its failure over its three years. Also, the facts are now clearly showing that our policies are working well, and that there is no justification for an Opposition, which showed itself to be so incompetent in government, to claim that there is a lack of a cohesive wages policy and that this is having a serious effect on Australia. The facts are that provided this Government's policies continue, we are no longer in a situation where one man's pay rise will be another man's job. At last, under this Government, we will get an increase in employment instead of the decline we had when the Opposition's policies unfortunately held sway in this nation. 
-First of all I congratulate you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  on your appointment as  Chairman  of Committees. I would be grateful if you would convey to  Mr Speaker  my congratulations on his knighthood and on his re-appointment to the chair, a position which he fills with such dignity and impartiality. I also thank the electors of Macarthur for returning me, particularly as the Australian Labor Party candidate opposing me was of very high quality. I must say in all fairness that he is very highly regarded in the electorate. I regret that voters in Campbelltown, Cobbitty and Narellan did not on this occasion have the opportunity to vote in the electorate of Macarthur. They were transferred to the electorate of Werriwa. I hope that at least for some of them the prospect of their returning to the great electorate of Macarthur may emerge in the future. 
I also express some concern for the constituents in Macarthur. It would be foolish for any Government supporter to claim that everything in the garden is lovely. I think no Government supporter would be foolish enough to maintain that proposition seriously. What we have been maintaining with some vigour is that now there is a far greater prospect of success and recovery, of full employment, of economic stimulus and of the restoration of the sort of life to which people in Australia were accustomed and the sort of confidence with which they could look forward to the future. I believe that the restoration of these things is far more likely than it could ever have been had the Labor Government continued in office or had this Government's term been cut short at the last election. 
The areas in respect of which I certainly have a great deal of concern for my electorate in particular are fairly widespread. I am very concerned about the future of the miners who live and work in my electorate. I am concerned because the New South Wales Government is introducing legislation which is placing in jeopardy hundreds of jobs in the mining industry in my electorate. This is occurring because of the State Government's attitude to the mining of coal under stored waters. Its attitude appears to be a rejection entirely of a finding by an expert committee which examined this matter that no real risk was involved in mining under stored waters provided proper safeguards were maintained. The State Government's decision, as is evidenced by the introduction of a Bill in the State House last Thursday, is a disastrous one for a large number of my constituents. 
I am also concerned about the impact of the decision of the European Economic Community to take a very strong line about imports of Australian steel. It was bad enough for the coal miners in my electorate that the steel industry around the world was in such a disastrous state and that exports of coal were diminishing, but now that exports of steel from Australia are also under pressure it means that many of the mines which had assured, guaranteed outlets of coal to the plant of Australian Iron and Steel Pty Ltd at Port Kembla are now facing a very worrying time. They have large stockpiles. The protectionist self-interested attacks of the Europeans on our exports could bring serious problems regarding the employment of miners in my electorate. I hope that the Government will take a positive stand and do what it can to ensure that this highly skilled and competent work force in the South Coast mines of New South Wales will be retained and will continue to produce coal. The future of the industry is assured provided it can overcome its temporary problems. 
I am concerned about the paper mill workers in my electorate who are dependent on what one could almost call the whims of the Industries Assistance Commission. The paper industry is a major industry and a major employer in my electorate. I hope and feel sure that the Government will be adopting a most sympathetic attitude to the interests of paper mill workers in Australia in general and in the Shoalhaven area in particular. 
There are many pensioners in my electorate. I hope that the Government will be taking a serious look at some of the unfortunate consequences of the Labor Government's antipensioner legislation which still persists despite the reform which has taken place under the present Government. That reform, of course, relates to the increase in the tax-free zone that now removes so many pensioners from taxation liability. This taxation was imposed on pensioners for the first time by the so-called reforms of the Hayden Budget. Superannuitants had to pay tax. This Government has removed almost a quarter of a million of them from that category. I still believe that there is a great deal of scope for this Government to provide further relief to superannuitants particularly by way of fringe benefits. The Government's failure to recognise the significance of the cut-off level for the pensioner medical card, for example, strikes me as unfortunate. I hope it will fix up that situation. 
I am concerned about the dairy farmers in my electorate who have suffered severely from the unfair activity of the New South Wales Government which removed, without compensation, dairy farmers quotas. I welcome the continuation of the Federal Government's support schemes to assist the manufacturing milk section of that industry. If the Government in New South Wales had the same sympathetic understanding of the pressures on the requirements of the milk industry in that State I am certain that a large section of my electorate would be facing a far more happy future. Beef producers, I am afraid, may well not be facing in the immediate future a good time at all. It appears to me that non-American markets for Australian beef are drying up. It also seems very likely that a large number of Australian meat exporters are fast running out of their United States quota. It could well be that unless the Government provides greater assistance to help corporations and exporters to develop new markets, the beef producer may be looking at the wrong end of a price situation. 
It is the taxation situation, particularly as it affects primary producers, that worries me most. The difficult period through which so many primary producers have passed in recent years has resulted in many of them incurring serious losses. These losses have accumulated. As honourable members know, if one suffers a loss, one has the right to carry that loss forward to the next year's income and to the income for the year after that if the income in the first year is not enough to offset those losses. The principle is simple and quite proper. It is a serious burden for a farming family to have to go into debt as a result of incurring the losses which are now so universal throughout the rural sector. The changes in the tax laws which were implemented during the period when the present Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  was Treasurer of the Labor Government had a serious impact on the capacity of farmers to obtain a benefit from those carried forward losses. Whilst some of the measures that this Government has taken have greatly benefited many taxpayers, I submit that they have effectively worsened the relative position of farmers who have accumulated losses. 
There is no doubt that a farmer or small businessman with accumulated losses has been disadvantaged severely by the changeover from a deduction to a rebate system for concessional expenditures through being unable to derive a full tax saving from both his accumulated losses and his concessional expenditures. For example, let us consider the case of a farmer who is carrying forward losses amounting to $12,000 and who has an income in both the current year and the following year of $10,000. Let us assume that he has no dependants and has concessional expenditures such as life assurance, medical costs, land rates and so on amounting to $ 1,500. Under the pre-Hayden tax scale and deduction system, he would have been regarded as having no taxable income in the current year and therefore would not have to pay any tax but he would have been regarded as having a taxable income of $5,000 in the subsequent year and would have to pay a tax bill of $680. Under the 1977-78 tax system, in the current year he would have no tax to pay, as was the case under the old system, but in the following year his tax would be $1,410 instead of $680. No rebate would be available because his concessional exenditures did not exceed $1,590 a year. Hence, under the new system he would pay $730 more in tax in the second year. This has been brought about as a result of the improvements in the tax system.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I seek leave to have incorporated in  Hansard  a table prepared for me by the Parliamentary Library. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="108131197803086_37_0.jpg"></graphic>

-I thank the House. The problem arises basically because the deductions for concessional expenditures up to $1,590 were replaced in 1975-76 by a general rebate available to all taxpayers regardless of whether they incurred the itemised expenditures. However, the inclusion of accumulated losses in this situation has added a new dimension to the problem. The changeover to the new system has increased the tax burden significantly, particularly for primary producers and small businessmen, who incur both losses and concessional expenditures. I urge the Government to change this situation, which has been worsened by the introduction of the very large tax free zone. It means that accumulated losses are now being applied against income which does not attract tax anyway instead of against taxable income. If equity is to be provided to the many farmers I know who have suffered severe losses, I suggest that that kind of system should be changed. It is clearly inequitable. It is clearly wrong. Many farmers in my electorate will suffer as a result of this change, which clearly benefits so many taxpayers but which disadvantages so many farmers at a time when farmers are suffering severely for other reasons. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
Prior to the suspension of the sitting I was lamenting the fact that the changes in the taxation structure were having a seriously disadvantageous impact, particularly on farmers who had accumulated tax losses. I was stressing that it was grossly unfair that those people who are in the worst possible position should be treated so unreasonably as a result of gains by other groups in the tax structure. I earnestly hope- I stress this- that the Federal Government will recognise this serious disadvantage to many farmers in my electorate, to farmers throughout Australia and to small businessmen. 
I refer to another group in the tax structure which I think is grossly disadvantaged. I refer to a situation that has emerged as a result of the Federal Government's proper decision to remove death and gift duties. The consequence of this decision is serious in its impact on people who have endeavoured to make arrangements to minimise the payment of death duty by taking advantage of arrangements called Gorton arrangements. There is no doubt now that there is a serious risk of many farmers and family business people being in a situation where they will be seriously disadvantaged financially as a result of those arrangements and the curious approach by the Taxation Commissioner, although these duties are now being removed. I earnestly seek the Government's support for the proposition that all people who have come to Gorton-style arrangements should be allowed to undo them and face whatever tax disadvantages emerge from that undoing. The reason I put this proposition to the Government is that it is totally inequitable for the present situation to continue when the Government has now determined that death and gift duties should be removed, and in fact have been removed in regard to estates passing between parent and child and husband and wife as at 2 1 November last. 
If it is acceptable to the Government that people in those categories should no longer be hit with death and gift duties it is equitable that people who are still alive and who came to arrangements to avoid the payment of these duties should now be able to undo those arrangements without suffering the specific and vicious disadvantage being imposed upon them, I submit, by the Taxation Commissioner. I think there is justice and propriety in my suggested course of action. I am not suggesting that the Taxation Commissioner should be asked not to proceed in the current case in which people are rightly appealing against court judgments in support of the Commissioner's contention. It would be improper to tell the Commissioner what to do. All we have to do in equity is to allow those arrangements to be undone. 
An immense amount of time has elapsed since the original Gorton decision in the High Court. Eight years ensued between the decision in Gorton 's case and the decision in a subsequent case in the High Court, during which time many thousands of people relied on the original Gorton decision to come to these taxation arrangements. The High Court decision which put these propositions at risk was made by an evenly divided full High Court. My view is that that decision was incorrect. The fact was that it was clearly against all established commercial practice and was certainly contrary to common sense. Something like $500m of gift duty assessments is in question. Imagine the hardship that the collection of this amount of money would involve on people who are still alive, who had they not entered into this kind of agreement would not have been subject to estate duty, but who because they entered into these agreements must pay estate duty. The impact of this kind of situation on many farms and small businesses would clearly render a large proportion of them bankrupt. I believe that it would be totally improper for the Government to pursue this matter. 
I think there is an unfairness in the issue of the assessments and in the interest penalty of 10 per cent. This situation has existed for years and years, with uncertainty. The one thing that the Taxation Commissioner has an obligation to provide for the people of Australia is certainty. One must know whether the arrangements one is making are acceptable. The Commissioner did nothing for eight years, in effect, while allowing these schemes to proceed- schemes the merit and justice of which are such that the Government has removed the liability for the payment involved as at 2 1 November. I think the Government has an immediate obligation to do something about this situation. So,  Mr Deputy Speaker  - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
My question is addressed to the Prime Minister and follows the question asked by the honourable member for Forrest. What federal assistance has been made available to residents of New South Wales in general and of my electorate in particular who suffered severely in the recent floods? Further, what progress has been made in implementing the Federal Government's $200m water resource program, including flood mitigation, announced last month by the Prime Minister, on which the States were to be approached for their participation? Have all the States responded in a satisfactory way? 
-Apart from the emotive words, the honourable member for Bonython  (Dr Blewett)  made some interesting points, particularly in respect of the profession of tax dodging. He quite properly pointed out that tax dodging is taking a great deal of the talent of sections of the accountancy profession and is involving a large number of bureaucrats within the government service in a continual game. I think that was his expression. There is no doubt that never before in the history of Australia have we seen such concerted attacks on the revenue as have taken place in recent times. Never before have we seen such enormous volumes of revenue at risk as have been at risk in recent times. Those volumes are reaching such extraordinary heights that it has been suggested to the Government that the amount of money at risk in Curran schemes- I say at risk because I understand the Commissioner has lodged disallowances on all Curran schemes, although they may not be upheld- exceeds the amount of money that will be coming back to the taxpayers of Australia as a result of the very significant tax benefits that were introduced from February of this year. 
There is no doubt that the problem facing the Government is serious. The big question is whether the emotive actions, along with the emotive words, recommended by the honourable member for Bonython are the correct methods of dealing with this problem. One wonders whether it is innocence or incompetence that leads the Australian Labor Party- I suggest it is incompetence, because none of its members has had much commercial experience- to believe that all one has to do to counter a tax dodging scheme is to introduce a law banning it. Apparently members of the Labor Party are unaware of the fact that the phrasing of the legislation involved is a very difficult process. It must avoid preventing quite proper commercial transactions which have a quite proper purpose but which may be affected accidentally by incompetent, blundering legislation such as the style of legislation that we were accustomed to during the period from 1973 to 1975. That kind of legislation must be avoided at all costs. 
While the Labor Party was in government its own Treasurers found themselves unable to provide legislation that would deal effectively with one of the tax dodges that we as a government are dealing with today. Whether one should say that the Treasurer who intended to introduce it, the Honourable Frank Crean, was remiss in not bringing forward legislation to block this loophole I suggest is a matter for oneself to judge. The facts are that he was forced to resign within a few days because he refused to participate in a disgraceful cheat and fraud on the Australian public by pretending that a loan of $4,000m was for temporary purposes. He was sacked. As a result of that, his warning that he was going to introduce legislation could not be carried out by him. The next Treasurer apparently had his mind on other things, or was it another thing? The Treasurer after that- still in the Labor Government- was the Treasurer who eventually realised that his predecessors had brought an economic disaster. He thought that it might be an idea if he tried, no matter how ineffectively, to do something about it. So his attention was directed slightly away from the tax dodge situation. Recognising that the warning of Frank Crean had been taken to heart by the profession, as I understand it, the volume of what I would term evasion under the Curran scheme was very small indeed. 
Then came the Liberal-National Country Party return to office. I regret to say that it took until the second Budget before this matter was dealt with, and I can understand why. The volume of disaster in the economy was so huge that, naturally, the Treasurer's attention was directed towards matters of more immediate moment than chasing a tax dodge scheme which, on the advice at that time, was not being used by the profession, by the people who have been so emotionally described by the honourable member for Bonython. I thought that the honourable member had an opportunity to make a much more serious contribution than he did. He used an extraordinary volume of emotional words. He had a chance, but I think he blew it. 
The other point that I think is worth mentioning is that it was only as a result of the evidence of an enormous volume of avoidance schemes coming under the banner of the Curran scheme that the Government took a decision which is totally opposite to the principles of good government, and on that I support  Sir William  McMahon. We were obliged to take the decision only because of the presence of an even greater principle, and that is the principle that the tax laws and taxation generally must be applied fairly over the whole community. The volume of assault on the revenue represented by the Curran scheme has been such as not only to dent that principle but also to destroy it. I suggest that in this case, where we have a conflict of principles, it is essential that the major principle be supported. 
That is why so many members on this side of the House, who totally opposed the concept of retrospectivity when it was suggested to us last year in the matter of section 36A, found it intolerable to accept the proposition that people who had so damaged the principle of the fairness of application of taxation should be allowed to get away with it. Nevertheless, it means that this Government and members on this side of the House could not possibly tolerate the disgraceful suggestions being made by honourable members opposite that commercial transactions, even of a very reasonable nature, should be carried on at risk of continual retrospective legislation, which is what the party opposite is now presenting to us in this amendment. 
It is extraordinary that a party which when in government succeeded in destroying the confidence of business, destroying the gross domestic product, bringing about the greatest rise in unemployment in our history, has not yet discovered why all that happened. It is still taking the view that to govern is simply to wave a magic wand and everything will happen, that if it shakes the money tree the goodies will fall out. It is not only incompetent, it is naive, it is stupid. It is a return to the great days of the Whitlam era when there was such incompetence in government and in handling the affairs of state, and it is disappointing to see that no lessons have been learned. Once again the Opposition threatens that if it ever gets back into government it will create a climate in which commercial decisions can be made and then, when in fact the laws under which the decisions are made are clear and unquestioned, change those laws, after the event, to make ineffective decisions which were made. 
Let us recognise the fact that when a corporation or a group of individuals makes a decision which is acceptable before the law and before the Commissioner and then finds, after the event, that the decision is reversed, it may well be placed in a disastrous situation. It may have committed the benefits of that arrangement into the future. It may have tied themselves up in expansion, such as commercial expansion, for example, in order to employ people. Let us face the fact that one of the reasons why so many businessmen terminated the employment of people during the days of the Labor Government was that they did not know what on earth would happen next. That is the situation to which the Labor Party wants us to return. It is only because of the massive principle involved, namely, the equality in tax of every person in Australia, that the action against the Curran scheme is to be allowed with limited retrospectivity. I stress the word 'limited' because it certainly is to apply within the same tax year, for example. 
That is absolute nonsense. You are taking it back to the beginning of the financial year. If you want to read your own amendment, please do so. 
So attempts by the Opposition to wipe out the whole of the tax year are apparently beyond its wit to understand. That probably underlines its incapacity to cope with the area of tax. Let us face the fact that the Labor Party was in government for quite some time after December 1974 but it was incapable of solving the problem which this Government is solving now. I want to make a serious point as well about the level of debate which has come from the Opposition. 
I said 'as well', but I presume it is beyond your capacity to understand that. 
The interesting manner in which debate has progressed this afternoon is of great distress to me in that I have been appalled at the level of vicious personal attack on various High Court judges. The comments that have been made do the Opposition no merit whatsoever. I think it is disgraceful to imply, as in fact did the honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi),  that High Court judges have a tax dodge mentality. The honourable member said that they cannot help themselves. He suggested that the High Court was not the proper place to carry out tax appeals. I agree that I have found the decisions of the High Court on tax matters not to be attractive; I disagree with them strongly. I find it a fairly appalling method of debate in this chamber for honourable members to accuse, as did the honourable member for Hawker, members of the High Court of having a vested interest in finding against tax matters. I believe that that kind of disgraceful conduct should merit an apology and a withdrawal. Whether or not we agree with the High Court's tax decisions- I must say that I do not- I believe that that kind of debate does this House no merit whatsoever. Certainly in the case of the honourable member for Hawker it represents an even lower standard of debate than he has shown himself capable of so frequently in the past. 
There are some points which should be made about the legislation. I agree with the motives behind the right honourable member for Lowe  (Sir William McMahon)  in relation to one area which is of obvious concern to him. He wants a clear reduction in the level of discretion available to the Commissioner. To that end I ask the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  whether he can ensure that as soon as possible a very clear statement is made of the manner in which the Commissioner plans to exercise his discretion, because there is no doubt that there are very substantial areas of discretion in this legislation. I would think that there is a risk of some uncertainty occurring in the business community, particularly in respect of genuine transactions, if such a wide range of discretion exists. I believe also that it is unfortunate that there is a necessity for discretion. I do not know the way out of it. I do not think the Opposition has any awareness of how to solve the problem. I suggest that perhaps we could considerI ask the Treasurer to consider this proposition- having a very serious look at section 80 of the Income Tax Assessment Act, that section being the one which allows losses to be carried forward. 
It may well be that one of the best ways of handling the tax avoidance industry which has grown up is not to adopt this swinging axe technique espoused by subtle honourable members opposite but to have a serious look at methods by which we can prevent the continued rape of the revenue by schemes once they are discovered. All we have to do in that situation is to legislate in such a way that a scheme, once discovered, will not carry forward into the following year. Clearly I believe that we will then effectively destroy a large section of the tax avoidance industry with its immense waste of resources and waste of brilliant minds, both within the government and outside it. On the one hand, there are minds which spend their time trying to prevent the rape of the revenue and, on the other hand, there are minds which try to prevent the rape of the taxpayer, particularly following the enormous increases in taxation which took place under the administration of our predecessors. 1 ask the Treasurer to examine the possibility of altering section 80 of the Act in order to cope with this problem. 
We have to face the fact that the major problem in dealing with tax avoidance is to define the specific scheme under which tax avoidance is taking place. The definition must be exact and must be specific. That is one of the reasons why I have always been nervous of statements made by Treasurers well in advance of the introduction of legislation, because the broad sweep of the statement made by the Treasurer may not in fact be backed up by the specifics of the legislation. I submit that where there is a large gap between the warning and the law governments are in fact governing by threat rather than by legislation. I find that to be a most unsatisfactory situation. 
I believe that the Opposition has exposed one of its major flaws in its own philosophic position by continuing to confuse the word 'avoidance' with the word 'evasion'. Evasion is illegal. I submit that there is no argument, from this side of the House, or from anywhere else, with the proposition that evasion must be severely dealt with. But tax avoidance is something in which every honourable member of this House, including honourable members opposite, takes part. Whenever honourable members submit a claim for expenses in their tax return, whenever they seek a deduction they are avoiding tax which would otherwise be paid. Surely their intellects can grasp that simple point. Yet some honourable members have been saying today that both avoidance and evasion are equally morally wrong. What nonsense. 
I wonder how many members of the Opposition have avoided, in a proper and legal way, quite a considerable amount of taxation simply by filling in their tax forms and showing that they have incurred various expenses in relation to wives, dependants and so on. That is avoidance. Every person has a duty on behalf of his family and himself to avoid the amount of tax that he can avoid. But, every person has a duty to the State to meet the taxes he should pay. This Government through this legislation is doing something to bring about a fair level of taxation in Australia, something which the Labor Government failed dismally to do. 
I congratulate the honourable member for Bonython  (Dr Blewett)  on making a sound point indeed relating to the question raised by the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman)  who quoted at great length various legal principles. The point made in each one of those quotations was that generally, but not universally, retrospectivity is unacceptable. The word 'universally' is recognisably different. All of us who are supporting retrospectivity of this piece of legislation maintain that proposition. We support the view expressed in those quotations by the honourable member for Denison because we support the view that generally one should not act retrospectively. But it seems to me that there are specific reasons why the people who wrote those words did not use the word 'universally' and they are reasons that are prompting me and the bulk of us on this side of the chamber to support the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  in applying specifically to this case a proposition which would not be generally supported by this side of the chamber. 
This leads us to deal seriously with the question: How fundamental is this principle being put to us, that one can in no circumstance retrospectively do something. We have heard from the right honourable member for Lowe  (Sir William McMahon)  who brings an immense amount of experience in this area. He said that a man cannot be penalised for an act he has done which was lawful at the time. I find no objection to that and I would be astounded if any honourable member on this side of the chamber would find objection to it. But I am yet to discover to what extent this legislation makes unlawful what was lawful previously. One can still proceed with one's schemes. They are not made illegal. I am suggesting that the whole principle that has been quoted, the principle that is being maintained in all the quotations from my colleagues on this side, is related specifically to one element. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
Before the suspension of the sitting I was making the point that the principles being established very forcefully here by some members of the Liberal Party were principles that all of us are prepared to accept willingly. However, what we are claiming is that many of the allegations of breaches of these principles simply do not involve breaches. In particular I was referring to a proposition put by the right honourable member for Lowe who said that a man cannot be punished or penalised for an act he has done which was lawful at the time he acted. The point I was simply making was that this legislation makes no actions illegal; it does not affect in any way the lawful standing of those acts. It simply prevents a benefit flowing from those actions. 
I would submit to the Committee that it is neither logical nor sensible to claim that the rule of law that is established for the purpose of justice and for maintaining the law extends into this area, particularly when the matters quoted by the honourable member for Denison quite clearly demonstrate that this is a general principle, not a universal principle. The point is that this Bill is a specific example of where the general principle should not apply. I underline again that nothing in this legislation has been made unlawful, and therefore the principle does not extend to this area in this case. It has been alleged that this suggests that we have a price on principle. The honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Bun ) made a point that I find difficult to follow. He said that the only reason we were pursuing this matter was that our principles had a price. The self-evident proposition, if the honourable member for Wilmot and the honourable member for Denison are prepared to listen to it, is that the laws must be equitably applied, that tax must be seen in an equitable situation. 
It is only when avoidance schemes like this bring about a situation where there are inequitiesin other words when the tax avoidance schemes are so large that they make the system inequitable- that the principle of equity is breached. So it is absolute nonsense to protest that we have a price on principle. The reality is that it is only when the size of the avoidance comes so large that there is no longer equity in the tax system that the principle of equity must take precedence. It is not a question of 'may'; it is a question of 'must'. It is by far the major principle. It must take precedence over any suggestion that retrospectivity may well not be the best general- not universal- thing. So it is clear that, in the conflict of principle that exists here, the major principle is one of equity, and it has been breached. 
The next point which I think should be dealt with is the comment by some of my colleagues, with whom I disagree, about the action of the Treasurer in making retrospective this specific section relating to Curran schemes. The allegation has been made that this creates a precedent, that the Opposition would otherwise have been sufficiently dull witted or incompetent to be able to grasp on its own accord. That is arrant nonsense. There have been many instances -I will cite one- in which the Labor Party has enacted retrospective tax legislation. I draw to the attention of the Committee the disgraceful piece of legislation that wiped out the accumulated tax free reserves of mining companies. This was done in 1974 when the tax situation was changed in relation to the tax free nature of earnings from gold mining companies and certain copper mining companies. PekoWallsend Ltd had for many years reinvested its profits in Tennant Creek in the expectation that those tax free reserves would then be available to shareholders whenever the company felt it was in the interests of the company and the nation to distribute them in profits rather than to re-invest them in what is clearly a magnificent operation for the benefit of all Australians. But the fact that the company did not distribute that money meant that when the Labor Party came to power it retrospectively destroyed the tax free nature of those reserves amounting to something like $25m. 
I find it extraordinary that some of my colleagues would have a sufficiently convenient memory to forget that. It may well have been that when they were in the House at the time- I was not- they did not sufficiently strenuously object to that retrospective action. I certainly do now. I suggest to the Committee that the principle of retrospectivity has been breached in the past in instances where there was no consideration of equity. It was breached by the Labor Party in those situations. The only reason that principle is being breached at the moment is because of the much greater principle of equity. 
I make a very brief comment about clause 17. 1 am certain the Committee will welcome my remarks, particularly in respect of that part of the clause which indicates that people who take advantage of primary producer trusts will not in fact receive that benefit if the share of the trust income in the income year is below $1,040. 1 am interested in that part of the clause which refers to the Commissioner of Taxation being satisfied that the interest was not acquired primarily to gain the benefit of averaging. I note, of course, that the onus is on the taxpayer to establish that he was not in such a situation. I am simply hoping that the Commissioner will be adopting a fairly liberal view because I would imagine there will be many primary producers genuinely concerned with trusts who will in fact be in an income situation well below $ 1 ,040. 
Clauses agreed to. 
Clause 20. 
After section 160 ac of the Principal Act the following sections are inserted: 
160ACA(1) . . . 
'(25) Where a person has ..een allowed, or is entitled to, a rebate under this section in an assessment in respect of income of that person, the amount of moneys paid on shares to which that rebate relates shall not be allowable as a deduction from the assessable income of that person and shall not be taken into account for the purposes of this Act in ascertaining the amount of any profit or loss arising from sale of the shares in respect of which the moneys were paid. 
-As a member of the Government members' tax subcommittee I express my and my fellow members ' appreciation of the kind way in which the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  listened to our points, took note of them and consequently moved this amendment. The co-operation that the Treasurer has given the Committee is certainly appreciated. I also mention in respect of this clause that some members on this side of the House regret that this opportunity was not taken to extend this kind of incentive on a wider scale to mining companies. There have been some improvements in the legislation, but perhaps not enough yet to enable this incentive to be extended without fear of the revenue being assaulted the way it was during the mining boom. This will be so particularly if the legislation succeeds in limiting the deduction to eligible outgoings, which it seeks to do. In response to the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  I make the point that, as I understood it, under the old section 77D the transfer of the tax benefit invariably was to the subscriber so in effect all this clause is doing is solidifying what was the situation when this provision previously existed. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Remainder of Bill- by leave- taken as a whole, and agreed to. 
Bill reported with an amendment; report- by leave- adopted. 
-It is bad enough that the proceedings of this chamber are not televised, but it is even worse that they are not being broadcast today, particularly when some of the people who formerly were involved allegedly in entertaining people through the media are performing concussively rather than consecutively. If either of those sections of the media had been present, I think its ratings would have been abysmal. Those remarks relate to the previous speech. I hope that the present one will attract greater support. Judging by the volume of people listening to the debate in the House, the ratings would not be particularly great anyway. 
I would like to raise a couple of matters about these Bills, which relate to licence fees and amendments to various Acts. The first matter is one which particularly concerns my electorate. Whilst the paying of licence fees is a matter of interest to all licence holders, the actual granting of the licences and the traumas involved in that are also matters of some moment. Very reasonable amendments were made to these Acts last year enabling translator and repeater stations to be brought into areas that required them. I am concerned that the administration of these amendments may well involve and run the serious risk of involving a requirement to hold more public hearings. I do not object to public hearings into the granting of licences. What concerns me is the extent to which a radio station which makes an application for a licence to operate a translator or repeater station which will give that station better access to an area already granted to it should be subject to further inquiry and great expense. In particular radio station 2ST in Nowra- I have mentioned this matter to the Minister- over a year ago applied for a translator in order to get its signal into the Bowral and Moss Vale areas of its granted licence field. The Board - 
Yes, the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal has been looking at this matter for quite some time. But different answers are always seen to be given as to why the radio station cannot operate this facility, the latest being that the Tribunal is not certain whether the radio station is actually entitled to that full area. I believe that every government has the right to scrutinise applications for the use of the public's air waves. All I ask the Minister to do is to take a very reasonable view, as I know he will, of matters requiring massive expense by licensees to ensure that they retain their originally granted licence areas. Stations should be able to make proper use of translator or repeater stations in order to get their signal effectively into areas already granted to them. I raise this matter because I understand there is some pressure within the bureaucracy to require hearings into applications by radio stations for the extension of a decent signal into areas already granted, particularly where this signal will in fact extend perhaps by good fortune into some neighbouring areas. I hope that the excessive involvement of the bureaucracy that I believe this would involve into the proper activities of radio stations should be inhibited by the Minister in a friendly way. 
I would also like to raise another matter which affects my electorate. I refer to a recognisable need for two improvements to the radio and television situation in the Illawarra region. First, there is clearly a need for the Illawarra region to have access to FM broadcasts. At the moment the people of the region cannot pick up effectively these broadcasts although it would be an easy matter for these broadcasts to be transmitted into this area. I understand that this could be done by adding some equipment to the television tower that already exists at Knights Hill which is not very far from my house. From the volume of correspondence that I have had from constituents I certainly believe that the excellent Australian Broadcasting Commission FM programs would receive a very wide listening public in the Illawarra region. 
I am also under the impression from a large volume of correspondence that I have received from people in my electorate that there is scope for an extended ABC television coverage in the Wollongong area. I know that the Minister will consider very seriously the matters I have raised. 
I point out that the amendments contained in this Bill are evidence of the continuing and substantial input that back bench committees have made on the legislative process of this House. Last year the original legislation received very close scrutiny from back bench committees. I hope that the Government will continue to be as receptive to the many matters that have been raised as it has been in the past. I hope in particular that the matters I have raised will be dealt with in a receptive manner. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Transport. Is it possible for the spirit of the Commonwealth-State Roads Agreement to be broken by a State government's deliberately deferring the spending of allocated funds until late in the financial year in order to transfer these funds to projects in other areas that do not have approval? Has this spirit been broken by the New South Wales Government by making little or no apparent progress in the Shoalhaven shire in my electorate on important road construction projects, totalling $1.7m, which the Minister approved in the 1977-78 rural arterial roads program. If approved Commonwealth funds are not spent within the next eight weeks on projects in the Shoalhaven shire, will the money be carried forward to the next financial year? If so, will this be at the expense of next year's projects in the shire? 
-The House is well aware of the fact that there has been an industrial dispute at Port Kembla which has held up the export of 300,000 tonnes of coal from the southern and south-western areas of New South Wales. The House is well aware of the fact that this dispute has cost something like $ 1 m a day in exports which obviously has a serious effect not only on the Australian economy but also on the economy of the region that I represent. The House is also no doubt well aware that had there not been such a disgraceful lack of adequate coal loading facilities the power of a small, selfish and reckless group of government employees to disrupt the economy of that region could not have been exercised. It is also interesting to note that members of the Australian Labor Party did not rise to support this matter being discussed,  Mr 

 Deputy Speaker, when you called for those members who approved of the discussion to rise in their places. One member of the Labor Party, the honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr West),  who apparently will be speaking reluctantly on this subject, did not rise to support the discussion of this matter of public importance.  His  constituents are seriously affected, as are mine, by the disgraceful lack of adequate coal loading facilities. It is interesting to note that he refused to support the discussion of this matter in the House. I am glad to have given him the opportunity that he has not grasped either in the area or in this House. 
I now wish to dramatise to the House that the dispute which has brought the matter to a head has not been the major issue. The dispute simply brought to a head a situation which had already reached crisis state. 
-That is true. New South Wales is a crisis State, under a Premier who is now busily engaged in trying to divert attention from the consequences of determined and deliberate policy decisions which have brought about this crisis and which have created a situation in which a $lm a day dispute by employees of the Government can so seriously damage a region and so seriously damage the economy of the area. The interesting thing is that  Mr Wran  - 
I do not see him as an also ran; I see him more as a four-letter word. I would think that his nonsensical attempts to cloud his policy failures by rushing off on a jaunt to America and coming back with claims of non-existent contracts with America are farcical in the context that the southern area does not have the coal loading capacity to meet these contracts and will not have such capacity for many years to come. The State Labor Government, which cancelled the Botany Bay coal loader proposal of the previous Government, has done nothing for two years to replace that coal loader which would have been coming into operation this year. Even more serious is the fact that it took the State Labor Government one full year to make up its mind not to proceed with the Botany Bay coal loader. In the meantime it did nothing to provide any alternative whatsoever. It did nothing to increase the capacity at Balmain. It waited for one year, after it took the decision last May not to proceed with the Botany Bay proposal, before doing one thing. What was required was clearly evident to anyone who had any involvement in that industry. It should have been clearly evident even to the honourable member for Cunningham, although at that time he was busily engaged in involving himself in industrial unrest on the Port Kembla waterfront as a union representative in that area. Part of a tradition is involved. 
I stress that it was evident that there would be a massive increase in coal exports from the southern and south-western regions, for a variety of reasons. It was clear, on the understanding from the previous State government that there would be increased capacities, that it was reasonable for the coal mining companies to undertake significant expansion in the area. This they did. There have been very significant increases in capacity in new mines in the Wollondilly area and generally in the Illawarra region. Unfortunately, this expansion has largely been brought to a halt as a result of the Wran Government's decision not to proceed with the Botany Bay loader. There has been continuing uncertainty for two years about what on earth would happen about coal loading. As a result Clutha Development Pty Ltd has put on ice projects- projected expansions and projected new mines- in the Wollondilly area which would have employed another 600 miners to start with, let alone the many other people who would be involved in the coal mining industry. As a result of the Wran Labor Government's determined and deliberate policies there is now a contraction, a shutting down and a failure to expand in an industry which could and should have brought expanding employment into my electorate and certainly into the electorates of the honourable member for Cunningham and the honourable member for Hughes (  Mr Les  Johnson). 
We had a clear indication that there would be an expansion. Of course, a lot of that expansion was already under way and as a result the companies are now looking for a way to get coal out of Australia. For the Premier of New South Wales to criticise the coal companies as he did, saying that they should have known that there was not enough capacity and therefore they should not have entered into contracts to sell coal, is one of the most asinine things I have heard from that notable Premier. It is extraordinary that he should have made that criticism. In the first place, the lack of coal loading capacity is entirely his own fault. He was obliged not to proceed with the Botany Bay coal loader on the basis of a simple and uncomplicated political deal that he made with the left wing in New South Wales, under the  Deputy  Premier,  Mr Ferguson.  It was a disgraceful and transparent political deal. That is why  Mr Wran  cannot backtrack on the decision, although it is evident that Botany Bay is the ideal place for a coal loader. It is all very well for  Mr Wran  to say that the coal companies should not have entered into those contracts. The alternative to trying to get those sales was to sack coalminers. Is that what the Premier of New South Wales wanted? Is that what his colleagues in this House want? That was the alternative. Let us face it, the coal companies have tried to do the decent thing. They have stockpiled coal until it is coming out of their ears. It is very difficult now to find areas in the Illawarra region and up the escarpment where the stockpiling capacity can be expanded. The State Pollution Control Board, for example, will not allow the coal mines to increase their storage capacity of coal at grass, and all this is a result of determined and deliberate State Government policies. It is extraordinary in this situation that a Labor Premier of New South Wales should criticise coal companies for giving jobs to coal miners, because that is what it means. 
It is interesting to look at the other activities that the Wran Labor Government has undertaken in destroying the economics of the area and affecting the economy as a whole in relation to exports. It is extraordinary that the Botany Bay coal loader was cancelled on the basis of an environmental report which was regarded as absolutely vital, absolutely significant. Let me remind the Opposition here and the Labor Government in New South Wales that reports affecting the coal industry, produced at great expense, do not seem to have much impact when they relate to mining under stored waters, as was the case with the Reynolds report. That report recommended that mining should be allowed to continue under stored waters and, as honourable members know, many of the coal companies in the Illawarra region are involved in mining under the upper reaches of the Avon and Cordeaux dams. That report cost $3m; the inquiry was headed by a judge. The State Labor Government has rejected it out of hand. It is extraordinary that when an anti-miner decision is involved the State Labor Government will oppose a report by a judge, even though that opposition is against the best interests of the mining companies and the miners themselves; yet when there is a decision that would be to the benefit of the mining industry, that is, the location of a coal loader at Botany Bay, the State Labor Government hides behind an environmental report which, quite frankly, is very poor indeed in quality. That is particularly significant when it is recognised that the State Pollution Control 
Board had recommended Botany Bay as the location for a coal loader. Is it not extraordinary - 
It is extraordinary indeed, as the honourable member says, for the State Labor Government to maintain these consistent antiminer policies that are aimed at bringing about mounting unemployment in the region to the benefit, curiously enough, of the Queensland coal industry. This is the disastrous situation. As the House is well aware, the Japanese steel industry has been obliged to cut back on its imports of Australian coal. It has cut back by only 10 per cent on Queensland coal, but the level of contracts for southern and south-western New South Wales coal has been cut back to something like 63 per cent. Why have the Japanese been able to cut back to that level? The answer, very simply, is that the southern area cannot export more coal. In other words, the Wran Labor Government has provided the Japanese with the greatest excuse one can imagine for discriminating against southern and south-western coal. There is no capacity to get more coal out of the Balmain or Port Kembla coal loaders. Now, because there is something like a two million tonne gap between contracts for the rest of this calendar year and the capacity of the coal loaders in the region to handle it, coal from the southern coalfields is being sent to Newcastle to be exported from there. 
Exactly, carrying coals to Newcastle. It is a nonsensical situation, costing somewhere between $5.50 and $6 a tonne. That is an added burden being imposed on the coal mining industry by the Wran Government. What coal mining companies are going to expand their capacity and increase their employment when they are faced with that kind of expense for some time to come? Let us face it, the Port Kembla coal loader, which is supposed to save the industry from these disasters, has not even been started. The Wran Labor Government has not even made up its mind exactly where the coal loader is going to be. It was going to be off-shore; now it is going to be on-shore. It will not be big enough to cope with the major ships the Japanese want it to cope with. We heard only today that the railway line which was allegedly to go between Picton and Port Kembla is now not going to be built at all. In other words, all the coal from the Wollondilly area that it is said should be railed to Sydney will go via Tempe, within two miles or so of the place where the Botany Bay coal loader would have been located, and there will be an additional cost of $1.60 to take that coal from Tempe to Port Kembla. But that does not matter to the New South Wales Government. It does not matter a damn. If it involves miners losing their jobs, that does not matter; if it involves cancelling the expansion of coal mines, that does not matter, provided that a sordid deal with the left wing in New South Wales relating to some seats on the northern shore of Botany Bay is sustained. That is all that matters to the Wran Labor Government. 
I believe this is a most disgraceful situation. In my mind, it is essential that in the first place the State should drop the discriminatory harbourdeepening charge it is imposing on the southern coal that is going to Newcastle harbour. But it has not got the decency to do that. It is essential that the State Labor Government wake up to itself and allow the private enterprise section of this industry to build the Botany Bay coal loader, which will solve the problem at no expense to the State. For two years nothing has happened. For two years this industry has been oppressed. I have been warning in this House and outside it for the last two years about what would happen as a result of that crazy decision. I get no joy from the fact that my forecasts are being proved right, that the Wran Labor Government's policies have brought about a disastrous situation in this industry and have put at risk so many jobs in my electorate and in the neighbouring electorates in the region. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Armitage)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I understand and sympathise with the concern that has prompted the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  to raise this matter. There is no doubt that there has been a need to correct the past economic problems that have so affected the economic growth of this nation. There is no doubt that the experience of the years 1973, 1974 and 1975, underlined the fact that there were some very serious problems in this nation. In fact, they were being inadequately resolved during that period in particular which was the period of the Australian Labor Party Government. It was interesting, therefore, to hear the honourable member for Gellibrand talk about the need for the creation of yet another bureaucracy when, in fact, the creation of bureaucracies was the major achievement of that three years of economic disaster. 
The interesting point that strikes one when listening to the honourable member for Gellibrand is his insistence that such a body, as he would recommend, would not be taking a centralised, authoritarian stance. It would not be a centralised planning body and in fact the intention would be that it would have close consultation with the private sector and government. The issue now before the House and before the nation is whether the people of Australia could trust a Labor Government with such a planning instrument in its hands. The experience of three years of Labor Government suggests that they should not, not only because of the opportunities that such a body would provide for abusing the power which would flow to a centralised body and which apparently, would have a minimum of external control but also because it would exaggerate to a substantial degree the existing tendency to concentrate economic power in Canberra. 
There is no doubt that in philosophic terms, as the honourable member for Gellibrand pointed out, the Government parties take the strong view that the concentration of power in Canberra, as happened during the Whitlam years, is not in the best interests of Australia. The economic results that flowed from that concentration of power dramatised clearly that it is not in the best interests of Australia. We had, as the House is well aware, the worst inflation, the worst of almost everything, during those three years. But listening to the honourable member for Gellibrand one wondered whether he was aware of the fact that last year the Department of the Treasury was split in two, that for many of the things he was talking about there has been the effective creation of a new governmental structure and not one, I submit, that is as amenable to the concentration of power as the honourable member for Gellibrand would wish. He even wishes to add many other functions to this new centralised, socialistic body. 
What happened as a result of this Government's activities, recognising the problems that had clearly emerged during the period of Labor Government, was that the Department of the Treasury was split in two. The Department of Finance was created to deal with the more mundane financial matters, whereas the new Department of the Treasury, was allowed much greater freedom in concentrating on economic planning. I read from the statement of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  when he announced these new departmental arrangements. He stated: 
The new departmental arrangements are designed to help make more manageable the heavy work load of economic and financial  exenditure  management which necessarily falls to the Treasurer and senior officials. In addition, it will be possible under the new arrangements for more concentrated attention to be given at the departmental level to the functions  of  financial budget management and the development of forward estimating, as well as to the  anlaysis  of economic issues and the formulation of economic strategy proposals for consideration by Government. 
There we have this Government recognising the problem that was generated, and certainly dramatised, in the previous ten years, as the honourable member for Gellibrand quite rightly points out. But of course it was exacerbated under the disastrous three years of the Whitlam Government. This Government recognised the problem and in fact it has already done something about it. There is already an increasing scope for consultation on economic planning with the private sector. Honourable members will notice that the honourable member for Gellibrand, apart from a passing reference about the intention to co-operate with the private sector, was imposing another bureaucracy. 
It is interesting that the honourable member for Gellibrand should have continually mentioned the recommendations of  Sir James  Vernon in that very interesting report. I must say, quite frankly, I regret that that report's recommendations were not accepted by the then Government. I believe it was a mistake when that report was pigeonholed by the Government under the late  Sir Robert  Menzies. I have said that very clearly in the House and outside it. The fact is that the one vital thing that that report, which the honourable member for Gellibrand so clearly supported in part here today, clearly recommends against is the creation of another bureaucracy. It says the way to resolve the problem is not to create another Government department. It was interesting that that section of the report was not mentioned by the honourable member for Gellibrand. Instead, the Vernon Committee very clearly wanted an independent body. It is within the context of that sort of recommendation that the present Government has created these groups which have a capacity for economic input to allow forward planning of the economy, not to be done in an authoritarian and dictatorial way by the Government but in consultation with the people who will be affected by it, that is the business community and the unions. I quote from the statement setting up the economic consultative group by this Government. It stated: 
An Economic Consultative Group has been formed to promote a greater degree of consultation and an improved flow of information between Government and the private sector. 
The Government wishes to operate closely with the private sector and all Ministers have been asked to review the operations of existing advising bodies, so as to ensure that the Government has adequate and appropriate advice available to it. 
I interpose here to stress that this Government's attitude is that its management of the economy should be in consultation with private enterprise, that it should receive advice from and not dictate to the private sector. The statement went on: 
Within that context it is important that a dialogue be instituted with leaders from industry and the trade union movement. The Economic Consultative Group will provide appropriate machinery for the purpose of economicdiscussion . . . 
It states that the formation of an economic consultative group will ensure that the Government is kept informed about the state of affairs in the private sector. A statement points out that emphasis during the talks had been given to the Government strategy for economic recovery and the  control  of inflation. The point I am making to the honourable member for Gellibrand is that it is evident that in that kind of structure and also in the creation of the Government's economic panel, we have already the development of consultation for long-term planning and not dictation of long-term planning, within the broad parameters of what the Vernon Committee was talking about. We have a government economic panel which has been formed as part of the Government's arrangements for consultation on economic matters. The statement announcing its establishment reads: 
The Government Economic Panel would extend further the range of consultation and dialogue on economic mutters and add to the breadth of expertise on which the Government could draw when formulating economic policy. 
The Panel, which is composed of leading economists serving without remuneration, will be chaired by the Treasurer. 
Senior Government  economists,  drawn from the Treasury, the Reserve Bank, and other Government departments concerned with aspects of economic policy, would be members of the Panel. 
The same goes for the economic consultative group. The bureaucrats who in the Labor model were to be isolated in their powerful new structure in Canberra are in our model involved in continual dialogue and consultation with the private sector. The proposition being put forward by the Opposition for the creation of a major new structure, the creation of an even more powerful one by adding to it many other functions creates, I suggest, a monster which would be not only a threat but which in fact would be also clearly unnecessary in terms of what is going on now. As the honourable member for Gellibrand said, we have already seen that the British attempt to do this was a disaster and was cancelled. As the honourable member for Gellibrand said, that experience would be reflected in Australia. 
It is interesting to look at what are the existing situations in Australia for providing input for economic planning so that we do not have the ad hoc, shoot from the hip type economics that were a feature of the Labor Party in government. As I read various reports, apparently they are a feature of the Labor Party's policy creation bodies when in Opposition. The details on how the Labor Party decided to present its economic policy at the last election, I am assured by expert commentators, show in fact that the bulk of the Labor Party had no idea of the eccentric payroll tax, shoot from the hip suggestion that the then leader imposed upon the Party at the last minute before the Federal election. That tendency to ad hockery in economics is not one that comes from this side of the House; it is one that has been brought to a point of absurdity by the Labor Party. It may well be that because members of the Opposition do not trust their own capacity to be consistent in economic policy they feel they would like to impose some sort of discipline on themselves by creating this strong bureaucratic body. But the fact clearly remains that in philosophy their attitude is totally different from ours. 
I underline that already within this Government there is immense scope for economic input on what sort of direction this economy should be taking. For example, the Treasury and the Reserve Bank have models which could be used for both short term and long term economic analyses. Short term recommendations and decisions are always made in the context of these longer term economic prospects and strategies. The Industries Assistance Commission, as the honourable member for Gellibrand said, has an impact study which is a long term structural model of the Australian economy and is well advanced. There are other bodies like the Bureau of Transport Economics, the Bureau of Agricultural Economics, the Bureau of Industry Economics, the Crawford study group on structural adjustment and the Commonwealth Statistician. All these are providing input on what is happening in the long term and where the long term direction should be. 
The important thing is that while each of these bureaucratic structures works in a specialised way in its own area, one of the primary functions of the new Department of the Treasury which has been split off from the Department of Finance is to act as a department of economic strategy. That is its major function now. This point appears to have escaped the Opposition. As such, it is ideally placed to play the essential co-ordinating and monitoring role as it does. In addition, there are these consultative groups. The Labor Party's proposition that we should have another bureaucracy imposing its view is totally unsound. My point is that if anything we have gone too far in that direction already. We should be going back to the Vernon Committee 's recommendations. In 1965 it recommended: 
The paramount need as we see it is for governments, industry and the public to have access to the best assessment of what is economically possible and of the dangers that must be avoided or overcome if the economy is to achieve its maximum potential for growth with stability. 
What the Vernon Committee wanted was an independent body made up of government, unions and business, and for this body to be outside the bureaucratic structure. If anything, we need greater non-bureaucratic intervention in guiding the economy, not dictating it. If anything we may well have gone too far down the Labor Party's road. I strongly suggest to this Government that it once again look to the Vernon Committee's recommendations. They are as potent, viable, useful and sensible now as they were in 1965. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 

 -Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes,  Mr Speaker. 

 Mr SPEAEKERHe may proceed. 
-On Channel 4 in Wollongong last night, I was accused by the State Minister for Transport,  Mr Cox,  of 'having my usual disregard for the facts' in claiming that federal funds were to be diverted from the southern freeway project in Dapto in my electorate.  Mr Cox  denied that I was correct in my assertions and said that in fact the money would not be diverted. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a letter from  Mr Cox  to the Honourable Neville Wran, outlining a reduced program of work on the southern freeway in my electorate. It clearly states that the accusation against me is incorrect. 
Leave not granted. 

 - Mr Speaker, I shall read the letter from  Mr Cox  which will demonstrate that his accusation about 'my usual disregard for the facts 'is incorrect. 

 - Mr Speaker, the facts are these:  Mr Cox  has written to  Mr Neville  Wran, saying: 
Following the discussions I had with the Commissioner, he has now put forward a reduced program of work on the Southern Freeway, which provides for an acceptable level of work,  so  as to maximise - 
-Thank you,  Mr Speaker.  I repeat that the letter states in part: 
Following the discussions I had with the Commissioner, he has now put forward a reduced program of work on the Southern Freeway, which provides for an acceptable level of work, so as to maximise the amount of funds that can be programmed for the earliest possible construction of the Northern Distributor. 
The letter goes on - 
-He claimed that I had lied in effect. I believe that this letter clearly dramatises that that accusation is totally false. I suggest that the case would be rounded out if I read one more paragraph of the letter. 
-Will the Minister for Transport ensure that the program of work on the southern freeway through Dapto in my electorate, already agreed to by the Federal and State governments, is not reduced in next year's road fund allocations so that residents of the Macarthur electorate can receive the benefit of the already heavy federal investment in the freeway? Has the Minister read a letter, which was circulated to Labor Party members of the New South Wales Parliament in the Wollongong area, dated 17 April 1978 and written by the New South Wales Minister for Transport,  Mr Cox,  to the Premier of New South Wales,  Mr Wran,  outlining a proposed reduction of planned work on the southern freeway through Dapto? Would the stopping of new work on the southern freeway as outlined in  Mr Cox's  letter, enable the New South Wales Government to divert federal road funds out of the Macarthur electorate and into the State seat of Corrimal which is presently held for the Labor Party by the  Speaker  in the New South Wales Parliament? 
I commend the Government and the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  for this sensible Bill. I support the points made by the honourable member for Banks  (Mr Martin).  I note, with distress, that he has a sensitive skin. That may explain why so many honourable members have been able to get under it so much lately. He made a point about the Federal Government providing some sort of tertiary support for the investigation of skin complaints. My understanding is that the schools of tropical medicine, for example, the one at the University of Sydney, are involved in that area. I am not certain of the extent to which a Chair within universities to deal with skin complaints would be duplicating a set of activities which are already well and truly in existence. 
The point I should like to make about the sales tax amendments, apart from congratulating the Government on the sensible one about skin preparations to prevent skin cancer, is that another section of amendments relates to restoring the exemptions that existed for calendars, catalogues, prices and printed matter. The House may be aware that exemptions existed in respect of some of those items as a result of customs tariff arrangements. When those arrangements were changed, a change was brought about also in sales tax exemptions relating to these imported goods. There may be some concern in the printing industry in Australia that these present amendments will create a situation of open slather in relation to the importation of various printed items. My object in speaking today is to assure the House and the printing industry in Australia that in fact this is not the case. The whole point of these amendments is simply to restore a situation which existed previously. 
These exemptions relate mainly to printed matter, such as imported travel literature designed to promote travel overseas and certain imported catalogues, price lists and comparable printed matter which is not designed to advertise the sale of goods or services by persons in Australia. So the pretty-pretty calendars, or whatever description one would apply to them, which appear to come from various overseas countries will not be exempted from sales tax under these amendments. The items which will now be exempt include calendars, paper catalogues, paper price lists and printed paper advertising matter; printed matter, being samples of goods solely of overseas origin put up for use as or in sample books; lists and year books of foreign hotels published or sponsored by official tourist agencies and timetables of transport services operating abroad; blank ATA carnets prepared in accordance with the Customs Cooperation Council convention on ATA carnets. It is clear that these matters relate only to services provided overseas and printed matter from overseas relating to those services. So the Australian printing industry certainly has no reason for concern in relation to employment in that industry as a result of these amendments. 
However, I ask the Treasurer to consider very seriously introducing some further amendments to the sales tax legislation. In particular I ask him and the Government to correct what I consider to be an even greater anomaly than those corrected in this legislation, and that anomaly relates to the fact that sales tax is effectively charged on freight in this county. It has an impact which can be very serious indeed particularly in rural areas, and it can certainly be deleterious to the attemts to decentralise business into far-flung regions of Australia. The way in which it operates is that sales tax is charged at the point of sale. Let us look at the position in, say, Mount Isa, which is a fair way away from many other centres. The price charged in Mount Isa by the merchant when he sells to his customer clearly includes the large freight content involved in getting the product to its destination. The sales tax is charged on the price of the goods in Mount Isa. Obviously then sales tax is charged on the freight content of that price. 
I believe that is a thoroughly bad principle. It means that many companies which are major consumers of products in remote areas in inclined to purchase those products themselves in population centres such as Sydney and Melbourne and then freight those products to their remote area, in that way avoiding paying sales tax on freight. This is a matter which certainly has exercised the minds of members of two government parties committees with which I am involved. I hope that the Government will recognise the soundness of the point that we have raised. 
This may well not be the appropriate time to look into this matter. I imagine that the correction of this anomaly would not present great revenue problems to the Government. I know that the Government always has to consider where the money will come from if back bench committees keep recommending the correction of anomalies which bring in revenue for the Government. Nonetheless, I urge the Government to look very seriously at this matter because of its impact on rural areas. I admit that I represent a rural electorate. I do not regard it as offensive self-interest that I should press this matter because I believe it is only just and fair that the anomaly should be corrected. I imagine that people living in major population centres would recognise the merit of this case. I repeat that I support the legislation. I congratulate the Government on introducting it, but I do hope that serious consideration will be given to correcting the anomaly which I have just raised. 
The Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations will be aware of the substantial reduction in telephone services, particularly for subscriber trunk dialling and people in country areas such as in the electorate of Macarthur as a result of the current dispute between the Australian Telecommunications Employees Association and Telecom Australia, and the very great effect that this is having on the community. As the matter has become confused by a host of accusations, will the Minister advise the House what are the facts of the dispute? 
asked the Minister for Home Affairs, upon notice, on 1 1 May 1978: 
Who were the 10 major recipients of Commonwealth Government grants for literature through the Commonwealth Literary Fund and its successor, the Literature Board of the Australia Council, and what were the total grants made to each of these authors. 
-Tonight I draw the attention of the House to the death of one of Sydney's greatest lord mayors, a leading citizen of that city. I refer to the late Leo Port who was a good and close longstanding friend of mine; a man who contributed so much to the renewal of the city of Sydney, a man who, in effect, in the end, through his excessive zeal and excessive energy, contributed his life in the service of the citizens of Sydney. I recognise that Leo Port needs no memorial in the hearts of the people of Sydney. There is forever in front of them the memorial of that restored city. The excitement and the life that Leo Port brought back to that city will remain after his untimely, unfortunate, early death. Whether one agrees with everything that Leo Port did during his time as Lord Mayor one must concede that he was a man of untold energy, vision and belief in the city of Sydney.  His  confidence in his own view and the correctness of what he was doing at times brought him into conflict with some people. However, I am certain that those people with whom he was in conflict will all agree that he was a man of the deepest integrity who was also blessed with a capacity for unbelievable hard work. 
It is unfortunate that in the last months of his life he was plagued by a series of attacks which went beyond the bounds of good taste, which were vicious and which regrettably, I believe, served to hasten his death. I do not want to name the people who were involved in those attacks. They know who I am talking about. I was astounded to see that one of them had the gall to turn up at the memorial service for Leo Port. These people are aware of the nature of their vicious and villainous attack on this man. 
Nobody in this House; I am not suggesting that. I do not wish to identify the people. Let them stand condemned themselves. All I am saying is that it is unfortunate that a man of such status, such stature and such capacity, a man who did so much for Sydney, at the end of his life should have had to tolerate the kind of viciousness that was heaped upon him by his opponents. 
I was particularly distressed to note the behaviour of some sections of the Press towards Leo Port on the day of his death. I do not wish to discuss whether or not the  National Times  was correct in pursuing a course of action which it believed was correct because it involved a matter of general principle. The newspaper's case is arguable. Let the newspaper defend itself. There is no way that the Sunday newspaper involved can defend itself. It picked over the corpse of Leo Port. It did so by picking over the bones of the  National Times  article. I regret that such a fine and outstanding man should have been subjected to those unfair and unbelievable pressures when it was well known that he was in serious health at the time. I know that all honourable members on this side of the House will join me in expressing their condolence to his wife, Edith, and to his children. I know that all honourable members on this side of the House, and I hope all honourable members opposite also, will recognise and appreciate the fine work this man did for the city of Sydney. 
Can the Minister for Transport indicate the extent to which the Commonwealth has funded the construction of the section of national highway known as the F5 between Campbelltown and Mittagong in my electorate? Is the Minister aware that the New South Wales Premier,  Mr Wran,  is talking of opening this highway as part of his present election campaign? 
-There are a few matters in these estimates for the Department of Administrative Services and the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet that should concern all honourable members. The first one with which I wish to deal is the adequacy of the protection of the Parliament. This relates to the estimates for Commonwealth Police services and, therefore, is relevant to this division of the Estimates. For example, it is disturbing to note in the Estimates that an amount of $55,000 has been allocated for the current year on top of the $ 178,000 which was expended last year on compensation for business affected by security arrangements. That related to the Commonwealth Heads of Government Regional Meeting in Sydney. I presume that a large part of that expenditure relates to the closing of various businesses after the bomb blast. The consequences of that bomb blast had the Meeting taken place on the other side of the hotel and had the bomb gone off at a different time, naturally would have been even more disastrous than they were. It was bad enough that people were killed. 
It concerns me, when I look at these estimates and recall another incident that occurred in the chamber this afternoon, that the security arrangements clearly are inadequate. That people so far have thrown only leaflets from the visitors ' gallery is something for which we should all be very grateful. I must express my concern that the sorts of security arrangements that exist in overseas parliaments do not appear to have been extended to our Parliament. In that context, I am concerned that there appears to be a great degree of resistance to the proposition that members of Parliament should co-operate with the security arrangements made in terms of passes and so on. I have heard continual complaints, particularly from some members of the Opposition, about the requirement that people visiting them should be cleared and pass through a form of checking which strikes me as being absolutely essential in view of the extraordinary atmosphere of hatred that unfortunately is being generated now in the political arena. When we hear comments even from such people as the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  about a Prime Minister in terms of personal likes and dislikes, a sort of emotional approach to politics is generated which I think is inappropriate. 
My strong view is that there has been some kind of a spin-off from the violent words of politicians into the violent deeds of people. I regard that link as a very direct one. I think that the people who are urging and who have urged the citizens of this nation to maintain their rage, to maintain their anger or who have made other sorts of curious admonitions relating to violent action will inevitably encourage and have inevitably encouraged the exercise of brutal power and brutal force in our community. I suppose that brings us to the fact that the Commonwealth Police appropriation has increased from an expenditure of $28. 3m last financial year to $36. 7m this year. That is a substantial increase. One wonders to what extent that amount will be sufficient if, in fact, the climate and atmosphere of hatred being generated in politics and by politicians among the people continues to develop. We must ensure that mob rule, mob violence and mob emotions are not effectively whipped up by some people for political purposes in such a way that the very institution of this Parliament, for example, could be endangered. 
May I now move from the matter of my concern about the maintenance of consitutional law as established in the courts, by traditions and by a Constitution, to another matter relating to the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet. I am very pleased to see the substantial increase in funds allocated to the office of the Commonwealth Ombudsman which is there to assist in the democratic process. Of course, it will be operating for a full year this year compared with its partial activities last year. It seems to me to be essential that in any fast growing bureaucratic system as ours is there must be access by the people to an ombudsman or similar person who has the power and the right to protect the individual against big government. Whilst this Government's policy is against the concept of big government there is no doubt, as the proposed appropriations indicate, that more and more money is being spent by government. Admittedly the size of the bureaucracy has fortunately been reduced under the present Government which is rather a pleasant change from the headlong rise under the previous Government. 
-The honourable member says: Nowhere near enough'. I thank him and I totally support him in this matter. I hope that the co-operative federalism, which involves the States in accepting their fair share of responsibility, will mean that the duplication of services in both the Federal and State Government Public Services will steadily continue to be removed so that the number of bureaucrats who are involved in the business of government should be effectively diminished. I have no objection to the principle of bureaucracy, and the crack has been made that some of my best friends are bureaucrats. I take the view that no matter how efficient and effective the bureaucracy is there is always a need for an ombudsman. In that sense I am concerned that the parallel ombudsman for the defence forces has I think still not been appointed in a permanent sense. I think someone is acting in a temporary capacity as the defence forces ombudsman. I urge that the Government, which is quite properly expressing its concern for the people by substantially increasing the allocation for the Commonwealth Ombudsman, should mirror that concern in regard to the defence forces by resolving speedily the problem relating to the defence forces. 
May I end with one simple point, and that is by looking at that section of these estimates dealing with overseas trips because we continue to hear much about overseas trips and the enormous expenditure on them. I want to draw the attention of the Committee to an historical event which is recorded in this year's Appropriation Bill (No. 1) 1978-79 at page 21. 1 am certain the Committee will be interested to note that this name is appearing for the last time in this context. The entry  'Mr E.  G. Whitlam, Q.C., M.P.- 1978' appears under the item headed Visits Abroad of Ministers . . . and Others'. The total expenditure shown, I must say, is only $32,171. 
-The man's name is E. G. Whitlam, Q.C., M.P. I raise it simply because I think it is unfortunate that so many people have decided to have a crack at the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  about the cost of overseas trips. I simply suggest that overseas visits by the present Prime Minister which cost a small fraction of the cost of those trips by the previous 
Prime Minister- $500,000 was spent on one trip - 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drummond)  -Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-The problem one has in looking at this Budget is that the fiction of the response made to it bears no relationship to the facts of it. The facts of the Budget are, of course, that the Government has a serious budgetary problem. It is a situation in which the Government must spend an immense amount of money because of continuing programs; yet it is limited in its capacity to raise that money from the taxpayers of Australia. Despite those overwhelming problems, the Government's capacity to solve them has involved a degree of skill for which neither the Opposition nor unfortunately many members of the public have given it credit. 
From reading the headlines in the Press and from listening to the synthetic debate, the synthetic fury, the absurd rage of the manufactured protests which have taken place in some of the cities and which, in my region, have involved the loss of millions of dollars of wages by people who for political  purposes have been  whipped up into strike action in phoney protests against this Budget, one would not realise that this year taxes will fall, in real terms. No one who reads the newspapers or listens to the extraordinary comments that come from honourable members opposite would realise that after we account for inflation this year taxes wil fall. Personal income tax collections by this Government- this Government which is alleged to have done a terrible thing in increasing taxes- will fall. I have sought  permission from the  Opposition to have some statistics incorporated in  Hansard.  I now formally ask the Committee for leave to have this document incorporated in  Hansard. 

 Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 


<graphic href="110131197809216_49_0.jpg"></graphic>

-I thank the Committee. I believe that everyone in Australia should take cognisance of these statistics. We have heard how taxes have risen appallingly. What we have not heard is that the tax scales and the whole tax system have been so significantly reduced by this Government that despite the1 per cent temporary tax-surcharge, personal income tax collections will fall by 0.3 per cent this year. This compares with a rise of 20.1 per cent in one year of the Labor Government and of 19.9 per cent in the following year of the Labor Government. Yet despite this huge rise of something like 40 per cent in real tax collections that is after accounting for inflation in the Labor Government's two years we had no evidence of any synthetic protest or any phoney mass meetings of rage. All I want to do is to ask the Australian people to recognise that although it is true that some people's taxes will rise in terms of the amount of money they pay, the fact is that the money which Australians will be paying overall in taxes this year in real terms that is, in terms of what it can buy will be less than the taxes they paid last year. The Opposition is not prepared to concede the point, has not recognised the point and, of course, has forgotten the fact that under its regime there was a 40 per cent rise in real taxes in only two years. For heavens sake! In the three LiberalNational Country Party Budgets the total personal income tax rises have been only 7.6 per cent in 1976-77, 0.5 per cent in 1977-78 and down to minus 0.3 per cent this year, a total of only about 8 per cent in real tax rises compared with 40 per cent in two years under Labor. Yet we hear consistently this barrage of nonsense from the Opposition and from people such as the Premier of New South Wales, who by using violent words encourages his listeners to act violently. We hear this continual and phoney attack on the reality of a tax fall this year. 
Some people are inclined to say that we must take this in conjunction with the rises in indirect taxes the rises in the excise on petrol, beer, cigarettes and spirits. The fact is that when we look at this situation, when we take all this into account and when we hear a big whinge in the way that the honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr West)  has whinged, it is interesting to see what the facts really are. I know that some members opposite have no interest whatsoever in the facts, but the facts are that when we take these matters into account the total rise in direct and indirect taxes in the current year is 7.9 per cent, only slightly more than the inflation rate this year. Yet in one of the years about which I have just talked the Labor years the rise was 32 per cent. Did we hear the trade union movement being whipped up into synthetic protest at the way Labor hit the pockets of the taxpayer, of the worker and of all Australians? The phoney protest is sickening. The facts clearly show that the Federal Government is approaching its budgetary responsibilities in a fair way and has done remarkably well in terms of getting off the taxpayers' back in the circumstances of the very serious problems it has. In fact the increase in indirect taxes has served only to restore exactly the same balance between direct and indirect taxes as existed before the Whitlam days. It is now back to 24 per cent, as it has traditionally been. Certainly the fact that it had to be done in something of a jump may have disturbed some people, particularly if they are smokers or drinkers, but the fact is that the balance between direct and indirect taxes has been and is being restored in the taxation system, and the reality is that personal income tax has fallen in real terms after we account for inflation. That message just has not come through and is not being allowed to come through by the barrage of nonsense from opposite. 
I know that there are some unfortunate things in the Budget and I agree with some of the people who express concern about some of the nit-picking items in it. For example, I am not happy with, and I agree with the opponents of, the paper boy tax, as it has been called. I find unattractive the fact that the children of parents who receive family allowances will now be able to earn only $20 a week before their families are income tested for the family allowance and I would have preferred to see an extra increase in direct taxes rather than this kind of fiddling tax being added on. Let us face it: We must recognise that a government can spend only what it raises, and it is the way that it has gone about raising the money which is the issue here. Unfortunately the Labor Government did not agree with this view and took the view that it could spend money which did not exist with the result that we had enormous inflation. Whilst I am prepared to agree that some of these imposts, particularly the one on young people being able to earn no more than $20 a week, are unattractive and I would rather they were not there, nonetheless I totally support the general thrust of the Budget. I welcome the removal of some of the unfortunate aspects. For example, originally a punitive rate was to be applied to holiday pay when paid in a lump sum. I think now that the change to remove that punitive rate is certainly worthwhile. 
My only serious complaint about the Budget is that I believe that there should have been greater reductions in transfer payments. I think that this money should have gone towards many more works programs which provide infrastructure for business and in fact jobs for people. There are still far too many welfare programs which involve transfers of tax from poor people to rich people and these are many of the areas in which the Labor Party seems to be standing up in support of well-off people. Transfer payments through the welfare system should be directed entirely to people in need and an enormous proportion of them are still not being so directed. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Dr Jenkins)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
I had not intended to discuss the well worn matter that the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  has rolled over in the same grooves even to less effect than previous Opposition speakers but, as a result of his speech, I say that there is no doubt that the most innocent, the most pure, the most responsible and respectable of actions can be made to seem disgraceful when someone with intent sets out to do so. I say to the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  that allegations of the kind that have been made by Opposition members could just as easily be made against colleagues of his and of the honourable member for Blaxland who sit opposite. While I have great respect and admiration, I might say, for the honourable member I am about to name, the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford),  he has been a director and a shareholder of North Park Developments Pty Ltd which used to borrow money to speculate in suburban houses in Adelaide. I raise this matter because honourable members opposite - 

 - Mr Acting Speaker, I claim to have been misrepresented - 
I wish to make a personal explanation, having just been misrepresented. 
Thank you,  Mr Acting Speaker.  It is untrue that I made damaging and untrue charges against the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford),  as the  Hansard  will demonstrate. I was very clearly making the point that the most innocent and proper of transactions - 
I deny the charge that has been made against me just now by the honourable member for Adelaide, namely, that I recklessly, indifferently, wickedly- or any other emotive word- made damaging allegations against him. That is not what I did. The record clearly shows that that is not what I did. I do not know what political stunt the honourable member for Adelaide wants to pull by making this allegation. I think it is essential for me to establish to you,  Mr Acting Speaker,  what I did so that you recognise the untruth of the allegation now made by the honourable member for Adelaide - 
I certainly made no charges. 
I agree with the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson).  There is and there should be a certain concern about natural disasters. I have long regarded him as one in this House. In common with many other honourable members, I welcome back the honourable member for Werriwa  (Mr Kerin),  a man whom I have had the pleasure of defeating at two previous elections. I should say that in those election campaigns the honourable member for Werriwa conducted himself with dignity and with integrity. I hope that he continues that pattern of behaviour in this House. I must say that I was disappointed to hear his speech this morning. I say to the honourable member for Werriwa that I agree that politics should be played tough. I play it tough but I never play it dirty. I would hope that the honourable member for Werriwa, on consideration of this morning's speech, will continue to maintain the outstanding name that he has had in this place and outside it in the past. 
I should like to comment briefly on his suggestions about the reasons for his very substantial win in the electorate of Werriwa. I think the honourable member for Werriwa does himself less than justice in pointing out the reasons, as he saw them, for his success in the Campbelltown area in particular. As he pointed out, of course, the previous honourable member for Werriwa was relatively unknown or at least not known favourably-  If  I can put it that way- in that section of the electorate. As in fact he had not been its member, he was subject to the same sort of unfavourable reaction in Campbelltown and Narellan as indeed he managed to get from the rest of Australia without the special benefit of being a local member. Consequently, of course, when those areas were thrust into Werriwa towards the end of last year in what I regard as an eccentric redistribution, the previous honourable member for Werriwa did not do particularly well in those sub-divisions of Campbelltown and Narellan. Naturally when the current honourable member for Werriwa stood in those areas he was well-known and he was widely respected. As a result, there were very large swings towards him which clearly do not reflect the general swing throughout the rest of the electorate. I think he should recognise that his personal following was real and justifiably so. 
I also think it is worthwhile pointing out- the honourable member failed to do this of coursethat the bulk of new housing in the Campbelltown area in the last year or so has been put there by the Housing Commission of New South Wales. Without making any comments about housing commission residents, the facts are that there is a tendency for housing commission areas to be dominantly Labor voter areas. I think we should recognise that the nature of the area is changing very dramatically as the honourable member for Werriwa clearly pointed out. He said that there has been about a 16 per cent growth rate in the Campbelltown area, the great bulk of which has been provided by lower cost housing from the Housing Commission of New South Wales which, of course, has played quite a significant part in changing the electoral patterns in outlying electorates. 
My grievance today does relate in fact to electoral patterns and to the situation in New South Wales where I fear many citizens have in the past and may well in the future be deluded by a series of misstatements of the present Premier of New South Wales about the facts of the relationship between New South Wales and the Federal Government. I draw the attention of the House to some official statistics contained in a document headed: 'Public Authority Finance' put out by the Australian Bureau of Statistics. Table 1 refers to the receipts and outlays of State Budgets. Honourable members will be aware of the fact that the Premier of New South Wales,  Mr Wran,  has continually attacked the present Federal Government and its federalism policy, claiming that it has an unfair and disgraceful impact on State financing. I assure the House and  Mr Wran  that if he is prepared to look at the facts he will find that what he has been saying had been totally misleading, totally inaccurate and deceptive. I hope that the people of New South Wales are not deceived. 
I draw the attention of honourable members to table 1 which shows that, in 1977-78, a total of $8.7 billion was paid by the Commonwealth Government in grants to the States. This amount represents 66 per cent of the State revenue raisings throughout Australia. I compare that with the performance of the Labor Government in 1974-75 which contributed only 63 per cent of the total revenue raisings of the State governments of this nation. In other words, the propaganda being put out by the Labor Party both in New South Wales and this Parliament is untrue and mischievous. In fact federalism and this Government's approach to the States have meant a significant increase not only in the volume but also in the proportion of State funds being provided by the Federal Government. It is because of that increase in the proportion, because of that increase in the amount that the Leader of the Opposition in New South Wales,  Mr Peter  Coleman, is capable of making the very real promise that he can reduce Commonwealth income taxes for the residents of New South Wales. Because of that assurance of steady and guaranteed proportions of federal income taxes, because he knows what sort of revenues he will get, and because the record shows that they have increased significantly both in quantity and proportion under this Government as against the decrease that took place under the previous Labor Government and its negative sort of approachthe next Premier of New South Wales,  Mr Peter  Coleman, has the capacity to carry out his promise to reduce State taxes. 
That is why I hope that when honourable members opposite actually come face to face with the statistics, with the reality- I suggest it will be the first time for most of them- they will see that the nonsense they have been spouting in this House and in the hustings in New South Wales is disgraceful and misleading. It follows the total pattern of the campaign in New South Wales. I would hope that people in my electorate, for example, when they are voting on State issues will recognise not only the significant general issues that have been raised, for example, by my colleague the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Connolly)  but also the high calibre of the candidates who will be standing, for example, in Wollondilly.  Mr Peter  Reynolds, who is a very able and competent young family man, will be standing against an invalid pensioner representing the Labor Party. I do not know what the Labor Party's attitude to - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Martin)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. I call the honourable member for Fraser. 
It is distressing that the level of political debate in Australia, at least as practised by the Opposition, has reached the level where, for example, the honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage)  can get up and deliver a personal impugnment of the Prime Minister in this House rather than deal with the issues of this particular legislation which relates to tax. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Jarman)There is no point of order. 
I also regret that the style of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  should be .related to the use of words like 'public outrage'. He is endeavouring to maintain his rage too. I am just looking at the style of the Opposition in dealing with what is a very serious item of tax legislation. I am interested to hear the continuing harping on individual words, personal words relating to members on this side of the House. I wonder whether this is seen as a method by the Opposition of furthering its position, of increasing the public awareness of tax matters, or whether it is part of some unfortunate new style of politics. I am afraid that the harping on individual words and on indvidual members of Parliament by honourable members opposite does seem to suggest that issues are no longer the matter of substance that they wish to discuss in this House but that the personal impugning of members is their style. It seems to me to be an unfortunate style. I noticed, for example, that when I interjected quite properly, I would submit, on the Leader of the Opposition, when he was talking arrant nonsense about how indirect taxes would prevent people eating bread and jam- when I interjected that there are no indirect taxes on food-his only response was personal insult of me. I do not mind, they have been insulting me for years. 
I enjoy the continual carping of the honourable member for Chifley, who keeps reminding me of his basic nature, but I do feel that on matters as important as this it does seem right that the Opposition should adopt a slightly more serious tone. I was glad to note that towards the end of the speech by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  he started to introduce a few 'facts '. I regret, of course, that in other areas in the text of his speech he preferred to accuse the Government, for example, of fixing electoral redistributions. He knows that that is certainly untrue. He knows that any suggestion that the Queensland redistribution was affected in any way by Government influence was totally rejected by the McGregor inquiry. Its findings related entirely to naming an electorate and not to fixing any electoral redistribution. It was improper and disgraceful for the Leader of the Opposition to interpose that kind of nonsense in what is a serious debate on taxation. 
Let us examine the key issues. Let us examine to what extent it is reasonable for the Leader of the Opposition to allege that this Government's determined policy, which he says is away from personal income tax to indirect tax, is an attack on the worker. I was interested to look at his statistics because the facts as shown in the Budget seem to suggest a totally different picture from that which he presented. For example, in the latest Budget excise duty and sales tax, which are indirect taxes which affect the working man and all consumers, have increased by 26 per cent. Is it not curious that in the 1975 Budget, which was brought in by the man who is now Leader of the Opposition, excise duty and sales tax taken together increased by 35 per cent? Here is a man who introduced a Budget to increase these indirect taxes by 35 per cent complaining about a government which has increased them by 26 per cent. What extraordinary hypocrisy from the Leader of the Opposition. Is it not fascinating that in the 1974-75 Labor Government Budget, for example, the combination of indirect and direct taxes rose by 32 per cent in one year? The Labor Party did not appear  to  object. The Labor Party supported that Budget. How curious it is then that there is violent opposition from those opposite and that there is 'repeated use of the words 'outrage', 'injustice' and 'dishonesty' when this Government introduces a set of tax measures which increases the combination of direct and indirect taxes by only 12 per cent, which is so much- in fact almost one-third- less than the amount by which the Labor Party raised them in one year. How extraordinary it is then that this kind of nonsense is coming from opposite. 
It strikes me that the important point that we should be discussing here today is the best way of resolving problems which are faced by a government in the present budgetary situation. How do we make certain that the burden of the attack against inflation is carried fairly throughout the community? I draw honourable members' attention to these specific Bills because, despite what the Opposition has been doing, we are here supposed to be discussing some specific Bills., For example, I refer to the change to the long service leave situation contained in this legislation. In the past people who took long service leave paid tax as if they were still at work. No one in this House or outside it has ever objected to that proposition. However, if they failed to take that long service leave- for which I believe the trade union movement fought well and hard because it was held that people deserved that benefit- and thereby apparently demonstrated that they did not need it, they could avoid normal taxation on it. 
It is not a question, as the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  suggested, of a benefit suddenly being taken away unfairly. The fact is that by failing to tax people when they took long service leave as a lump sum payment at the same rate at which they would be taxed if they had taken it normally, governments in the past have been providing these people with an unfair advantage over the rest of their fellow workers. Anyone must recognise the truth of this proposition. Those who take long service leave have always been taxed. Magically, those who do not take it but take a lump sum payment, have been taxed on only 5 per cent of what they have received. That is unfair to the bulk of workers and in fact provides an unreasonable incentive for people not to take the leave to which they are entitled, which they should take and which it has been held is in their interests to take for health and other purposes. 
It seems to me that the Labor Party's opposition to this measure is in fact the normal sort of fictional opposition which, because of the structure of this House and this style of parliament, an Opposition is required to present. It seems to me unfortunate in many instances that Oppositions feel under a total obligation to oppose everything whether or not it is fair or right. Certainly the volume of opposition from honourable members opposite to this matter seems to me to relate largely to a formal requirement to be seen to be doing something in opposing rather than to applying their intellect to the problem in hand. The same principle, of course, applies to annual leave as well as to long service leave. I think that I should stress here that there has been a great deal of misunderstanding about the long service leave situation. The facts are, of course, that anyone who has earned entitlements to long service leave in the period up to the presentation of the Budget in August will be taxed only at the old rate on those entitlements, that is, at 5 per cent. There is a widespread view in the community, which has no doubt been fostered by the sort of hysterical nonsense being spoken opposite, that people's back entitlements are suddenly to be unfairly and unreasonably taxed at a new rate. That is totally untrue. The facts are that it is clearly stated in the Budget Speech that people who have earned entitlements in the past will be entitled to take those entitlements at the old tax arrangement, which applies to only 5 per cent of lump sum payments. That is clearly spelt out in the Budget Speech. There is no scope for misinterpretation, even by people opposite with malicious intent. 
Even the honourable member for Cunningham surely will be capable of reading the Budget Speech. Perhaps I had better hold his hand and read it for him. On long service leave there is no question of retrospectivity, and he knows that and is talking nonsense. 
I thank the honourable member for Cunningham for his timely interjection. In the matter of annual leave there is a very serious question of principle. In many areas of employment, particularly in the public sector, people lose their entitlements to annual leave if they do not take them. In fact there is a requirement in many areas of this nation to take annual leave because it has been earned for a specific purpose. 
This is because as a result of strenuous endeavour, for which I commend it, the trade union movement has earned entitlements to leave for its members. This leave is paid for and should be taken. It is extraordinary for anyone to deny that under the old system a person who failed to take leave- which in many areas as a general principle is taken away if an employee does not take it- got away with a very low tax rate. In other words, those who took the leave paid normal tax, but those who did not take the leave, and retired with it accumulated ended up getting away with a very low tax rate, once again to the disadvantage of their fellow workers who had paid tax at the standard rate. One of the things that so many people do not seem to recognise is that if someone avoids paying tax someone else has to pay it. The workers of this nation have in fact been picking up the bill for those people who have been able to avoid paying tax in this area as in many other areas. 
I am opposed to the use of systems by which people can avoid paying tax. I suggest that this system of being able to accrue one 's annual leave and then pay only a nominal tax on it when one leaves is a disgraceful provision. I am very glad to see it being changed because it can be used not only by workers on modest incomes where the impact on tax collections is not serious at all but also by people on very high incomes, by people who are self-employed and by people whose revenue impact on the Government would be very serious indeed. I suggest that improvements like this in the tax legislation to make it fair to all concerned are of vital consequence. I must say that I welcome the introduction of measures of this nature as I welcome the introduction of measures aimed at stopping tax avoidance of an improper nature which is, in effect, evasion by people using tax devices of a kind that this Government has worked so hard to oppose. 
I agree with some members of the Opposition- it is a pity that some members of the Opposition do not adopt an equally conciliatory tone- that there were some features of the tax measures introduced in the present Budget which could be improved upon and which have been improved upon. For example, as regards the annual leave situation, the original intention in the Budget Speech was to tax that annual leave at whatever the rate that would apply to the lump sum payment. In other words, if a person had quite a few weeks of leave left over and he left his place of employment, his total income would be added up and, of course, a pretty high marginal rate of tax would apply to the last little bits of revenue, such as annual leave, added to the lump sum. The fact is that as a result of substantial pressure from individual back benchers and from the Government members taxation sub-committee, this rate was limited to 3316 per cent. So in effect no penal rate is applicable. 
I want to stress to this House that this Government is not inflexible when clear anomalies are pointed out to it by, for example, its own back bench and effective committees like the taxation sub-committee, of which I must say I am very glad to be the Secretary. We have presented to the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  clear indications of methods by which the Budget objectives can be better met by some modest changes in the tax situation. In fact they have been introduced. I commend the Treasurer for recognising the merits of the points that we raised. I commend him also for the changes he introduced relating to page 22 of the Budget Speech by which, as a result of strong submissions from the Government back bench and others, the tax imposed on various benefit payments has been withdrawn. The suggestion that tax should be imposed on them was recognised by the Treasurer and by the Government to impose an unfair burden on particular people. These benefits were, of course, the rehabilitation training allowance, the rehabilitation living-away-from-home allowance, the incentive allowance for rehabilitation, the invalid pension for persons under age pension age, the sheltered employment allowance, the repatriation service pension on account of unemployability or pulmonary tuberculosis for persons under age pension age, the tuberculosis allowance for persons under age pension age and the tuberculosis housekeeper allowance. There had been suggestions that these benefits would be taxed. They will now not be taxed and I commend the Government for recognising the merit in the case against taxing those measures. 
The other point that concerns me is the suggestion that somehow this Government has done something terrible about tax. Honourable members will notice that there was no mention by the Leader of the Opposition in his speech about the enormous increases, not just in money terms but in real terms- that is, after accounting for inflation- in the level of tax that was collected by his Government as against that collected by this Government. I presume that everyone is rather bored with hearing members of the 
Government say 'Ah, yes, but you were worse than us', whenever the Government is attacked for doing something. The whole issue in making these distinctions is to dramatise the fact that any Government that raises taxes is going to be unpopular because people do not like paying tax. Yet we see here that personal income tax collections, as I pointed out to the House last week, will in fact fall in real terms this year after accounting for inflation, despite the imposition of the 1  Vi  per cent surcharge. This is for one very simple reason and that is that the enormous tax reforms we have introduced will have a full year effect this year, despite the  Vi  per cent tax levy. This should be compared with the 20. 1 per cent rise in tax collections in one year under a Labor Government followed by another year of a 1 9.9 per cent rise. This year we are to have a 0.3 per cent reduction. There will be a fall in real terms in personal income tax paid this year. Yet we hear all this phony nonsense about a disgraceful bike in tax. It is not happening. 
I commend the Government for introducing these Bills, which improve the taxation situation and which make it fairer, and I look forward to seeing further legislation which will be aimed at voiding these devices and schemes which have enabled many businessmen to avoid paying tax that should have been paid. 

 -Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
I do. On page 1705 of yesterday 's  Hansard  the Leader of the Opposition (  Mr Hayden)  is reported as once again impugning my integrity as part of a campaign, if I may say so, of attacking me personally. He did it on Tuesday and he did it on Wednesday. I do not know what his motives are. All I wish to do is to draw attention to the fact that the attacks are based on inaccurate information, whatever may be their style and their nature and whatever they show about him. The point that the Leader of the Opposition made was that I had written prospectuses for Patrick Partners. Regrettably I did not write prospectuses for Patrick Partners. It may have been better for that firm if I had been in a sufficiently high position to do so. Secondly, I draw to his attention the fact that I did not write the policy speech of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  Perhaps if I were in a higher position in the Liberal Party to enable me to do that, that too might have been better and we would have won the last election by a bigger majority than we did. I would further take the point that it is objectionable for the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  to claim that having me write the Prime Minister's policy speeches is worse than having Richard Nixon as an adviser. I suggest to the House that it is improper, unreasonable and personally appalling. 
-I am not Richard Nixon. I have a little more hair. I draw the House 's attention to the tact that this kind of personal attack based on inaccuracies is becoming a bore and is totally disgraceful. 

 Mr UREN (Reid)- My personal explanation is with regard to the land purchases in Victoria. 
The price paid for land acquisition in Victoria was that agreed by  Mr Hunt's  own government. Whichever valuations were used were supplied by the Victorian Government agencies and the land was acquired under the Victorian State law. 
On any intrusion by me as an Australian Minister, I would have been charged with having involved myself in the internal affairs of the Victorian State Government. In no way did I involve myself. That is why I always maintained a good relationship with the States and I worked on that basis. I allowed them to run their own affairs in their own way. 
I strongly support the points made by other speakers relating to gross negligence, secret payments and the Niemeyer statement. I wish to pay a tribute to exSenator Reg Wright, who played such a dominant role in the very effective Committee scrutiny that was given to this Bill in the last 12 months or so.  His  determination against some quite stout opposition has meant that a considerable number of the propositions he maintained have found their way into the Bill. Regrettably, a couple have not, in particular two that have been referred to tonight- payments that remain secret and the concept of gross negligence being the only one acceptable to the Government when claiming recompense. It seems to me that in these two instances the former  Senator was  correct and I regret that the Government has not seen fit to take into account the very strong matters of principle that were raised by him. I hope that some of his former colleagues in another place will give the Bill the sort of scrutiny that no doubt he would have given it had he still been a member of that place. 
Another matter that I wish to raise relates to the operations of governmental corporations and the auditing thereof. It is obviously a function of the Auditor-General to assist in the speedy presentation of reports by governmental bodies to this House and the nation. I believe that the Auditor-General is doing an excellent job in pursuing that most excellent objective. However, the problem as I see it is that far too many reports of governmental bodies are still coming to this House after a disgracefully long period. This situation has existed for quite a long time. A couple of years ago in this House I complained about the delay involved in the presentation of the annual report of Qantas Airways Ltd. I regret that on that occasion I wrongly blamed the Auditor-General for the delay. I was put right and I thank the Auditor-General for the correspondence that ensued. However, it resulted in Qantas complaining that the delay was not its fault either. 
I draw the attention of the House to the latest report of Qantas which is available to honourable members and the nation. It came into the hands of this Parliament in March or April this year- I cannot identify which month- signed by the Principal Accounting Officer on 1 February 1978 and by the Auditor-General only 9 days later, 10 February 1978. However, it relates to the financial year that ended on 3 1 March 1977. In other words, it took almost a year- a little over one month short of a year- for this report to be signed by the Principal Accounting Officer and the directors of Qantas. It seems to me extraordinary that this major government-owned corporation should take such an immense amount of time to produce its annual report. If Qantas had been a listed public company it would have been de-listed by the stock exchanges for failing to comply with the basic requirements of public corporations in this nation. It strikes me as appalling that even after having pointed out this situation in this House a couple of years ago, Qantas still appears, for some reason or other, to be incapable of making an effective report to this House. 
I stress that one of the features of good reporting is a capacity to report with speed so that the report still has relevance to the current time. It is not good enough for Qantas to take 1 1 months to report to the nation on how it operated. It is not good for any governmental corporation to hide behind its legal position, its position of power as a governmental corporation, to avoid meeting the requirements that an ordinary corporation would have to meet. I hope that the AuditorGeneral regards it as one of his functions to note to the accounts in the way that auditors of public corporations do that there has been an inordinate delay in the presentation of these accounts. I believe the House is owed an explanation by Qantas. 
I also raise this point in relation to the Australian Pipeline Authority. On 28 April 1978 the Auditor-General reported on its accounts for the year ending 30 June 1977. What is so special about this organisation that it cannot meet the legal requirements under the Companies Acts of the States of the Commonwealth and cannot meet the the Companies Act requirements of the Australian Capital Territory? I believe that the time has long since passed when we should put up with this appallingly bad reporting from governmental authorities. There are some examples of good reporting and in this regard I commend the Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation and the Australian Broadcasting Commission. These bodies report speedily and the Auditor-General naturally is assisting in bringing about effective reporting to the people of Australia. I hope that the Auditor-General will take up with these corporations the delays in the presentation of accounts. I submit that it is a function of a report to be timely and one of the functions of the Auditor-General is to ensure that that happens. However, I commend the AuditorGeneral on the obvious efforts being made within his office to produce speedy reports. I ask the Minister for the Northern Territory  (Mr Adermann),  who is at the table, to draw to the attention of the Government what is a totally unsatisfactory situation in respect of so many other reports by government corporations. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Jenkins)  adjourned. 
-There is a particular kind of commercial radio licence which is held by two radio stations, 2CT in Campbelltown which serves a large area of the Werriwa electorate as well as certain sections of the Macarthur electorate, that being the cream of the area it serves, and 3CR in Melbourne. Both of those radio stations have a kind of licence which purports to limit their capacity to broadcast normal commercial advertising. As I understand it, the restraints on advertising by these radio stations are incapable of being enforced. 
I am led to believe that the requirements of the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal on commercial matters can be ignored by those radio stations, as they have been ignored by radio station 3CR on matters of taste in the presentation of programs. It is unfortunate that not only is radio station 3CR justifiably in serious trouble but also radio station 2CT is in serious trouble. I played a small but nonetheless energetic part in getting radio station 2CT its licence in its present form. The board of that radio station has sacked the general manager and tonight in Campbelltown there is a meeting of concerned citizens. The staff of the radio station has resigned and the station at present is being run by amateurs who are sympathetic with the board's problems. I do not wish to take sides in this dispute although it has been alleged that the State Australian Labor Party member for Campbelltown is playing a prominent role through some of his associates on the board in an endeavour to coalesce a certain political attitude within that board structure. Whether those accusations are correct, I do not know and do not wish to take a position on it, but the allegations have been made to me by other members of the Australian Labor Party. 
What is evident is that this kind of licence is producing a disastrous situation in the two areas in which it has been granted and I suggest that the experience of these two radio stations clearly should indicate to the Broadcasting Tribunal and to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Staley)  that this kind of licence should never again be issued and that steps should be taken to alter the nature of these licences so that these stations can either become fully commercial stations and, therefore, fully answerable to the requirements of the Act in other matters, or become non-commercial. I fear if they are made non-commercial that the very good community service which is provided by radio station 2CT in Campbelltown would not be able to be proceeded with because the station would have no money. There is no doubt that there is a requirement for funds for such a station providing such an outstanding community service and I commend the board and the former staff members of 2CT upon the job that they have done in providing that service to sections of my electorate. However, I regret that there was a tendency for some of the management of 2CT to regard the radio station as an 18-hour a day juke box which is not what I was seeking when I, with the honourable member for Werriwa  (Mr Kerin)  when he was the honourable member for Macarthur, supported the initial application for that licence. 
It seems to me that we face serious problems in coping with this special kind of radio licence. I hope that the matter can be resolved and that the suggestion of political interference in 2CT is proved groundless. I would regard that as a most distressing and disturbing element. I understand that the board is united in its opposition to the methods adopted by the previous management but I do regret that it does appear that the former management was correct in ignoring the requirements on the Broadcasting Tribunal, because, I am told, those requirements on advertising cannot be effectively enforced due to the bad nature of the Act. It is an Act which does not do what it purports to do. I hope that the Minister will take note of those remarks. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I refer to the threat that the present United Nations Educational Scientific and Cultural Organisation draft declaration on the mass media poses to the freedom of the world 's Press. I ask the Minister to explain what position the Government will adopt at the forthcoming UNESCO general conference to ensure that the more unacceptable sections of the draft declaration are modified. 
I refer to an old feud that has existed between New South Wales and Victoria relating to the disgraceful refusal by Victorians in 1863, to accept a Nowra race horse, Archer, as an entrant in the Melbourne Cup. This matter has now been satisfactorily resolved as a result of the outstanding win of Arwon last Tuesday. I trust that Nowra has enabled the honour of New South Wales to be satisfied and has softened this disgraceful performance by the Victorians which I believe led to a century of discontent and dismay and which certainly broke down any friendly relations that had existed in the past. I hope that the Victorians in this House will now recognise that Nowra, whether it is coming or going, is ahead of anything that Victoria can put up. I believe that  Mr Etienne  de Mestre who walked Archer to Melbourne in 1863- walked him all the way- will now rest happily in his grave. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  It being 1 1 o'clock, the debate is interrupted. The House stands adjourned until Tuesday next at 2. 15 p.m. 
-I start my speech by advising the House something of which it is already fully aware. Being a director of a meat export company and holding the minumum number of shares required of a director I have an interest in this matter. I represent my wife's family interest on the company not my own. Having said that, I suggest that the reply to the major argument of the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Fitzpatrick)  was capably handled before he spoke by the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr John Brown).  I am quite certain that the honourable member for Riverina did not have his heart in the points he made. If he did, no doubt the meat workers at the Bourke meatworks of Tancred Brothers would be very interested to hear what he has to say. 
In that case, if the honourable member for Parramatta is saying he does not agree with the honourable member for Riverina, I express surprise. I would have thought that anyone involved in the meat industry would recognise that the points which the honourable member for Riverina was making were pretty unreasonable. The situation is typical of matters raised by honourable members opposite. They are always demanding inquiries when matters are raised, even in a scurrilous way or without any evidence being produced. It now seems to be the style of the Opposition to raise allegations against people. We hear talk about the Mafia, repeated accusations against front benches on this side and demands for inquiries when there is no evidence whatsoever. 
It seems to me that this is a style of opposition which is regrettable. If and when the honourable member for Riverina and  Mr Cassell  can provide some evidence on this matter it would then be worthy of serious inquiry because there is no doubt that it would be a scandal if there were such a Mafia actually at work. 
As I understand the situation- I think that the honourable member for Parramatta would support my view- generally the actions of commission agents, who in fact purchase for several buyers, could well be held in some areas to be some form of conspiracy. They are buying for several buyers in the same way as some people sell for several sellers. The point is that my experience of this market would suggest that those commission agents tend to push prices up rather than down because their rewards are related directly to the highest possible price. I suggest that it is very easy to make allegations or wild statements. It is even easier to demand that these allegations be inquired into, but it would be much more difficult- apparently it is beyond the Opposition- to provide the evidence that would suggest that such an inquiry should take place. No evidence has been forthcoming. 
I suggest that it is most unfortunate that people like cattle producers who have been through a very difficult period are being misled in this matter by a false prophet. There is no doubt that they are looking for someone to blame for the fact that they have had a bad time and I guess that the easiest thing to do is to blame the bloke who buys the cattle from them. I think it is unfortunate that some honourable members opposite, certainly not all of them, would foster that view simply by promulgating it in this place without having determination and any sincere belief in the view that they should support it. It seems to me that this suggests a real lack of an understanding of the facts and a willingness to feed the distress of so many cattle producers. 
I believe that what we have to look at in this debate are the realities of what is happening in the meat industry and matters relating to exports and export charges. I think it would be appropriate to mention at the moment that some companies in the meat industry- very few, I admit- are prepared to state their real profits out of meat trading. The honourable member for Parramatta cited an interesting set of statistics on profitability or what happened to a piece of meat bought in one centre and sold in another. From the annual report of the corporation of which I am a director I have prepared a table showing the distribution of the average sale price per pound of meat on a live weight basis. The table shows that from the average sale price of 25.04c per lb that is received by this corporation for its meat, 10.5c goes out in payments to graziers for livestock. That is roughly 41.8 per cent. The reason I am making these points is that the last time a matter of this sort came before this House some honourable members opposite kept talking about the dramatically diminishing proportion of the final sale price that was going to the producer. They were stating that there was a rip-off in the middle by other corporations, by processors, for example, and that somehow this was improperly taking money from producers. The facts are totally different from that and this is why I want to labour the point, if I may, before this House. 
The next largest amount to be distributed from the average sale price is 7c per lb which is for operating expenses and general overheads. That is roughly 28.4 per cent of the total price. An amount of 5.25c, or 21.2 per cent, goes out in labour costs. That, roughly, is half the amount distributed to the producers of the cattle. That represents an enormous increase in recent years. In fact, that proportion was far worse when cattle prices were lower than they have been in the last 12 months. The next cost item concerning this company- I admit that this item has less relevance as far as other companies are concerned in the sense that this company does buy in some meat from external sources- involves an amount of 1.5c, which represents about 5.8 per cent of the price. Government taxes is the next biggest item. Taxes represent 0.5c, which is 1.4 per cent of the total price. Funds retained to finance loan repayments and future expansion, that is retained profits, in effect take 0.25c or 1.2 per cent. The shareholders take 0.04c in dividends. There is the big rip-off. Out of 25.04c per lb that is received by this corporation on the sale of meat, 0.04c is the so-called rip-ofT! 
It is appalling that although this is public information someone on the Opposition side of the House should get up and promote a line of nonsense being perpetrated by the leader of the Cattlemen's Union of Australia whose only chance of having any meaningful voice is to generate membership by a form of proselytising, which certainly is not appropriate to the meat industry. I would have hoped that it would have been more involved with honourable people. I would have thought that that kind of promotion was something that the honourable member for Riverina should not support. The facts are evident. The facts are here. The facts are that only 0.2 per cent of the proceeds- I repeat, 0.2 per cent of the proceeds- from the average sale price on 1 lb of meat is paid to shareholders in dividends. In other words, the 900,000 head of animals processed by this company provided a profit of approximately $2 a head, and that is supposed to be a rip-off. I submit that those sorts of charges are nonsensical. 
The other point that I think should be stressed with some vigour is the point made by the honourable member for Paterson  (Mr O'Keefe),  and that related to the ludicrous expense involved- in fact, financed by the levy collected under this legislation- in dual meat inspections. The company in which I am involved suffered severely, unfortunately, in its Mount Isa operations from the conflict between the Queensland State meat inspectors and the Federal meat inspectors. The State inspectors were claiming that if any meat sold locally had been inspected by a Federal inspector they would ban the works. I do not know how these people expect a corporation to handle a situation in which it has an export order for forequarters and a local order for hindquarters. Who is going to inspect the meat? Is the Commonwealth inspector going to inspect the front part of the beast and the State inspector the back part of the beast? We have this absurdity, this nonsensical situation, which apparently cannot be dissolved. It has been going on for years. It has resulted in the closure of the new Mount Isa meat works which was endeavouring to provide an essential service to cattlemen in the far west of Queensland. 
-I do not mind kosher inspection. It is great if someone makes more money out of the sale of meat being killed in a particular style. That is fine. All I am objecting to is the fact that when a company is endeavouring to sell forequarters to one market and hindquarters to another market, Commonwealth meat inspectors spend their time fighting with State meat inspectors about who should inspect the beast. Not only are they fighting about it; it results in the closing down of a meat works, puts people 's jobs at risk and prevents primary producers from having a market for their cattle. I suggest that the honourable member for Paterson was totally accurate in requesting that some action be taken on this ludicrous situation. 
I also would express some surprise at the honourable member for Riverina complaining about the increase in the levies in the legislation under discussion. That is an extraordinary statement coming from a member of a Party which had imposed a levy of $5 a head on export cattle. That, of course, was withdrawn by the present Government and replaced by a $1 a head levy. That $5 a head levy was an extraordinary rip-off. When the cattle industry collapsed and the prices went down the Labor Government maintained that $5 a head levy, which raised $25m, and out of the kindness of its heart said: 'We recognise the industry has a problem. We will lend you back that $25m at interest'. That is the way in which the great Australian Labor Party helped the cattle man when prices went down. It maintained the levy at $5 a head for export cattle and lent the proceeds back to the primary producer. There was a rip-off the proceeds of which it then lent back and charged interest. I hope the cattle producers of Australia remember the events of those years. 
I stress that in fact this Bill is not at the moment raising the levies themselves. It is basically raising the maximum amounts that can be collected under these levies. In fact, the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair),  in his second reading speech, specifically stated: 
The maxima are being raised at this time, primarily to enable doubling of the operative rates for the meat processing research components- 
The meat research components represent only lc in respect of cattle and buffaloes. The amount is being raised to 2c. Big deal! I do not think anyone could protest violently about that matter, particularly when one considers the amounts of money involved. The other maxima are being increased because it is evident that there will be a need for rises sooner or later, but that will be done in conjunction with the industry. I think it is vital to point that out. The Minister, in his second reading speech, also said: 
These increases in the operative meat processing rates have been recommended to the Government by the Australian Meat and Livestock Corporation after consultation with, and with the support of, the Producer Consultative Group, the Exporter and Abattoir Consultative Group and the Australian Meat Research Committee. These industry groups are unanimous in wishing to increase the funds available to support meat processing research at the CSIRO meat research laboratory at Cannon Hill, Queensland. 
Is it reasonable to protest against a rise from lc to 2c when in fact - 
There was a statement of regret from the honourable member for Darling that these levies were going up. 
I had hoped when the transconfiguration took place and Darling was no longer Darling but Riverina that the honourable member would recognise the significance of the fact that the industry supports what the Government is doing. The Minister also said: 
The increases in the other maxima will enable future increases in the operative rates to be undertaken by changes to the regulations. 
The point is that the industry has been totally supporting this proposition. I do not believe that there is immense scope for disagreement- I am glad to see that the honourable member for Parramatta endorsed that view- in what this Bill is all about But I would stress that the amounts are becoming significant and show a determination by the Government and the industry to attack these problems in a serious way. For example, obviously there will be an increase from the modest $21,000 involved in the eradication of disease this year. On the basis of current estimates only $21,000 from the livestock export charge will go towards the eradication of disease; only $11,000 will go towards cattle; and only $93,000 will go towards sheep and lambs. However, the amount of the livestock slaughter levy for the eradication of disease, which is the major item, is $7. 85m, according to current estimates. That is a significant amount. I think the industry recognises the need to spend that sort of money. The livestock slaughter levy on cattle, of course, was $4.4m and on sheep and lambs it was $ 1.38m. There are other items, such as the chicken meat levy, which are not relevant to this debate. 
The problem that I see and that I think some members of the Opposition may have found attractive is that there are retrospective elements in this legislation, which no doubt is of interest to some people. It is retrospectivity that I support and I am certain the Opposition supports. It relates to the fact that compensation may be paid in respect of loss- this is where cattle are destroyed on a property which is declared a disease area- arising from action taken from the time an outbreak of the disease is first suspected to exist by providing that the Minister may make a declaration of an area in respect of a disease retrospective. I totally support that proposition. I cannot imagine why anyone would take objection to retrospectivity in that context. 
I welcome the fact that the Labor Party is supporting this Bill. I found some points of objection in what the honourable member for Riverina had to say. I believe that the industry is totally behind the Government in respect of this legislation, just as this Government has been totally supportive of the industry. The industry has received such a better go under this Government than it received under the previous one that it strikes me as unfortunate that people such as  Mr Cassell  should be able to have their nonsense peddled in this place. I regret that this sort of thing was introduced into the debate. I think the facts clearly show that this Government is supporting, has always supported and will continue to support the beef industry. 
-I think that all honourable members on this side of the 
House would congratulate the Government and its Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  for the enormous steps they have taken to confront the tax evasion industry. There is no doubt that, as the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  said, there is an excessive use of evasion methods and that it is the duty and the role of government to ensure that the tax burden is spread as fairly as possible throughout the whole community. In that context, it is interesting to note that in the three years that this Government has been in office an enormous number of measures have been introduced to prevent from operating the more blatant schemes which have been practised without difficulty in previous years and which, of course, have cost the revenue- that means the taxpayer- large amounts of money. If a very large scale evasion industry exists, there is no doubt that it means that the tax burden is heavier on those who have the sense of responsibility to pay their taxes. It may be not only that they have the sense of responsibility to pay their taxes but also that they do not have the capacity to hire the experts who devise evasion schemes. I use the word 'evasion' rather than the word 'avoidance' in this context because some of the schemes that we have seen are of such a curious nature and fly so clearly in the face of normal commercial practice that the word 'avoidance' is, to my mind, irrelevant when dealing with them. 
Whilst we should congratulate the present Government for its enormous effort in this area and for the large number of Bills it has introduced, many of which have been held to be quite controversial, we should perhaps look back and compare that enormous effort with what happened in the preceding three years when evasion schemes were being proceeded with and when the rate of tax rose so rapidly that the desire, the need in some cases, to seek to avoid income tax in order to survive became so great that this industry really began to flourish. I submit that the avoidance industry received no serious impediment whatsoever in the three years that Labor was in government, apart from a statement from the then Treasurer,  Mr Crean,  in which he stated that one particular form of evasion would be dealt with. That that scheme was not dealt with in the subsequent two years probably represents a pattern in the methods adopted by the Labor Government. In fact, nothing of any significance was done at all by those now in opposition to limit tax evasion and to ensure that the tax burden was spread fairly throughout the whole of the community. 
I was fascinated to hear the honourable member for Gellibrand claim that an unfair rise in pay-as-you-earn taxation is taking place under this Government. Good heavens! Would the honourable member like to go back to the Budget which was introduced by the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  and which set out to increase wages by approximately 22 per cent but in which pay-as-you-earn tax- that is workers' tax- was to rise by approximately 44 per cent? That was to happen under the last Labor Budget. No wonder it was the last Labor Budget. Whilst one should not be detoured into this kind of discussion, despite what was said by the honourable member for Gellibrand, I think we have to recognise that a very significant effort has been made in this area by the present Government which, I will concede, received grudging support from the honourable member for Gellibrand. However, I think we have to recognise that many other problems are still facing the Government and that it is no secret that the Government is maintaining a continuing examination of tax avoidance and evasion schemes. 
I am certain that the honourable member for Gellibrand must be aware that section 260 of the Income Tax Assessment Act, which he mentioned, is at present subject to close examination by the Government and its back benchers. There is no doubt that many further proposals to restrain tax evasion schemes as they arise are either under examination or soon will be. Throughout this session statements have been made by the Treasurer about measures that will be taken. I simply contrast this action with the words- they have only ever been words- from the Opposition. I also would like to commend the Government for what it has deliberately not done. I draw attention to the matter that the honourable member for Gellibrand raised in relation to the taxation of foreign earnings by Australian corporations and Australian personal taxpayers. 
The honourable member for Gellibrand made the comment that he did not find it satisfactory that the Treasurer would withdraw these taxes because they were inequitable. That is an extraordinary statement. For an honourable member of this House to concede that what was originally proposed would have been inequitable but that that did not matter is, I think, a reflection on the sorts of attitudes that members of the Austraiian Labor Party appear to have to equity throughout the community. The honourable member for Gellibrand said that it is not a matter of equity, that it is a matter of tax evasion. Goodness me, if we are to rely on that kind of thinking from the Opposition and if ever the Australian nation has the misfortune to see honourable members opposite again in government, the sort of inequitable legislation that will be brought down will make even the three years of the previous Labor Government from 1973 to 1975 look like a kids' picnic. This is an absolutely apalling concession by the honourable member for Gellibrand. If we do not have paramount in our minds considerations of equity in tax matters, we have no right to impose taxes. 
The whole thrust of the taxation system must be directed towards sharing the tax burden as fairly as possible throughout the communityamongst those people who have the capacity to pay. The efforts that this present Government has made in its three years of office have been eminently successful in that direction. It has blocked some of these blatant tax avoidance schemes. But we must recognise that although it is quite true that there is some area of tax avoidance and evasion involved in foreign earnings of Australian corporations and Australian individual taxpayers overseas, the fact is that the very great majority of those earnings is not in that category. The initially proposed legislation would have acted unfairly on the great bulk of honest and honourable corporations and people earning income from overseas. It is inequitable that they should have been unreasonably and unfairly treated simply to catch the small proportion of people involved in taxation devices. The fact is- the honourable member for Gellibrand might recognise this-that the kind of legislation originally proposed would not have caught the people using the more disgraceful devices that are apparently available. The hidden incomes being secretly established overseas would not have come within the realms of the legislation because, in fact, it related to declared earnings. Therefore, the legislation was withdrawn not only because it was inequitable- a major point- but also because it did not strike effectively at the heart of the recognised evasion. For the honourable member for Gellibrand to suggest that a McCabe letter or any other letter which deals with foreign taxation havens can exist only because this Government withdrew some proposed legislation that would have been inequitable is arrant and utter nonsense and he knows it. 
It may be just easier, but it is not true. I congratulate the Treasurer for the way in which he has responded to pressure from the committees set up by this Government to deal with matters of this nature. The House will be aware that there is not only a government member's Treasury committee but also a taxation sub-committee. The right honourable member for Lowe  (Sir William McMahon),  who is in the House at the moment, is a member of that taxation sub-committee. I am the secretary of that sub-committee and  Senator Messner  is its  chairman.  The honourable member for Dawson  (Mr Braithwaite)  is also a member of that subcommittee as is the honourable member for Barker  (Mr Porter),  lt is a very effective subcommittee. I am very glad that immediately the Treasurer announced these matters he asked the sub-committee- as is customary- for its views. I stress that the style of government represented here is very effective. Statements are made by the Treasurer. He then requests public discussion of the matter concerned so that inequities will be avoided, so that the Government will be fully aware of possible effects when it eventually legislates and so that it will not be relying entirely on in-house advice from a department which regrettably is involved in the main at looking at the dark side of Austraiian business and the Australian taxpayer. 
Naturally, the Taxation Office has the view that it is continually being cheated. The fact is that people in the Taxation Office understandably may not have the same happy, cheerful view of human nature that most Australians have. After all, if one is involved in tax evasion matters all the time, one no doubt becomes a little sour. The point is that this is a sensible form of government in which public and expert advice is sought and gained. The taxation subcommittee was overjoyed at the response that it received on this matter, as on every other matter that it has discussed with the Treasurer. A high degree of expertise exists within the committee gathered from outside sources. I repeat, that the Treasurer, should be commended for his response to the very alert and, I believe, capable submissions made to him by members of the taxation sub-committee on this and various other matters. 
I shall deal with a point made by the honourable member for Gellibrand relating to retrospective legislation. I am concerned at his general point of view. He states that there may have to be greater retrospectivity in the future. That is the honourable member for Gellibrand 's view. He suggests that the tax evasion industry would be dealt with properly only if this threat of greater retrospectivity existed. I know that a view has been expressed by, I think, a Privy Councillor in Britain or by the High Court. Certainly it was expressed by a judge in Britain. He said that as this is open war and as it is regarded as war by both sides, it is pretty hard to have peaceful rules applying to tax evasion. Nonetheless, I submit that retrospectivity is not a principle that should be embraced by any government as a matter of course. It would be most regrettable if in any instance actions which were legal at the time they were done were then retrospectively made illegal. That is a basic principle of law. What we have to look at here is to what extent the retrospectivity involved in fixing up the mess created by the Nilsen case, as dealt with in the Income Tax Assessment Amendment Bill (No. 3), offends any of the principles of retrospectivity. I am certain that honourable members on this side of the House in particular would strongly support such principles. I submit that in this case retrospectivity is not the principle at risk because, as one will see from reading the judgment, this case changes a situation that had been assumed by everyone to exist. All that the amendment is doing is restoring the situation that everyone had assumed to exist anyway. 
In fact the retrospectivity does not offend the proposition that people should not act on the expectation that the law states one thing only to find out that the law has been changed after the event. In essence, everyone expected the law to be as it has now been established to be in this legislation. To deny the point about retrospectivity that was raised by the honourable member for Gellibrand, I say that those people who in fact had a different view of the law and who believed the law to state what the learned judge in the Victorian Supreme Court said in the Nilsen case will not be subjected to the retrospective nature of this legislation. In the Treasurer's second reading speech it is stated: 
The amendment will not apply in respect of assessments yet to be raised in respect of earlier years and it will not apply to assessments already raised in respect of the 1977-78 and prior years where the taxpayer's rights are protected by way of objection or appeal to a court. 
We are not chopping out anything that had existed in the past. In effect we are only changing the legislation back to the situation which existed and was believed to exist in the minds of the taxpayers at the time they earned their incomes. I concede that there is a significant point about whether deductions for long service leave, annual leave and so on should be deductible for tax purposes. No doubt there is a very strong case that they all should be deductible at the time the provision is made rather than having to wait until the amount is actually paid. After all it is a cost against profits and it is rather illogical that a company should present one set of accounts to the  Deputy  Commissioner of Taxation on which it is taxed and yet another set of accounts to the public, in the case of a public company, in which these items axe deducted. The accounts which are presented to the  Deputy  Commissioner of Taxation do not have the provisions deducted but the accounts that are presented to the public have them deducted. Certainly it is illogical. 
The argument against allowing the deductions is that because the money has not passed out of a corporation's control, it should not get the benefit of the tax deduction. The Nilsen case would have an immense impact if it were allowed to go on this year. I believe that the Government should look at this point as a future policy matter in the hope that one would move towards a situation in which provisions are deductible for tax purposes at the time they are made. I believe it would be of great assistance, particularly to small businesses, in allowing them to retain in their businesses money that is useful and in fact essential to allow them to expand, develop and in fact employ people. 
It can well be argued also that with the prevention of transfer of losses- current year losses are being prevented from being transferred in this legislation- there is a fair case for allowing all transfers of losses anyway and to allow trading losses, recognising it as one of the few ways in which creditors of a failed company can ever get any money back; the loss becomes an asset if it is able to be traded. I submit that this matter could be raised in the large review of taxation which is presently being carried out within the Government ranks. 
I conclude by stating that a continuing inquiry about tax is going on. The honourable member for Gellibrand has referred to evasion and section 260. As I said, section 260 is being examined. This point about evasion probably dramatises the need to look at other forms of taxation which do not allow for evasion. That is one of the reasons that the Government is conducting an inquiry into such matters as indirect taxes and retail turnover tax. It is extraordinary that the Retail Traders Association apparently takes the view that this Government does not have the right to examine the best way to tax the Australian public. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drummond)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I believe that the House should congratulate the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  and the Northern Land Council, particularly  Mr Yunupingu,  on the successful completion of the negotiations that have resulted in the introduction of the three matters that we are presently discussing. Despite the imposition of external pressures on the negotiations, particularly on the Aborigines, by people who were pushing their own barrow and who had no interest whatsoever in the welfare of Aborigines but only in their own hysterical opposition to uranium mining, I think it certainly says a great deal for all sides that the negotiations were successfully completed. 
However, I find it curious that the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  should have indicated that the Labor Party intends to oppose the Atomic Energy Amendment Bill (No. 2) and the two ministerial statements we are discussing. It is extraordinary that the Labor Party, in opposing an agreement that it signed itself with Peko- Wallsend Ltd, in fact will be opposing the use of the Atomic Energy Act which it imposed upon the parties to that agreement and under which the agreement was signed. The fact that one year the Labor Party regards one particular course of action as effective and correct and shortly after, when its Caucus is dominated by left wingers rather than moderates of the previous period, it changes its mind in a particularly disgraceful way indicates something of its consistency and its depth of knowledge on the matter. That change of mind is aimed at seeking electoral advantage rather than at looking after the best interests of Australia. 
It struck me as being curious that the honourable member for Blaxland complained that the Act does not allow the Executive to terminate the powers of the company to mine. Goodness me, that is an extraordinary proposition. This agreement was made under the Act and, as I said, the Labor Party required that at the time. The fact clearly is that such a serious step as cancellation of this agreement should surely be referred to this Parliament and not left to executive fiat. It is indicative of the style of government of the Labor Party that it would much rather keep these powers to itself than to do the Parliament the honour of allowing it to investigate and to debate fully such a matter. In any event, the honorable member for Blaxland is well aware of the fact that if under the export control arrangements something totally disastrous occurs, obviously, there can be a restraint in terms of export controls. As the honourable member for Blaxland knows also, such restraints exist at the present time. Further to the point of whether such mining  regulations should be applied under the Atomic Energy Act, I can do no better than quote from the statement made by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  on uranium. He said: 
With respect to the Ranger project itself, the Government is most conscious that the Memorandum of Understanding between the Commonwealth and the Ranger partners entered into in October 197S more than three months after the Ranger Inquiry had been established, would not have been the Government's preferred approach to mineral development. However, the Government would not wish to disturb arrangements entered into in good faith by the companies with the previous Government. We believe, as a matter of principle, that the repudiation by one Government of contracts entered into by a previous Government would be quite wrong. 
As a result of the Labor Party's decision to use the Atomic Energy Act, those undertakings have been honoured. It is extraordinary, to my mind, that there is this level of attack by the Labor Party. It is even more disturbing to see the manner in which people are waving an anti-uranium banner, whether they are doing so for mischievous or honourable reasons. I concede that many people who adopt an anti-uranium stance do so ibr honourable reasons, just as many people who take an anti-uranium stance do so for quite mischievous reasons which bring benefits to the providers of other energy sources and which, of course, assist the Russian bloc, which is a great user of atomic power, to the disadvantage of the Western bloc countries- the free nations of the world- which seek to use our uranium. 
It strikes me as extraordinary that people who profess to be people of goodwill should have set out to use the Aboriginal people as a weapon, as an implement, in attacking this agreement and this kind of legislation. It should be forever on the conscience of many of the so-called good people of this community, who are so obsessed with their own self-righteousness that they are incapable of recognising the difference between right and wrong, that they have set out on a shameful and wrong course of action. They set out to confuse and to mislead the Aboriginal people. They set out to use the Aboriginal people simply by forcing them to be Australia's conscience. I do not agree that such an action would result in Australia's conscience speaking. But in their view, they felt justified in endeavouring to force the Aboriginal people into a situation in which they would lose immense amounts of revenue and in which they would not get the benefits- let us remember that there are benefits involved for the Aboriginal people- of uranium development. These people were prepared to sacrifice the benefits to the Aboriginal people of uranium mining in order to try to prevent that development It is not a matter, I believe, that this Parliament should look at lightly. I believe that the Austraiian people should recognise this disgraceful behaviour. 
I agree with the honourable member for Capricornia  (Dr Everingham)  who recognised and who stated in this House, albeit indirectly, that many people who were interfering in the Aboriginal negotiations had no basic interest whatsoever in the welfare of the Aboriginal people and were involved in this matter simply to further their own particular cause. I suggest that it is a selfish cause and a self-centred and self-interested cause for another reason, and that is that the rest of the world needs our uranium; the rest of the world and not Australia is the market for our uranium; the rest of the world can get uranium from anywhere else at a price. Uranium exists everywhere. It is in the sea water; it is simply the cost of extraction which makes it not viable. The simple reality is that had the antiuranium movement in Australia been successful in this instance, it would have served only to increase the price of uranium being paid by our friends in the world. It interests me that the motives, no matter how good, of many antiuranium people should have prompted them into endeavouring to abuse their relationship with the Aboriginal people to this purpose. 
I agree wholeheartedly with the proposition that there is a definite need to amend the Atomic Energy Act because, certainly, the tenure situation in respect of the ability of Peko- Wallsend Ltd to mine there was totally unsatisfactory. I submit- I agree with the honourable member for Blaxland on this point-that the Atomic Energy Act has not yet been effectively amended to provide that mining companies get a fair go. I point out that in proposed section 41C which appears at page S of the Atomic Energy Amendment (No. 2) Bill 1 978 the parties are required to enter into negotiations for renewal of the mining licence only before the expiration of the 21 -year mining period- between six and four years short of that period. The fact is that this amendment to the Act does not require the parties to come to an agreement. The ludicrous situation could well emerge where in fact no agreement was reached. The company would then be forced to cover up its mining activities under the five-year rehabilitation program and then to apply under the legislation for a new mining lease which would be granted, after agreement with the Aboriginal people. Upon the granting of the mining lease, all the uncovering work would have to start again. There is no doubt that further improvements to the Act are required. 
I am particularly concerned that the lack of a requirement for people to be obliged to come to an agreement after the negotiating period allows the exercise of strong blackmail tactics against the holder of the mining licence. I believe that that situation should be corrected. I hope that the use of the Atomic Energy Act will be limited to this situation. There is no doubt, as the honourable member for Blaxland has said, that it is inappropriate to this rnining venture. Nonetheless, there is a requirement that it be used because of the agreement entered into by the Labor Government of the time with the people involved in the Ranger project. I urge the Government to find a different medium, preferably the Northern Territory rnining ordinances, which do not place an unfair burden on a mining company, particularly in relation to the renewal of mining leases. 
Many other matters relating to mining in the Northern Territory need to be corrected in the future. I am concerned that there has been a decline in milling activity and exploration in the Northern Territory since the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act came into force. I hope that a greater level of understanding by the  mining  industry and the Government can bring about an improvement in relations between both sides to ensure a continuation of the development of the major, massive resources of this area to the benefit both of the Aboriginal people and the people of the whole of Australia. We should congratulate the Government and the Northern Land Council on what has been achieved so far in the signing of this agreement. But I believe that a great deal more has to be done to maintain the development and dynamics of this area. I hope that the Government and the Aboriginal people will be able to come together in the future to bring that about 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 7 November 1978: 
Will he make available on a State basis, the information outlining State government receipts and expenditures contained in total form in table 1 of the publication  Public Authority Funding: Public Authority Estimates  issued by the Australian Bureau of Statistics, catalogue number 5501.0. 
If this information is not available because of stated confidentiality will he indicate which States are not prepared to release publicly these details of their income and expenditure in the understandable form of table1 as against the unintelligible and non-comparable form of individual State budgets. 
I claim to have been misrepresented. 
I do. 
-The Sydney  Daily Telegraph  alleged this morning that I had asked the Remuneration Tribunal to be allowed to charter a plane from Canberra to my Nowra home. This is untrue and has been wrongly regarded by various radio commentators today as an example of a politician seeking to gain an unreasonable perk of office. The facts were correctly transmitted to the Sydney office of the  Daily Telegraph  by the author,  Mr Costin,  but distorted by a sub-editor in that office. I have  Mr Costin  's original story in front of me. In fact, I do not live in Nowra; Nowra is the location of my electorate office. My request was to be enabled to apply the cost of normal public transport to and from Canberra, which is met by the Government, towards the cost of chartering an aircraft for the 30-minute flight from Canberra to my electorate office instead of taking5 hours by public transport or 3 hours by driving my own car as I am not entitled to a Commonwealth car for the trip. The distortion in the report is that it alleges I wanted a quick trip home. My request was clearly to enable me to spend more time attending to my constituents in my electorate office rather than sitting behind the wheel of a car or enjoying the delights of the public transport system. 
-I was one of those pursuing this matter of act of grace payments with the Minister for Finance  (Mr Eric Robinson).  I recognise the point he has made to me that under the proposed changes to the committee 's amendments the Auditor-General would not be required to deal with the propriety of act of grace payments in any report he made. That is how I understand the proposed change. I understand that it suits the Auditor-General in the sense that he does not wish to be involved in dealing with the propriety of what may well be payments made for moral or other purposes. This leads me to a certain difficulty. I understand that the Public Accounts Committee will have the right to be advised when it makes a request as to the nature of these payments. I presume that information on those payments will be outlined publicly in a lump sum form. Information will be given which will show that 24 payments totalling X amount of dollars have been made during the year. I presume that that would be the form by which the Public Accounts Committee would be alerted to the fact that such payments had been made. 
Given that situation, is there any requirement on the Public Accounts Committee to have a meeting in camera when dealing with a matter of that nature? Is there any capacity for this House to require that the Public Accounts Committee meeting be held in camera? It seems to me that unless there is such a provision the intention to keep these payments confidential will clearly not be met. Frankly I would prefer the information not to be made confidential. I would be quite happy to see the Public Accounts Committee meetings not being held in camera. I believe that the burden of benefit is that the public interest is better served by the payments being made public. Nonetheless I believe it important that the Public Accounts Committee is aware of whatever pressures either the Executive or the requirements of this Bill will make upon its confidentiality. 
-The concept of negligence- certainly professional negligence- is one that I do not think should be ignored when looking at the requirements of an Act relating to public servants in the sense that many public servants are receiving remuneration not unlike the rewards achieved by professional people. To that extent I submit that as rewards tend to be high in the Public Service so should the requirements as to the avoidance of negligence be high. The protection of the public should be the key concern of this House and there should be no diminution in the requirements of performance within the Public Service as against those requirements in the private sector. When people are in positions of trust they have certain standards to meet. When they are members of professions they have certain standards to meet and in fact can be sued for professional negligence in many areas. 
To that extent I have a residual concern that the amendment moved by the Minister for Finance  (Mr Eric Robinson),  which restores the word 'grossly', establishes a situation which to my mind differentiates the degree of negligence that is needed before one is obliged to stand by one's actions in the Public Service as against one's actions in the private sector. To that extent I have serious reservations about the degree to which the public interest is being protected by the insertion of the word 'grossly' before the word 'negligent'. I am reminded of the fact that when professional negligence cases come up one does not see the word 'grossly' involved in those matters. 
I am not certain what the new requirements are going to be in the corporation sector. There may well be a case for making certain that any degree of disregard of reasonable standards of care in the corporate sector should result in appropriate penalties. The failure of the corporate sector in many instances to be held responsible for disregard of reasonable standards of care - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  I ask the honourable members on the front bench on my left to subdue their voices. 
Thank you. In other words, the fact that lapses in normal standards of professional or business conduct have not been successfully pursued in the courts probably suggests the law needs improving rather than that the concept should be diminished. To that extent I would ask the Minister to consider very seriously this matter in the hope that any suggestions that the Public Service- particularly senior officers receiving very substantial salaries- should be receiving any advantage in terms of protection as against the private sector will be avoided. 
I ask the Minister seriously consider omitting from his amendments the word 'grossly' and the words 'deliberate or serious'. The concept to my mind should be that an officer shall be taken to have performed duties in a negligent manner if he has displayed in the performance of those duties a disregard of reasonable standards of care. It seems to me to be very seriously limiting the extent to which the public interest can be protected if it has to be established that a person's actions are deliberate or serious. It seems to me that someone who is indolent and who does not have the dedication of most members of the Public Service- I stress that point- possibly could avoid any requirement of responsibility for his actions if we limit the opportunity for recovery to the word 'grossly'. I am speaking about someone who is grossly negligent. In fact, I seek the Minister's assurance that there is no intention to diminish the requirements of the Public Service in this area as against the widespread and evident requirements of various members of the public sector. I think that such a differentiation would be unreasonable. I repeat that I have serious reservations about this clause. 
It is depressing to come into this House and to listen to a continual barrage of complaints from the Opposition about the state of the economy, the unemployment level and about everything members opposite perceive to be wrong with this nation. It would be so much better if political requirements did not push them into a situation where they are obliged for some curious reason to be perpetual and continual knockers of this country. The facts, of course, do not sustain that knocking. It seems to me that there is a very real need for a statement like the statement of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  which clearly sets out the realities of the situation, to be presented to the people of Australia so that the perpetual knocking will not serve to discourage Australians so that they will not invest, that they will not seek jobs and that they will not endeavour to get this country doing the things of which it is capable. The style of knocking is evident from the member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  who has just resumed his seat. The perpetual cry that this Government undertook to take politics out of pensions and failed to do so as an allegation is clear nonsense. Pensions are still indexed automatically. They may not be indexed as frequently as pensioners and, for example, I would like to see, but the fact is that they are still indexed automatically. Every year pensioners do not have to depend upon political whim as they did under the previous Administration; they do not have to depend upon political whim to see what kind of rise they get; they get an automatic rise related to the full increase in the cost of living. 
I remind members opposite that this is more than the workers of this nation get because they only receive what the Arbitration Commission judges they should receive in respect of indexation. In recent years the workers have not received full indexation. The pensioners of this nation receive full indexation. If that is not taking politics out of pensions then I would be interested to know what is. But no doubt in their enthusiasm to make pensioners into political footballs members opposite seek to return to the good old days when they could wave a pensioner around in order to score a political point. It is a despicable tactic. Even more to the point is the clear and indisputable fact that a pensioner is better off with annual, automatic indexation when the inflation rate is below 8 per cent than he was with half-yearly indexation when the inflation rate was up around Labor's 17 per cent. 
The mathematics are indisputable, but perhaps there is a genius opposite who can invent a few figures. It is within the general capacity of the Opposition to lie with statistics. The facts are that it can be proved by anyone who has even half a calculator that pensioners were worse off under Labor's rapid and massive inflation rate when they got half-yearly adjustments. Pensions were not indexed then; they depended on the whim of the Government. Pensioners did not get much when they were not needed for an election but they got a lot when there was an election coming up. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Jarman)Order! The honourable member will resume his seat. The honourable member for Chifley is continually interrupting. He knows when he sits in this seat how difficult it is to allow a debate to flow and to give everybody a fair hearing. I would ask him to allow the honourable member for Macarthur a fair hearing. 
The simple fact, which I recognise the Labor Party would find very unpalatable, is that half-yearly adjustments, as was the Labor Party's style, were massively more disadvantageous to pensioners than annual indexation when there is a low inflation rate. Loud voices, loud bellowing, loud mooing from across the way in a bovine manner does not diminish the reality of what I am saying - 
-There have been two very curious speeches from the Opposition. The latest one sounded like it came from a hawker of second-hand cliches. The second speech from the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)-  the one that was made by way of interjection- was in fact slightly less incoherent than the first which was made free of interjections. But in his second speech he conveyed the impression that he was not in fact talking to the matter of public importance. The subject of this debate is the economic burden of the Fraser Government's petrol pricing policies. According to the honourable member for Blaxland, the only feature of this policy which interested him, certainly in his second speech, was the matter of government revenues raised by way of excise. 
I beg his pardon, and the matter of inflation, which he mentioned in passing in the second speech. The key point on which he pursued the Minister for National Development  (Mr Newman),  irrelevantly, was the matter of excise. There is no doubt that the Government's petroleum pricing policy rests on two basic objectives. One of the objectives is to reduce demand for a material which is in very short supply and the second is to increase production of that material. It is a two-pronged attack. Unfortunately, the honourable member for Blaxland, who should know better, managed to avoid altogether the two-pronged reality of the Government's policies. That is apparent from what he said. He said that the Australian public does not have to pay the full price. That omits facing up to the reality of the second half of the Government's policy, which is to reduce demand by imposing on the market place the realities of the market place. 
It is interesting to notice that the Australian Labor Party's solution to this problem is to impose restrictions, controls, directions and regulations. If honourable members look at the speech of the honourable member for Blaxland they will see that those are the words he used. He said: 'We want direction. We will direct'. That sort of attitude is totally in opposition- 
I have written down the words direction' and 'instruction'. If the honourable member for Blaxland denies that the Labor Party's policy involves price direction, price control and price instruction, I would be grateful if he would say so in his personal explanation afterwards. But he has said that he wants a petrol policy that involves a petrol price below the market price, below the price that is available. The only way a price below the world market price can be obtained is by imposing restrictions and controls on the export, for example, of Australian petrol. If we wish to isolate Australia from the reality of the supply and demand situation of oil in the world, we have no alternative but to impose the restrictions and controls which the honourable member for Blaxland now claims, curiously enough, that he is not in favour of imposing. How he would achieve a cheaper price only he and God would know. The facts are that in America it is now being established very clearly that the only way to meet the requirements of what constitutes the second half of the Government's thrust- namely, reducing demand- is to allow market forces to work. Repeated discussion on this issue appears in the journals. For example, an article in the  Oil and Gas Journal  of 6 November 1978 states: 
Market forces are braking - 
The word 'braking' is used in the American sense, namely, as in bringing to a halt- energy consumption in the US even before the conservationoriented national energy plan takes effect. 
And market forces, if allowed to operate, will help the nation meet the other dimension of its energy challengeincreasing production, says Citibank, New York. 
Throughout the literature on this issue there is a stated requirement that allowing market forces to operate- that is, meeting the world market situation- is the only way to achieve the double thrust that this Government is seeking to achieve with its policy. The honourable member for Blaxland, in his third speech, which was made by way of interjection while I was speaking, asked: What about price elasticity?' I thank him for the interjection because he totally distorted the elasticity situation by referring to present consumers with their present motor vehicles. There is no doubt that once a consumer has invested in a motor vehicle which has a performance capacity he will keep using that car and, as a result, will keep using petrol. However, when he makes his choice of a replacement for that vehicle he makes decisions relating to a vehicle's petrol consumption. If only the honourable member for Blaxland had turned up at a most useful debate on this subject which was held in Canberra by the Australian Institute of Political Science perhaps he would have applauded the proposition put by me and by the South Australian Minister,  Mr Hudson,  which I maintain is accurate; namely, that it would be a good idea if cars were hit with sales tax on the basis of their petrol consumption rather than their price so that when the time came for elasticity to have an impact on the purchase of new equipment there would be a greater incentive for the reality of elasticity to be allowed to exist. The fact is that, even if elasticity is as small as the honourable member for Blaxland claims it is- as I understand it is in the vicinity of about 0.2 per cent - 
The honourable member for Blaxland agrees with me. If that is the elasticity of demand for petroleum products, a SO per cent increase in price- say, from 80c to $ 1 .20 a gallon, which is happening- would reduce demand in Australia by 10 per cent. The honourable member for Blaxland has agreed with that basic proposition. That represents about 20 million barrels per annum, which constitutes a saving of $300m worth of petrol per annum. The honourable member for Blaxland agrees with the basis on which these statistics are presented. That is a very significant figure. It would be worth about another Fortescue Field. I thank the honourable member for Blaxland for his very helpful third speech, made by way of interjection while I was speaking, because elasticity of demand in Australia now is enough to respond very effectively indeed to the very positive policy being established by this Government. It is even more interesting to go back a little and to quote what was said by  Mr Hugh  Hudson, the Labor Minsiter for Energy in South Australia, at the conference in Canberra which was run by the Australian Institute of Political Science, when he quoted approvingly what was said by  Mr Ron  Sharpe of the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation, when he said: 
Escaping the OPEC rise was unfortunate in one respect, since it created a false sense of security and has delayed growth of public awareness of the need to conserve oil and to develop other energy options. 
That was a very sensible statement from  Mr Hugh  Hudson, who is given to bursts of sensible statements when outside South Australia. It states the reality of the situation. The Australian situation was an isolated and insulated one, with the result that, when reality was imposed on the situation by the present Government, which clearly was supported by  Mr Hudson  in his comment, there was greater trauma than there should have been. When did the price rise for oil burst forth and when did a government protect its own position in the inflation stakes? When did it- dishonestly, if honourable members likepretend that there was no such thing as an oil crisis? Of course, that occurred in 1973. It was the Labor Government which, by burying its head in the sand in 1973, 1974 and 1975 and pretending that there was no oil crisis, pretending that there never would be an oil crisis and pretending that it would get away with cheating on the companies looking for oil, with the result that oil exploration stopped in this nation- through a combination of those factors- caused the severe trauma which all of a sudden was involved in Australia catching up with the real world situation. 
Order! The honourable member's has expired. The discussion is concluded. 
Has the Prime Minister seen reports suggesting that death duties should be reimposed and some sort of wealth tax instituted? Will the Prime Minister inform the House whether the Government intends to introduce such taxes? 
I draw the attention of the House to the front page of the  Illawarra Mercury  of today's date, which circulates in my electorate- at both ends of my electorate. The Australian Labor Party has suspended for 12 months, says the newspaper, a Shellharbour party member for alleged activities associated with the Communist Party. The suspended member is  Mrs Beverley  Fleet, secretary of the Cunningham Federal Electorate Council and the Treasurer of the Shellharbour branch. The Labor Party's administrative committee has informed senior ALP officials in the Shellharbour area- which is within my electorate by the way- of the decision to suspend  Mrs Fleet.  Supporters of  Mrs Fleet  are believed to be circulating a petition which seeks her reinstatement. 
I submit to this House very strongly that Labor members of Parliament, in particular the honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr West)  in this House and the honourable member for Illawarra in the New South Wales House, should state exactly where they stand in the Shellharbour dispute over communist association. In view of the widespread suggestions that the honourable member for Cunningham and  Mr Peterson,  the honourable member for Illawarra, have signed a petition seeking  Mrs Fleet's  reinstatement in the Labor Party the voting public in the area has a right to know whether these two parliamentarians condone this involvement of a senior Labor Party official with the Communist Party. I have no desire to become involved in internal Labor Party disagreements and have avoided commenting whatsoever on the longstanding battles within the Labor Party in the Shellharbour branch. However, the situation is no longer an internal one when members of parliament become involved in activities which fly in the face of the stated Labor Party policy on which they were elected by the people of the area. 
The Labor Party properly has dissociated itself from involvement with communists and I have always believed it wrong for Liberal politicians to 'kick the communist can' with respect to the Labor Party. But if Labor members of Parliament are supporters of a senior Labor Party official who has been found guilty by that party of distributing copies of the Communist Party newspaper,  Tribune,  at ALP meetings, of marching with communists during May Day celebrations and successfully moving a motion for a Labor branch to make a donation to an appeal to send a young communist to a Cuba conference, it appears that they do not support the Labor Party rule prohibiting any member from associating with the Communist Party. 
Voters in the area must be told whether these two Labor MPs are in favour of allowing the sort of association with the Communist Party of which  Mrs Fleet  has been found guilty. Overall, I regret to see the evident swing to the extreme left that appears to be taking place in some Labor branches in the area. The problems in the Shellharbour branch are now being followed by the sacking of the Dapto branch secretaryDapto is also in my electorate- who has also pulled out of the Labor preselection battle to become the unsuccessful candidate for Macarthur at the next Federal election. 
I draw the attention of the House to a television program last Saturday week in which the Australian Broadcasting Commission examined what it chose to call 'the Prime Minister's image'. In it a journalist, whose greatest claim to fame I understand is that he is the nephew of the former honourable member for Mackellar, said on that program, referring to the Federal Government: 
It has a whole series now of publicity machines of one kind and another which are being paid for by the taxpayer and which have really no purpose except to try and sell the Government's program to the public. 
He said also: 
In fact, the Fraser Government has outdone the Whitlam Government 
I never have had respect for that gentleman's ability to report facts, but now I have even less respect for his ability to promote and generate them. The facts are these: The Whitlam Government and in fact the State governments, particularly the Labor State governments in this country, far outspend the present Federal Government in publicity costs. In fact, not only is the sort of assertion that  Mr Mungo  MacCallum made ludicrous but also for him to present himself as an expert in his field and for him to talk such nonsense on a television program really denigrates his profession. 
I present to the House the realities of this matter. For example, the New South Wales Government- a Labor government- in Press secretary salaries alone spends $326,800 a year. The South Australian Labor Government spends $289,000 a year on Press secretary salaries. The Queensland non-Labor Government spends $332,300 a year on Press secretary salaries. Western Australia spends $270,000 a year on Press secretary salaries alone. The facts are that the present Federal Government spends $154,000 on Press secretary salaries. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has three Press secretaries and the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony),  the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Mr Lynch)  and the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  have Press secretaries. Honourable members should compare this with the 26 Press secretaries - 
-Yes, the 26 Press secretaries that the previous Government- the Whitlam Government- had during its curious period in government. As much as $650,000-odd a year went solely in Press secretary salaries. That was four times the amount of money that this Government is spending on Press secretary salaries. Yet someone like  Mr MacCallum  maintains the nonsense that this Government has outdone the Labor Government. There are other services to consider, such as the Federal Government's liaison service. The expenditure on that under the Labor Government was enormous compared with the very modest cost that the present Government's information unit is now imposing on the taxpayer. The cost that the present Government is imposing on the taxpayer is a very reasonable one. The job of the information unit is to convey to the people of Australia the facts of what this Government is doing and what the changes in the law mean. This is a vital job. 
Unfortunately, the previous Government used the public relations network it had mainly as a method of promoting the individual fortunes of individual Ministers. The time of the 26 Press secretaries was spent in promoting their Ministers and not their Government. As a result, the public got a fair view of the divided nature of that Government. The facts are that every State government that reports its figures far outspends this Federal Government in terms of public relations and in terms of paying Press secretaries. It is a disgrace for a member of the journalists profession to speak such nonsense as was spoken by  Mr MacCallum 

 Mr FitzPATRICK (Riverina) (10.50)- I rise tonight to repeat the claim that the Robinson affair is not the only crack in the facade of credibility of the Australian Government. It is only the latest, and if the events of last week told us anything about the Australian Government it must surely have been that its claim to be able to govern better than Labor is just that- a claim. People voted for the Fraser Government on promises of a better future, but what they are getting is coming to the surface by a sort of flotation process- grievances, questionable personal dealings, internal turmoil, resignations, patchups and cover-ups- with a total disregard for the rights of this Parliament to know why a Minister of the Cabinet resigned. 
Even putting aside the troublesome clash of personalities in the Cabinet this Government is still very much in disarray and shows a general lack of understanding of how to tackle the task at hand. The promise of sound economic management has just not materialised. In the 1975 election campaign  Mr Fraser  promised that 'only under Liberals will there be jobs for everyone who wants to work'. The Liberals won. In the 1977 election campaign  Mr Fraser  said: 'Our consistent economic strategy is getting Australia back to work'. He said that from February 1978 there would be a sustained and long-term reduction in unemployment. What a difference between the promise and the reality. Kenneth Davidson writing in the Melbourne  Age  newspaper tells us that in the three years to January- the approximate life of the Fraser Government- unemployment has increased by 150,000. Another promise in the 1977 election campaign was that the Australian people will not accept a return to high taxes and a Fraser Government will bring them down further, not increase them. What is the reality? Last year's Budget expected to bring in an extra $ 1,520m even after lowering taxes on motor vehicles and the abolition of the Medibank levy. 
Labor would have kept the promises to keep the economy moving. In government Labor would have careful expansion designed to generate new jobs so that the tragic escalation of unemployment would be halted. The building and construction industries are crying out for government stimulation. The gap between revenue and expenditure can be bridged by a capital gains tax and a resources tax. Regardless of the startling increase in the number of unemployed, regardless of where this Government's policies are taking us, the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  will not allow any review of this Government's policies. No wonder we have internal turmoil and resignations from the Cabinet. Labor is constantly reviewing its policies, looking at new ones, speaking with people in industry- I emphasise the words 'speaking with'- speaking with people in commerce, in primary industry and not forgetting the trade unions. The Fraser Government cannot hide behind a world of silence any longer. No matter how much it tries, the facade is cracking and people can now see what this Government is- incompetent and callous. The end is in sight and the sooner it arrives the better for this nation and the large number of unemployed. I want to say that no one will mourn this Government's passing. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I listened with interest to the interesting exercise in statistics used by the honourable member for Werriwa  (Mr Kerin).  In particular, I was interested to hear his last comment that it was absurd to discuss unemployment in the context of employment.  His  analogy, which was a curious one, was that one does not determine the number of people who are in the Army by the number of people who are not in the Army. 
I presume that he could not have been serious. I should have thought that, when the Labor Party was inaccurately maintaining in the electorate, very strongly and without much success, the view that the present Government's policies are entirely wrong because they are failing in the area of finding jobs for people, it would have been moderately relevant to establish that there were 157,000 more people at work. 
It is true, according to the statistics. In fact, the honourable member for Werriwa has conceded that fact. As a result, the issue of discussing unemployment in the context of employment is specifically relevant if the Labor Party rests its case on the fact that the Government's policies are not achieving an increase in employment. The honourable member for Werriwa said that it may well be inaccurate to relate November figures to December figures, and he made the very sound point that in fact there were no December figures to relate to because they were gathered on a different basis from that on which the November figures were gathered. He said that it may well be that the previous December showed a once and for all increase, but he than made the point that, even though there are not 'annual' figures in the sense of December figures or 30 June figures, in no year under Labor had employment fallen. We have already established that there are no December or June figures, so the honourable member had to take a year which ends artificially- some 12-month period. 
I direct his attention to the employment figures for August 1974, which totalled 5,855,200. 1 also direct his attention to the employment figures for August 1975, which apparently makes up a year, on his criterion, because there are no June to June or December to December figures. The figure at August 1975 was 5,841,300 which, if my mathematics are not incorrect, indicates a fall of 48,000. It is all very well for the honourable member for Werriwa to claim that there was no fall during a Labor year. He is entitled to claim that. I must admit that I took the 12-month period ending in August because the Parliamentary Library indicated that it was the most convenient figure for it to use to go back historically to 1971. 1 have taken the statistics from the information the Parliamentary Library gave me and those figures are clearly correct. As a result, I want to stress with great vigour - 
-I thank the honourable member very much for the suggestion. I have an additional set of figures that was put on my table this afternoon and when I get the opportunity I want to make a detailed examination of those figures. On the surface they appear to defend strongly the point I was making about the big increase - 
If the honourable member does not mind, I should like to make a detailed examination of them first. I usually like to speak from a knowledge of the facts. The indication in those statistics, which I intend to examine very closely, is that an increasing number of married women in the work force is causing significant difficulties for unskilled young women entering the work force. 
They are competing in that area, and the honourable member for Werriwa agrees. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
-When the House last met I was asked quite vociferously by various members of the Opposition to incorporate in  Hansard  statistics which I had. I now seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  the statistics on employed persons by age to which I was referring on that occasion. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 


<graphic href="113131197903205_65_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="113131197903205_66_1.jpg"></graphic>

The reason I have incorporated these statistics is to detail the significant improvement in youth employment which has taken place under the present Government and to dramatise the comparison between what happened under the Labor Government and what has happened under the present Government. I draw the attention of the House to the statistics and to what they reveal. In particular they reveal that, after the presentation of the first Labor Budget in 1973, the deterioration in the situation was appalling. For example, the statistics show that in 1975 10,000 persons between the ages of 15 and 19 years lost their jobs. The number of young people employed in August 1973 was 637,000. By August 1975 that number had fallen to 615,000. The impact of Labor's first Budget and its successive Budgets was fairly evident. The reason I have the figures for August is that they are the only revised figures which are available from the Australian Bureau of Statistics. 
Let us compare those figures with what has happened under the present Government. I think that members of the Opposition will recognise that in January the level of youth employment is generally depressed; certainly it is lower than the level in December. By January of this year the level of employment for persons between the ages of 15 and 19 years had reached 660,000. That represents an improvement of something like 44,000 over the level of youth employment in August of the year when the Labor Government went out of office. In particular this trend was seen in the statistics for males. 
Lest the Labor Party claims that it is unreasonable to compare January figures with, say, figures for August, let us look at the figures for August. One can see that between August 1975  and August 1978 there was an increase of 15,000 in the level of youth employment. But more significantly, by December of last year we had a record number of young people employed. That level was far above the level which existed under the previous Government. Something like 44,000 more young males were at work in December 1978 than were at work in August 1975. As a result, compared with the situation before Labor came to office, a record proportion of people aged between 15 and 19 years was in the work force. 
The figures dramatise the fact that under this Government the level of youth employment has recovered dramatically from the disastrous fall that took place under the Labor Government. They demonstrate clearly that our policies of generating youth employment and of introducing special schemes administered by the Department of Employment and Youth Affairs- I am glad to see that the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs  (Mr Viner)  is in the House tonight- have worked to such an extent that we now have record levels and improving levels of youth employment. I am concentrating on youth employment because the Australian Labor Party keeps talking untruthfully about the unemployed generation. The fact is that we have more youth employed than it ever had. We are continuing to find more jobs. Our policies have brought about increasing youth employment. The statistics show quite clearly that the policies of the Labor Party brought about declining youth employment. Under the Labor Government more and more youths lost jobs; under this Government they are getting jobs. 
-No one can regard with equanimity the appalling volume of abortions at present being undertaken in Australia. No one can express pleasure at the millions of dollars of taxpayers' money being used to finance this practice which arouses such deep concern among so many decent Australians. The question for this House is what should be done about the situation. What is the proper duty of this House? If the matter is purely one of finance, then there is no doubt that this House has a responsibility in the sense that taxpayers' money is used through the health system to fund abortions. As the honourable member for Berowra  (Dr Edwards)  quite rightly pointed out, an abortion is discretionary surgery rather than necessary surgery in the great majority of cases. Like a face-lift or a hair transplant it is not, in most cases, a necessary operation that is essential for the sake of the health of the patient. If financial considerations rather than morality are the issue, then an abortion cannot be distinguished from other optional surgery and it cannot be singled out for discriminatory attack. 
In my view the situation with public health in this nation has now reached the point where we must decide whether taxpayers should continue to be asked to dig deeply into their pockets to finance the enormous bill involved in nonessential surgery. Should someone who wants such surgery and its associated services really have the right to demand that their neighbours should pay for it? It is about time that the nation's obligation to provide a health service to all without discriminating between rich and poor should be reflected properly in providing a real health service which meets the health needs of the community, rather than an expensive luxury which in many cases panders to people's desires- to their wants, rather than to thenneeds. It is amazing how desirable surgery can become to some people when their neighbours are paying for it. On a financial score, there is no doubt about the merit in excluding discretionary surgery such as abortions, hair transplants and face-lifts from the medical benefits table. But it must be all or nothing. On financial grounds there is no way in which abortions can be singled out for special treatment. 
In that case, the only justification for special treatment would have to be on moral grounds. But the morality or otherwise of abortions is not a matter on which this House is competent to decide. In the first place, any expression of its views is not only irrelevant in that it does not have legislative power to take a moral legislative view on abortion, but also any attempts to do so would involve a subversion of the rights of sovereign States in this area. The case against abortion on demand is a strong one, but it has not been strong enough to sway the legislators in those governments which have the sovereign rights to legislate on this matter, or indeed to enforce existing legislation that is honoured more in the breach than in the observance. No pun is intended. It is improper for anyone to endeavour to use this House to subvert the sovereign rights of the States by imposing a discriminatory restraint on the rights of individuals to have abortions. This would involve the use of the back door' method in seeking to control funds for abortions. For example it is as improper as using federal export powers to impose environmental restraints on States. It intrigues me to see that so many members of this House who objected to the use of export power in that case are prepared to support a similar proportion in this case. 
One of the main reasons I joined the Liberal Party was my very strong opposition to the concentration of power in Canberra as the Whitlam Government set out deliberately to subvert and destroy the independence of the States. I regard that concentration of power as a threat to the maintenance of the democratic traditions of this nation. I have constantly maintained that view and cannot, in conscience, be associated in any way with any attempts to subvert State sovereignty. If a strong body of opinion which objects to abortion has been unable to convince the State parliaments; if it is not the majority view in the various States; if, at no stage, it has effectively been able to raise this as an election issue; and if there has at no stage been any expression of public view on this matter by way of referendum, then there is no justification whatsoever for this vocal, well meaning, honest and decent minority to endeavour to use the back door- by way of this Parliament- to impose its view on the community. 
I find it personally unfortunate that only recently there was a State election in New South Wales where none of the candidates were subjected to any of the pressures to which I have been subjected in the last month or so. Yet the New South Wales Parliament is the one with jurisdiction over abortions. It is the Parliament which decides the rights and wrongs of whether they should take place. I am disappointed that the present campaigners who sought not to play a major part in the recent New South Wales election have been involved in what can only be regarded as threats to me in terms of electoral support at the next election, when, in fact I have no proper legislative capacity in this matter whatsoever. The motion we are debating is an expression of opinion and nothing more. What a shame the organisers of this enormous campaign have chosen to direct their power towards getting an expression of opinion and nothing more from a parliament with no rights in the matter, rather than to do something that would be practical and useful to its cause; that is, to influence the State parliaments to either introduce additional laws in respect of abortion, or to impose and make certain the existing laws work. 
There is no doubt that in most States the law relating to abortion is held in contempt. Most abortions are, effectively, on demand. If the people of Australia do not like that situation, they should do something about seeing that the law relating to abortion is enforced, and I urge those who have organised the anti-abortion campaign in this Parliament to establish the extent to which they do have popular support throughout Australia. This is a democracy. I regard it as an undemocratic procedure that this House of Parliament, with not one woman member, with no mandate, and with no direct power in relation to abortions, should be asked to subvert the rightful duties of State governments elected by the majority of voters in those States. No matter how meritorious is the case against abortion, I reject the implications in the Lusher motion that the end justifies a most improper means. As a result, I ask honourable members to support the amendment that has been circulated in my name, which reads:   . . this House is or the opinion that medical benefits should not be provided by the Commonwealth for any surgical procedure - 
Which includes abortions-  unless such surgery is certified to be medically essential to the health of the patient and is performed in accordance with the law of a State or Territory. 
I think the purpose of my amendment is selfevident. It seeks to avoid discrimination against any section of the community, particularly women. I submit to the House that what has been presented in this debate so far is discriminatory in all matters. I believe that this House does not have the power or the right to impose a view, for better or for worse, upon the States, which have the duty to introduce and administer laws in respect of abortion. I urge the House to give my amendment its support. 
-by leave-I present the report of the Australian delegation to the Symposium on Development Co-operation held by the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development and the Council of Europe in Paris on 6 and 7 December 1978. Following the very strong wish of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe that the Australian Parliament should be represented at the Symposium on Development Co-operation, three members of the Federal Parliament were selected for this purpose. They were the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis), Senator Shirley  Walters, senator for Tasmania, and I. 
The Symposium was held in the context of the growing income differences between the rich and poor nations of the world, which have been exacerbated by the political difficulties many developed countries now have in achieving aid objectives because of problems of unemployment and inflation at home. This has resulted in a decline in official aid to lesser developed countries as a proportion of the gross domestic product of the OECD nations. In addition, the protectionist policies of the developed world pose a major threat, particularly to the future of the newly industrialised nations, whilst the mounting burden of external debt by the lesser developed countries now means that 20 per cent of their total export income is going into the servicing of borrowings. As so many of the world's LDCs are in Australia's region, the Symposium had a special significance for Australia. 
The Australian delegation participated fully in the Symposium, which provided an important opportunity to exchange views on the many difficulties involving relationships between developed and the developing nations. The Australian delegation is of the opinion that, whilst disagreements at the Symposium were so great that no agreed declaration could be issued, the opportunity it presented to expose European parliamentarians to Australian attitudes on this matter made it worth while. In addition, the extent of evident recognition by European parliamentarians of the merit of many of the attitudes expressed by non-European participants, including Australia, suggests that failure to attend future symposiums or conferences of this kind could act to Australia 's disadvantage. 
The Symposium, in general, expressed a strongly supportive view of the reports presented to it by the Development Assistance Commission and in particular, by  Mr Mommersteeg,  the Rapporteur of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Although no members of parliaments in the 'developing' world attended the Symposium, the Pakistan Ambassador to Paris,  Mr Iqbal  Akhund presented a strong address stressing the need for an improvement in trading relations between the developing countries and the developed world. 
It was an honour for the Australian delegation that  Senator Shirley  Walters was selected to chair the public session on the afternoon of 7 December dealing with 'Public and Parliamentary Attitudes to Relations with Developing Countries'. At the end of this session a draft declaration was submitted for discussion. The Australian delegates objected to sections of this declaration and sought to have it amended. 
The Austraiian delegation expressed its concern to the Symposium about the uneven nature of trade benefits to donor countries that may emerge from development assistance to developing nations, particularly the newly industrialised nations. The American Ambassador,  Mr Grant,  had pointed to the significant trading benefits that generally emerged from the provision of aid to rapidly industrialising countries in the Third World. This was underlined in a paper entitled Salient features of recent development experience and developing country participation in the world economy' that had been prepared for the Symposium by the secretariat. This pointed out that in 10 years the newly industrialised countries' 'deficit in trade and manufactures with the industrialised countries rose from $4.6 billion to $17.6 billion in 1976 . . . over the same period, the OECD surplus in such trade with all non-European non-OPEC developing countries rose from about $1 1 billion to over $37 billion'. The Australian delegation pointed to this experience and expressed concern that pressures to increase the aid commitment by countries such as Australia which are not major exporters of capital equipment could well result simply in an increased OECD export with relatively little benefit to the non-European nations providing the aid. In other words: 'We provide the aid and you get the trade'. 
The Australian delegation pressed the view that the developed nations should adopt acceptable trade practices, particularly in respect of imports of manufactures from the newly industrialised countries. In this context, it was pointed out that, whilst Australia did maintain some trade restraints, it did not employ the prohibitions and similar embargoes that are maintained within the European Economic Community. As a result, the Australian delegation supported the suggested amendments to the draft declaration which stated that the meeting would renew efforts to give manufacturers from the lesser developed countries freer access to the industrialised countries' markets. This replaced the unacceptable proposal that access be 'free '. 
The delegation was concerned at the view expressed by European parliamentarians at the Symposium that European food surpluses could be justified by the increasing trend to world food shortages in under-developed nations. When this view was expressed in the draft declaration, the Australian delegation sought to amend it and argued that the enormous volumes of money involved in providing food surpluses in Europe could be far more effectively used increasing the agricultural capacity of those nations with food shortages, if the Europeans were genuine in seeking to overcome this problem. As a result,  Mr McNamara  of the United Kingdom and I jointly moved an amendment that this meeting of parliamentarians 'considers it urgent to draw public attention to the contribution which expanded investment programs for food production in developing countries can make, not only towards the relief of hunger and malnutrition in these countries, but also to stable food prices for consumers in all countries '. 
The Australian delegation also sought to include an addendum that parliamentarians would endeavour 'to ensure that any progress towards liberalising world trade in manufactures be accompanied by similar moves in commodities (particularly in respect of non-tariff barriers), so that lesser developing countries will be able to share fully in any successes in diminishing the excessive protectionism of developed nations or groups of nations'. Overall, however, the thrust of the declaration received the broad support of the Australian delegation, which stressed the need for the objectives of freer trade by the industrialised nations with the lesser developed nations to extend into the Asian and Pacific regions, not only into Africa, which some European nations consider to be their sphere of influence and with which they have traditional ties. The Australian delegation pointed out that Australia's aid contribution to the lesser developed counties was higher at 0.45 per cent of gross domestic product than the OECD average of 0.32 per cent, and that the great bulk of 
Australia's aid was untied, a situation considerably different from that obtaining for many European donors. 
The Australian delegation also stressed the fact that the concentration on the development of export industries among the lesser developed countries was not necessarily in the best interests of the recipient nations. In many instances, the export industries did not provide either employment or flow-on benefits to the bulk of the population and simply provided a cheaper manufacturing base for trans-national corporations than they enjoyed in developed nations. It was suggested that European aid appeared, in many instances, to have the objective of bringing ultimate trade benefits to the donor country and that this improperly influenced the criteria used in establishing the manner in which aid funds should be allocated. 
The delegation expressed its concern that European trading practices, as evidenced by the EEC experience, did not give cause for confidence that the expressions of good faith towards developing countries at this Symposium would be translated into practice. The Parliamentarians were reminded of the extent to which the EEC had discriminated against Australian exports and those of other nations in the region, while at the same time enormous food surpluses, which had been created behind an artificial protective barrier, were now being dumped on Australia's traditional markets in the region. 
The draft declaration was subjected to so many suggested amendments, including those from the Australian delegation which recommended material changes, that the Symposium agreed there was not sufficient time available to resolve the disagreements and as a result it was accepted that the draft and the suggested amendments all be submitted to the Council of Europe as an expression of various opinions at the Symposium on Development Aid. The Delegation is grateful for the courtesy extended to it by the  President  of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe,  Mr H.  J. de Koster, who entertained delegates at a reception, to  Mr Van  Lennep, Secretary-General of the OECD who entertained delegates at a luncheon, and the Australian Ambassador to the OECD in Paris, Ambassador Donovan, and his staff who provided essential assistance to the Delegation. 
-I ask the Minister for Transport whether he is aware of the blockages of roads in my electorate by protesting truck owner-drivers who are suffering severe financial difficulties because of unfair State road taxes? Has the Minister seen a report that the New South Wales Minister for Transport,  Mr Cox,  said that the New South Wales Government would be prepared to drop its road maintenance tax if the Federal Government agreed to reimburse the State in full? Will the Commonwealth Government be giving consideration to this proposal? 
It is very disturbing to hear a debate such as today's, not because of the content of the Opposition speakers' statements but more for the manner in which they were presented. It seems to me that the totalitarian dictatorial approach that the Opposition generally favours in these matters is now being reinforced by a speaking style which depends so much on personal abuse rather than on fact. The standard of debate in this House is being seriously jeopardised. It is extraordinary that in debating such a matter, one which is regarded by the Opposition as being a matter of public importance, we hear such edifying terms as 'clowns' and 'prima donnas'. They came from the honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr West).  I suppose this is in the tradition of the former honourable member for Cunningham who referred to our exporters as 'mugs ' and 'hillbillys'. Those who sit opposite form a highly sophisticated group. They have gone from calling people 'mugs' and 'hill-billys' to 'clowns' and 'prima donnas'. 
We had the gentleman who presents himself here as the alternative Minister for Trade and Resources and who would be involved in dealing with State Premiers in, one would hope, a friendly and reasonable way, referring to one of them as a criminal and another as a lunatic. Is this the way we would get friendly co-operation between the States under- a terrible thought- a Labor Federal government? This is a repetition of the exact style of dictatorial assault on the independence of States that was such an offensive part of the Labor Government- a style which was described as 'Connerism'- the former export controls. This style is probably the most awful thing revealed in today's debate. It is a style of hatred, of division and of contempt for people who have a proper role to play in developing this nation. 
I want to stress that today's debate does not relate to whether or not there should be export controls because they have been there for some time. This whole discussion- the discussion to which Opposition speakers, when they were not undertaking personal abuse, referred to in passing- relates to whether or not there should be export control guideines. In other words, it is a discussion on the timing of when the Government should take a decision about export contracts in these key areas. Obviously under the old Connor system there was scope- which was exercised, I might say- for direct governmental intervention to the extent that the then Minister went and personally abused the Japanese rather than doing it indirectly. That of course was a great way to succeed in the long run if one wanted to get the Japanese so off-side. The Japanese are now continuing to try to penalise the South Coast coal mines in my electorate because they consider that they were partly responsible for, or somehow involved in, the Connor dictatorial approach to trading with them. 
The present draft guidelines are there to prevent a' situation in which governments could be blackmailed, and blackmailed very simply. When there is a market downturn, as there has been in the coal industry, there could be a situation in which, when approval for export comes after the event, as occurred under the old system, after a contract had been negotiated a coal mine could come to the Government and say: 'We wish to have this price approved '. The Government could say: 'No, it is too low'. As a result the coal mine could sack all of its employees and say that it was the Government's fault. The whole purpose of these guidelines is to establish first the rules within which the whole of the industry operates so that- and this is the essential pointthere is not a dictatorial insistence by any autocratic Minister about what the price should be. It is in fact a concept of negotiation in which all that the Federal Government is doing is backing a private cartel. That is what it is all about. There is a buying cartel in other countries. There has to be, I believe- and the Government certainly maintains this position, as it has ever since it was elected- some protection on the part of the Government of the competitive mining and processing firms which are endeavouring to sell into this cartel dominated market. The only discussion is the way to succeed; the way to do that best. 
This Government's policies are only supportive of private industry, not dictatorial to it. That is the essential difference between the Labor Party's policy and ours. I can understand State Premiers looking at these guidelines and saying: This might be quite acceptable while there is a government which is responsible and adopts the approach that this Government adopts and simply seeks to back the industry in this area; but if it were replaced with a Labor government there is no doubt that there is a risk that under these guidelines an authoritarian dictatorial Labor government could make things difficult for the States'. That is why I believe that the Government was absolutely correct and was acting in a proper manner by insisting that these guidelines would be draft guidelines and would be available for discussion with the States and with industry. The whole concept is to be supportive of industry, not antagonistic or dictatorial towards industry. Under this Government it is not a question of the Government fixing prices. It is a matter of the Government and industry consulting together to establish reasonable prices. 
We all know that many of the foreign dominated corporations involved in the Aus: tralian mineral industry cannot be involved in private cartels for legal reasons. The only way they can be involved in getting together to combine against a united buyer is under the aegis or the protection of a governmental structure. It is recognisable that there are problems on both sides; that State Premiers are desperately worried about the manner in which these guidelines could be used if ever a Labor government were to get back into office and maintained the sort of mailed fist that existed under the previous government when  Mr Connor  was the Minister. I am concerned that there could well be a mailed fist here today. We have seen that mailed fist, not under a velvet glove but under a natty gent's velvet jacket. 
I stress that these guidelines are, as the Minister for Trade and Resources  (Mr Anthony)  said, not necessarily to be exercised permanently. The whole purpose of these guidelines is simply to ensure that at a time of difficulty the Australian industry will not, as the Minister said, get raped. Let me examine the extent to which the alleged concern of many sections of industry and the alleged confusion exists. I accept that the honourable member for Cunningham can be very easily confused. We should recognise that there is no confusion in the mind of, for example,  Mr Robert  Marcus, the Vice  President  of Alumax. Last November he was reported as saying that he would not invest in Australia while the guidelines operated. A couple of weeks ago he announced that he is about to put in a $5 00m smelter in Australia. Why did this happen? I can only suggest that perhaps it is because people are starting to understand what it is all about, instead of getting as emotional as he did at the time and instead of getting perhaps as vicious as members of the Opposition did today. This Alumax decision is on top of the major expansion announced for this industry, and bear in mind that alumina comes under the export guidelines. 
Just look at the expansion in this industry which allegedly is in confusion. There is the $500m Alumax smelter proposed for New South Wales. There is the $350m Alcoa of Australia Ltd smelter in Victoria. There is the $200m Alcoa refinery at Wagerup. There is the $540m Comalco Ltd smelter at Gladstone. There is also the Alcan of Australia Ltd smelter extension at Kurri Kurri. In other words, the best part of $2,000m is being spent on expansion in one industry. The mining industry as a whole expects a rise of 32 per cent in its investment in this year. All governments involved- State governments as well as the Federal Government- have the best interests of this nation at heart. None would accept the dictatorial bullying both of overseas customers and Australian producers which characterised the Connor era. 
The present discussion is on which is the best way of ensuring the proper exercise of market forces so that all Australian producers get as good a return as the market allows, recognising the cartel buying arrangements in most export situations. Of course there are many problems involved in getting a system that does not give a Federal government dictatorial powers such as were used under the Connor regime while at the same time protecting the best interests of the Australian people. There are many different views about the best way to achieve this objective. That is why the Government has been involved in such widespread discussions on the draft guidelines. 
I am very glad to see the Australian Labor Party welcome the establishment of the committee of inquiry. It seems unfortunate that the motion of the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  did not stop there at that rather than continue for another two paragraphs. It seems to me that everything that has been said so far by the Labor Party in this debate has missed the essential point. The honourable member for Adelaide started his speech in an embarrassed manner by discussing a matter which did not bear on this debate whatsoever. He referred to the New South Wales Government's sabotaging of the attempts by the Federal Government and every other State government to introduce a national companies and securities commission Bill as soon as possible. It strikes me as extraordinary that the honourable member for Adelaide would have tilted at this windmill. It seems to me extraordinary, in the circumstances of agreement between the States to introduce this Bill which must be the precursor of all the other Bills that are to be introduced to bring about national control by agreement with the States in these vital areas, that the Labor Party in New South Wales, having agreed in discussions with the other States including the two Labor States which are going along with the Federal Government on this matter, should have sabotaged these proceedings. 
I wonder why. I will suggest a reason which seems to be self-evident: A State election is to be held in Victoria next Saturday. The location of the head office of the proposed commission is of vital significance to Victoria. I support the proposition that it should be in New South Wales where the major activities in this area continue. The headquarters of the Reserve Bank, the major stock market and the major institutions are in New South Wales. Perhaps regrettably the major volume of company fraud has tended to be in New South Wales. That might not be a recommendation for having the commission located in New South Wales, but there is a strong case for doing so. 
It is evident that it would be a matter of political moment in Victoria if immediately before the State election the New South Wales Premier were seen to be vigorously and violently supporting the proposition that such a commission should be located in his State. I imagine that the Victorian Labor Party and  Mr Wilkes  in particular would be infuriated by such a campaign in the couple of weeks running up to the Victorian election. There could be no other explanation for this curious attitude, this indefensible attitude of the State of New South Wales, if it were not for the fact that the Premier is avoiding discussion of the key matter of the location of the national companies and securities commission. As I have said, it is vital that this commission be set up first, the location decided and the advertisements put out to enable the appointment of the people who will be involved. Consequential things, vital things such as the takeovers legislation and the companies and securities legislation, cannot proceed until we have set up the commission and decided on its location and membership. The one State government in Australia, including many Labor governments, that is deliberately sabotaging the procedure is the Labor Government of New South Wales. If there is any other rational justification for this from the Labor Government in New South Wales, we have not seen it. 
The Federal Government has decided not to proceed with the other legislation until the national companies and securities commission Bill is settled as agreed, and of course the Labor Government reneged on its agreement. The Federal Government cannot proceed with other legislative action because the first vital thing is to enact the national companies and securities commission Bill. That is immensely disappointing because there is an urgent need for the consequential legislation. There is an urgent need for the takeovers legislation to come into this place, and it was planned for the August session. It was to be introduced here and in other parliaments round Australia so that we could proceed with this urgent need for reform of the law. The draft companies and securities Bill was to be raised for public discussion in the second half of this calendar year. This was all agreed. The agreements were made with all the State governments, including the State Government of New South Wales. Yet here we have a basic refusal to proceed, I suggest for internal Labor Party political reasons. It seems to me a most disastrous situation that the State Labor Government has acted in this way. Surely a simple matter such as location can be resolved without this kind of political grandstanding by  Mr Wran. 
The fact is that the various companies Acts certainly require major amendments. As I understand it, 500 amendments to the proposed companies Bill were agreed to by the several State Ministers. It seems to me extraordinary that a party which continues to complain about corporate fraud, as the Labor Party does, has taken a role which will delay the introduction of this vital legislation that has been agreed to by the Ministers from all the States, including the Labor States. It is extraordinary also when one sees the way in which the Labor Party in this House tends to concentrate, as did the honourable member for Adelaide, on the seamy side, on the disasters, on the company collapses, particularly when it is recognised that the State governments control the companies Acts and the regulation of corporations in the States. It is extraordinary that the Labor Party in this House should continue to criticise the way in which Labor States have so incompetently administered those Acts that there have continued to be enormous defalcations, enormous collapses, immense frauds. As I understand it, very few people are residing in penitentiaries at  Her  Majesty's expense as a consequence. I am not criticising in any way the extraordinarily high quality of the public servants involved. To my mind, people such as  Mr Ryan  in New South Wales have not been getting the support of the legislatures. I submit that it is vital that the Labor Party get off the pot on this matter, stop playing Victorian politics, and proceed with the national companies and securities commission Bill. 
I am glad that the honourable member for Parramatta complained that I took eight minutes talking about something else because that is exactly what the mover of this motion did. He was so embarrassed about the nonsense he was proposing in his motion that he started by spending eight minutes talking about the securities commission Bill. I have followed his lead, and I thank the honourable member for Parramatta for drawing that fact to the attention of the House. 
Let us look at what the honourable member for Parramatta said. He said that this inquiry was too narrow and that it had to be broadened, particularly in two areas, one in the terms of reference and the other in its composition. Let us look at the terms of reference. They are as broad as possible; they cover everything. It is arrant political nonsense for any honourable member, when he can see what the terms of reference are, to say  that building societies have been excluded or that anything has been excluded. That is totally untrue. The first point on the list of institutions to be dealt with by this inquiry is banks and nonbank financial institutions. For the benefit of the honourable member for Parramatta, non-bank financial institutions include building societies. It is disappointing that a debate on this topic should concentrate on such self-evident nonsense. If the honourable member for Parramatta does not think that the term 'non-bank financial institutions' covers building societies and believes that other things should be raised, I point out that the last requirement of the commission of inquiry is to inquire into, report and make recommendations on such other matters as it believes are relevant to the generality of its inquiries. Of course, that covers the financial system as a whole. I regret that the honourable member for Parramatta has tried to play politics with the people who are seeking housing, with people who are concerned about building societies, by falsely alleging that this inquiry will not cover specifically the building societies of this nation. Clearly it will do so, within its own terms of reference. 
The honourable member for Parramatta says that it is very vague. It may be vague to the honourable member for Parramatta that the term 'non-bank financial institutions' covers building societies. This may explain why a member of the Labor Party or 'a reformer philosophically aligned with the Labor Party', as the honourable member for Adelaide said, has not been appointed to this inquiry. Perhaps he would display the same degree of lack of knowledge as the honourable member for Parramatta has this instant displayed. I believe that the membership of this inquiry is a very impressive one. For anyone to say in this House that the little investor is not protected in this inquiry, that he is not represented, is once again self-evident nonsense.  Mr Coates  is the Chief Manager, Investments, of the Australian Mutual Provident Society, which represents the greatest collection of little investors in Australia. The AMP Society is not a big company; it is a collection of policy holders. It is the greatest single collection of small investors in Australia. Certainly the interests and attitudes of the small investor would be well covered by a man such as  Mr Coates. 
I suggest that the Opposition's complaint about the spread of representation among the commissioners is self-evident nonsense. This is apparent when one considers what happened in the 1936 inquiry, when there were six pages of recommendations and 16 pages of objections. Do honourable members opposite want a minority report that is so much greater than the basic report that it becomes meaningless or do they want an inquiry that will have an effect, have a consequence, be meaningful. I draw the attention of the Opposition to the point made by the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  when announcing the composition of the inquiry. He said: . . . from time to time the Committee might appoint consultants to provide domestic or international advice and expertise. 
I hope that that will happen so that any complaints or possible criticisms, such as the politically motivated criticisms from opposite, can be met by the extension of the committee to include consultants of that nature. I believe that the first sentence of the motion moved by the honourable member for Adelaide is correct. I welcome the establishment of the committee of inquiry, and 1 imagine that the House will do likewise. 
Motion (by  Mr Adermann)  agreed to: 
That the time for the discussion of General Business, Notices, be extended until 12.45 p.m. 
-Most of what the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  has said is, of course, very sensible and has the backing of most honourable members on this side of the House. The only part where unfortunately he does not have the backing of this side of the House is the part where, despite his admonition to himself that he was not going to bring politics into this matter, he in fact brought politics into it. It was disappointing that he spoilt a very good speech with some rather silly and unnecessarily snide remarks which frankly do not fit in with his character or the contributions he makes and has made in the past, both in this House and outside it, to the tourist industry. I instance in particular the remarks he made about the two former Qantas Airways Ltd Boeing 707s that the Government has purchased. 
I think it would be useful if the honourable member for Newcastle were honest enough to admit that before they were bought the major single user, in charter terms, of those 707s was the Australian defence forces, when they were used in flights to Butterworth, that the major single user after their purchase will remain the Australian defence forces and that in terms of passenger miles each year that will clearly be the major use of those two aircraft. It is disgraceful and dishonest of any honourable member opposite, particularly the honourable member for Newcastle who has such a depth of knowledge on this matter, to try to distort the realities of those two 707s. I am disappointed. 
-Exactly; that is the interesting point. One would think that a former Minister for Transport would know what was paid each year to Qantas for charters; and I understand that the figure was something like $2m a year. I think it is worthwhile recognising when the honourable member for Newcastle makes a sound speech that the sound points he makes are recognised on this side of the House and that his contribution is welcome. But I regret that he strayed from the path of rectitide into those unfortunate and, I believe, vicious political points which frankly do not rest solidly and soundly on his benign shoulders. 
Having dealt with the unfortunate part of his speech, I proceed now to the realities of the fact that it is under this Government that cheaper airfares have been introduced. It is all very well for any honourable member opposite to talk about the endeavours he made. The facts are that there are cheaper domestic off peak air fares because of this Government's activities. There are cheaper international air fares because of this Government's activities. Cheaper air fares are available not only to Britain but also from the countries of the Association of South East Asian Nations as a result of this Government's activities. There is continual sniding and whinging from honourable members opposite about the fact that we have achieved what they failed to achieve. The fact that we have achieved this immense concession for the public of Australia who wish to travel overseas obviously has infuriated members of the Opposition so much that they are continuing a sniping campaign which frankly does them no credit. I must say that I am glad to see that in most of these areas the former Minister for Transport is too sensible to participate in this nonsense. Knowing the facts, I congratulate him for his general restraint in this area. 
I proceed now to congratulate the members of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Tourism who tabled this excellent report. I congratulate, first, the former honourable member for Herbert and then the honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Jull),  who succeeded him as  Chairman.  There are some problems, of course, as a result of the Select Committee's report. These relate clearly to some of the recommendations involving proposals to change the tax law. To my mind the major problem we have in the tourist industry these days is not how to cope with the big influx of tourists. It is basically how to make certain that the many small operators in country areas can continue to be viable. They are providing a major and basic service to not only the travelling public in Australia but also, I hope, to decentralisation in many country towns. They provide employment and economic stimulus and it would be most unfortunate if any government involved in this area were to become obsessed about the big ticket item of heavy volumes of foreign tourists coming to see these zappy and highly-promoted areas such as Ayers Rock without recognising that the tourist operators in such places as Bowral, Mittagong, Nowra and Shoalhaven Heads are the heart and soul of the tourist industry in Australia. 
Yes, they are in my electorate and they contain very high quality motels. The honourable member is more than welcome to come and visit my electorate and stay in those motels. 
No. Anyone with taste would go to Shoalhaven Heads instead of Bondi. I assure honourable members that it is vital that this industry is kept foremost in the minds of all honourable members when they are discussing the tourist problem. I am very concerned indeed that too much concentration has been placed on the central areas. I am concerned that for the time being low air fares might have a very serious and detrimental impact on the motel industry in remote areas throughout Australia- in areas where the motel is probably the largest single industry in a small town. I hope that great efforts will be made in promoting tourism overseas to ensure that visits to the rural sectors of Australia are high on the list of recommendations. 
I hope also that the Government will look very closely at the recommendations of this Committee, for example, recommendation No. 18, which concerns a depreciation allowance for income-producing buildings, along with an investment allowance. There is no doubt that many motel operators face financial difficulties. The problem basically is simple: The motel operators are not allowed to depreciate the value of their buildings. Yet their buildings are their tools of trade. Their buildings in fact do wear out. I regret to say that I have been in many motels in which the buildings have given every indication of being well on the way to wearing out. The problem is that in every other industry the tools of trade- the plant and machinery- are depreciable. But the tools of trade in the tourist industry are not depreciable. I believe that that is a most unfortunate situation. 
This is the situation despite the fact that the accountancy profession has required, for example, every public company which submits its reports to State governments, to depreciate buildings in their accounts, even though the Commissioner of Taxation does not agree and even though the Government has not seen fit yet to make that an allowable deduction for tax purposes. Around the world it is evident that buildings depreciate, particularly in the tourist industry. It is evident that they have to be refurbished. But I regret to say that this Government and previous governments, which evidenced in word but not in deed immense support for the tourist industry, have done nothing about this matter. Frankly, it strikes me as absurd that we should hear such comments from honourable members opposite who, let us face it, for three years, had an opportunity to introduce that sort of measure which would have benefited the small operator, the little businessman- if honourable members like, the petty capitalist- in the country towns of Australia, but they did nothing to introduce such a vital law. 
I strongly hope that this Government, having now received the informed report of the House of Representatives Select Committee on Tourism, which strongly recommends that such changes should be made to the Income Tax Assessment Act, will now act upon that report. Let us face it, honourable members opposite, when in government, did not even get around to seeking a report on this matter. At least this Government has a report which contains the recommendations to which I have referred. I hope that this Government will now act on the recommendations and do something to fix up the clearly anomalous situation which exists in the tourist industry. 
The industry faces a serious problem concerning the investment allowance too. I must admit that I am stressing the case of country motel operators because I believe that they are the ones who face the most serious problem. At the moment country motel operators are not entitled to receive an investment allowance on the bulk of the items which they put into their motels. That is because there is a minimum cut off level, below which the investment allowance does not apply. For example, if a country motel operator buys a colour television set to put into one of the motel rooms, that television set does not attract the benefit of the investment allowance which is available to every other industry which buys items of equipment. A 25-room motel would have to buy 25 colour television sets, which would cost a very substantial sum of money. Yet, because of various objections raised, I understand, by the Australian Taxation Office and the Department of the Treasury, that concession is not extended to motel operators. I can understand why. No doubt, with relatively small items such as that there could be fiddling. Items could be bought, used for a short time, sold at a profit because the investment allowance reduced the initial cost to the operator, and replaced with another item. No doubt there is scope for tax evasion in such a situation. 
I believe that what the Government should do is to find some way of overcoming this evident problem. I recognise the problem. I understand the Government's difficulty. But I would like to see a different approach adopted towards the motel industry. Perhaps we could have an accelerated depreciation approach for room furniture. Perhaps we could have a situation in which a whole room is furnished and an investment allowance is applied. But I am certain that there must be some way and some way must be found of remedying the unfair situation in which the tourist industry finds itself when compared with all other industries. I welcome the recommendation by the Committee, even though I believe that it will be very difficult to apply. 
The Committee made 45 recommendations. No doubt at present the Government is examining most of them. Some already have been introduced. For example, a recommendation on which the Government has acted and for which it has received no credit from the Opposition, as usual, is the recommendation that there should be competition between rent-a-car operators at airports. I am waiting for the Opposition to congratulate the Government on that move. But all we hear from the Opposition is continual carping- political criticisms - 
I wish to join the protest that has already been made tonight from this side of the House about political censorship. That political censorship applies to the rules preventing comment on electoral matters by television and radio stations in the two days prior to an election while newspapers are allowed to proceed. As a former journalist, I find it offensive that this kind of paternalism should be forced upon the public and that there should be a discrimination of this kind between the various kinds of media. I can remember that just before an election in 1949 the late Jack Lang attacked very violently the integrity, surprisingly enough, of the late J. B. Chifley. There is no doubt that some people misbehave in that way. There is no doubt with the allegations that  Mr Lang  made against  Mr Chifley  were groundless. There is no doubt that this is a serious matter. It probably demonstrates more than anything else what happens when members of the Australian Labor Party fall out. 
There can be serious and damaging allegations in the run-up period to an election. However, surely the whole function of the democratic process depends on giving people the opportunity to misbehave. We have to put up with the disadvantages if we want an effective system of government, and there is no doubt that one of the disadvantages is that people have the opportunity to misbehave in election campaigns. It will surprise many honourable members of this House to know that some people actually tell fibs in election campaigns. For example, the Opposition pretended that there was no tax benefit in the latest tax cuts. There is a continual history of people making untrue claims in run-up periods to elections. I hope that the sort of paternalism and the 'we know better than you' approach which governments in the past unfortunately have had to this problem will be changed and that in the future the electronic media will be allowed to comment and report on news as the printed media is allowed to do. 
As the honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Jull)  said, it may well be that some people take the view that this should not happen because people are inclined to believe television but not to believe newspapers. I have worked on newspapers and I found that to be an offensive suggestion. I would not accept the view that one section of the media should be given this preference. I cannot see why any person who regards himself as a true democrat would prevent discussion of political issues in the period coming up to an election. I join the honourable member for Bowman in urging the Government to review this unfortunate situation which has existed for so long. At the same time I would encourage the media to recognise the immense responsibility that such an extension of time would impose upon it. There is no doubt that there could be some serious misbehaviour. I hope, if this time is extended, that the media will demonstrate to the people of Australia that it can behave in a sensible and responsible way. I think that it is totally improper for any government to exercise the sort of political censorship which prevents members of the media making proper comment and reporting properly on election news. Let us face it: Elections are the actual exercise of a democratic process and should not be interfered with by this kind of paternalism. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order!  It being 1 1 p.m., the debate is interrupted. The House stands adjourned until 2.15 p.m. tomorrow. 
-It seems unfortunate that a discussion which started off in a sensible way should have ended up with the sort of nonsense we have just heard. It may well be that the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Dawkins)  has in fact been twiddling his thumbs. I think it would have been a good idea if he had pulled his finger out and participated in the debates that have taken place in this House. I agree with him that to a large extent the nonsense we have heard from honourable members opposite has been a waste of time. Nonetheless, it is part of the democratic process to provide the Opposition with the opportunity to debate issues. Unfortunately that right was not presented by the Labor Government to the Government parties when they were in opposition. 
The Labor Government achieved its great rate of legislative progress by use of the guillotine, the gag, and the refusal to allow proper debate on the majority of vitally important Bills. It is appalling to hear a member of the Opposition boast about the way the Labor Government forced legislation through this House without proper discussion. I regret that the honourable member should have interposed in the debate as he did. 
I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That this House- 
Welcomes the Russian Government's reported decision to release Jewish dissidents and congratulates all those concerned in helping to bring about such a change in attitude; and 
Condemns the anti-Jewish attitude of the left-wing of the Victorian Labor Party which has constantly opposed such actions by the Russian Government. 
The motion will be seconded by the honourable member for Perth. 
-It is always a little distressing to hear the synthetic fury of the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young).  He pretends to be infuriated by the actions of a Government which, as the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  said, has a sense of responsibility about what is happening now. To relate the sorts of problems that this nation faces to nonsense about VIP aircraft is pathetic. The level at which the honourable member for Port Adelaide endeavoured to discuss this matter was, I think, a disparaging situation for the whole of the Parliament. 
I suppose that it is representative of his style that he refused to allow the honourable member for Berowra  (Dr Edwards)  to incorporate in  Hansard  a factual statement. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drummond)Order! 

You can make a personal explanation afterwards. 
-Thank you,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  That kind of disruption by the honourable member for Port Adelaide is typical of the style used by the Opposition in endeavouring to cover this whole discussion, with personalities, with smear and with nastiness. We have a serious issue which should be discussed in this place, and the discussion should revolve around the serious question of whether a government, when it finds that there is a need for change in its policies, should make those changes. I remind the House and I remind the people of Australia of what happened in 1973 when a government came to power and made promises that involved the spending of large amounts of money. There are many people who would regard it as commendable that the Government at that time proceeded to spend not only the money it promised it would spend but much more. It proceeded to honour the undertakings it had given in the 1 972 election campaign. As I say, there are many people who would find that commendable. The facts are that by honouring those commitments, by going ahead with that extraordinarily massive volume of spending- a huge increase of 120 per cent in the time it was in office- by pursuing that enormous increase, it brought about the destruction of the Australian economy. 
The big question that one has to ask when considering those huge rates of inflation at that time- I am afraid that they can be seen simply by looking at the statistics- is: What was in the best interests of Australians. Was it that these huge handout programs should proceed or was it that the Government of the day should have recognised the changing situation? The foreign situation had changed, oil prices had gone up and inflation had taken place around the world. The then Government decided that its commitment to its own programs was far more important than the health of the Australian economy. It decided that it was certainly far more important than the pensioners who were the people worst hit by the inflation that followed. The previous government had an approach different from that of this Government. For example, this Government does not have the approach of the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  who castigated the Government a short while ago. Let us remember the economic policy in which the honourable member for Gellibrand really believes. When talking about when the Labor Government would next gain office he said:  . . . we would face a mammoth task in rebuilding the public sector- and maybe an equally mammoth task in convincing the electorate that it should pay a higher level of tax to enable us to do so. 
That is the heart and soul of Labor policy. That is why I contrast what this Government is doing and what happened under the Labor Government. From everything that we have heard today it seems that the Labor Party regards it as improper and immoral that the Government should do what is right for the nation as a whole, particularly the people who will suffer from a massive upsurge in inflation. The current level of inflation has begun to increase. If we did not take tough measures, if we had the sort of government that was in office from 1973 to 1975, inflation would get out of control. 
Why did the Government have to go back on is undertakings? Let us recognise the fact that it has done so. There is no point in trying to escape it. Why did it have to make that determined decision? The answer is very simple. It is, in the main, that there has been a 14 per cent increase in food prices. Is it the Government's fault that that increase has had the major single impact on the cost of living of all the factors that influence it? The 14 per cent increase in food prices is a direct consequence of the recovery in the rural sector, including the recovery in the prices of cattle. At last that recovery has come and the man on the land is not in continual danger of going broke. Thank heavens that the recovery in the prices of cattle eventually came. It has ensured that the man on the land will get a fair deal at last. The Opposition knows perfectly well that this is the major single reason for the increase in inflation in recent times. Despite that, it has been pretending that there is something sinister and wicked about what the Government has done. 
The Government has recognised that the situation has changed since the last Budget. None of the honourable members opposite was aware at the time that inflation, as a result of higher food prices, particularly cattle prices, would reach the sort of level that it has. So it is nonsense and hypocrisy for Opposition members to attack the Government. I suggest that equally it is nonsense and hypocrisy for the newspapers who have been attacking this Government and demanding that it reduce government spending to complain now when the Government is reducing its spending. We should recognise that the Government spends money only on services to the public. Very little money is spent on the Government itself. All the talk we have heard about VIP aircraft from people such as the honourable members for Port Adelaide represents the same kind of hypocrisy. The honourable member for Port Adelaide knows perfectly well that for 80 per cent of the time those aircraft are to be used for the transport of defence personnel. He is aware of that statistic. The people of Australia should be aware of that statistic, although it does not seem to have been given much airplay on the television or radio and it does not seem to have appeared in many newspapers. Trying to relate minute items of expenditure such as that to a Budget deficit of thousands of millions of dollars strikes me as a typical example of the way in which minutia or relatively small items can be blown up to inflame the public in a situation like this. 
Taxes on take home pay have not been increased. No tough measures affecting pensioners or the disadvantaged were contained in the Treasurer's economic statement. I admit that from reading the newspapers the statement sounded as though it was the next thing to the end of the world. Only a tiny fraction of the money being spent goes to the Government itself. Health and welfare payments alone account for almost 40c in every dollar of Federal spending. Education takes 9c. Defence also takes about 9c in the dollar. Payments to the States and local government account for about 25c. This leaves very little else for the Government to prune in order to cut its taxes. I ask honourable members to remember this: The only way in which the Government can raise money to spend on people is either to tax other people or to raise it in the market. If its taxes are too low and it has to raise too much from people in the form of loans interest rates are pushed up. If it does not want to borrow so much it has to tax people more, and, of course, people then complain. 
I suggest very strongly that what has suddenly gone wrong- it has suddenly gone wrong- is that the Government which had every intention and determination to maintain its previous policy of reducing taxes has faced a different situation this year. I question the complaints by the honourable member for Port Adelaide about the integrity of this Government. This is the first government since the war which has been able to reduce in real terms, after accounting for inflation, the volume of income tax paid by Australians. That has not happened since the war. It has not happened since the States lost their tax powers. Yet the Opposition in its hypocrisy keeps alleging falsely that this is a high tax government. The facts clearly demonstrate- I have had them incorporated in  Hansard  in the past- that the level of tax revenue raised by this Government this year is lower than that in the previous year. 
The Opposition when in government was responsible for a Budget which proclaimed a 22 per cent increase in wages along with a 44 per cent increase in pay-as-you-earn income tax. That Budget was introduced by the present Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden).  The increase in income tax was double the rise in wages. Any opposition that fails to recognise that it has a policy of high taxes has no right to complain about a government which has demonstrated that it has reduced taxes. Regrettably, the Government is unable to continue at the moment with its policy of reducing taxes but it has deferred its decision on the way in which will reduce taxes later this year. It is quite proper that this should take place in the Budget itself. I stress strongly that the Budget is the right time to find out how that is to be done. I hope the Government decides that it will retain full indexation of taxes. This is the key issue. The indexation of tax forces governments to be honest. We introduced indexation. It has stopped the old system under which a former Treasurer, the Leader of the Opposition, was able to double the rate of tax collections compared with the rate of wages increases. We have stopped that happening. 
The only reason we are being subjected to criticism now is the new taxation system that we introduced which forces governments to be honest. It is extraordinary that the Opposition and so many newspapers are now attacking the Government for having to come forward and say honestly that it cannot do what it wanted to do. Is there anything more honest than a government being forced by the very legislation it has introduced to say: 'We are not collecting enough tax. We regret that we have to maintain last year's surcharge but we are not increasing the amount of tax deducted from anyone's pay packet. ' 
The other unfortunate situation that is developing out of this debate is that there are allegations that the Government's policies for economic recovery are not working. We heard the honourable member for Gellibrand express himself in most extraordinary terms about the increase in unemployment. What the Opposition in this place is never prepared to concede is that there are now 200,000 more Australians in work. In fact, the exact figure is 204,800 more Australians at work- according to the latest employment figures- than there were for the same month when the Labor Government was in office. 
-That includes the selfemployed, as the honourable member for Berowra has interjected. The fact is that the policies of this Government are working. They may well be not working fast enough but I ask honourable members to contrast them with the decline in employment that took place in only one year under Labor. Let us compare the situation in respect of young men. Jobs for 22,000 young men were lost in the last year of the Labor Government. Under this Government there are now 44,000 more young males at work. The basic reason for the continuing unemployment problem largely revolves around the crisis for young women as many more married women and senior women are now making it more difficult for young women to get jobs. To hear the sorts of discussions in this House based on hypocrisy, based, I am afraid, on personal abuse- that is what the Opposition has been doing- when we have here a matter of major principle is most disturbing. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER  (Mr Jarman)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and refer to his answer to a question in this place on 22 May concerning attempts to expel Israel from the World Health Organisation assembly held in Geneva from 7 to 25 May. Does the Minister know whether the attempt by Arab countries to expel Israel was successful? 
Has the Treasurer seen strong criticism of his recent anti-tax dodge amendments to the Income Tax Assessment Act contained in the journal  Taxation in Australia,  particular in respect of section 82KJ? Is there any reason for concern by ordinary taxpayers undertaking normal commercial transactions that recent amendments to the Act, which are aimed at preventing tax evasion, would adversely affect them? Does the Treasurer intend to continue his effective and continuing campaign to ensure that the tax burden is shared fairly among all Australians who have the capacity to contribute to the cost of running this nation? 
-Very few honourable members on this side of the House would ever have doubted the sincerity of the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis). 
Perhaps in this instance we should doubt his capacity to cope with the realities of the tax situation. He has failed either to understand the realities or to grasp what one could call the reasonableness of the Government's position. The fact is that the statements by the honourable member for Gellibrand were arrant and utter nonsense. I will demonstrate that claim with a degree of vigour. 
Apart from anything else, we have to recognise that capital gains taxes, to a large degree, are effectively double taxes. They are taxes which are levied on the accumulation of income of people who have, in general, paid tax when collecting those assets. They have paid tax on the income that has gone towards collecting those assets. I wonder whether, in the great schemes that we have heard mentioned by the honourable member for Gellibrand, he would include capital losses. I suggest to him that there is a Pandora 's box of which he is well aware and of which his Party is well aware because when it occupied the Government benches it had the opportunity to examine the very propositions that the honourable member for Gellibrand is now putting up. It is arrant nonsense for him, after three years of examining these propositions and after his government had the opportunity to do all the things that he says now, suddenly to discover the way and the truth. It appears to me that the way and the truth that are available to the honourable member for Gellibrand are that way and the truth that are available to someone who does not, in fact, have to do what he says he would do. 
I submit that a basic question of integrity is involved when the Australian Labor Party raises matters of this nature, having failed to introduce one item of anti-tax evasion legislation during its three years in office, and having, in fact, done nothing except issue a general warning against tax avoidance which it found itself incapable of implementing. I would suggest that the realities of this situation are very different indeed from the proposition put by the honourable member for Gellibrand. Let us recognise in the first place that the capacity for evasion of probate and gift duty has been monumental and that it is no more monumental now than it was under Labor's three years in office. The capacity for evasion is so great because of the devices that can be used, that it does, in fact, make a mockery of the probate and gift duty requirements. As the honourable member for Gellibrand said, only 12 per cent of the States were assessable for probate duty. We were collecting only something like $80m in revenue, and not $ 100m, in the current year. Of course, that is out of the $2 8,000m of revenue that the Government is obliged to get, and is only 0.03 per cent. It is a minuscule amount. The reality is that only the rich could afford to avoid probate. Only the rich could afford to avoid gift duty. The proposition that the honourable member for Gellibrand is now insisting on is that the middle-income earner, the only person who is obliged to pay gift and probate duty, under his Government and in the past under ours, once again should be saddled with gift and probate duty. The Australian Labor Party has provided nothing to establish the methods by which it would now be able to prevent the rich from avoiding probate and gift duty, just as they could avoid it under its previous administration when it established clearly to the world that it was not only a Liberal government which found itself on the best of advice, unable to close these doors; a Labor Government also found itself unable- I would presume, because I cannot imagine it was unwilling- to close these doors. That, is the reality. 
Let us hear no more of this cant and nonsense that the honourable member for Gellibrand has come out with alleging that there is something sinister about the present Government's policy. Only $80m is collected in probate and gift duty. This is made out to be a matter of major significance that the Government has undertaken. In fact, what the Government is doing is getting rid of a disgraceful situation that existed under the previous Government. I quote the honourable member for Gellibrand. He said that as a result of our activities: 'More tax is paid by those who cannot afford it'. I put to him with great vigour that the reason probate and gift duty are being removed is because the only people who were obliged to pay it were those who could not afford to pay it. I would suggest to him very strongly that there was a bitterly unfair incidence of gift and probate duty, particularly on small businessmen and on farmers- farmers in particular- who had what appeared to be worthwhile assets and no income. I am appalled to hear the Australian Labor Party once again getting onto the band wagon of kicking the guts out of the farming community in this nation by proposing to restore the situation which obtained before, where people had to suffer the burden of this unfair taxation system, which could be avoided by the rich while others escaped it. I find it unbelievable that the Labor Party should skirt around the situation. 
I am also appalled at the lack of basic knowledge that the honourable member for 
Gellibrand showed about company tax collections. On the one hand he said: 'Company profits are up, but company tax collections are not'. Naturally they are not up. Company tax is paid in the following year after the profit is announced. It does not take place in that year. It is astounding that the Labor Party's economic spokesman would fall into such an evident and rather silly trap. I would suggest to him that if he looked at the statistics he would see why the factors which he regarded as appalling have come about. He complains about provisional collections being down in real terms. The fact is that people who pay provisional tax are the very people against whom this Government has moved in its anti-tax-avoidance measures. It is this Government which has, for the first time- I stress this- since 1972 introduced legislation which prevents people in so many areas ripping off the rest of the community. There is something like $180m which we believe we will ultimately collect under these new laws that have been introduced. It is this $ 1 80m, I submit, which is one of the major reasons why the honourable member for Gellibrand can come up with these exciting figures about how provisional tax collections will be down. The fact is that because some of these people liable to provisional tax have objected to our assessment and have objected to the new laws, that money cannot be collected this financial year. 
I assure the honourable member that this Government will be doing everything to make certain that that money is collected next year. It will be collected when the objections are overcome. We have to recognise that taxpayers have a right to object to an assessment. The effect of that is that its collection is deferred. I stress to the honourable member for Gellibrand that while their objection is being dealt with, their payment is only being deferred and we will collect it in the long run. Hopefully we will collect it pretty soon. It is nonsense for the honourable member for Gellibrand to attack this Government's tax record when, as he can see from the figures, real income tax revenues are budgeted to be down in this year for the first time since the war. It is interesting to compare the 0.3 per cent decline in real terms in taxes on individuals collected this year with the 1 9.8 per cent increase in real terms. 
There is no reason for the honourable member to do other than draw attention to the state of the House.  (Quorum formed). 
I can recognise why the Labor Party is sensitive about its record on taxation being related to ours. I would seek to have incorporated in  Hansard  a table which states the matter very clearly. I did obtain approval from the Government front bench to do so. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="114131197906051_58_4.jpg"></graphic>

It is also of great significance to note that the honourable member for Gellibrand complained that pay-as-you-earn taxpayers would be paying more tax this year in total. There is a very good reason for that. That reason itself must be embarrassing for the honourable member for Gellibrand; that is, that there are now 200,000 more people at work in Australia than there were under the Labor Government in a comparable month. As I am led to believe, people who work pay tax. It is natural, I would suggest to the honourable member, that there will be some increases in total pay-as-you-earn tax collections when in fact there are more people at work. In general, I want to stress that the objections that the honourable member for Gellibrand made are either misconceived or unfortunate in the sense that they reflect a curious change in attitude which is inexplicable compared with the attitudes maintained by the Labor Party when it was in government. I would stress very strongly that this Government has a record in its anti-tax-evasion procedures which is second to none. 
Let me dramatise the situation for the benefit of the honourable member for Gellibrand. The facts are that tax evasion schemes that have been stopped in recent times under this Government bring about a total collection of something like $705m that would not have been available in tax revenue. The amount of $705m is much more serious than it seems because this simply reflects the amount of money that was at risk in those schemes. It does not include the amount of money that would have been taken out of revenue if these tax avoidance schemes had not been stopped. That is a record that we can put forward in the Parliament. We can show what this Government has done. An amount of $705m in tax has been saved. That represents $ 1,400m in tax deduction schemes. I suggest that it would be interesting to compare that amount of tax evasion which has been stopped with the amount of tax evasion stopped in the three years of the Labor Government. The amount of tax evasion stopped by the previous Government in its three years in office was nil. It did not introduce one piece of anti-tax-evasion legislation. 
I point out, for example, that the cessation of Curran schemes alone will involve the collection of $470m in extra tax revenue. The abolition of trading stock schemes involves $148m. By closing off the section 67a loophole for expenses on discharging mortgage schemes, another $43 m of tax will be collected. The tightening of the prepaid interest scheme will lead to the collection of another $37m. Other arrangements such as gifts to charities which were not, in effect, real gifts, have been stopped leading to the collection of an extra $7m. That scheme was nipped in the bud very quickly. The amount of $705m represents runs on the board by this Government in preventing tax evasion to which the previous Government did not address itself at any stage. I find it extraordinary that honourable members opposite endeavour to make political capital out of the fact that some tax evasion schemes are still operating. There is no doubt that they are but the fact is that this Government is actively pursuing them to such a degree that some honourable members on this side of the House and some people in the community are concerned that normal proper business transactions might be limited because of the severity of the Government's attack on tax evasion schemes. I find it extraordinary that there should be an attempt to make political capital out of this issue when the Government's record is so good. I commend the Bill to the House. I recognise that some honourable members opposite will endeavour to find, I suggest improperly-  (Quorum formed).  The successful attack on tax evasion which will bring in $705m from the schemes already operating represents only the tip of the iceberg. I say that it is the tip of the iceberg because it is the money that we have prevented from being taken from revenue that had not yet come to the attention of the Commissioner of Taxation. These schemes are no longer available for tax evasion. There is no doubt that many other schemes will come forward but I am convinced that the Government will continue, as it has in recent times, to nip these schemes in the bud. Only $253m of the $705m to which I have referred relates to the current year's tax. An amount of $452m will be collected in subsequent years. That is obviously why the Budget situation at present is worse than it should be. Unfortunately, the Labor Party does not recognise this, understand it or give credit for it. There have been deferments of tax payments by people who will ultimately have to pay tax because of the laws we have introduced. Had the Labor Party's tax laws continued, these people would not have to pay $705m in tax. This is the message that the people of Australia should recognise when they listen to a speech such as that made by the honourable member for Gellibrand. It is also significant to recognise that next year, as a result of recoveries in company profits, there will be an improvement in tax collections. Companies pay tax next year on their profits this year. There is no doubt that the Government's tax record is remarkable. I congratulate the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  for his removing the double tax situation which existed on gift and probate duties. He recognises, of course, that the only people who had to pay these taxes in the past were those not rich enough to be able to go into one of the tax evasion schemes that the Labor Party was quite happy to see continue. 
I seek leave to make a personal explanation. 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
I address my question to the  Deputy  Prime Minister. Will the reduction by $2.50 a tonne of the coal export levy on underground coal, but not on open cut coal, assist the southern coal mines in New South Wales firstly, to preserve jobs and secondly, to guarantee the mine development programs involving additional employment now under way? 
-Tonight, I raise the matter of the incredible knee-jerk responses to a letter I wrote to the  Sydney Morning Herald  during the recess warning against the misure of the ratio of unemployed people to jobs. These letters were curious for many reasons. The main response- I cannot criticise this- showed great sincerity and concern about the problem, but the letters refused to face reality. There is no doubt that it takes more than emotional Government bashing and misstatements of fact to establish a real solution to the problems of unemployment. Unfortunately my attempt to correct those misstatements by writing another letter to the  Sydney Morning Herald  did not result in its being published. In particular a correspondent  Mr McArdle  tried to deny my claims that in May this year, which was the latest comparable month which could be used, some 200,000 more people were at work than there were in the same month of  Mr Whitlam  's last year in office. This is an indisputable fact. 
-This increase of 200,000 people at work is borne out by the fact that, in May 1979, 6,043,300 people were at work compared with 5,851,600 who were at work in May 1975. That is a rise of exactly 191,700 or about four times the figure put forward by  Mr McArdle. His  assertion that employment had risen by 260,500 under  Mr Whitlam  failed to mention that 165,000 of this increase in employment was made up of extra public servants- these were paid for out of the biggest tax rises in Australia's history- with the remaining 100,000 or so increase in employment in the private sector taking place entirely in the first six months of euphoria of the Labor regime before its first disastrous Budget was introduced in 1973. In the following  2Vi  years, under Labor the number of people at work in the private enterprise sector actually fell by 36,000 people. The number of people at work fell- I say this for the benefit of the honourable member for Lalor  (Mr Barry Jones)-  while the population rose. This seems to me to deny the point that he made a little while ago. 
There was a fall of 36,000 employees in the private sector in 216 years under Labor while the population was rising. Admittedly, private sector employment kept on falling but only by a further 6,000 over the next two years as the Fraser Government, in its first two years in office, battled to get the economy back on an even keel. But now that recovery is clear and strong. Private sector jobs had increased by over 70,000 by May 1979 over May 1975. Nevertheless, government jobs were up by 120,000 over the same period as the States have been receiving enough Federal money to increase their work forces. That effectively denies the nonsensical propaganda about cuts. While the Federal Government is holding down its own Public Service, some of its authorities have increased their employment so total Federal employment is up by about one per cent. 
There is no doubt that the long term solution to unemployment cannot be found in simply expanding the public sector by a massive total of more than 250,000 people since pre-Whitlam days. This means that an increasing proportion of workers are being paid for out of taxes by the decreasing proportion in the private enterprise sector. Thus is exactly the trend towards higher taxes that this Government is halting. Its reduced income tax scales from the days of the HaydenWhitlam scales in 1975 have meant a saving to taxpayers of about $3,000m in the year to June. Of course, there will be a lot more this year. It will need a major increase in the capacity of the private sector for it to afford to employ more people. A slow-down in the rate of increase in the work force is needed before there will be any effective and genuine long term cut in unemployment. Economic recovery and corporate profitability are slowly bringing about the first requirement. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-The Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  dealt adequately with the 50 minutes of personal abuse which came from the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden).  Hansard  will no doubt deal adequately with the curious contribution of the honourable member for Lalor  (Mr Barry Jones).  Knocking is becoming a national pastime. Here we have a Budget which has concentrated its efforts in preventing overseas inflation from destroying our economy- unlike the efforts of our Labor predecessors at a similar stage in the world five years ago- while at the same time ensuring that our most disadvantaged, our pensioners, are to get a better deal. It is extraordinary that in speeches on the Budget from members on the other side, so far we have heard nothing whatsoever about the pensioners of this nation except a gratuitiously insulting comment made in passing by the Leader of the Opposition. 
The fact is, I remind the House, that halfyearly indexation has been restored. This is a major advantage to pensioners. It once againlet us use the phrase- takes politics out of pensions. Let us recognise that this is a vital, automatic and magnificent benefit. I am certain that the pensioners of this nation are well aware of it despite the fact that it seems to have received so little publicity. There is no doubt that many of us on this side of the House have worked very hard for this restoration. We are very grateful to the Government for having recognised the merit of our case. As a result of this measure, total expenditure for age pension is expected to rise by over 9 per cent to $3,530m in this Budget. That is almost 40 per cent of the total welfare budget. The welfare budget has taken almost 40c in the dollar of total Government expenditure. 
In line with the Government's policy to widen eligibility for pension entitlements, income limits for fringe benefits have been lifted by 2 1 per cent to $40 a week for a single pensioner and to $68 a week for a married pensioner couple. Who would know of this looking at the reports on the 
Budget? The pensioner health benefit cards give age and other pensioners access to bulk billing and free pharmaceutical benefits, and they also generally give access to a range of other fringe benefits. There will be a 33 per cent increase in expenditure on senior citizen centres- which rises from $3m to $4m. In order that all projects approved can be completed under the aged persons accommodation arrangements, $62. 5m will be provided in 1979-80; that is a $10m increase. Early approval has been given for funding for additional high priority projects to the value of this $10m in order that the necessary forward planning and development of these projects can be completed in the current financial year. 
Let us recognise that fringe benefits are worth something like $10 a week to a pensioner. We have not seen any great editorials and we have not heard any great play in the media about this arrangement. All we have heard is knocking. Yet under these arrangements an extra 25,000 pensioners will now qualify while hundreds of thousands who would otherwise have lost their fringe benefit cards under our automatic arrangements, as inflation pushed up their pensions will no longer suffer that loss. They are now being protected by this measure which has received so little publicity and support, and certainly has not been mentioned by honourable members opposite. There are 56,000 supporting parents and 96,000 dependants who will in fact receive pensioner benefit cards as a result of extending the eligibility for it. The Federal Government is clearly providing benefits in terms of health and telephone services to the holders of these cards. I hope that State and local governments will follow the Federal Government's lead in providing that kind of assistance. 
Over the last 10 years in Australia expenditure on social security and welfare has increased almost sevenfold from $1.3 billion in 1969-70 to $5 billion in 1975-76, which was the last year of the Labor Government, to an estimated $8.9 billion in 1979-80. I mention these figures to establish quite clearly the nonsense of the attack on the Government as being a government that does not care. Even if adjustments are made for expenditure on family allowances, unemployment and sickness benefits, the increased eligibility nevertheless means that expenditure on social security and welfare as a proportion of the Commonwealth Budget has increased from 18 per cent in 1975-76, Labor's last Budget, to 21 per cent in the current Budget. Is that the budget of a government that does not care? Over the past 10 years the number of people in receipt of social security pensions and benefits has more than doubled from about one million in 1969 to over two million this year. At the same time the number of people in the labour force has increased by about only 24 per cent. 
The levels of pensions and benefits have also increased substantially over the last decade and much of it under this Government which allegedly does not to care. The standard rate of pension has risen from $14 a week in December 1968 to $53.20 in December 1978 and will increase again in November of this year to $57.90 a week. The increase of 280 per cent in pensions during the 10 years to last December compares with an increase of only 144 per cent in the consumer price index. At the time of the last pension increase the rate of the pension represented a record 24 per cent of average weekly earnings, far above the level that ever existed under the Labor Government. This record will no doubt be reached again when the $4.70 a week pension rise is paid in November of this year. The matters I have mentioned are just part of the positive side of the Budget that we do not hear about. 
Let us deal with the area of the Budget that is most under attack- taxes. There is no doubt that all governments seem to need to raise taxes and all taxpayers quite properly object. The decision that people must take after listening to this debate is which political party is more likely to hold down or even cut taxes. The present coalition Government is clearly, if I can use the phrase, less worse than the Opposition. By 1 December this year it not only will be less worse but also will be demonstrably far better. It will be far better of the two with taxes once again cut in real terms after accounting for inflation, just as they were cut last year. The Opposition and the media have given this Government no credit whatsoever for cutting taxes last year in real terms. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a table outlining the revenue receipts and Budget outlays adjusted for constant values prepared for me by the Commonwealth Parliamentary Library Statistical Service. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 


<graphic href="115131197908285_61_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="115131197908285_62_9.jpg"></graphic>

I thank the House. The evidence in those statistics shows that it is quite true that there will be a gross IS per cent rise or about 4.5 per cent in real terms after accounting for inflation in pay-as-you-earn tax collections this year. I point out to the House that this follows an absolute fall of one per cent in PA YE tax collections, that is, workers ' tax, last year. Let us recognise that this year unfortunately- we cannot duck from the fact- there will be a 4.5 per cent real rise in PA YE tax collections. That means a rise of $300m in constant 1974-75 dollars. It looks a big rise but in fact it is only one quarter of the real rise experienced during only one of the Labor Government's years in office. The real rise in PA YE taxes- workers' taxes- that is taking place this year is only one quarter of the real rise that took place under the government of which the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  was a leading Cabinet Minister. Yet the honourable member has the hypocrisy to come into this House and protest at the rate of increase in workers' taxes. The facts are that in 1973-74 to 1974-75- one year only of Labor's rule- net real PA YE tax collections rose by $1.1 billion. Not even over four years of this Government has there been such a rise. The total rise over four years has been about $ 1 billion. Over four years we could not achieve and certainly have not wanted to achieve the sort of rise in real PA YE taxes- workers' taxes- that were thrust upon the workers of this nation by a government which purported to represent them. The Labor Party stabbed the workers of this nation in the hip pocket. 
If honourable members look at total tax collections- let us face it, there have been changes in the incidence of taxes such as indirect taxes- they will find that under Labor, as is clear from the statistics incorporated in  Hansard,  in one year alone they rose by $1.3 billion. In the last three years of this Government we have not been able to manage a rise of even $1 billion. How curious it is then to hear tonight the Leader of the Opposition say that 'we on this side of the 
House recognise the inherent unfairness of tax by stealth through inflation'. What a massive indictment of his own Government of which he was a senior Minister. What a disgraceful suggestion. Is he now saying that he rejects totally the policies of the Government of which he was a member? He certainly did not do so at the time. 
While our revenue increases are minimal compared with what took place under the previous Labor Government we must recognise what has happened on the other side of the ledger. We are continually criticised for not having reduced government spending. The parties on this side of the House are opposed to the principle of big government and clearly have worked very strongly against moving in that direction. Government spending as a proportion of gross domestic product reached a peak of 30.3 per cent under Labor. The pre-Whitlam average level was about 24 per cent. That meant a massive transfer of resources from the private sector to the public sector. It was a matter of faith; a matter of principle. It was a policy which brought about a huge reduction in employment in the private sector. When resources are transferred from the private to the public sector, employment is transferred out of the private sector. Even though the size of the Public Service increased dramatically this certainly did not take up all the slack. There is no doubt that the present Government is reducing the proportion of gross domestic product represented by government spending in order to provide the private sector with the scope for an increase in its employment level. In fact, the private sector has accepted that challenge. It is employing more and more people. It is contributing far more now, in terms of investment and activity, to the development and growth of this nation. As a result of the Government's deliberate policies, the proportion of gross domestic product represented by government spending has fallen from the 30.3 per cent peak under Labor to only 28.1 per cent in the year just finished. This year it should fall to around 27.8 per cent- a real and positive contribution by this Government to the principle of small government, not big government. 
I refer next to the matter of tax indexation which has received such immense publicity. Let us recognise the fact that when tax indexation was introduced the Opposition and many experts, particularly those experts in the financial Press, condemned it, rejected it or ignored it. So I turn to what the Opposition, which now says it supports the principle of tax indexation, said when we introduced tax indexation. The former Labor Treasurer,  Mr Crean,  said: 
. what I call the Government's swindle of indexation.  the effect of this indexation is to give the greatest advantage to the highest incomes. 
That is an interesting criticism of indexation. The honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis),  the economic spokesman for the Opposition, said- and I think this is brilliant; if anyone can work it out, congratulations to them: 
The point is that- tax indexation is not a tax cut. Tax indexation simply means that the Government no longer increases the proportion of a person's income that it takes in tax. 
So over time people will be worse off because tax indexation is only a tax cut if their income does not go up. If their income goes up in line with the tax indexation formula and inflation it will not be a tax cut. 
That is a clear endorsement of the principle of I do not know what from the economic spokesman for the Labor Party. What did the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  have to say? He said: 
But what the Prime Minister proposes is not tax indexation: It is not a tax cut . . . 
That is another endorsement. It is interesting that having pretended that tax indexation did not exist when it was introduced, all of a sudden it existed only too well when it is withdrawn, and I hope withdrawn temporarily. How cynical, how nonsensical are the members of the Opposition who, having denied the existence of indexation as a tax cut, now pretend that it is meaningful when it has been withdrawn. They were either mischievous and misleading of this House and this nation when they adopted that approach in 1976 or they are mischievous and misleading now. I suggest that probably on both occasions their integrity needs close examination. 
Let us look at publications such as the  Australian Financial Review.  I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a letter I wrote to the  Australian Financial Review on  this matter. 
I am grateful for the opportunity to follow the honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr West).  If he is so concerned about the youth of Warilla, he will be overjoyed with the news that each month this year the number of unemployed in Warilla has fallen and the number of unemployed in the Warilla Commonwealth Employment Service office area in relation to the final statistics is lower than it was in the same month of last year. He will be overjoyed to know that. The figures are available for him. For him to come into this House and make the sort of disreputable and disgraceful speech that he did tonight, knowing the fact that unemployment in 
Warilla is lower than it was in the same month of last year - 
-I do not need devices like that to interrupt him when he is speaking. But, if he wishes to interrupt me when I am presenting the facts of what is happening in Warilla, that is up to him. The facts are these: Unemployment is going down in Warilla; the statistics show it. The reason why it is going down is that this Government is increasing the number of jobs available in the area and industry is employing more people. I remind him that what happened under the Labor Government was that the number of jobs went down in this area- and for one very good reason, apart from the chaos of inflation that brought massive unemployment to the whole of the Illawarra region. One specific factor in the region- the honourable member knows it- is that the 25 per cent across-the-board tariff cut removed the jobs of large sections of people in the manufacturing industry in Warilla. The Australian Labor Party can never escape from that fact. It deliberately caused the basic unemployment in that area. The statistics are there. The honourable member knows them and that is why he did not quote them. He knows perfectly well what the facts are. He knows that there has been a dramatic reduction in male unemployment. It is just unfortunate for the honourable member for Cunningham that we happen to share the CES area. Warilla also covers part of my electorate so I keep an eye on him when he gets up in this House and seeks to mislead and deceive it by talking arrant and utter nonsense. 
I have, in fact, exchanged correspondence with the  chairman  of the Community Youth Support Scheme in Warilla who wrote to the newspaper making an incorrect statement by attacking the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs  (Mr Viner)  by claiming that he was wrong when he said that there was a better situation for employment in Australia. The  chairman  of that scheme wrote- in conjunction with the  chairman  of the Wollongong CYSSsaying: 'We cannot see evidence in that area'. I wrote to them saying: 'I point out to you the facts. These are the statistics. ' The  chairman  has written back to me saying: 'I agree with you. They are the statistics. However, we were simply trying to express our concern about unemployment'. That is fair enough. There is no doubt about it. He said: 'I am not endeavouring to politicise the matter'. I accept that point of view. 
Yes, I hope that he dissociates himself from the sorts of points that are being made by the honourable member for Cunningham. I stress that the CYSS  chairman  wrote to me stressing that he did not want to get into a politicised situation over unemployment. He wanted to express his concern. There is no doubt that he, perhaps prompted by the sort of wrong information that is given by the honourable member for Cunningham, genuinely believed that unemployment was getting worse. It is not in that area. 
-Last night the honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr West)  alleged that there was no growth in employment in the Warilla Commonwealth Employment Service area. Last night I challenged the facts that the honourable member presented. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  tonight statistics which reveal that there has been a dramatic decline in unemployment in the Warilla CES area so far this year. I point out to the House that in January 1979 a total of 2,636 people were unemployed in Warilla and that on the July official statistics this figure had fallen by 690. The July official statistics also demonstrated that there had been a fall of 1 53 in the figures for July of the previous year. It is not simply a seasonal fall. It is a clear indication, particularly in the male employment figures, of a significant and magnificant, I suggest, reduction in unemployment as a result of the increasing job opportunities in the area. I seek leave to incorporate this document in  Hansard.  It has already been accepted by the honourable member for Adelaide (MrHurford). 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="115131197909195_69_0.jpg"></graphic>

No one would deny that there is a serious unemployment problem in the Warilla area. I think all of us recognise that. But we also recognise that the only way in which to resolve it is to increase the number of private enterprise jobs. I am certainly concerned about the level of unemployment, but what I find to be the most significant feature of this Government's policies is that they are creating more private enterprise jobs. Private enterprise provides three-quarters of the jobs in this nation. Under the Labor Government, despite huge job creation schemes financed by the taxpayers, the number of people unemployed rose because the number of jobs actually fell. Under this Government the number of people in work has gone up. It has gone up in the Warilla area and throughout Australia because the Government's policies are working. The policies of the Opposition when it was in government failed. 
-I refer the Minister for Transport to his recent announcement that the New South Wales 1979-80 national roads program included continuation of work on the south western freeway section between Sydney and Mittagong, in my electorate, involving an expenditure of about $18m. I ask the Minister Does the completion date of late 1980 represent a speeding up of the project against New South Wales Government forecasts of 1981 as a completion date? Does this mean that national highway 31, between Liverpool and Mittagong, will be built to full freeway standards by the end of next year? Does the Minister expect any substantial reduction in fatal accidents on this section? 
-New South Wales is the worst State for education standards in Australia. It is the only State that had not passed its Karmel resource target for primary schools by June of last year. It was one of only two that had failed to reach these targets for secondary schools and is the only State at present suffering the pre-school disaster that has rocked pre-schools throughout New South Wales. Why is it that the other States are doing so much better than New South Wales? It cannot be the fault of the Federal Government's education spending program, as it is required to be even-handed throughout Australia and does not benefit any one State against another without the agreement of the States. In fact New South Wales is getting some slight advantage. Yet the only criticism that is ever mounted on education spending in New South Wales always seems to be politically oriented against the Federal Government. After six years of Karmel resource targets under the Schools Commission, primary schools in New South Wales now lag 10 per cent behind the average for the six States, with Victoria, Queensland, South Australia and Tasmania being between 15 percent and 20 per cent better than New South Wales. 
Even Queensland- while in secondary schooling the six-State average is 7 per cent above New South Wales with Victoria, South Australia, Western Australia and Tasmania all being at least 14 per cent better than New South Wales. This is despite the fact that all States get about the same amount of Federal funding per head. There is no way that  Mr Wran's  Labor Government, or his local supporters, can pretend that this problem is simply one that was inherited from the previous State Government. For the facts are that New South Wales has simply been lagging behind the other States in education spending ever since Labor came to office in New South Wales. This has been the result of a slowdown in recurrent education spending in New South Wales per pupil in real terms; that is, after accounting for inflation. During the New South Wales Liberal Government's last year in office, recurrent spending per primary school pupil increased by 6 per cent in real terms. Last year the New South Wales Labor Government had cut that down to only 2 per cent. For secondary schools, the 4.5 per cent real rise under the Tom Lewis Budget had been cut back to a 3.5 per cent rise. But that tells only part of the story of the New South Wales Government's education deception. 
In the year to June 1978, while recurrent funding per primary pupil in New South Wales had been cut back to a real increase of only 2 per cent in Victoria it was as high as 6.5 per cent, reflecting a different set of priorities south of the border that is given to education as against other State projects. 
Yes, there is an enlightened Liberal Government in Victoria compared with the anti-education Labor Government in New South Wales. And for secondary schools, Victoria in the latest year has achieved a 7.4 per cent increase in recurrent funding, which is just about double the New South Wales Labor Government's effort. It is not only Victoria which is so clearly outperforming New South Wales on education. The average increase for the six States for primary schools is about  Vh  times the increase for New South Wales, and for secondary schools is about 25 per cent better. This dismal performance in primary and secondary education is also reflected in pre-schools where  Mr Wran  has admitted that children's services in New South Wales are 'unacceptably below standards in other States' and where provisions for disadvantaged children are 'woefully inadequate'. In New South Wales, only $69 a head is paid by the State to pre-schools compared to $327 a head in Victoria. As a result, there are far more children at pre-schools in Victoria than in New South Wales. In fact, there are almost as many Queensland school children at pre-schools as there are in New South Wales because of the relatively good deal the Queensland Government provides compared with the appalling New South Wales record. 
The reason for outlining all these facts is to dramatise the utter dishonesty of the present campaign against the Federal Government's alleged 'slashing' of education spending this year. The reality is that Federal recurrent spending on schools will increase per head in real terms next year as a result of the Government's decision to keep the total the same as last year, despite the fact that fewer children will be enrolled in primary schools. So in the vital area of recurrent spending, it is dishonest and untrue to allege there has been any cut in Federal funding for State schools whatsoever. Where there is to be a cut is in capital expansion. Throughout the whole of Australia, Federal funding for capital spending on schools will be down by $44m. This is a big cut and no one can pretend otherwise. However, it is exactly the same relative cut as the New South Wales Labor Government imposed on its own State schools in its first year in office. In fact, the New South Wales Government - 
I wish to draw the attention of the House to a false, malicious and misleading advertisement in this afternoon's  Sun  newspaper in Sydney inserted by the Honourable Kevin Stewart, Minister for Health of New South Wales. In this advertisement he says: 
As announced last month the NSW Government is required to make changes to the NSW Hospital System. 
All other State Governments are also required to do the same because of massive financial health cutbacks by the Federal Government. 
That statement is a deliberate and disgracefully dishonest one. It is one that flies in the face of the facts and I believe that this House ought to condemn the State Minister for Health for so endeavouring to mislead the people of New South Wales. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  two tables clearly showing the 14 per cent increase in money made available to New South Wales this year for health. 
Leave granted. 

 The tables read as follows- 


<graphic href="115131197909276_101_2.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="115131197909276_101_3.jpg"></graphic>

I thank the House. This advertisement was paid for by the people of New South Wales- allegedly a State which has been so cut back by the Federal Government that it has no money. This advertisement which was inserted at the expense of the people of New South Wales is one of the most despicable acts by a Minister for Health who is seeking to hide behind the Federal Government when making his own decisions on what should happen to the health services in that State. He has got a 14 per cent increase in the money available for hospitals in New South Wales this year. Yet he is pretending that every time he closes a bed or a hospital it is the fault of the Federal Government. The fact is that enough money is being given to New South Wales this year to enable the maintenance of existing services and to account for inflation. The fact that the New South Wales Government chooses, sensibly I submit, to expand its operations in growing areas and to contract them in decaying ones is sound economics. It is utterly disgraceful for the State Minister to pretend that there is something wicked about this and that it is the fault of the Federal Government. Something like 50 per cent of hospital beds in New South Wales have a utilisation of under 70 per cent. That is a disgraceful waste and it is about time that the State Government woke up to this fact. But for heaven's sake, is it not also time that it stopped crying falsely that everything that happens in regard to hospitals is the Federal Government's fault. 
Order! It being 1 1 p.m., the debate is interrupted. The House stands adjourned until Tuesday, 9 October next at 2.15 p.m. unless  Mr Speaker  shall fix an alternative day or hour of meeting to be notified by telegram or letter addressed to each member of the House. 
-Tonight I draw the attention of the House to the consequences for education of the recent New South Wales State Budget. As honourable members will know, the record real spending on education in Australia is mainly bringing more and more pay for more and more teachers, and not better facilities for children at schools. This is particularly so in New South Wales, where the record value of education money is being diverted from buildings and equipment for pupils into salaries. Government spending for each child in State schools has never been so high, even after inflation is taken into account. Of course, this is despite the continued allegations of cuts in Federal funds. But the amount spent on facilities by the New South Wales Government has fallen by  I3i  per cent since the Wran Government came to power. This year only 15.3 per cent of the New South Wales record total education spending is budgeted to go into school buildings and equipment. This represents a savage cut from the 25 per cent going to buildings and equipment under the previous Liberal- Country Party Government in New South Wales. 
This switch to spending more on salaries and more on teachers has followed immense pressure on the New South Wales Government from the Teachers Federation. Over the last four New South Wales Labor Government Budgets the teachers' salaries bill has risen by 61 per cent to $8 10m, but spending on school buildings and equipment has fallen by 13 per cent to $146m, which represents a far greater fall if inflation is taken into account. This drastic slump in funds for equipment and buildings cannot be blamed on alleged Federal Government finance cuts, as the total money made available for education from State and Federal sources combined has continued to rise to record levels each year. The New South Wales Government has preferred placating the Teachers Federation by acceding to its demands for more teachers and more pay, to providing a better balanced approach which would have been of far greater benefit to children in the State school system. As a result the four-year increase in New South Wales budgeted spending on school education of 42 per cent to a record $956m has, of course, been accompanied by this drop in capital spending. Therefore, it is simply dishonest for members of State Parliament, who are not prepared to face me before their constituents on this matter, to try and blame the Federal Government for inadequate school facilities. 
While the States were cutting back on capital spending in recent years, the Federal Government nevertheless maintained its top-up capital contributions until the present Budget, when at last it followed the lead of the State government and cut its capital contribution while increasing its recurrent contributions to State schools for each pupil attending. Now we did not hear Labor members of the New South Wales Parliament, or Labor members in this House, complaining when some two years ago the Wran Government cut $15m from New South Wales capital spending programs on education. Yet we have heard bitter attacks on the Federal Government for this year's $ 10m cut in its capital spending funds to New South Wales which has followed a year in which school enrolments have fallen for the first time since the Second World War. 
The concentration by the State Government on teachers instead of facilities can be seen from the 12 per cent increase in the number of State school teachers in Australia during the last three years compared to a rise of only 3 per cent in the number of pupils. There is no doubt that a reduction in the pupil-teacher ratio was needed, but not at the expense of school facilities. Most of the high schools in the Macarthur electorate are at present suffering from a desperate lack of facilities, for which there was adequate money available, had it not been diverted so rapidly into teachers' salaries. Of course the same applies to primary schools. It is not up to the Federal Government to dictate to the States how they should distribute their education money between buildings and equipment, and teachers salaries, but it is disgraceful when States blame the Federal Government for problems emerging from their own decisions, particularly when more Government money is being spent on each child in State schools in Australia than ever before. So teachers have won their campaigns for more benefits for themselves at the expense of facilities for children. 
I refer the Minister for Post and Telecommunications to the recent increase in marine radio licence fees which has disadvantaged, in particular, volunteer coastal patrols in my electorate. Will these increased fees be reconsidered? 
I draw the attention of the House to a measure being taken by the New South Wales Government which will seriously reduce employment in my electorate and increase the cost of living in my electorate. I refer to the amalgamation of county councils in my electorate. This action is being forced on these county councils despite the clearly-stated wishes of the residents and despite the strong objections of Labor Party officials in my area. This is happening throughout the coastal area of New South Wales and even in the electorate of St George, I am told. Whatever the effect in metropolitan areas, the reality of what is happening in the country areas is absolutely shattering. 
There are three county councils in my electorate- the Nepean River County Council, the Berrima County Council and the Shoalhaven 
County Council. These three county councils are in decentralised areas. Nepean River County Council is in Picton. The Berrima County Council is in Bowral. The Shoalhaven County Council is in Nowra. The State Labor Party in New South Wales, with its steamroller tactics, with its gauleiter approach to local government - 
It is temporarily in government in New South Wales. The New South Wales State Labor Party, with its steamroller approach, not caring for the wishes of the residents, has imposed its will on the people as is the normal style of that kind of centralist organisation- the people will be able to express their view at the next opportunity- and has forced the amalgamation of these councils. Some people might say that it is a great thing, that it will make for greater efficiency. The facts are that that is not so; it will not lead to greater efficiency. In the case of all the county councils in my electorate, it will lead to higher costs because they will be forced to amalgamate with councils with higher rate structures to the disadvantage of my constituents. But, even more serious, there are small areas like Picton in my electorate where the removal of the county council to Parramatta, of all places- and what a curious place to move it towill mean the removal of jobs from a decentralised area to a city area. We all know that the Labor Government in New South Wales hates decentralised areas, does not like the bush and wants to kick the guts of the people in Picton. Let me quote from a recent issue of the  Illawarra Mercury,  a paper which the Labor Party appears to love because it quotes it so frequently. An article in this newspaper states: 
More than 100 jobs are expected to be transferred out of the town- that is, the town of Picton- when the Nepean River district is swallowed up by Prospect County Council and the transfer will cause other businesses in the town to lay off staff. 
Picton 's Chamber of Commerce  President Mr Hilton  Middleton yesterday said the State Government seemed determined to go ahead with amalgamation, despite the affect it would have on the economies of many regional centres such as Picton. 

 Mr Middleton said protests from people of all political persuasions had fallen on deaf ears in the Government. 
As I understand it, in Sydney there was the most intriguing little Caucus fight where some of the most disgraceful trade-offs were involved in getting this proposal steamrolled through the Caucus. The article continues: 
 Amalgamation is a tragedy for Picton ', he said. 
Institutions like the County Council are vital to the economies of regional centres and amalgamation is the opposite of the decentralisation the State needs '. 
I totally agree with the points that  Mr Middleton  has made. In this regard I have received a letter from a constituent who writes: 
About a month ago a group, including myself, from the lower ranks of the Nepean River County Council staff formed an action committee to fight the State Government's plans to amalgamate the County Councils on the Eastern seaboard. This little organisation that we call Consumers Against Amalgamation represents people from both sides of the political fence . . . 
I am not trying to push only one political barrow; I am trying to push for a fair deal for the people of my electorate. I am pushing for a fair deal for the people in small, decentralised towns. I am pushing for a fair deal for employment in Picton, in Bowral and in Nowra. When I hear members of the Labor Party get up and complain about unemployment in those areas, I put the finger on where the blame really lies. 

 -Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
I do. 
At page 2336 of  Hansard  of yesterday the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James)  is reported as having interjected in a speech by the honourable member for Werriwa  (Mr Kerin).  The interjection reads: 
The honourable member for Macarthur was wrapped up in that 
He was referring to finance journalists who had fallen short of minimum standards of propriety. 
Thank you,  Mr Speaker.  I hope the person who interjected so untruly has the guts to admit it. If it was the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Leo McLeay),  I wish he had the guts to get up and withdraw it. 
The honourable member for Hunter said - 

 An incident having occurred in the galleryMr SPEAKER-It brings tears to the eyes of a child. The House will come to order. We will settle down and we will hear the honourable member for Macarthur in silence. 
-Thank you,  Mr Speaker.  I did not realise that the honourable member for Hunter was such a ventriloquist. 
The honourable member for Hunter continued: 
He was given a parcel of shares to write a favourable offer before he came in here. 
That is not only untrue but also a deliberate lie by the honourable member for Hunter and I ask him to withdraw it. 

 - Mr Speaker, I withdraw the allegation against the honourable member for Hunter. Nonetheless, I seek to state the truth of this matter, which seriously affects my integrity. 
This allegation was totally untrue and was a cowardly attack on me made while I was required to be out of the chamber at an Estimates committee meeting of this House. 
-The facts are that I have never been given, nor have I ever accepted, any free gifts of shares that I have not paid for at the full price of that issue or placement. I have never been given any shares in my life. I presume that the honourable member for Hunter was incompetently referring to page 1061 of the Rae Committee 's report, which states that a subscriber- I emphasise the word 'subscriber'- to a placement of shares in a company called Surveys and Mining Ltd was a regular contributor to the financial pages of a weekly journal. I was that contributor to a regular and very popular column called 'Speculators Diary' in the  Bulletin  magazine. I might say that this column was well known to many members of the Opposition who were quite interested in it at the time, one way or another. There was nothing hidden or improper in what happened in that column. The column outlined publicly purchases and sales of shares made during the week. These were stated publicly. In fact, this column, which did these things so publicly, expressed its severe reservations about this company and other companies in that group despite having purchased, and subsequently sold, some of those shares. I wish to stress that the Rae Committee did not call me as a witness before it on this matter and it made no criticism of me whatsoever on this matter. I ask the honourable member for Hunter to have the decency to withdraw his false allegation. 
-This House has been given the pleasure of the fourth re-run of the lament of the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  on housing, with one exception, and that was a group of extraordinary figures included at the end of his speech. I must say that they need to be banged on the head immediately with extreme vigour. Any honourable member who comes into this House and states income levels of four years ago, relates them to the same income levels of the present day, and then pretends that they are the same amounts of income that workers are getting, is talking through his hat. He is setting out to mislead this House. The fact is that the 1 975 income of $ 1 50 is now $200, and that is why there is such a dramatic change in the phoney figures that the Minister has presented to this House. 
I am sorry, the former Minister. The former Minister ought to know better than to seek to mislead this House with such nonsense figures. He said that in 1975 22.9 per cent of loans from the St George Building Society were to people on incomes of $150. Then he said: What a disgrace! At that level, now only about one per cent are getting such loans'. Naturally that is so, because inflation and cost of living rises granted by courts have taken that $150 up to $200. About 22 per cent of loans- roughly the same proportion as the honourable member for Reid said existed in 1975- are still being made to exactly the same income earners. For the honourable member for Reid to pretend to the contrary is a disgrace to him and an insult to this House. 
Let me deal with a couple of much more important matters than the nonsense raised by the honourable member. Let me deal with some matters relating to the Department of the 
Treasury raised in the Estimates Committee. May I say in passing that it is extraordinary for members such as the honourable member for Reid to pretend that less time has been given this year to the consideration of Estimates than was given in the past, and that the rights of members have been eroded. In fact, the amount of time available for discussion of the Estimates by members of this House this year is more than double the time that was made available in the past. Certainly, it is more than double the time available when the honourable member for Reid was a misguided member of a misguided Government. Never has there been such scrutiny of the Estimates in this House as has taken place this year under this Government which, unlike its predecessor in the 1973 to 1975 period, has nothing to hide in its Estimates. The previous Government was quite interesting in the manner in which it treated its requests for finance. Let me deal with a resolution that was passed by the Estimates Committee that considered the Treasury. The resolution which I had the honour to move, stated. 
That recognising the severe damage which blatant tax avoidance schemes and tax evasion cause through the loss of revenue and the reduction in the equity of the tax system, the committee endorses the Government's moves to increase the financial and personnel resources of the Taxation Office so as to facilitate more effective prevention of blatant tax avoidance schemes and evasion. 
That resolution was moved in the Committee because, I might suggest, the Opposition, which appears to be extraordinarily unrepresented in the House at present - 
Exactly. As my honourable friend said, the Opposition is not even interested in the Estimates. Having just lamented and complained that they were not given a fair go to discuss the Estimates, not one member of the Opposition is here in the chamber to discuss them. 
It is, as my colleague says, a national scandal. I hope that people listening are aware of the fact that it is unprecedented in my time in this House that not one member of the Labor Party is in the chamber to discuss these enormous Estimates about which they have been so critical and about which such phoney crocodile tears have just been shed because they were not given a fair chance, a fair go to discuss them. The reason that motion was moved in the Committee of which I was a member is that the Labor Party had endeavoured to make political capital - 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, is that supposed to be an interjection? Is the honourable member on his feet for any particular reason? Does he have the call,  Mr Deputy  Speaker? 
I do not know where the speech of the honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James)  was prepared, but I shudder to think. I express my surprise that the honourable member for Hunter, in preparing his speech, could stoop as low as he has managed to tonight. 
It is to a man of integrity. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  I caution the honourable member for Macarthur not to reflect on a member. If he does he will be required to withdraw. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, may I use the very phrase of the honourable member for Hunter. I could not reflect upon him. It would be impossible. I am interested in the fact that the honourable member for Hunter has given me the opportunity to mention this matter again tonight because he specifically said: 'He was given a parcel of shares to write a favourable offer before he came in here'. That was the scandalous and untrue allegation that he made. Can he demonstrate to this House where the favourable offer was written by me? He has made an allegation. I must say that I will be very keen to look at the allegation about the price and the alleged gift. I stress to him that at that time there were many issues by many corporations. I stress once again to him that I wrote a column entitled: 'Speculator's Diary'. That column was followed by interested readers, if I may use that expression. 
It was a very good column indeed. I have copies of this column at appropriate dates. That at least shows the little more interest that I have in finding out the facts than the honourable member for Hunter has. The interesting point is that the honourable member for Hunter made an allegation about me being given something in order to do something. That was the important part of the allegation. He said that I was given these shares in order to write a favourable report.  His  actual words were: 'to write a favourable offer'. He has failed to demonstrate the essential point that a favourable offer or a favourable anything was written. I frankly state to the House that what I am about to say is not an admission, as the  Australian  very curiously wrote yesterday. There is no admission about it. I am asserting that I was the speculator of 'Speculator's Diary'. I am proud of that diary, I am proud of its record and I am proud of the fact that it was one of the most popular sections of the financial Press at that time. At no stage did I endeavour to hide, conceal or heal any of the things that were done at that time. I have always been prepared to do everything in public. I wish that the honourable member for Hunter would do the same. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  It being 1 1 p.m., the debate is interrupted. The House stands adjourned until Tuesday, 6 November - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! The honourable member for Reid will resume his seat. 
House adjourned at 11.2 p.m. 
I support the Government's sales tax proposals in this Bill which provides for exemptions in the areas that have been discussed by the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford).  While I am pleased, naturally, to see his support for these measures, my concern relates to his apparent lack of comprehension of the significance of the Government's very, very impressive and wide-ranging policies relating to energy conservation. I find it extraordinary that, presumably as some part of a political stunt aimed at what will happen in 12 months time, he should have fallen into the trap of simply attacking the high price of petrol, something introduced by this Government as a conservation measure, in the terms that he used. 
The honourable member for Adelaide pretended that there is an inelastic demand situation for petrol. That is not true. He has confused his time scales. There is no doubt that someone with a piece of equipment like a six cylinder or eight cylinder motor car will continue using that motor vehicle, because he has a capital investment in it, even though the price of petrol continues to rise. But the honourable member for Adelaide fails to understand that when the time for re-equipment comes, when the decision is made about the next motor car to buy, the energy conservation impact of higher petrol prices will have a serious effect. Honourable members can see, from looking at the size of engines in motor vehicles in Europe where the price of petrol has been so high for so long, that the point the honourable member for Adelaide has made can be demonstrated to be utter nonsense. 
High petrol prices lead to the use of more efficient motor vehicles and smaller engines. The facts demonstrate this incontrovertably. So it is extraordinary to hear a man with the capacity of the honourable member for Adelaide to see issues as clearly as he usually does to make this basic simple error. I can only assume it is made because this is going to be a vital part of the cheap set of policies, if I may say so, that are going to be introduced by the Labor Party in an attempt to convince people that they should vote Labor at the next election at the end of next year. If the honourable member for Adelaide is doing nothing else he is, at least, being consistent in maintaining what his masters in the Caucus have required him to do, even though it is so obviously nonsensical. 
I want to make one more point about the higher petrol price. There is no doubt that not only does the higher petrol price lead to conservation, even though a time lag may well be involved in the re-equipment; it is also resulting in a massive increase in the resources of oil available to Australia. This is happening not only as a result of new discoveries, but also because some existing fields which may not have been recoverable in economic terms are now economic propositions. It has also brought about the situation that shale, for example, is now on the borderline of being an economic resource for conversion into liquid fuel. The honourable member for Adelaide represents a city seat and probably does not see things with the same clarity as those of us who represent country seats. It seems extraordinary to me that the honourable member should consider that Australian motorists should have an unlimited right, at a false phoney price, to waste a resource which costs a fortune in the international market. Its international price will continue to rise and Australian production is limited to something like 70 per cent of our usage. The honourable member for Adelaide apparently wants us to have a false price for petrol in Australia in order to buy votes at the next election. I regret his decision to take that position. 
Returning to the specific matter of sales tax, I naturally welcome the Government's decisions. I understand that some further changes are to be made by the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  this evening. There is no doubt that the humanitarian approach that the Treasurer has shown in these sales tax exemptions is to be commended. Like the honourable member for Adelaide I must say that I am overjoyed to see the Australian piano roll industry given assistance, particularly after hearing the outstanding results that can emerge from stimulus to that industry. No doubt the honourable member for Adelaide has had the opportunity of listening to an Australian piano roll of the late Percy Grainger playing the Grieg piano concerto, backed by the Sydney Symphony Orchestra. It is not the late Sydney Symphony Orchestra; it is very much on time in that recording. It has been done by merging an orchestra with a piano roll. It is a remarkable achievement. I know that any member of the House who listened to it. would be grateful for having had the opportunity. I trust that the piano roll industry in Australia thrives to achieve other such outstanding results. 
It is not even in my electorate. I now wish to proceed to the general question of sales tax. This is a matter of some significance. There is no doubt that the Government's sales tax policies and reductions in the incidence of sales tax have resulted in a significant fall in sales tax collections by this Government as compared with the previous Government. In fact the level of sales tax collections in Australia, as a result of the current Budget, will be down about 7'/i per cent in real terms compared with sales tax collections in the Hayden Budget. We hear continual attacks on this Government for being a high tax government which, of course, is patently untrue. 
It seems to me to be unfortunate that the people who make those attacks do not have the decency to concede that as a result of the concessions that we are discussing tonight sales tax has fallen in Australia under this Government, particularly in industries such as the motor industry where there is a serious employment sensitivity. It seems to me that the Government's policies on sales tax are humanitarian and sound, although of course, there is a view to the contrary which suggests that there should be a great increase in indirect taxes. 
While examining the declining sales tax collections under the present Government- and of course, these are significant- I stress that under the previous Government this was not the case. Under the previous Government there was a considerable' increase in real terms in sales tax collections. Despite the massive rise in income tax collections during the previous Government's regime, the situation existed where the proportion that sales tax made up of total tax collections was about 8.5 per cent. In the present Budget sales taxes make up only about 7 per cent of total tax revenue. This is interesting, particularly in view of the continual claim by the Opposition that this Government attacks the low income earner. Surely a government which has introduced continually lower sales tax collections is, in fact, not following the course that the Opposition alleges. Let us face it, the people with the highest propensity to consume are, of course, those with the lowest incomes. Therefore, sales tax collections which have been diminished surely would benefit proportionately those people with the highest propensity to consume. They are, of course, the lower income earners. I think it is vital that the people of Australia recognise that this Government is a low sales tax government and the record proves it. The record is in stark contrast to the high sales tax style of government of our predecessors. 
I just mention in passing also that it is unfortunate that those who attack us on the matter of taxation in general fail to recognise that last year, for example, real income tax collections by this Government actually fell by one per cent. We are the low income tax Government. Income tax collections fell by one per cent despite the fact that many thousands more people were at work. I stress, and I conclude on this point, that even though there has been a continual and untrue campaign against this Government as a high tax government, the facts clearly demonstrate that this is a low tax government. The amendments that are being introduced tonight and this Bill itself clearly demonstrate and clearly underline the facts of the matter. Once again reductions in  sales tax are occurring in various areas. I join in congratulating the Treasurer on the continuation of this policy and I commend it to the House. 
I had expected not to speak to this Bill because the Bills are so outstandingly beneficial to the Australian nation that they speak for themselves, but because of the arrant nonsense spoken by the honourable member for Werriwa  (Mr Kerin)  I am forced to my feet. It is extraordinary that the honourable member for Werriwa should consider the fact, which he concedes, that income tax collections last year fell under this Government because of our tax reforms, is beside the point. It is very much to the point. The fact is that personal income tax collections last year fell despite the fact that the Opposition maintained a totally misleading and dishonest approach as, in fact, the honourable member for Werriwa has just maintained this instant. He knows perfectly well that the major reason for tax rises this year is not in the pay-as-you-earn section whatever but in the non-PAYE section. The biggest single rise- as the honourable member for Werriwa knows because he, in fact, has the capacity to use an adding machine unlike many of his colleagues- is in the non-PAYE section. In fact this is particularly so among rural incomes where, thank heavens, after years of Labor repression at last the rural sector is getting a fair go. Because it is getting a fair go and reasonable incomes the tax has gone up. I am not embarrassed or ashamed by that fact. I am overjoyed that the rural sector has had an immense recovery of incomes and, as a result, is paying much higher taxes. The most disturbing factor that strikes me from listening to the honourable member for Werriwa is this phoney concern he is now expressing for the family. He has voted for the Hayden Budget which increased PAYE taxes by something like 44 per cent. While wages went up by 22 per cent he voted for legislation which would increase taxes at double the rate that wages increased. The honourable member did that, and then he has come into this House and profess cynically and phonily that his concern is for the family and for low tax. I must say that I have never heard such nonsense in my life. The honourable member ought to be embarrassed, having supported, in fact, the worst Budgets that this House has ever seen. Those Budgets increased tax by the greatest amount that we have ever seen. 
The honourable member says rubbish. I challenge the honourable member to establish any Budgets in the history of this nation that have increased taxes as much as those that took place under the Government of which he was apparently honoured to be a member. I am absolutely appalled at the honourable member for Werriwa for whom, I must say, I have great personal regard. I can only assume that he has been sent into this debate under instructions to maintain the uncharacteristic nonsense that he is maintaining tonight. This Government introduced the benefits to families. This is the Government that has lowered taxes. The other side was part of the Government that raised them massively. I am appalled by the deception that the honourable member for Werriwa is trying to impose upon the Australian people. 
I refer the Minister for Health to a statement by  Mr Kevin  Stewart, the New South Wales Minister for Health, relating to a request for the provision of a dietetic service in the Bowral Hospital in my electorate.  Mr Stewart  alleges that the Commonwealth Government has decreed a no-growth policy in respect of many aspects of the public hospital system. He says that this has all but totally restricted the variation of staff establishments at the Bowral Hospital and other public hospitals and that it appears highly unlikely that any additional staff positions of any type can be approved for some time. Is the statement true? Are there any aspects of the public hospital system on which the Commonwealth Government has decreed a no-growth policy? 
-While I was investment editor for the  Australian Financial Review  I assure the honourable member for Lalor  (Mr Barry Jones)  that we gave as little attention to his boring exploits on  PickaBox  as the present editor is no doubt giving to the honourable member's boring exploits in this House. The point I wanted to raise here, however, is a very positive one relating to the personal income tax sharing arrangements under which councils in Australia have received a substantial increase in the amounts of money to be made available to them on an untied basis from the Federal Government. I would like to point out- I am certain the House is well aware of this, but I would like to stress it- that in New South Wales, for example, there has been a 176 per cent increase in untied grants made available to councils from Federal sources as a result of this Government's policies since it came to office. This enormous rise in grants is something that the Opposition pretends has not happened. I hope that when the Opposition is considering what tactics will be used by the Government at the next election campaign it keeps in mind that the Government will be stressing such positive achievements as this 176 per cent increase in money to councils which they can use exactly as they like for the benefit of their ratepayers. 
This enourmous increase has been an immense factor in the reduction of rates which were such a burden to ratepayers throughout Australia under the massive mad days of Whitlam inflation. Those days fortunately are gone but there is no doubt that this Federal Government allocation out of the personal taxation collections has had a magnificent impact on councils with, however, one reservation. That reservation unfortunately is that some councils are not getting their fair share of this Federal money as a result of decisions taken by the State authorities. Two councils in my electorate, the Wollongong City Council and the Shoalhaven City Council, have had increases in the Federal money made available to them far below the average rise of 1 76 per cent. Wollongong has had only a 128 per cent increase and Shoalhaven a 138 per cent increase. Surely there are no councils in the State with needs much greater than these two. Wollongong, of course, is a difficult area with immense industrial activity and, of course, a high unemployment rate. Surely that is an area to which the State authorities should have given close attention. Shoalhaven is a rapidly growing area with immense pressures for the provision of services. 
It astounds me that when I pointed out that the State had failed to pass on this magnificent increase to those two councils the State Minister involved,  Mr Harry  Jensen, accused me of endeavouring to confuse the thinking of the people. That is a most extraordinary criticism. He complains that the Federal Government insists that consideration be given to the needs of councils. I am stressing that that is exactly what I agree with too. It seems to me, however, that the State authorities are not giving proper attention to the needs of at least two councils in my electorate. I regard it as extraordinary that the State Minister concerned with this area should endeavour to cloud this issue by pretending that in fact it is not his fault, or it is not the fault of the State Government, or it is not the fault of the States Grants Commission - 
I will not address myself to the extraordinary language used by the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating). 
-The Government totally rejects the amendment. It was interesting to note from what the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  said that he regarded the export levy as a tax which was ill-designed. We totally agree with him. It was an ill-designed tax introduced by his Government in 1975 during the period when the late R. F. X. Connor was Minister for Minerals and Energy. At that time the levy was $6 a ton for hard and semi-hard coking coal and $2 a ton for soft coking coal. The levy was lowered under this Government to $4.50 and $1.50 in the 1976 Budget. It was further lowered to $3.50 and $ 1 in 1977. In the 1979 Budget the levy was reduced to $ 1 a tonne for hard and semi-hard coking coal won by underground methods- the same as for soft coking coal. It seems to me that what the honourable member for Blaxland is saying in his amendment- apart from the usual antimultinational attack which has become a bit boring apart from being totally inaccurate- is that there is a balance of disadvantage to Australia by having these enormous developments in our coal industry. He is saying that there is a balance of disadvantage solely because these major corporations are being funded from overseas. 
He has not proved, nor have any of the speakers on his side established, that the balance of disadvantages to Australia, which he sees as so serious that he thinks that the multinationals should not be allowed in- that is the point made by some of his colleagues- or should be taxed at punitive rates.  His  view, on balance, is totally opposed to the huge multinationals in the coal industry. This was established in the debate the other day. 
The honourable member accepts that he is opposed to the multinationals in the coal industry. Yet if Australia did not have these multinationals we would not have the massive developments, investments and expansion that we have had in this industry which have brought such enormous benefits to Australia. 
