It is with a great deal of pleasure that 1 rise for the first time to speak in the Address-in-Reply debate on the Governor-General's Speech. I would like to take this opportunity to wish the former member for Denison,  Dr Bob  Solomon, good luck in his new career and to say to each honourable member opposite who may have been his friend that I am sorry to have caused his departure from your midst. However, I can assure those honourable members that I am not sorry to have won the seat of Denison for the Australian Labor Party. 
I understand that I am the youngest member of the current Parliament, though, of course, by no means the youngest member ever. I imagine that the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  is probably glad to have the title taken from him. I do not underestimate the responsibility I have been given by the electors of Denison. Tasmania certainly gave all of us who represent the electorates in that State an overwhelming endorsement. I hope that neither I nor my Party gives them reason to be disappointed or to feel that their confidence in us was unwarranted. 
It was certainly very satisfying to have won Denison for the Australian Labor Party so decisively and, by that, to have played a part in enabling this Government to come into office, and so to allow the reforms to commence. We lost Denison in 1949 when we lost government; we have now regained it as we return to office. If this is significant, I do not mind having my personal political fortunes linked to those of the Party as a whole, because this Government, by its actions and achievements, is going to remain in office for a long time. There was a lot of personal satisfaction involved in winning the election after all the sacrifices which my wife and family cheerfully put up with during the campaign. And it meant that all those faithful people, young and old, who worked so hard to help, had their reward. It was their victory and the Party's victory. It was immensely gratifying to see the pleasure it gave to so many staunch supporters of the Australian Labor Party - those who are young and were able to see a dynamic, progressive government come into power - a government which was obviously prepared to represent their hopes and aspirations and which was to be attuned to the direction they wanted this nation to go. 
But perhaps even more so was 1 glad for the older supporters of Labor who had waited so long for this victory. These people had suffered the frustration of opposition just as much as Labor members of this House and it was very moving to have so many such people ring me up, choked with emotion, to express their pleasure at the victory. For many of them, it was the first time they had ever voted for a winning candidate. However, the election has been run and won and the affairs of this nation are now being handled with a zeal and purpose never before seen. 
The initiatives already taken in the fields of education, housing and social security alone are the beginning, to use the GovernorGeneral's own words, of a program designed to achieve basic changes in the administration and structure of Australian society. Perhaps I could give the House some examples. The Schools Commission and the Pre-Schools Commission have already been set up. Extra finance has been provided to universities and colleges of advanced education so that needy students can continue their courses pending the abolition of tertiary education fees next year. Promised social security and repatriation pension increases backdated to early December will soon be paid. Inquiries have been set up into national superannuation, national compensation and other welfare matters so that a thorough review of these areas can be made. Grants to the States have been made for the building of more houses for rental. The list goes on and on. 
An amazingly large number of Australians are genuinely surprised to find that it is possible to have a government which keeps its promises. The reaction to this realisation has been a surge of pride and nationalism and a revitalisation of people's belief in democracy, Parliament and politics as means by which reforms can be achieved. Even the most cynical and apathetic in our community have been impressed. And there are a few for whom I feel rather sorry, who are - or feign to be - appalled and frightened that changes have in fact been made and that more are to come. These are the people who still believe the ranting and raving of the Opposition about socialism, about peace and about having a democratically based party in power. Honourable members opposite keep on pushing the idea that these are dirty words. The honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth),  in his usual lovable way, did so today. 
I think I should warn the members of the Opposition that, if they are not careful, their actions and words in this regard will only backfire on them and, because of the progress made by the Government reinforce the views of those who believe in justice and equity, and convince many of those who have been led to believe they should be opposed to the word socialism that, in fact, it is in the best interests of the nation - because this is what we are about - the establishment of a fair society. We are a socialist party and we should not be ashamed to say so. I think that the Party is itself partly to blame for the past success of the Liberal Party, so called, and the Australian Country Party, and others whom I will not name, in their blackening of the word 'socialism'. We have, to a certain extent, ignored the misrepresentations instead of reacting positively and explaning to the people what a modern democratic socialist thinks, and how our policies fit in wilh that. 
The Opposition makes much of the democratic structure of the Labor Party and this has been particularly so in the last few days. However, our system is perfectly justifiable and in fact gives desirable safeguards to the public, because the electors are fully aware of the basic platform of the Party within the framework of which we work. The platform is a public document, resulting from debate at open conferences which are representative of the tens of thousands of Australians who make up the Australian Labor Party, and which anyone who subscribes to the Party's principles can join, and join in that decision-making process. The public knows that the policy they voted for when they supported Labor candidates cannot be changed at the drop of a hat by a handful of people, unlike the policies of the Parties opposite when they are in government. 
The other word that, to its everlasting disgrace, the present Opposition has tried to make out to be a dirty word is 'peace'. It still makes me sick to think of how the Opposition, when in government, got this nation involved in the Indo-China war. Vietnam is a blot on this country for which we can never fully atone - neither for the 500 young Australians who needlessly lost their lives and the thousands of others who had their lives interrupted and their minds damaged by what went on there, nor for the millions of Vietnamese in whose country Australia interfered and aided and abetted the United States of America to interfere. I am certain that the previous Government's so-called 'moral' support for the war helped to prolong it. If, instead, it had exercised some truly moral influence on the United States, there might have been a chance that much of the waste of lives would not have occurred. 

 Mr Speaker, 1 am an environmentalist. 1 believe in conservation of our national heritage. Being from Tasmania where there are so many natural assets worth preserving, 1 am perhaps more aware than most of the need for conservation. And there are major pollution problems all over Australia. But I believe the greatest pollution has occurred in Vietnam, helped along by the previous Government. In Vietnam there has been an incredible tonnage of bombs dropped, causing massive destruction of the Vietnamese environment and causing untold pollution, as well as the appalling destruction of lives. What is just as bad is the pollution in Vietnam which has yet to have its violent effect. I am referring to the millions of tiny, nasty, anti-personnel weapons which have been scattered in Vietnam, with the details of which most honourable members are familiar. These insidious weapons are lying undetectable in the jungle, waiting for some unsuspecting Vietnamese, perhaps as yet unborn, to tread on or activate by passing nearby. And this will still be able to happen, even a decade from now. Surely this is the ultimate in pollution. This is part of the legacy that has been left behind after the war has finished and for which those sitting opposite must bear part of the responsibility and blame. 
Thank goodness we now have a Government which has 'peace' as its objective and which believes in having peaceful relationships with other nations. We now have a 
Government which has a balanced foreign policy and which believes that our defence forces should be made up of volunteers. The ending of conscription is one of the major results of the election by which Australia has gained in self respect and in international respect. 
I now want to refer to Tasmania and my electorate of Denison. Denison takes in most of the western shore of Hobart, including the central city area, the near city suburbs, Sandy Bay to Blackman's Bay to the south, and New Town, Moonah and Glenorchy to the north. Those who are familiar with Hobart will know that Denison thus takes in a complete range of suburbs. 
Hobart, as the capital of Tasmania, shares the whole State's special problems due to size and geographical isolation. The major problem relates to transport, both passenger and freight, and the shipping costs involved which affect the whole State's economy. Because of our small population we have less flexibility in withstanding the cost of freight on goods being moved in and out of the State. I believe that this Government has a responsibility to ensure that Tasmania is not at a disadvantage compared to other parts of Australia in the matter of transport costs. We are an island which means we have an almost complete reliance on shipping. We should not be penalised for that. The Commonwealth has the constitutional power, through the Interstate Commission, to ensure that this disadvantage is reduced. I am pleased that the Commission is to be revived. It is unlikely that rt will completely solve all of Tasmania's problems but it is my hope that the Interstate Commission will go a long way towards improving the situation. 
Another related matter which I will be pushing for is the removal of the shackles which have bound the Australian National Line in the past, so that the ANL does not have to have the irreconcilable dual role of making a profit and of providing its essential service at reasonable rates to areas which need it. The previous Government grossly neglected Tasmania. The percentage of Commonwealth departmental spending in Tasmania was minute compared to what it should have been on a population basis. This situation must be improved by our new Government. We have a duty to do so, and I have a duty to do all I can to ensure that the Government does increase its spending in Tasmania, for employ ment reasons and for the economy in general. It is neither necessary nor desirable for Commonwealth activities to be centred in Canberra, Sydney or Melbourne. Decentralised location of Commonwealth departments and parts of departments is in the national interest and in the interests of the development of specific cities and regions. Hobart is the suitable location for several government industries and I have already taken up with some of the Ministers involved some suggestions for certain sections of Commonwealth departments. 
This Parliament has a great challenge before it to improve Australian society and its quality of life. This will be a momentous Parliament. We have a duty to implement all the policies for which we have a mandate. It is a great honour to be a part of the Government Party which has this mandate and to be a member of this Parliament. I support the AddressinReply. 
I ask a question of the Prime" Minister in his capacity as Minister for Foreign Affairs. Is it a fact that the report on foreign aid by the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs was not released by the previous Government? Does the Prime Minister intend to release the report? If so, when will it be released and, if not, is there any reason why not? 
My question is directed to the Postmaster-General. Is it a fact that firms advertising in the Pink Pages of telephone books are not allowed to mention the price they charge for their goods, services or facilities? Is this a PMG rule or a rule of the private firm which has the Pink Pages contract? Is this so that people have to ring all or many of the firms in a particular classification in order to compare charges, thus boosting revenue? Does this policy make it difficult for hotels and motels, for instance, in a tourist area to advertise their tariffs if they are at competitive rates? Does he agree that terms such as 'cheapest in town', 'reasonable rates' and so on are meaningless? Will he have this policy reviewed? 
I want to refer mainly to one of the 3 Bills that we are considering together, namely, the States Grants (Advanced Education) Bill 1973. Firstly, I should tike to make a couple of comments on some matters which the honourable member for Warringah  (Mr Mackellar)  mentioned. He referred to the development of the concept of colleges of advanced education by the previous Government. I think that the development of this concept has not really happened. The concept W:.s hastily introduced. I think that if the previous Government had taken more time to think about what it intended colleges of advanced education to be we would not have the present generally unsatisfactory situation. The honourable member for Warringah referred also to fees being only a small part of the costs of a university student or a college of advanced education student. Of course this is true. But the honourable member failed to gather that all students at universities and colleges will be eligible for a means tested universal living allowance. Better off students will not be eligible for any living allowance but from next year on needy students will be supported. 
The States Grants (Advanced Education) Bill has 3 main purposes, namely, to provide money for libraries, for needy students and for a social work course in Hobart. Firstly, it provides $5m for libraries in colleges of advanced education. Colleges of advanced education have a great lack of library material - much more so than universities, and I do not think that we can say that universities have no need in this area. This grant is to enable college libraries to build up their stocks of books and other resource material. The third report of the Australian Commission on Advanced Education last year recommended that this sum be made available for this purpose. In the chapter of the report dealing with college libraries, the Committee stated: 
The library represents a central and essential facility for the college as a whole. It is clear to the Commission that the quality of the educational program in a college will be directly influenced by the standards of library provision in bookstock, accommodation, and services. If these are of a high order they will act as a stimulus to staff and student effort; if they are less than adequate, there will be dissatisfaction and reduced incentive. 
The report goes on to mention the quality of libraries and the need for libraries to be involved centrally in the educational process. It also mentioned bookstock provision. The report states: 
We further express our conviction that the existing levels of allocations must be increased substantially if the college libraries are to provide adequate support to the educational program, and we urge that all colleges try to accelerate their libraries' development in order to attain more educationally satisfactory bookstock levels. 
The report then refers to a lot of other matters connected with CAE libraries such as microfilm, audio-visual and other non-book materials of special need to colleges of advanced education which have a high proportion of part time students and thus also have a greater need for multiple copies of much used reference books. The report recommended: 
That the Commonwealth Government provide  a  sum of $5m to be made available to the States on the basis of need and on the advice of the Commission, for the development of library materials In colleges of advanced education. 
The previous Government, in its shortsighted way, cut the figure of $5m back to $500,000, or 10 per cent of the sum recommended. This Bil] sets the situation right by acknowledging the need for this sum and by implementing the Commission's recommendation. I maintain that even $5m will be insufficient to provide completely adequate library materials, but it is a start and it is 10 times more than the previous Government was prepared to allocate. The Bill provides a total of $806,000 as aid for students in need at colleges of advanced education. One of the other 2 Bills we are considering provides more than $2m for needy university students. " The object of this assistance is to bridge the gap for students who would otherwise be unable to continue their courses or who would find difficulty in doing so, or who would endanger their success by the necessity perhaps to spend too much of their time earning enough money to keep themselves while they continue their courses. We will not be able to implement our policy on abolition of tertiary education fees until 1974. Meanwhile, students are experiencing hardship because of their financial circumstances. This assistance is to be distributed, or already has been distributed, to such needy students by the colleges and universities by grants or loans or by covering the costs of fees. No one should be prevented by lack of finance from taking or continuing a tertiary course if he is qualified to do so. But many are prevented. These grants will alleviate the situation. 
The third purpose of this Bill is to provide the finance to cover a special need in Tasmania at the Hobart College of Advanced Education. That need is a course in social work. Until now there has been no means by which social workers can be trained in Tasmania. We all know that there is a great need for trained social workers throughout Australia but this need is particularly evident in Tasmania because people trained in this field have to be attracted from others States. 
The third Bill we are considering is the States Grants (Universities) Bill (No. 2) which provides assistance to the University of Sydney and the University of Melbourne to allow them to train more social workers in their courses. This serves to emphasise the diversity in the method of training social workers in each State. Education for social work is conducted mainly by the universities, 4 universities providing under-graduate degree courses while 2 universities provide post grad uate diploma courses. One university provides a master's degree in social work. One university and 2 colleges of advanced education provide sub-graduate diploma courses. There are only limited facilities for higher degree work. In other words, the situation is inconsistent. There is no clear idea uniformly held about how or where social work should be taught. However Tasmania, which has had no facilities for educating social workers, is now to have a post graduate course at the Tasmanian College of Advanced Education because of the proposal in this Bill. I am not saying that all diversity is necessarily a bad thing or that diversity in education in general is necessarily a bad thing. But this lack of uniformity is a reflection of the unclear attitude of educational institutions, employers of social workers, the community in general and probably social workers themselves about what sort of people social workers are, what their job is to be and the kinds of qualifications they should- have. 
So we have this rather unsatisfactory uneven situation of a wide variety of means available for becoming a social worker. It is unsatisfactory mainly because the training is supposed to lead to a professional qualification. This results in the inevitable arguments within and outside the profession about who is or who is not a social worker, and about who is or who is not a properly trained social worker. The same sort of thing has happened in the past with pharmacy. The truth is that all of the social workers trained by these various courses are all pretty well trained for their job, a job which is so necessary these days in the expansion of social welfare services and agencies involved in social welfare. I am certainly not one to say that a person trained in a university is better than one trained in a college of advanced education or that a person with a degree is better than one with a diploma. This does not follow at all. 
However, the problem is further complicated by the existence of other people and the courses which train them. I am referring now to welfare officers and the courses, which would probably be described as subprofessional, which train welfare officers. These courses are usually at technical colleges as I know is the case in Tasmania, or within social welfare departments such as the certificate courses run by the Victorian Social Welfare 
Department. Tasmania's Mental Health Services Commission runs a course for welfare officers. Such courses get very little recognition or financial assistance despite their valuable contribution to the community. Neither do their students get as much recognition or financial support as do those doing social work. I believe that we have to look at the relative place of social workers and welfare officers. Is a welfare officer just a less welltrained social worker, or is a social worker just a better-trained welfare officer? Are they 2 entirely different people each making a valuable contribution in a different way? I believe that there is a difference and that there should be a clear difference in the way they are trained and in the work they do. By this 1 do not mean that social workers should be put up on a pedestal. This would be bad for them and bad for the people they serve. So far 1 have not mentioned the word 'status' but it does come into it. I am not knocking social workers by saying that because they do a fantastic job. 
I think that the time has come to make a fairly generally accepted decision about the type of course required for social workers, the sort of level al which they will operate on graduation and the relationship between social workers and welfare officers both in the work they do and in the relative numbers of each, and the relative numbers of each to be trained with governmental support. Should the welfare officer qualification be used as a stepping stone to a later qualification as a social worker, if desired? There should be some planned relationship between the two but I suggest that very few people have more than a vague idea of what is best. The whole system has grown up in au ad hoc fashion which only makes matters worse. As I said before, there is a wide range of course levels in the various tertiary institutions throughout the country even for social workers only. A lack of co-ordination in this field can lead to a great inefficiency in the use of resources in training and in the employment of workers in the welfare field. I know that many of those involved are thinking about these problems and I hope that the situation can be rationalised. 
Nevertheless I am extremely pleased that Tasmania is to get a course in social work. Given that it is a long term process to rationalise the system, the special Tasmanian need must be filled as soon as possible, and it must be remembered that it will be 2 years from the beginning of 1974 before the first graduates finish their diploma course. I think that a degree followed by a post graduate diploma is probably the preferred type of course for training social workers. In a letter to the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley),  the Tasmanian Minister for Education, who was kind enough to send me a copy of the letter, said:  1 am writing to you to express thanks for the very beneficial action you have taken in respect of three of the requests which have come recently from Tasmania. 
He then refers to the assistance given in the training of more pre-school teachers, and continues: 
I also feel extremely pleased at the action you have taken in relation to social welfare. For some years this course has been needed in this Stale and it is only through your reasonable attitude that this has become possible. 
I endorse those remarks about this action and support the Bills, particularly the provisions in them for social workers, the money made available for libraries in colleges of advanced education and the assistance for tertiary students in need. 
1 ask the Minister for the Environment and Conservation a question. Is it a fact, as has been alleged, that, of the steel cans collected for recycling by Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd only a minute fraction are recycled? ls this necessarily inconsistent with the statement that all cans actually returned to the steel works are recycled? In view of the fact that many people, having been encouraged to do so, go to the trouble of disposing of cans in a way which allows recycling in the belief that they are assisting the environment and the conservation of resources, will the Minister investigate the allegations and expose the practice if it proves to be nothing more than an advertising gimmick? 
I shall draw breath and reply to some of the comments made by the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder).  Ho referred to the Government as not knowing why it was doing things. But this is a Budget of a Party which believes in what it does. This Government does not shy away from unpalatable decisions. We do not believe that there should be anomalies or hidden subsidies, especially if they favour only special interested groups. We are not frightened of what a particular pressure group might say if we take away particular concessions rather than let unjustifiable concessions continue and allow further anomalies to develop. Instead of this we make courageous decisions to come out in the open, to take action and explain why even if this means receiving criticism. I believe that this is a good, forceful and decisive government. I believe that this is what people elect a government to be. The electors want a government which knows what it is doing and why. They do not want a government which is weak and frightened to do what has to be done. 
It is an honour to be speaking in this debate on the first Labor Budget for 24 years. I congratulate the Treasurer  (Mr Crean).  I reject the Opposition amendment. It is fair enough for the Opposition to pick holes in the Budget and to criticise the parts of it with which the Opposition disagrees. The Opposition's job is to oppose. It would be surprising if it could not find some things in the Budget which it opposed, especially considering that it has an entirely different philosophy to that of honourable members on this side of the House. But it would not hurt the Opposition now and again to be big enough to give some praise where praise is due. Some time the Opposition may come to realise that it would do it no harm if it gave some praise to the Government. In fact, it would do it a lot of good. The public becomes sick and tired of constant criticism which is not sometimes alleviated by praise. That only leads to criticism, when due, having less impact. I do not believe that anyone in his right mind could condemn the Budget out of hand. I ask the Opposition: Why not be magnanimous for a change and praise at least some parts of what I believe is a very worthy Budget. 
As I said a moment ago this is a Budget of a Party which believes in what it does. I am not one to say that the Opposition did nothing right and everything wrong during its 23 years in power. But I think it must be said that in general its Budgets and policies more often than not were merely a reaction to situations and to public demand rather than means of initiating action and setting a clearly defined course. Improvements in social security and welfare, if not always parsimonious, under the previous Government often had a tinge of reluctance about them. This Government's first Budget shows quite clearly that we have goals and priorities. We said that we would do certain things and we are doing them. Not all the election pledges are fulfilled in this first Budget. After all, it is a 3-year program. I reject entirely paragraph 8 of the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  which states that the Budget fails to honour election promises. Of course there are still election promises unfulfilled. Honourable members opposite cannot have it both ways. We are accused of doing too much and then in the next breath we are accused of not implementing all our policies of the 3-year program' in this first Budget of that period. This Budget is a beginning. It is not as far reaching in its changes to the entrenched system as some thought or hoped. But it sets the stage for these basic changes in the years to come. We must hope for basic taxation reform next year after there has been time to study the best and most equitable way of doing it. 
I wish to spend some time highlighting some of the less spectacular but nevertheless important parts of the Budget to show some of the new initiatives which have been taken by this Government. No doubt in the past other governments have been saddened by the same thing but it is rather a pity that so many of these matters have become obscured by the major items of expenditure and taxation, especially the latter. People may be forgiven for thinking the contents of the Budget related only to increases in the tax on cigarettes and petrol which unfortunately were a necessary means of raising more revenue but nevertheless were justifiable on social grounds. I am pleased that so many have accepted this point and have acknowledged that if we smoke a little less because of it our health will be improved, and if we use a little less petrol because of it the resource tends to be conserved, there is less pollution, less of the costly traffic problems, greater use of public transport and so on. 
These points have got home to the public and I think the Opposition ought to be a bit careful and recognise this. Even on the major items of expenditure some people would like to ignore the fact that this Budget almost doubles the spending on education. It might have been hard to believe last year that this sort of huge increase could occur, but it has. On social security benefits we are doing what we said we would do - an increase of $1.50 twice a year. All the Opposition can find to say about that is to repeat the incorrect calculation of its Leader that this is an increase of only 11.4 per cent. It is in fact an increase of 14 per cent. I would have liked the increase to be greater, but this has increased the percentage which the pension bears to average weekly earnings. I acknowledge that we will have to make the pension increase more than $1.50 at least once to meet our pledge to bring the basic rate up to 25 per cent of average weekly earnings within the 3 years of the Parliament. 
It is not falling behind; it is moving ahead. We said we would do it and we will, within the 3 years of this Parliament. I wish now to highlight just a few of the overshadowed but important social innovations in the Budget of which the House ought to be reminded. A couple of examples in the field of education are the $304 per annum means tested educational allowances to assist the children of low income families to complete the final 2 years of secondary school, and the grants to provide additional places for much needed trainee social workers. In health, $7.5m is provided to assist the States to develop community based mental health, alcoholism and drug dependency services, and $7 .9m for the national school dental scheme. 
In social welfare, we are doubling the contribution towards the capital cost of senior citizen centres and increasing by one-third the subsidy towards Meals on Wheels, back dated to the beginning of the year. The handicapped children's benefit is being doubled. There is an overall doubling of expenditure on Aboriginal advancement in the areas of housing, health, education and employment. I notice that the honourable member for the 'Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  who has now left the chamber did not mention that area of expenditure. 
That is right. In urban and regional development, finance is provided for the planning of future growth centres, including $500,000 for Tasmania. This will allow an overall assessment of how the State should develop in the future. There is $30m for the States earmarked to overcome the backlog in sewerage provision in major urban areas. There is $32m for upgrading urban public transport services. In the general area of quality of life the Budget provides $7m for the National Library, $ 14.7m for the National Gallery and $14m for the Council for the Arts. I wish the Opposition would stop for a moment and give some thought to those aspects of the Budget, which are new. The sum of $3.2m is provided for the development of community recreation complexes and $lm so that Australian sportsmen and sportswomen can be assisted to participate in national and international events. As part of our commitment to the environment and conservation $3m is set aside for the first time for national parks and the preservation of the national estate. 
Of specific help to Tasmania is the Sim a year subsidy to the Australian National Line so that the important tourist link - the 'Empress of Australia' service across Bass Strait - can continue to operate. This will also have some secondary benefits on freight rates to Tasmania because the ANL will not have such a great loss on passenger services to be made up. The situation would not be so bad if it had been better looked after by the previous Government. An amount of S3. 2m overall is to be spent on grants for tourist attractions and for promoting domestic tourism. 
Another grant to the States provided for the first time is for a $3m program of traffic management and improvement of locations with poor accident records. I do not think this matter has been mentioned yet by the Opposition. I am very pleased about this grant as it will allow urgent action at locations where road safety is bad. 
Debate interrupted. 
When this debate was adjourned last night I had reached the stage of highlighting some of the less prominent parts of the Budget. I described them as less spectacular but nevertheless important. I think in a way that they are spectacular as well and ought to be seen as such. I had reached the point of referring to another earmarked grant to the States provided for the first time, that is, the $3m for a program of traffic management and improvements at locations with poor accident records. I mentioned that I am very pleased about this grant because it will allow urgent action to be taken at points of poor road safety without the funds having to be found out of general public works expenditure. That was the position in the past, and it inevitably meant that such action was slow and had to be fitted in with genera! road works. This measure in the Budget is a marvellous initiative. A very gratifying innovation is the allocation of $2m to supplement and expand existing legal aid schemes in the States. 
Last night and today I have deliberately concentrated on the smaller amounts of expenditure provided for in the Budget just to show how many new initiatives are being taken by this Government in a lot of smaller but highly important ways. I have not, of course, given an exhaustive list of these less spectacular commitments but it does illustrate the extent to which this Government is implementing its election pledges. Last night I also touched on the fact that this is the Budget of a party which believes in what it does. It does not shy away from unpalatable decisions just because they will be criticised. We believe there should not be anomalies or hidden subsidies. One example of this is the abolition of the sales tax exemption on non-alcoholic carbonated beverages containing 5 per cent Australian fruit juice. One might expect that I as the member for a Tasmanian electorate might be upset about this decision because it will affect the apple industry in my State. However, I believe it was a correct decision. As the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  stated, the Government is ready to provide funds for industry reconstruction if necessary. I was not even aware that this sales tax exemption existed until the Coombs task force report brought it to light. I wonder whether there were many people who were aware of it. It was a very much disguised form of assistance. Assistance to the fruit growing industry might very well be justified but it should not be hidden as this assistance was. The background to the concession goes back 40 years and for most of that time beverages consisting wholly or principally of Australian fruit juice have been exempt from sales tax. This is fair enough if it is thought that sales tax concessions are the best way of providing assistance to the fruit industry. 
In 1957 the exemption was expanded to cover non-alcoholic carbonated beverages containing as little as 5 per cent of Australian fruit juice. As it turned out, the concession is mainly for the benefit of the soft drink manufacturers who use apple juice as an ingredient just to get the sales tax exemption. The inclusion of 5 per cent of apple juice contributes nothing to the drinks; apparently it lowers their quality. It is included in ginger beer, cola and other non-fruit drinks. To me this is nothing more than a prostitution of good Tasmanian apples. Even if it is said that only the lower quality fruit is used in this way, I would still say it is a degrading misuse of the fruit which should be used in its own right and for its own quality rather than as a poor substitute for water only because the user is bought off with a tax concession. It is no different from the Government buying the apple juice and dumping it in the ocean. This would in fact be cheaper for the Government. A fraction of the money would be better used in promoting the consumption of pure apple juice and encouraging its supply through, say, school tuck shops instead of the soft drinks now sold which are of no real benefit either to the diet or to the teeth. Only a fraction of the $25m cost of the sales tax exemption has found its way to the apple grower. Instead it has been a bonanza for the soft drink industry. This is indeed a classic case of a policy that should have been abandoned. 
There are many other examples of long standing policies which are no longer justifiable that the Coombs task force revealed. One minor one which has not been acted on, but which I hope will be, is the concessional rate of duty on plug tobacco sold to Aborigines. This particular disguised expenditure costs only $31,000 a year but there are very good reasons for abolishing it. It began in 1935 ostensibly to help the tobacco industry and depends on 2 requirements, firstly, that the tobacco is of low quality and, secondly, that it is supplied to Aborigines. The Coombs task force report states in relation to this aspect: 
The concession appears to be a relic of an entirely different and, it might be hoped, vanished - or at any rate, vanishing - age. On the one hand it has about it an air of paternalism which appears to be entirely out of keeping with the approach of the present Government to Aborigines' problems: on the other hand it involves the provision to Aborigines on 'subsidised' terms of a clearly inferior product. 
The various other forms of financial and other assistance now being provided to Aborigines render the concession as unnecessary as it is offensive. 
There seem to be no good grounds for retaining the concession and good grounds - largely unrelated to the small saving that would be involved - for abolishing it. 
The honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  interjected a moment ago that the concession ought to go because it is not being used. There is still S3 1,000 a year being spent on it so it is being used to some extent. But even if none is used that is still no reason for such an offensive law to be on the statute book. It is another classic case of a policy which should have gone years ago. This and other revelations have entirely justified the Coombs task force investigation into the continuing expenditure policies of the previous ' Government. Such reviews will continue to be necessary whatever government is in power in order to update the whole system of government and ensure that policies, whether they cost money or not, do not become so entrenched that they disappear from view and are forgotten while nevertheless continuing. I conclude by returning to the Budget itself. I would have liked to have seen more provided for in the Budget, of course; not different things but more. Inevitably we cannot do all that we would like to do at once. But it is a responsible Budget - moderate yet innovative - setting the stage for greater things in the future. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Fairbairn)  adjourned. 
I ask the Minister for Labour: Is it a fact that the percentage of  unemployment in Tasmania is still as high as 2.2 per cent which is twice as high as the much improved national average, and that the number out of work is high in Hobart as well as in country areas? Is it also a fact that the relatively small increase in the number of unfilled vacancies in Tasmania is not encouraging? Is the Minister as concerned as 1 am about the situation? Will he assure me that he will do all he can to help to correct this specifically Tasmanian problem? Would he agree that urgent assistance in Tasmania, such as a retraining scheme, is essential straight away? 
This Bill seeks to amend the Sales Tax (Exemptions and Classifications) Act to abolish the exemption from sales tax of non-alcoholic carbonated beverages containing less than 5 per cent Australian fruit juice. It thus corrects one of the examples of long standing policies which are no longer justified. As I mentioned in my speech in the Budget debate, this Government believes that anomalies and hidden subsidies are not the ways in which to go about running the country. The Government does not shy away from decisions which are correct but which perhaps could make it unpopular. As I said when I made that speech, I believe this decision to be a correct one. 
The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  has moved an amendment to the motion for the second reading of the Bill which will have the effect of deferring the implementation of its provisions. But it strikes me that he is not so worried about fruit growers in Tasmania or in any other State as about his friends in the big carbonated beverage companies. Paragraph (b) of his amendment refers to the need for compensation for unsaleable fruit juice derivatives on hand and the losses due .to assets becoming redundant as a result of the Government's decision. Let us be clear that in this year we are not talking about fruit juice; we are talking about adulterated fruit juice - fruit juice from which the flavour has been taken, from which the colour has been taken, and which is virtually just sugar and water. 
All the good in it has beer taken out, as the Minister says. The growers have received their payments for this year's crop, and we are now talking about juice on hand which has already been adulterated. The Deputy Leader of the Opposition listed many measures which have been taken by the Government and which he said demonstrated the comprehensive range of measures with which we have attacked rural industries. But this amendment is another example of the ways in which the previous Government tried to ensure that rural industries were kept under its thumb. It shackled them. It did not give them any incentive to do better, if that were possible. It amazes me that the Deputy Leader of the Opposition can still try to support this exemption. At least he did acknowledge parenthetically that sales tax exemption was not necessarily the best or the most efficient way of giving assistance to fruit growers. In fact, it is a completely back door way - a way that is not visible to the public. 
This exemption was introduced about 40 years ago, in 1932, and it was extended in 1957 to cover non-alcoholic carbonated beverages containing not less than 5 per cent of Australian fruit juice. What contribution does 5 per cent of deflavoured, decoloured fruit juice make to non-alcoholic carbonated beverages? The manufacturers of such beverages claim that in fact it is deleterious to their products. But, of course, they use it because it means that no sales tax has to be paid on their products. This is the main point. The exemption costs $25m a year; yet only a fraction of that money went to the fruit growers - the people whom the exemption ostensibly was to help. The money went into the pockets of the manufacturers of carbonated drinks. 
Yes. Some members of the Country Party, I think, on earlier occasions have referred to this measure as taking the lollywater out of the mouths of children. If they want to suggest that Coca-Cola or products of a like nature are good for children, then I just cannot agree with them. What I would like to see the children of Australia drinking is pure apple juice. 
What the Opposition did about it when it was in government was to prevent apple growers and processors from having any incentive to look for other markets which would have meant that Tasmanian apples of high quality could have been used to produce pure fruit juice. There is no reason in the world why, with proper promotion and marketing, pure fruit juice could not become as popular throughout this country and other countries as has, for instance, pineapple juice. The point is that there has been no incentive because it has been so easy to provide the processed, treated fruit juice to the carbonated beverage manufacturer for them to use in their products. One example of the lack of previous promotion of pure apple juice is the fact that we cannot even obtain it in the Parliamentary Dining Room. I would have thought that pure apple juice could have been made popular by promotion. However, it is not made available because in the past there has not been any incentive to make it available. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Martin)Order! The honourable members who are interjecting will shortly have an opporunity to speak. 
There has been no reason for any promotion. I mentioned pineapple juice as an example of a product that is promoted quite heavily. Apple juice has to be sold. We have to try to sell it. The point I should like to make at this stage is that the situation is not as bad as might have been thought -or as it would seem to be from the response that came from the grower and processor organisations. I acknowledge that in the short term this measure probably will take some income from growers and processors. I do not think we can have any sympathy at all for the carbonated beverage manufacturers. They have made a nice pile out of this exemption over the years. The only thing that is wasted is this year's supply of treated juice, which is of no use to anybody. It is an absolute prostitution of good Tasmanian apple juice to treat it in that way. This decision will mean that there will not be an immediate outlet for the quantity of about 600,000 bushels of juice apples from Tasmania that would otherwise have been turned into water and sugar and put into Coco-Cola and other such drinks. At 50c a bushel that represents a loss of $300,000 to the Tasmanian apple growers. That is important. I do not like members of the Opposition accusing people like me pf not being concerned about that. I also have the processors in my electorate. The growers themselves are more the concern of the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Sherry). 
Let us put the matter into perspective. Since this decision was announced it has become clear that a new factory to produce pure fruit juice for export to the United Kingdom is to expand its operations. Earlier in the year it decided to take 250,000 bushels to fill a quite strong demand from the United Kingdom for pure apple juice. That initial 250,000 bushels is separate from the 600,000 bushels shortfall which would otherwise have been treated. I understand that the factory now intends to take a further 250,000 bushels - a total of 500,000 bushels. That is nearly half of the surplus that would otherwise have existed. That is what has happened with just one factory. Other orders and inquiries have been coming in. I certainly hope that the surplus of juice apples will be used up. There are other prospects in this respect. A Press statement issued only a week ago concerning talks in Japan between the Japanese Minister for Agriculture,  Mr Sakurauchi.  and the Minister for Primary Industry  (Senator Wriedt)  stated: 
The Japanese Minister for Agriculture,  Mr  Sakurauchi.  agreed yesterday to consider the possibility of importation of Australian apples into Japan from regions free of disease. To date, all Australian apples have been excluded because of the existence of disease in some fruit growing areas. 
The statement also stated: 

 Senator Wriedt discussed the apple situation at length with  Mr Sakurauchi,  pointing out that while he understood Japanese concern about quarantine, consideration should be given to declaring whole States or regions within a State, free of fruit disease and therefore a source of apple imports. 
The same situation can apply to apple juice imports. Some of the representations I have received on this matter have referred to the fact that the Government must not withdraw the sales tax exemption and that we should keep the status quo because it provides a strong incentive for soft drink manufacturers to continue to use Australian fruit juices. What is meant by that is that it will provide a strong incentive for soft drink manufacturers to continue to use these prostituted fruit juices. They cannot use the pure fruit juice in their products. They have to take all the goodness out of it, otherwise the drinks they sell will be affected. The Opposition wants to keep these long standing policies just for the sake of keeping them. The Government believes that the fact that policies have been in existence for a long time is no justification for continuing them indefinitely. I think we have to look at every policy already in existence and say to ourselves: 'If it were not already in existence would we introduce it this year?' 
If the previous Government had still been in office it may be that the Australian Country Party would have insisted that its coalition partner continue the exemption this year, but I doubt whether it would have done so. 
And we are doing something. As the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  said, money will be available for reconstruction of the apple industry if this decision has any effect on it. I have just shown that there will be much less effect on it than the Opposition is trying to make out because apparently almost half of the surplus is already going to be taken up. If there were a little more promotion and drinking of apple juice by honourable members opposite there would not be as much effect on the industry as they are trying to make out. Really, the former exemption was no different from the Government buying the apple juice and dumping it in the ocean. In fact, it would have been cheaper for the community if the Government had done that because I remind honourable members that the community was paying S25m a year in order to provide a small sum to apple growers. That is what the previous Government could have done. It could have let the processors process the apples into juice and then put the juice into the ocean. However, what I am saying is that use of the juice for its own high qualities should be encouraged by promotion and not by the back door method of giving assistance under a sales tax exemption. I believe that it was an insult by past governments to apple growers and other primary producers to give assistance in this way. If such industries need assistance, as they often do, it should be given openly and reviewed frequently. It should not be given by this back door method. I support the Bill. 
I wish to devote my time in this debate to the Government's health insurance program and the question of privacy. More than 6 months public debate has taken place on the report of the Health Insurance Planning Committee. The White Paper spelling out the Government's intentions was tabled in this House last week. Later this month, legislation to implement the program will be introduced. Since the Planning Committee's recommendations were made, many false charges have been laid against the program by the Australian Medical Association, the General Practitioners Society in Australia, the larger private health insurance funds and by members of the Opposition. There have been blatant lies and misrepresentations galore, all designed to instil fear into the public. It has upset me to see many of the people whom this program will most help being unnecessarily worried by the propaganda of those who oppose the program for their own selfish reasons. 
One of the most ridiculous accusations that has been made against the program is that it will involve an invasion of personal privacy. Not being able to argue rationally about the main issues of the program, its opponents have dragged in this red herring and, using just a whole lot of emotive words, have tried to discredit it.  Mr Cade  of the Medical Benefits Fund of Australia talks about 'a health dossier on every Australian' and 'doctors will be facilitating the accumulation of medical dossiers on their patients'. 
He is the General Manager of the Medical Benefits Fund of Australia. In its propaganda to the public, the Medical Benefits Fund goes further. One of the little slips which it includes with its bills contains the following words: 
If the Federal Government are allowed to force through their compulsory nationalised health insurance scheme, details of your personal and private life are no longer confidential. 
As with all Federal Government bureaucracies, privacy goes to the wind, your private details become the property of Federal files. 
What an insult to refer to Australian public servants in that manner. It continues: 
Many Government Departments will have access to details of your private life. 
Your private details are respected as confidential with your present scheme. Keep it that way . . . 
What a load of rubbish that is. The Australian Medical Association in its more oily publicity used the following phrases: 
The politicians say these personal records will he kept secret. We sincerely hope so. But we would feel a lot happier to have your records kept safely locked up in a doctor's filing cabinet and not rattling around inside a Government computer. 
That is further rubbish. Let me allay all the rumours and put the facts straight once and for all. The facts regarding privacy are that this new program will guarantee privacy for the first time. In a moment, I shall give an outline of how the system will work and the guarantees that will be built into it to ensure privacy of records. Firstly, I wish to emphasise that the records which the Health Insurance Commission will maintain will be for statistical purposes only. In any case, they are not medical histories. No record of diagnosis or details of treatment are required. So there will bc required even less detail than is required by the private funds under the existing scheme. I refer to paragraph 1.22 in the Planning Committee's report. It states: 
Complete confidentiality of information about individual patients and doctors is an essential feature of the plan. The Committee recommends that safeguards be written into the legislation along the lines of those in the Taxation and Social Services legislation. Statistics about the operation of the plan would be restricted to those which did not breach the privacy of individuals. 
I seel: leave to incorporate in Hansard 5 paragraphs. Nos 2.1 to 2.5, from the White Paper on the Australian health insurance program. I obtained permission from the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Bonnett),  to incorporate this section of the White Paper. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Dr Jenkins)Order!  Is leave granted? There being no oboection. leave is granted. (The document read as follows) - 
ELIGIBILITY FOR BENEFITS 
2.1 The benefits of the Health Insurance Program will be available to a-1! Australian residents. The entitlement to benefits will be accorded by the legislation and will not depend on registration or any form of action required of individuals. 2.2 For the convenience of beneficiaries of the Program, and as part of an efficient administrative system every adult in the community will be given a health insurance card. A card for the children in a family will be given to their mother or guardian. It will not bc necessary for a card to be produced to a doctor or hospital for a patient to receive medical or hospital services. It must be emphasised that the purpose of the card is simply to enable members of the public to obtain benefit payments as conveniently as possible. 2.3 It should be borne in mind that many existing health insurance funds require contributors to produce numbered membership cards or books to facilitate benefit claim processing. Indeed, one large fund is issuing to contributors membership cards similar to the health insurance cards proposed for the Program. 2.4 All people who can establish their identity as residents of Australia will be entitled to have their claims paid on presentation of these claims to the Health Insurance Commission. The simplest and most convenient way for a person to meet the Commission's identification needs is to record the number of his or her card on the claim form. The Government is confident that the vast majority of Australian people will co-operate in the simple processes involved in administering the Health Insurance Program on an economic and efficient basis. 2.5 During recent months there has been gross misrepresentation of the purpose of health insurance curds. It has been suggested that the issue of the cards will in some way be an invasion of individual privacy and even that they will 'depersonalise' medical services. These suggestions are completely unfounded. The legislation will contain provisions under which it will be an offence for any person or authority to require the production of health insurance cards as proof of identity other than for the. purposes of the Health Insurance Program. The Government will insist that complete confidentiality regarding individual patients and doctors is maintained by the Commission. The information required for the processing of claims will bc less than is now required by private health insurance funds. A special committee has been established by the Government to recommend steps necessary to guarantee the privacy of individuals. The committee includes a representative of the Australian Medical Association. The relevant measures decided on as a result of this study will be incorporated in the health insurance legislation at the appropriate time. 
I shall outline now the method by which the operation of the Health Insurance Commission will work so far as records are concerned. When a bill is sent to the Commission a record of it will be filed on a computer, but the computer record will be in terms only of a number allotted for the type of service covered by the bill. It will not involve a detailed diagnosis code. Thus, in the case of a consultation with a general practitioner the number allotted will identify the service simply as a consultation. It will not reveal the nature of the consultation. So, the details of services rendered will be limited in the computer record. 
There is another major protection. Data held by the Health Insurance Commission will  relate only to the Department of Social Security card numbers and not to the names of patients. Patients' names will not be available in these records. They will be available on a separate registration index only. Thus, even if an individual's record was extracted from the computer it would not reveal the patient's identity. The only way in which the patient could be identified would be for the inquirer to have access to the registration index at the same time. Such complete access will be denied to all but a handful of doctors employed by the Commission to check on any possible fraudulent abuse of the insurance system by private practitioners. Even they, as I have indicated, would still get only the barest details of services rendered to patients. Barriers to access by other persons will be built into the computers. This is a feasible and necessary safeguard. In addition to this, records will be kept for about a year only, so there is no possible way in which anyone could check up on the long term record of a patient. 
Let me make a comparison with the existing system. Under the existing system of health insurance, patient histories are held by the private funds in manual files for the most part, although there is a notable trend towards computerisation of claim processing. Some funds have been using computers for some time. This indicates that already there is a move towards the storage of records on computers. Also, under the existing system of health insurance, data is available to a wide range of private fund employees. Fund employees who currently have access to patient histories are not subject to any legislation concerning the privacy of history data, whereas all Commission employees under the new scheme will be subject to strict security provisions enforceable by law. So much for the feigned concern of the Opposition, the Australian Medical Association and the funds about secrecy. It was the present Opposition which presided over the so-called voluntary scheme and its lack of secrecy and protection. 
The Commission's health insurance number, which will aid data security, has been carefully designed to ensure that it cannot be manually assembled from personal details and that these details cannot be derived from an examination of the number. It is understood that one fund, the Hospital Benefits Association of Victoria, will shortly replace membership books with plasticised personal identification cards for each member. Presumably the member's number will also be used as an aid to data security and for computer processing. Although the Australian Medical Association is extremely critical of the Government's proposals to supply such membership cards under the universal health insurance program, it has mtaintained a continuous silence when a private fund does exactly this. Safeguards will be included in the legislation to the effect that the use of health insurance cards will be restricted to programs administered by the Department of Social Security. It will be illegal for any person to ask another to identify himself for any other purpose by producing his health insurance card or by quoting his health insurance number. 
In addition, the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  already is establishing a group to advise him on the general question of the protection of individual privacy. The group will consist of experts in the relevant fields of law, computing and civil rights. Its first task will be to make recommendations on the manner in which unwarranted invasions of privacy, which at present exist or for which there is potential in large scale administrative operations such as health insurance, may be guarded against. In order that the interests of the patient be represented, the Minister for Social Security has arranged for a representative from the Medical Consumers Association to be a member of the study group. The Australian Medical Association is represented as well. The appointment of a special committee by the Attorney-General shows clearly that the Government has a firm commitment to the principle of the right of privacy. The Government agrees with the principle set out in Article 17 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights that 'no one shall be subjected to arbitrary or unlawful interference with his privacy'. 
Clearly, the collection and storage of data concerning individuals by both public and private bodies is, in this computer age, a vital aspect of this issue. In its February issue of the 'Australian Computer Journal', the Australian Computer Society stated that it was the Society's belief that provided proper safeguards are incorporated in them, computer based data banks should pose less of a threat to privacy than manual or other noncomputer systems. That is exactly the aim that we are pursuing for the Health Insurance Commission. It will indeed be safer than the present collection and storage of medical information by private health funds which operate without any legal limitations in this regard. 
I preface my question to the Minister for Science by referring to alarming reports in Hobart last night and on the national news this morning that high levels of mercury had been detected by Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation scientists in fish caught in the Derwent River. Can the Minister verify these reports? What steps are being taken to ensure the safety of the people of Hobart? 
 Can the Minister for Health inform the House whether any previous Australian Government has ever made grants to the States similar to or on such a scale as those announced during the past few weeks to cater for the community's health needs with regard to comprehensive health centres and centres for mental health, alcoholism and drug dependency? In view of the Opposition's call for a cutback in Government spending, is this an area in which the people of Australia would be happy for cuts to be made? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Social Security. I preface my question by referring to the fact that the Medical Fees Tribunal recommended new fees for general practitioners and the appropriate higher benefits for patients, and that the Government accepted the Tribunal's recommendations in full, the new benefits to be paid from 12 November. Is the Minister aware that in Tasmania the Medical Benefits Fund is keeping the fund benefit for general practitioner consultations at the 1 September rate, meaning that the patient has to find $1 instead of 80c for standard consultations and up to $9.80 for some long general practitioner consultations? Are the Fund's reported claims correct, that it would be illegal for it to pay a higher benefit and that it is being hamstrung by the Government? What new game are the private health insurance funds up to now? Would this sort of mess arise under the new universal health insurance program? 
asked the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to a report that the annual conference of the Australian High School Principals' Association expressed concern that nongovernment schools will receive more public finance than government schools for the next 2 years. 
If so, are the Association's estimates, that in the years' 1974 and 1975 government schools will receive an average of $65,000 each and non-government schools will receive an average of $85,000 each, correct. 
If the estimates are correct, does the sum for non-government schools represent direct grants only, or are indirect subsidies included. 
If the estimates are not correct, will he supply the correct estimates for (a) direct grants and (b) indirect subsidies, including in respect of (b) the costs to the Australian Government, State governments and local government bodies of (i) tax deductions for education expenses, (ii) rates exemptions, (iii) tax exemptions, (iv) transport subsidies, (v) facilitation of purchasing, (vi) examination and inspectorial services and (vii) teacher and inservice training. 
Were all indirect subsidies to non-government primary and secondary schools taken into account by the interim committee for the Australian Schools Commission in its report. 
Do indirect subsidies bear any relationship to the needs of schools. 
 Mr Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Social Security. The Minister will be aware of the increased importance of the payment of pensions to pensioners as the end of the year approaches. I ask the Minister whether he will make the necessary arrangements so that pension payments due just after Christmas will be paid before Christmas. 
The honourable member for Barker  (Dr Forbes)  said that if this scheme was not nationalised medicine he did not know what nationalisation was. He does not know what nationalisation is. I cannot think of any program which has been so wilfully misunderstood and so maliciously misrepresented as the health insurance scheme which is described in the White Paper and which is to be implemented by the Bills now before the House. The new program has decisive advantages over the present scheme and I shall outline some of them. But before I do so, I feel bound to correct a widespread misapprehension about the program which has been fostered by our opponents. 
Spokesmen for the Australian Medical Association and private insurance funds have endeavoured to portray the Government's health insurance policy as a socialistic program to replace an existing private industry called 'voluntary insurance'. In the first place, the new program could not be described as socialised medicine but merely represents the attempt of the Labor Government to update this aspect of our social security in line with the standards of the second half of the 20th century. Just about every developed country in the world - and some developing countries, too - have adopted comprehensive, universal health insurance as part of their social security systems. Once the new program is introduced in Australia, only a handful of countries such as the United States of America and South Africa will remain as bastions of so-called voluntary insurance. 
In Western Europe and Canada, universal health insurance is settled policy. Despite the misinformation with which we have all been bombarded, honourable members should know that these programs work and are popular. Let the Opposition contact their conservative counterparts in the parliaments of Great Britain, Canada and the Scandinavian countries. I doubt whether they would find a single member of any of them who would advocate the substitution of voluntary insurance for their present public schemes. Most of them would laugh at any such suggestion. Nor has the right-wing Government of Queensland any intention of terminating the free public hospital system in that State. So do not let us hear any more about the revolutionary nature of a program which is middle of the road by the standards of all but the most reactionary. 
Let us look more closely for a moment at the present scheme which is neither voluntary nor is it insurance. It is a public program that has been farmed out to a group of private organisations. For the average man, contributions are not voluntary, but are simply another tax which he has to pay in order to qualify for the subsidies which are paid directly out of Australian Government revenue and to which he has contributed as a taxpayer- He cannot receive the benefits unless he is a member of a private fund. More than half the benefits the medical funds pay out are Government subsidies. The private funds take no underwriting risks, and their contribution and benefit rates are established by the Government. They are neither free nor enterprising. They are no more than agents for the collection and payment - at a handsome rate of commission - of public money. This is a function which can be performed far more efficiently and at less cost by public authorities. So do not let us have any more of the fiction that the new program will replace some sort of private competitive industry which provides value to its consumers. 
I read with amazement the statement of the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp)  that he would go to the barricades in defence of the right of people to choose between insurance organisations. I have always been concerned with the defence of individual freedom but the right to choose between the Hospitals Contribution Fund of Australia and the Medical Benefits Fund of Australia is the most insignificant freedom I have ever heard of and the honourable member's preparedness to fight for it must be the most ludicrous campaign since Don Quixote tilted at windmills. It is a completely false competition. In the long period of consideration of its health insurance policy, the Government has endeavoured to meet the legitimate objections and problems which participants in the health care system brought forward. The result is a moderate and rational program which substitutes efficient and equitable insurance machinery for a scheme which was only saved from collapse in 1970 by massive subsidies. The honourable member for Barker referred to the result of the Nimmo committee report but he did not refer to the huge cost to the taxpayer for that patching up. 
The position of the Opposition, and its allies in the AMA, the private funds, the Australian Democratic Labor Party and the private hospitals is that there is nothing wrong with the present scheme which a further reckless infusion of public money would not fix. The view of the Labor Government is that no amount of patching up of the present scheme could produce the benefits offered by the new program. Let me outline four major advantages of the new program. The first and most obvious advantage is that it will bring about universality of coverage. This is an objective which a scheme of this kind does automatically without any problem whatsoever and something that a voluntary insurance scheme cannot do at all. There are, in fact, well over one million people not covered by the present voluntary insurance scheme and we know at which end of the needs spectrum those one million people are. But we cannot expect the Opposition to be concerned about them. That is the so-called 'achievement' of the voluntary insurance program. There is consequently no argument about the fact that universal coverage will be a major improvement which only a public program of the kind we are putting forward can bring about. 
The remedy proposed by our opponents is to extend the subsidised health benefits plan to bring in all the pensioners and low income earners. One would have thought that, if any aspect of the present scheme has been proved to be a complete disaster, it would be the subsidised health benefits plan, which covers about one person in twenty of those who are eligible for it. Under the subsidised health benefits plan, people with financial handicaps, some of whom have been deprived all their lives and who are often not very good at managing their own affairs, have to attend, fill out forms and go back and forth from department to insurance fund to produce evidence in order to get the same sorts of subsidies, in many cases, that a rich person gets automatically in the form of income tax concessions. The application of this scheme to pensioners would greatly increase government subsidies, doctors' incomes and the volume of money in the hands of the private funds. However, it will not, even at great promotional expense, bring about the universal coverage which the Government's program will achieve automatically. This has been proved by past attempts to promote the scheme. Honourable member's may call it compulsory if they like, but I prefer to call it automatic. 
The second big advantage of the new program is that the money that it raises will be collected in a far more equitable manner. It is absolutely indefensible that a public scheme should be financed in such a way that the richer a person is the lower his contribution will be. That as the way the present health insurance scheme works because of the great importance of tax deductions. This amounts to a great subsidy paid by lower income earners to those who are better off, a transfer of income in the wrong direction. The alternative, which , is being adopted in this program, is to relate contributions to a capacity to pay. We are using taxable income as the best measure we have of people's capacity to pay. It is a straightforward one and one in which the collection costs and the marginal inequities are as small as it is possible to make them. One thing that just cannot be done under the present scheme is to bring about a fair and consistent relationship between people's means and the contributions they pay. Under the new program we can not only make a general rule which is equitable, but we can also provide for further exemptions for low income families and other special groups, which leave everyone protected but which do not add significantly to administrative costs. The present scheme fails absymally in all of these objectives. 
The third advantage, but by no means the most important, is that this program has the capacity to produce very substantial administrative economies. I suppose they could be put at a minimum of $10m to $20m a year. The final figure depends on what sort of cooperation we have from doctors and how many economies we can produce in the accounting systems of hospitals. But about $10m a year, which is the present cost of collecting contributions, would be saved straightaway. Now SI Om a year is perhaps not such a tremendous sum in these days of billion dollar public expenditure programs but it is a sum that can be very usefully applied elsewhere even within the health care system. With SI Om a year over a 10-year program we could bring into existence some hundreds of community health centres, which would be a much more efficient way to use money than keeping primitive accounting systems going in voluntary insurance funds, and paying commissions for collecting contributions. These 3 arguments - the universality, the equity and the savingsadd up to a strong case for a public program. But an additional justification in the long term is that the new program will promote the development of a better health care system. Providing good health care means not only spending money - the present scheme does that in large measure - but also spending money and using resources in a rational and planned way. 
The increases in subsidies in the last few years under the voluntary insurance scheme have intensified the biases towards particular services. We all know that some health services are saleable and profitable and others are not. But profitability and access to financial resources by no means coincide with needs. For example, since 1970 we have had a great upsurge in cosmetic surgery. There are benefits under the existing program for the provision of hair transplants, and there has been a great proliferation of private surgical hospitals all over the country. At the same time there are unmet needs for basic care. While the present scheme pays large subsidies for services which really have a minimal relationship to medical need it provides nothing for health centres in low income areas, which could bring primary care to people who are badly served by the present scheme. 
It is not the task of a health insurance program to say what the shape of the health care system should be. This is the function of people whose expertise is in health care administration and planning. The Australian Government has appointed a Hospitals and Health Services Commission headed by  Dr Sidney  Sax to advise it on the way the health care system ought to develop in a rational way in the future. This Commission has already made an interim report in which it has plumped for the development of regional and community-based programs of a comprehensive character. There is only one way to decide what services ought to be provided or where the extra dollars ought to be spent and that is to look at communities and regions and measure the needs of their populations. When the money that people pay for health insurance is collected through a levy on the whole community into a common pot, it can be allocated in accordance with observed needs. To keep the existing system would make that just so much more difficult. 
What we are aiming to do through the health insurance program and the Hospitals and Health Services Commission is to steer the evolution of the whole health care system in a different direction. When our program is implemented in July 1974 things will be so little different because of transitional arrangements that people will wonder what all the fuss was about. But the mechanism of the program will have changed the biases in the money flows, and our health care system in Australia will be very different in 1980 or 1985 from what it would have been if the present scheme were to continue. In this respect I must emphasise the evolutionary nature of the program. Improvements cannot be achieved all at once but it is most important that the system evolve in a direction which improves the quality and accessibility of care for consumers. It is the consumers of health care that one hears so little about from the Opposition. It is the vested interests we hear about. I believe that the evolution will also be good for those who produce health services, even though they pretend not to agree that this is so. 
When one looks at the advantages the new program offers, and makes real comparisons with the present scheme, one can only wonder why the Opposition has chosen to make the introduction of the new program a major partisan issue, on which it is prepared, in the words of the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp)  to go to the barricades to deny the Government's mandate. It is not just a matter of one saying we have a mandate and so we are going to do this; the fact is that we have commitments to the people who put us into power to do what we said we would do and there can be no backing down from that. The only answer one can give is that the Opposition - as in the case of its attitude on the States Grants (Schools) Bill - is acting as the defender of the vested interests of privilege. It has come out as the unashamed mouthpiece of the Australian Medical Association, the large health insurance funds and the small group of rich private hospitals, particularly in Melbourne, whose contributions to the shortage of beds in that city is to threaten to close their hospitals down. 
The honourable member for Hotham, the great self-professed small '1' liberal, is now acting as unashamed spokesman for the most reactionary political elements in the country. And on the side of the consumer, the Opposition, as in the case of education, wants to prevent the transfer of iniquitous subsidies from the well-to-do to those whose financial capacities are less and whose needs are greater. They are appealing, in the crudest terms, to the greed and self-interest of people who, under the present scheme, not only enjoy prvileged access to health care but also receive such large subsidies through the tax system that they pay less for it than people on lower incomes pay for public treatment. But, on the basis of its position on the States Grants (Schools) Bill, I suppose we should not expect the Opposition to show any great concern for the needy and the strugglers in our society. The Australian people should know the true reason why the Opposition is trying to prevent the enactment of the health insurance program. It claims to be lighting for such principles as freedom of choice and quality of care, but both these principles are incorporated, and indeed extended, in the Government's program. The Opposition's real objectives in health insurance are the protection of vested interests and subsidies to the rich, as they have been over the 23 years up to last December. 
I wish to ask a question of the Minister for Health in connection with his responsibility for health centres such as the one in the Canberra suburb of Melba. Is it a fact that those who are implacably opposed to the concept of health centres staffed by medical practitioners paid on a salaried basis include the Opposition parties? Can the Minister say whether those who are willing and satisfied clients of salaried medical services include members of the Opposition in this House? 
Is the Minister for Health aware that the pharmaceutical company, Imperial Chemical Industries of Australia and New Zealand Ltd, recently sent by airmail a fresh red carnation to every medical practitioner in at least some States to publicise the drug eraldin made by ICI and from which restrictions on prescribing have recently been lifted? Is this a further example of unethical and expensive advertising by pharmaceutical companies? Is it a fact that last week ICI announced a record profit? Does a large proportion of the company's income not come from the taxpayers through the pharmaceutical benefits scheme? Is there anything the Minister can do about the undesirable practice to which I have referred? 
On 8 March last year I delivered my maiden speech in this Parliament in the debate on the AddressinReply to the Governor-General's speech. That was just over 12 months ago. In a way it seems like only yesterday. But so much has happened and so much has been done by this Government that I feel it must have been 10 years ago. Sometimes I feel that much older because it has been such a busy 15 months. Now I am speaking in support of the AddressinReply to the Speech delivered by  Her  Majesty the Queen in opening the second session of this Parliament. That Speech outlined the Government's plans for this session, plans which continue the great program of reform outlined by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  before the election, so much of which has been implemented already. I am amazed at the way in which members of the Opposition carry on with their continual lies about broken promises. They do not specify them, but they continue with this series of lies. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
What is the (a) scheduled fee, (b) fund benefit, (c) Commonwealth benefit, (d) total benefit and (e) percentage which (d) bears to (a) in each State for all possible sterilisation operations including vasec tomy, ligation of tubes by abdominal incision and ligation of tubes by laparoscopy. 
What is the Australian Medical Association recommended fee for each operation in each State. 
Is the benefit for sterilisation operations payable in all cases or is a distinction made on the basis of whether the operation was for therapeutic or contraceptive reasons. 
If a distinction is made, how does the distinction operate and why is a distinction made. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security. He will have noted recent reports, even a newspaper editorial, claiming that the Government's far sighted Australian Assistance Plan is to be scaled down or even forgotten. Is there any basis for such rumours and is there any reason why any regional council for social development that is working conscientiously on project evaluations and the drawing up of a constitution, such as the Southern Tasmanian Regional Council, should have to slow down its efforts? Finally, so that regional councils stay keen and do not become disillusioned, can the Minister reassure the House that the 
Australian Assistance Plan remains a high priority of the Labor Government, in comparison apparently with the Opposition, whose spokesman in this area described the AAP this week as 'squandering money'? 
 Mr Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. I claim to have been misrepresented by the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp)  who accused me of asking a question that I had been requested to ask by the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden).  That of course is not true. The question was asked on my initiative. The Minister knew nothing about it. 
Why, for asking a question on my own initiative? The honourable member, however, was correct in describing me as not weighing very much. 
-Is the Minister for Transport aware of the reaction in Tasmania to the recent announcement of increased charges by the Australian National Line? Can the Minister say why the increase is necessary while the Nimmo inquiry is still continuing? 
-Unlike the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden),  I will speak mainly to the Bill before the House. He came in here and abused the forms of the House to give a general economic discussion of matters affecting the whole of Australia and to give a sort of Tasmanian policy speech, it seems, instead of speaking to the Bill. He did not mention one word about the Bill. Now that he has made his little contribution he has left the chamber. 
The Bill is about States grants to enable Tasmania to be no longer a claimant State at the Grants Commission. The Leader of the Opposition mentioned not one word about that but instead gave a general speech full of crocodile tears. Apparently after his 18 years in this Parliament he has finally discovered that Tasmania exists. He said that local government is crying out about the problems it has. Of course, it has been doing that for many years. Which government has done something for local government? It is the Labor Government elected in 1972. It is now providing grants through the Grants Commission to local government councils based on the recommendations of that expert and nonpolitical body. It does not believe in the sort of ad hockery that the Leader of the Opposition is suggesting. The Government is providing special assistance for local government. 
The Leader of the Opposition mentioned the shipping situation and the increase in the Australian National Line freight rates which the Government has now corrected by the $2m subsidy announced last Friday to enable the Australian National Line to carry on its operation without the increase that was proposed. It has to propose the increase as a business operation. The Government, as distinct from the Line, has now stepped in to assist. The Opposition when in government frequently increased ANL freight rates and did nothing to subsidise the operations to reduce the effect on Tasmania. At the time when the present Government has provided this assistance he tries to pretend that it has not happened, and still criticises the Government despite the assistance it is giving. 
He knows that the Nimmo royal commission of inquiry is being held into Tasmania's transport operations, yet he says that he would have a report in 3 months. I remind the right honourable gentleman that the Nimmo inquiry is a royal commission appointed by the GovernorGeneral on the recommendation of the Government and it is not all that usual to tell a royal commission in this sort of situation just when one wants a report. The Commissioner,  Mr Nimmo,  is in Canada at the moment examining their means of providing assistance on a ton-mile basis for particular areas that are disadvantaged. We are not doing things in an ad hoc way. We are making sure that there is a proper report from the royal commission. It will report as soon as possible. We anticipate that action will be taken on the basis of the recommendations contained in the report within the 3-year period of government that we expected to elapse from the time of the announcement of our policy in December 1972. 
The Leader of the Opposition, in talking about Tasmania in general- he did not talk about the provisions of the bill- also ignored the fact that under all the new programs that the present Government has introduced during its short time in office Tasmania has received far more per capita in every area than has any other State. Whether the programs be in the field of housing, education, the environment, grants in relation to the national estate, roads or whatever, under the present government we have received far more per capita than ever before and than any other State. The Leader of the Opposition is just putting on an act, showing that he has finally discovered Tasmania in making a general economic discourse but not speaking to the Bill, and trying to give publicity to his Tasmanian senators. 
Having said that, I will now devote the majority of my speech to referring to the provisions of the Bill, which the Leader of the Opposition did not do. The States Grants Bill 1974 seeks to amend the States Grants Act 1973 by providing for an additional grant of $ 15m to Tasmania for 1974-75. That $15m is to be additional to the financial assistance grants otherwise payable to Tasmania. The extra amount will continue to be paid next financial year and in subsequent years as well, increased by the same factors of population, wage increases and the betterment factor as applied to the financial assistance grant. There is to be a built-in increase, so the special grant will not remain at $15m. The simplicity of this Bill and the apparent simplicity of this additional grant to Tasmania belie the importance of the matter. It is a milestone in Tasmania 's history because this grant marks the end of Tasmania's dependence on the Grants Commission. I am referring here to the traditional role of the Grants Commission and not to its new role of recommending revenue assistance grants to local government. 
The Grants Commission was established under the Commonwealth Grants Commission Act 1933. It has been possible for special grants to be paid to the States on the recommendation of the Grants Commission since the 1933-34 financial year. The grants are, of course, made under the provisions of section 96 of the Constitution. The Act states that the purpose of the special grants is to make it possible for the State concerned, by reasonable effort, to function at a standard not appreciably below the standards of other States. The phrase 'by reasonable effort' has effectively meant that if a State raises less revenue per capita from a particular tax or charge than the standard States there is a negative adjustment or penalty in the grant from the Grants Commission. Hence it has meant that decisions made by the governments of New South Wales and Victoria on such matters as bus fares, hospital charges or revenue from gambling have had far-reaching effects on the decisions which subsequently have had to be made by the Goverment of Tasmania. They have affected the size of the special grant to Tasmania from the Commonwealth. 
Despite that, Tasmania has been a claimant State continuously since 1933. South Australia remained a claimant State until 1 95 8-59 and applied again in 1970. Western Australia withdrew as from 1968-69. Queensland came in by applying for special assistance in 1971. So, for 40 years Tasmania has been a claimant State. But, following the agreement on the grant which this Bill implements, Tasmania has withdrawn from the Grants Commission system. In fact, Tasmania has been dependent on special grants for more than 40 years. Prior to the establishment of the Grants Commission in 1933- in fact, since 1912- Tasmania received special grants under section 96 of the Constitution. So withdrawal from the special grants system is indeed an historic event for the State. Tasmania actually seems to have become less and less reliant on the Grants Commission over recent years. In 1968-69 the grant was $19.7m; in 1969-70 it was $18.8m; in 1970-71 it was $9.6m and in 1971-72 it was $9.65m. Figures are not available for more recent years because of the procedure of making a final adjustment 2 years later than the advance payments, after all the calculations of the true financial position have been determined. 
In view of the way in which the Grants Commission grants had been decreasing over the years, this grant of $ 15m may well be a very good deal as far as the Tasmanian Government is concerned. One of the problems is that it is impossible to calculate whether the agreement is better than what the State would have received if it had remained a claimant State. There are many factors which would have had to be taken into account and which depend on decisions yet to be made by New South Wales and Victoria. Perhaps the greatest advantage for Tasmania is that the final adjustment will not be made to the advance payments made for 1972-73 and 1973-74. It could be predicted- it is oddsonthat those final adjustments would have been negative adjustments. The adjustments had been negative for each of the previous three financial years. Certainly, even ignoring the possible advantage from avoiding the adjustments, the $ 15m is more than the $9.6m- the last known finally calculated payment; that for 1971-72- after taking into account the rate of inflation in the meantime. The Tasmanian Premier and Treasurer,  Mr Reece,  in his Budget Speech of 27 August this year, commented: 
I am satisfied that the arrangement is eminently satisfactory so far as Tasmania is concerned. I believe that had we remained a claimant State, the special grant we would eventually have received in 1974-75 would prove to be less than $ 15m. 

 Mr Reece summed up by saying: 
I am satisfied that the arrangement as a whole has been to Tasmania's financial advantage. 
Some people, including the Leader of the Opposition in Tasmania, have tried to belittle the agreement and have called for a fuller explanation. But, as I have stated, it is impossible to make anything like a precise calculation. I think it can be said that the attitude of the Australian Government is that if the Tasmanian Government is pleased with the deal it must be all right, and it is happy about it too. One point which should be made is that the State of Tasmania is still free to re-apply to the Grants Commission in the future. So the State is not precluded by the arrangement or by this Bill from becoming a claimant State again; although, of course, the special grant to be made by this Bill would be taken into account. 
I refer now to the advantages to Tasmania of withdrawal from the Grants Commission, the agreement and this Bill as a package. I have pointed out already that this grant is likely to be greater than what the State would have received if it had continued to depend on the Grants Commission for special assistance; so there is that extra revenue for a start. But there is a more general advantage from the State's point of view in that it has become more independent not of the Australian Government but of the standard States of New South Wales and Victoria. The Tasmanian Government can now select its own priorities within the fields of activity for which it is responsible without having to take into account the taxes and charges and the spending priorities of other State governments. 
Tasmania has always spent more per capita on social services- in the widest sense- and had a greater loss per capita on its transport operations than have the standard States. This has resulted in a negative adjustment from the Grants Commission. If it has wanted to avoid a negative adjustment it has had to levy taxes and other charges at a similar level to the standard States, whether it liked to do so or not. Now the Tasmanian Government can more or less do as it wishes and levy, for instance, lower hospital fees or lower bus and train fares than New South Wales and Victoria, and it can determine its own spending priorities. I do not mean to paint a black picture of Tasmania's reliance on the Grants Commission. The special grants system was very necessary for Tasmania and provided a great benefit- and it still can- but, having obtained this agreement on a grant of $15m, it can do without the system for the time being. However, it may turn out not to be in Tasmania 's best interests in the end and the State Government may turn again to the Commission for assistance. It is always there for when it is needed. 
I should like now to survey some of the history which led to the announcement of the grant in this Bill made by the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  on 1 1 June this year at the same time as the Premier,  Mr Reece,  announced the withdrawal from the Grants Commission and the dropping of the illfamed Tasmanian tobacco tax. I refer to the tobacco tax, because that is what it was really all about.  Mr Reece  said that for some time he had been considering putting up a proposal which would allow Tasmanians to get out of the Grants Commission but the issue really only arose out of the tobacco tax which turned out to be the lever for the agreement between the Australian and Tasmanian Governments. The Tasmanian tobacco tax came into effect on 1 January 1973. It was actually first thought up by the State Liberal Government during its short term of office from 1969 to 1972. It was not a popular tax and, being a consumption tax, it was widely thought that it might be deemed to be a sales tax or an excise and hence not constitutional for the State to collect. A challenge was mounted in the High Court by the Retail Tobacco Traders Association. In May of last year the Australian Government intervened in the case to oppose the tax. I opposed the tax itself as well as doubting the State's right to impose it. However in its judgment on 1 April 1974 the High Court upheld the tax though it judged that the regulations in force to collect it were invalid. 
The State Government quickly drafted some new regulations to get around the High Court judgment. It was those new regulations which really made the tax unpopular. In fact they made it a laughing matter because of the forms which purchasers had to fill in if they wanted to pay the tax on the tobacco as it was consumed, as was their right, instead of at the time of purchase. Some of the newspaper comment at the time is worth repeating.  Mr Reece  is quoted as saying that if the purchaser of cigarettes or tobacco chose to fill out the form and to pay the tax direct to the Commissioner of Taxation he must do so within 7 days of smoking the tobacco. If he passed the tobacco on to another person he must notify the Commissioner of Taxation of the name and address of that other person. Other newspaper comment at the time made the point that the public and retailers, apart from recognising the police state mentality of the collection method with shopkeepers and purchasers being responsible for consumers- not necessarily the same people- paying their taxes, also recognised the multitude of possible loopholes: Buy and not smoke the tobacco product; import tobacco from interstate and let Treasury prove it was consumed within 28 days of the importation; claim tax lost on unsmoked tobacco or purchase fags on Commonwealth property. It was even suggested that it was all right as long as a person smoked the cigarette in a telephone box as that was Commonwealth property. 
What gradually happened was a massive show of civil disobedience. Retailers, almost to a man, refused to collect the tax and the whole matter was becoming unworkable. Opposition members tried to make a lot of political capital out of the issue, trying to give the impression that it was the Federal Labor Government which was responsible for it rather than the State Government. It was a legal tax but impossible to collect.  Mr Reece  maintained that he needed the tax in order to raise enough revenue for State Government operations, but the whole thing had become a farce. It became obvious that despite the opposition to the tax by me and my other Federal colleagues we had to do something to end the mess. I initiated the next move with the Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard)  who agreed with me that we should propose to the Treasurer that the Australian Government should offer extra revenue assistance to the State if the tax were abolished. 
The Minister for Defence took the matter up with the Treasurer and eventually, after much negotiation, the Australian Government offered extra aid to Tasmania if the tax were dropped. The deal was spelled out in statements made on 11 June and the result was Tasmania's withdrawal from the Grants Commission system, the Bill which we are now debating and which provides a $15m grant and, thankfully, the end of the iniquitous and infamous Tasmanian tobacco tax. The last act of the affair is still being played out in the Tasmanian Legislative Council which apparently is intending to disallow the regulations rather unnecessarily relating to the tax, since all that has happened is that the tax is no longer being collected and the regulations are still theoretically in force though I doubt that anyone would ever dare reintroduce their operation. I am pleased that my initiative and that of the Minister for Defence in particular with our other colleagues supporting us has led to the agreement of the Australian and State Governmentsan agreement with which everyone involved now seems to be satisfied. I wish that the Leader of the Opposition had referred to this Bill, the subject of which was specific, but he did not. I support the Bill. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Labor and Immigration. He will be aware of my concern about the employment situation in Tasmania. 
Opposition members- No! 

 -Mr Speaker, I can wait until members of the Opposition have finished. I repeat: My question is directed to the Minister for Labor and Immigration. He will be aware of my concern about the employment situation in 
Tasmania and of the degree to which we welcome the Government's initiative in introducing the regional employment development scheme. Is the Minister yet able to announce any grants for Tasmania under this scheme, and has he any details of them? 
-We are debating the Remuneration Tribunals Bill. I would like to concentrate mainly on those aspects of the Bill affecting academic salaries. The Bill also deals with other matters, as the honourable member for Wannon  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  pointed out, including the inclusion of certain senior officers similar to statutory officers amongst those for whom the Remuneration Tribunal should determine salaries, and the exclusion of certain less senior officers for whom it is not appropriate for the Tribunal to determine salaries. As the House is well aware, the Remuneration Tribunal was set up as an independent body to determine the salaries of first division officers of the Australian Public Service, statutory office holders, members of Parliament and judges. 
This Bill extends the Remuneration Tribunal Act to include an Academic Salaries Tribunal which will have the responsibility of determining all academic salaries for universities and colleges of advanced education and the salaries for some other senior employees of those institutions such as vice-chancellors, registrars and bursars. The Academic Salaries Tribunal will be separate from the Remuneration Tribunal itself, and hence the title of the Act is being altered to the Remuneration Tribunals Act. Determinations of the Academic Salaries Tribunal will strictly apply only to the Territories, but of course they will be the basis for the States grants which will be necessary for the same salaries to be paid to academics in institutions set up under State legislation. The Tribunal will consist of only one man, the  Chairman  of the Remuneration Tribunal itself,  Mr Justice  Campbell, but assessors can be appointed, as they have been appointed in the past, and the procedure will be the same as for the full Tribunal. It will have power to decide when to make reports and determinations, and the Minister will have to table a copy of the determination in each House within IS sitting days of receiving it. Either House will have the power to disallow any determination within 15 sitting days after tabling. It must be a single determination, so that any disallowance would be an all or nothing operation. 
It may be worth while tracing some of the history of this issue. Until now academics have been probably the only group in the work force not to have a salaries tribunal or similar machinery to review what they should be paid. Members of Parliament and senior members of the Public Service shared this distinction with them until late last year. What happened in past years for academic staff was that ad hoc inquiries were held from time to time to review academic salaries. It was interesting to hear the honourable member for Wannon say that the Opposition supports the appointment of permanent review machinery because honourable members opposite did nothing about it during the whole time they were in office. The ad hoc reviews were usually few and far between. 
I will not go right back to the Eggleston inquiries of previous years. The most recent case was the appointment of  Mr Justice  Campbell by the previous Government in September 1972 to conduct an inquiry. He reported to this Government in May 1973. The Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  tabled that report on 17 May 1973. The report recommended increases of between 2 1 per cent and 24 per cent- the higher percentage being recommended for the lower levels, which was only right. Judge Campbell also recommended the establishment of an independent tribunal for regular salary reviews, as had been asked for by staff associations for many years. That increase was the first pay rise since 1 970. As a member of the staff of the University of Tasmania at that time and an active member of the Staff Association, I had helped to prepare the case for the tutor and senior tutor levels for the Federation of Australian University Staff Associations to present to the inquiry. It was pleasing that that part of the submission was largely accepted, because, as honourable members may be aware, the sub-lecturer levels of teaching staff had been well behind those with equivalent qualifications and responsibilities in the school teaching service and the Public Service generally. 
On 28 May last year the Minister for Education announced that the report had been accepted. He further announced on 20 June that the States, which then still shared the costs of universities and colleges of advanced education, had also agreed to the increases. Unfortunately, it was not until 4 April this year that the Government announced that it would legislate to set up permanent machinery. As honourable members will recall, 4 April was only a few days before the double dissolution, with the consequent election, and hence the whole issue was held up for the months it took for the election to be decided, for the Parliament to reassemble and so on. So in July the Government asked  Mr Justice  Campbell to proceed with an interim inquiry pending the legislation being changed to provide for the permanent machinery. Once again, shortly after that event in July, the Senate disallowed the report of the Remuneration Tribunal. That was the one referring to honourable members and senators and also to senior levels of the Public Service. Following that, I can well understand  Mr Justice  Campbell wondering whether he ought to proceed with his interim review. Because of this doubt the Government decided early in September to give  Mr Justice  Campbell statutory backing and to advance this legislation. 
On 19 September an Opposition member asked the Special Minister of State  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  what was happening about the interim review. It was on that day that notice was given that the Remuneration Tribunal Act would be altered. The Minister said at the time: 
The significant factor of the whole report of the Remuneration Tribunal is that it was disallowed in another House. No doubt the honourable member - referring to the member of the Opposition- took part in a ballot in his own Party as to what it would do in relation to that disallowance. Naturally, when the report was disallowed,  Mr Justice  Campbell felt it would be improper and inappropriate to proceed with any determination without statutory support. The reason nothing has been done with respect to academic salaries is due directly to the activities of the Opposition. It is because of that, as the honourable member would know if he looked at today's notice paper - that is, for 1 9 September- that we are to introduce a Bill to amend the Remuneration Tribunal Act, which will allow for academic salaries to be so determined. I am very confident that if the Opposition will give its support and the proposed legislation becomes law  His  Honour will then proceed with that interim determination. 
The Bill was then introduced, and we are now debating it. Once it is passed- I anticipate that it will be passed as the Opposition, at least in this House, is giving it support- Judge Campbell can go ahead. The Bill allows him to go ahead himself and make a report at any time, but he may still wish to have some indication from the Government as to what the Government will support. 
Perhaps it could be said that, in the current economic climate and with a rather informal freeze on higher salary levels, only the lower levels of academic salaries should be determined. Professors are currently being paid $18,600 per annum. I am certainly not plugging for them. Their salary is at about the level of those officers who will not receive an increase because of the disallowance of the determination of the Remuneration Tribunal. Even though thenincrease last year was the only one since 1970 they may have to forgo it for the time being, as readers who receive $15,500 may have to do. Certainly at least the levels of lecturers and below deserve a review and an increase, particularly the lower levels I mentioned before of tutors and senior tutors.  Mr Justice  Campbell's report of last year has fixed up the situation to a certain extent. I would like to quote briefly from part of what he said in paragraph 7.1: 
Very early in the course of my Inquiry, it became clear to me that sub-lecturer staff in ^Australian universities were suffering greater disabilities, in relation to salaries, than other members of the academic staff. Unlike senior grades of lecturer and above, sub-lecturer grades have not been standardised in terms of qualifications, functions, responsibilities, nomenclature, salaries and other conditions of appointment. Substantial disparities exist not only among universities generally, but also, in some cases, within individual universities. 
I could point out to the House that the commencing salary for a tutor-demonstrator, as recommended by  Mr Justice  Campbell last year, was $5,500. Apart from the national wage case increase, that remains the salary. Of course, it is now below average weekly earnings. I am not suggesting that in this debate we should have a work value inquiry ourselves as to what junior members or the teaching staff at universities and colleges of advanced education should be paid, but I think it would be acknowledged that, in comparison with what school teachers and graduates entering the Public Service receive on commencement, tutors and senior tutors should receive an increase. Therefore I hope that  Mr Justice  Campbell will proceed rapidly with an inquiry and that the Government will encourage him to do that, even if the Government discourages him from bringing in any recommendations about professors and readers. 
That covers the history of academic salaries. It is important that the BUI be passed as quickly as possible because  Mr Justice  Campbell cannot go ahead until the Bill receives royal assent. As soon as he does, I am certain that representatives of the staff associations of universities and colleges of advanced education and their national bodies will be ready immediately to put submissions to him. I hope that if he does intend waiting for the nod from the Special Minister of State he will quickly receive the nod and proceed with the inquiry. I support the Bill. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
In Committee 
The Bill. 
-This Bill is of special interest to Tasmania because of the provision in it which will enable the Australian Government to subsidise the Australian National Line's services to Tasmania without it being detrimental to the Line's overall operations. Sub-section ( 1 ) of section 17 of the principal Act, which will remain in the Act following the passage of this legislation, states: 
Where, in the opinion of the Minister, a shipping service of the Commission is necessary to meet the requirements of a particular area and it is desirable in the public interest that the shipping service should be provided, the Minister may . . . direct the Commission to establish, maintain and operate, or to continue to maintain and operate, a shipping service for the purpose of meeting those requirements. 
That is an important provision because, if the public interest shows it is desirable, it is essential that there be a means of avoiding the crippling freight rates which may otherwise be justified if purely business economic considerations only were taken into account in relation to that service. The problem with the present Act is that the Commission must first of all make up the loss which may occur from a ministerial direction out of any profits on other services. Sub-section (4) of section 17 states that the Commission is entitled to be reimbursed by the Commonwealth to the extent of the first mentioned loss in the provision, being the loss on an individual service, or to the extent of the second mentioned loss in the provision, being the loss on the overall operation, whichever is the less. That has effectively meant that if a service is to be subsidised it can only be by a bidden cross-subsidy occurring from one user to another rather than by having a subsidy which is visible and without effect on other services which could damage the Line's overall operations. The amending clause will correct the perpetual dilemma that the ANL has had to suffer because sub-section (4) is to be replaced by a new sub-section which will allow the Government openly and fully to reimburse the line for each public interest direction by the Minister for Transport. The proposed new subsection reads: 
Where- 
the Commission establishes, maintains and operates, or continues to maintain and operate, a shipping service in accordance with a direction given under subsection ( 1 ); and the Commission is entitled to be reimbursed by Australia to the extent of the loss. 
That will correct the anomaly which has been in the Act for the time that it has been in existence. 
I think I heard the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon),  who is the Opposition's spokesman on transport matters, say that the Opposition, if it got into Government, would use the new section 17 to assist Tasmania. I am not one who always and forever blames the Opposition for what was done when it was in Government. But one does have to ask: If the Opposition is committed to this sort of assistance why did it not do something about it when it was in Government? During the time it was in Government we had a cross-subsidy system where a hidden subsidy was given which was not visible to the Parliament and the people. As the House knows, the Government has announced that it will subsidise the Tasmanian freight operation of the Australian National Line to the extent of about $2m a year until the report of the Nimmo Commission is available. This financial assistance results directly from the strong representations of my colleagues from Tasmania and myself. 
The honourable member for Gippsland claimed that I, amongst my colleagues, did nothing for 3 or 4 weeks after the ANL announcement. But nothing could be further from the truth. As the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones),  who is at the table, will acknowledge, I was on the telephone to him that very day having tracked him down in, I think, Ipswich. I made the first representation that the Minister received. We all immediately made representations to the Minister. The accusations that we did nothing for 3 or 4 weeks until the Opposition apparently goaded us into it is quite untrue. What did happen was that the announcement by the Government of the subsidy seemed to alert the members of the Opposition to the existence of Tasmania. They had ignored this State while they were in Government. They have ignored it in the last 2 years while we have been in Government. However, on this occasion they thought that they might have been able to make a little bit of political capital. It was only after this announcement that the Opposition members discovered Tasmania. So I think that they have a cheek to criticise the Government's well received actions. 
I think that the Labor Government has a good record in respect of Tasmania. There has been criticism about the lack of cargo space on the coastal shipping trade. But does anyone seriously suggest that we can create cargo space out of the air within a short time, particularly as increased production has caused a need for space? The production of paper by one manufacturer has increased by 40 per cent in one year since we came into Government. It is beyond me how anyone can imagine that sufficient shipping space to take up that sort of increase could be made available immediately in these circumstances. The Minister for Transport has moved as quickly as possible to get new shipping for the Australian National Line. New ships are being brought into the trade as quickly as possible. One is due to come into service in February next year. 
Also $lm a year in assistance has been given to the Line to enable the passenger operation to Tasmania to continue without having to increase passenger rates to the level that would otherwise have been necessary and without this operation being detrimental to the freight operation. This level of assistance reappears this year in the Budget. In addition to this assistance is the $2m a year that we have announced and which will come into operation as soon as this Bill becomes law. Also the report of the major royal commission under  Mr Nimmo  which is examining the whole situation of Tasmania's transport disabilities will create a real basis for decision making by the Government. The Government is criticised for appointing committees, commissions, task forces and so on. But all of these forms of inquiry are entirely justifiable in that without them one would be making only ad hoc decisions instead of having a real basis from experts on which to make decisions. Also, people have the opportunity to put their points of view forward to these inquiries for consideration by the Government. One indication of this over the last 1 8 months or 2 years has been the number of people from all over the country who have been busy making submissions to the various commissions of inquiry. They are being heard for the first time. 
The Opposition has criticised the Bill. This was particularly the case in the speeches made by the honourable members for Gippsland and Wakefield  (Mr Kelly).  I am sorry that they are no longer in the chamber to listen to the rest of the debate. But the Opposition has criticised the Bill by claiming that it exempts the Australian Shipping Commission from all taxes. Yet the Bill specifically states that the Australian Coastal Shipping Commission, or the Australian Shipping Commission as it will now become known, is subject to taxation under the laws of Australia. Some people argue that the fact that the old subsection, which stated this in another way, is being repealed is an indication that proposed new section 36 (1) does not mean what it says. So as it seems necessary to re-assure these people, the Minister will be putting forward an amendment which will state more unequivocally that the Commission should be subject to tax as has been intended all along in order to make it clear that the ANL is on the same basis as private shipping companies under the coastal shipping agreement. 
The Opposition apparently wanted to oppose other sections of the Bill, sections that will be of benefit to Tasmania. I think that members of the Opposition have gone a bit cooler on this now that they have discovered the benefit this legislation will have for Tasmania because of their recent feigning of a slight interest in that State. The amendment that the honourable member for Gippsland has circulated proposes to add subsection (5) to section 17 of the principal Act. I think that this amendment should have the support of the Government; it merely adds a clause which requires that the Minister shall cause a copy of any direction given by him to be laid before both Houses of the Parliament. I think that this proposal ought to be completely within our policy in making sure that any subsidy, beyond being a cross-subsidy, within the Lines operation, should be openly stated and visible to everyone so that it can be calculated and its source specified. 
Much of the nit-picking critcism from the Government's political opponents makes me furious at times, particularly the criticism of the generous financial assistance to be provided to the ANL so that freight charges to Tasmania can be reduced to their former level. I realise that an Opposition Party's job is to oppose and criticise. But this should be done in a responsible way. Justifiable criticisms made by the Opposition would be much more credible if the occasional praise was given when due without delving for minor matters to pin-prick about. Such criticism only makes it more difficult for those of us who are actually doing something to improve Tasmania's position to be successful in the future, because it tends to elicit the understandable response from some people that we are never satisfied. Firstly there has been an attack on the $2m subsidy because it is directed at north bound cargoes- that is, Tasmania's exports. We are told that this is despicable because south bound freight is not covered. But let me explain. Tasmania's economic disadvantage is primarily caused by the cost of exporting what is produced there. It is that which has an impact on employment in that State and which affects the competitiveness of our goods on the mainland. Last year's report from the Bureau of Transport Economics showed that there was nowhere near the same disadvantage due to Bass Strait as far as imports were concerned. Many of the goods which are brought to Tasmania from the mainland are the subject of national price equalisation, or are supposed to be. So, if the price of a nationwide grocery item is blamed on freight costs it is because the price equalisation scheme is not being passed on to the consumer. There could be no justification for subsidising freight rates on goods if it just means the taxpayer is providing a bonus to the manufacturer without the price the consumer is asked to pay being reduced. 
Some imports, I acknowledge, do cost more because of freight costs, but a subsidy scheme to cover such individual items cannot be worked out in a short time- and we all wanted quick action in this matter. Such a study should be part of the Nimmo inquiry's more thorough examination of Tasmania's transport situation. So, for the reasons of justification, speed and simplicity, the Federal assistance to the ANL is to go where it is apparently needed most- the north-bound route. Let me remind the House that the sea-leg component of Tasmania's transport costs is less than half the total. Yet there is no outcry when there are major increases in port charges or freight-forwarders charges, or even when other shipping lines put up their rates. 
The State Liberal Party's spokesman on transport was reported the weekend before last to have accused the Australian Government of procrastination in making the freight reductions effective. Nothing could be further from the truth, and comes strangely from a member of the same Party who as I said, when in office, took 23 years to give nothing like this new assistance to Tasmania. He is complaining about a period of 2 weeks. Once again, I give the House the facts. The Bill to make it possible for Tasmania's freight costs to be reduced was introduced in the House of Representatives on 26 September, the day before the announcement of the size of the subsidy- not a week later as claimed by the Liberal Party spokesman. The usual week was then allowed to elapse before the matter was set down to be debated, as a courtesy to the Opposition to give its members a chance to examine the legislation at a Party meeting. Then it turned out that they wanted to oppose parts of the Bill- or so it appeared from what I understand the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  said at his Press conference. In any case, the Senate could not possibly have considered the matter in the last sitting week, because it rose at 5 o'clock on the Thursday. 
So I suggest that would-be critics first of all get their facts straight, make sure that any criticism has some basis, and keep in mind that it sometimes helps to temper criticism with occasional congratulations when justifiable, which I believe is the case in this matter. I think that the same comment could be applied to some other current issues as well as the shipping freight rates, where positive, beneficial action has been taken, and taken promptly. I join with my colleague the honourable member for Braddon  (Mr Davies)  in congratulating the Minister for Transport and the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  on the rapid response that they have given to our representations. I urge the House to give this Bill a speedy passage. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to a Report of the Traffic Accident Research Unit that the very great majority of motor cyclists killed in New South Wales are travelling on roads subject to an absolute speed limit, in most cases 60 kilometres per hour. 
If so is this trend followed in all other States, including Tasmania. 
Did the Report also say that any counter measure against motor cycle accidents which relies for its effect on the limitation of the speed at which motor cyclists choose to travel will have little if any effect on their death rate. 
If so is there any need for the 70 kilometres per hour pillion limit for motor cyclists which exists in States other than New South Wales. 
-The Social Services Bill (No. 3) 1974 has about a dozen different new measures in it. If I had time I should like to deal with the general welfare philosophy and the achievements of this Government, the sorts of things we still have to do and so forth, but I shall concentrate on two or three specific things. Before I do so perhaps I should respond to the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  and his amendment. Apart from the fact that the honourable member when in government never crossed the floor to express his opinion- one would not expect that to happen- when he did not get his way within his Party, I do not think the Opposition can expect to be able to alter a Budget item. 
-That is exactly right. We are the Government Party. The Government may alter the Budget. It is the Government which gets the appropriation from the Governor-General. The Opposition is quite entitled to oppose things, make suggestions and so forth. I am glad it does from time to time. But to suggest that the Opposition ought to initiate a new expenditure is naturally not on in the same way as the Senate cannot introduce or amend money Bills. 
Of course one supports the principle of a supporting fathers benefit. Let me point out to the House that this Government has gone more than halfway towards this, which is more than the previous Government did, in that a special benefit is available to supporting fathers. I am not suggesting that this is equivalent to a widow's pension or a supporting mother's benefit. I should like to see the guardian's allowance payable on special benefit. That would make it equivalent to widow's pension or a supporting mother's benefit, apart from the fact that a special benefit has a much more stringent means test attached to it. I think that the honourable member for Mackellar is aware that the Government is developing a guaranteed minimum income scheme. We hope that this will not take too long. It ought not to be suggested that we introduce something new that may well be overtaken by something else within a few months. 
The honourable member for Mackellar also made the point that there was an expenditure of only $20m in this Bill. I think he will find that there is a lot more than that. What he ignores is that this Bill is Social Services Bill (No. 3) 1974 and that the major expenditure which would have been in this Bill in the normal course of events arising out of the Budget is the pension increase for this part of the year which was, of course, granted earlier than the Budget. It was granted in the July Bill 2 months earlier than is normal and hence does not show up in the total amount of expenditure in this Bill. There are a lot of other things about which I would not necessarily argue with the honourable member but to which I should have liked to respond if I had more time. One was the nursing home benefit situation which we have now corrected by a second increase within less than 3 months. 
I should now like to refer to the points on which I want to concentrate in the Bill. The first one is the handicapped child's allowance. I am sure that the allowance which, as honourable members will be aware, is $10 a week to the parents of guardians of physically or mentally handicapped children who are cared for in the family environment, will meet with wide approval. The allowance was announced by the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  in the Budget. Further details have now been decided on. I think the estimate was made that there could be 20,000 handicapped children in Australia who would qualify for this allowance. I suspect we will find that this is an under-estimation. Even though we do not welcome the fact that there are this number of handicapped children, I think one of the side benefits of this allowance will be to bring many of the handicapped children in the community more out into the open and let the Government know about them. The problem is that no statistics are available. There has been no registration even of handicaps showing up at birth. The Government and the medical profession are trying to get this sort of register established but it will probably take 10 years for it to be done. Apart from the general advantage of the benefit is the side advantage of a means of registration of handicapped children. I do not think this was thought of at the time the introduction of the benefit was considered. But I see it as a benefit because there is a great need to know the numbers not only of those who need extra financial support but also of those who need the day training centres and perhaps even those who will need institutional care in several years time. 
Perhaps it is necessary- because there has been a lot of worry by parents of handicapped children about just what will be the eligibility requirement for this allowance- to emphasise that attendance by the handicapped child at a day school or day training centre will not affect the eligibility for payment of the handicapped child's allowance. The main basis of assessing eligibility will be that the child's handicap is such that constant care and attention are necessary. The $10 a week will be paid without means test and will not be treated as income in assessing other social service benefits. The payment is designed to assist parents who have to provide constant care for a handicapped child under 16 years, at which age he or she might be expected to qualify for an invalid pension. 
I think the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp)  earlier in this debate suggested that that is being too restrictive. I do not think it will be. We are talking about a handicap at a level which, without any improvement in the child by the time he reached 16 years, would qualify him for an invalid pension. It is not a matter of making a forecast as to whether during the next, say, 10 years from the time the handicap appeared until the age of 16 the handicap might disappear; the assessment is to be made at the time of the application and the allowance is to be paid on the basis that, if the handicap did not alter, the . child would be eligible for an invalid pension at 16 years. 
Another question is: Is it right to provide someone with an allowance which he would lose when he attained 16 years of age if he did not qualify for an invalid pension? I think there must be some sort of relationship between the 2 payments. The idea of the allowance is to assist those parents who prefer to provide attention for the child at home rather than place him in an institution. The allowance will give some compensation for them and will help in meeting the extra costs involved. The allowance might be used to obtain services which will afford some relief from the stresses that are experienced, especially by the mother, in these situations. Extra equipment, special clothing or whatever, may be needed apart from the necessity perhaps of having a more specialised baby sitting service than might be needed for the normal child. 
As the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  said in his second reading speech, the allowance should be seen in the context of our broad program of education, training and general welfare for handicapped children being developed by the Government. The new allowance should be seen as supplementary. Parents who care for a handicapped child at home will be encouraged to take full advantage of the facilities already available in the community and being made available. I want to make it clear that attendance of a handicapped child at a day school or day training centre will not prevent his or her parents being eligible to receive the allowance. The main basis of assessment of eligibility will be that the child's handicap is such that constant care and attention are necessary. 
The administrative procedures for dealing with claims for the handicapped child's allowance have not been finalised in every detail, but I think for the benefit of those who are concerned about whether they might be eligible it would be worth while putting on record a broad indication of the policy pattern that it is intended to adopt. Firstly, application forms will be readily available, not only from the State and regional offices of the Department of Social Security but probably also from the voluntary organisations which are likely to have close contact with parents in this field. The application form will be completed by the parent or guardian claiming the allowance. As this form will be checked against child endowment records and payments will be related to child endowment, personal details will be kept to a rninimum. The parent may be asked to supply information concerning the nature and extent of the care and attention that is provided in the home and the name and address of any school that the child is attending. 
I was outlining the procedures that will apply for the payment of the handicapped child's allowance. It may be necessary to supply the name and address of any special school or day training centre that the child is attending and the names of medical practitioners who have recently attended the child. This perhaps will enable the grant of the allowance to be made even without actual examination of the child. That may be possible after the scheme has begun. The medical practitioner might be contacted directly to assure the Department that the child would be eligible. The application form will also include an authorisation by the claimant for the Department to make such inquiries as are considered necessary to establish entitlement to the allowance. 
The form, when received by the Department, will be referred to an Australian Government medical officer who will examine the child and certify whether in his opinion the child is handicapped to a degree that would qualify the parent for the allowance. In practice, the medical test to determine severe handicap will be satisfied if the handicap is such that if the condition remained unchanged the child would be likely to qualify for an invalid pension on attaining 16 years of age. Where necessary specialist medical opinion may be obtained. I think this provision for seeking the opinion of, say, specialist pediatricians, pediatric surgeons and so forth, will enable a better assessment than merely the opinion of a general medical practitioner who may see only one or two cases of such handicap a year and would not be able to base his opinion on a broad standard that could be made consistent. 
Following approval, the claim will be referred to the finance authority and the amount of the allowance will be added to the child endowment being paid in respect of the child and, of course, the parents will be notified. An important thing that I think indicates the Government's general attitude is that where a claim is rejected on the ground that the severity of the disability is not sufficient to qualify the child for the payment of the allowance, the claimant will be advised of this and also advised at the same time that an appeal against the decision may be lodged. The appeals will be considered by a panel of 3 independent doctors, at least one of whom will be a specialist in the relevant field. I think this provision for appeal is an important safeguard for the Government and the parents and will provide an assurance to the parents that their applications will be carefully considered. 
Provision will be made in both approved and rejected claims for the medical officer to note that the claim should be reviewed after a specified period. In very severe cases that have no hope of improvement the medical officer might well authorise the payment of the allowance until the child reaches 16 years of age. In other cases there may be some hope of improvement within 2 or 5 years or whatever, and the case could be reviewed. A medical panel is being set up to establish more definite guidelines to be followed in determining medical eligibility. In the main the Australian Government medical officers who will conduct medical examinations of handicapped children will have had experience in examining claimants for the invalid pension. 
In the time remaining to me in this debate I should like to comment on two points out of the dozen or so parts in the Bill. The first relates to the increase in the supplementary assistance benefit, the so called rent allowance, which is being increased from $4 to $5 for pensioners and sickness beneficiaries who satisfy the stricter means test. Of course there has to be a stricter means test for supplementary assistance. But I think we have to look at modifying this in some way. As I said right at the beginning, I would like to develop this but I acknowledge, as the honourable member for Mackellar has indicated, that there needs to be some updating of the supplementary assistance. 
Another point in the field of supplementary assistance is that it will be payable only to the extent that rent is payable. Until now the $4 supplementary assistance has been payable even if in some special circumstances the pensioner has been paying only $2 a week rent. Even though it may seem harsh, I think it is not right that for a specific allowance like this allowance for rent somebody should get change out of the supplementary assistance. Of course low rents like that involve mainly housing authorities. If they then charge to the extent of the supplementary assistance they may well be able to provide better maintenance for aged persons' accommodation. I should point out that those who have already qualified for $4 and are paying less than $4 rent will not lose any of their supplementary assistance already being paid but will move to the $5 only if they are paying as much as that in rent 
My final point relates to the amendment to the provisions relating to residence qualifications for widow pensions and supporting mothers benefit. Until now women whose husbands have died overseas have been able to qualify for the widow's pension immediately on their return to Australia. But in the case of desertion or divorce overseas, when the woman has returned to Australia, perhaps with children who were born overseas, the residence qualification has been 5 years. In other words, a woman has had to stay in Australia 5 years before qualifying for the widow's pension or the supporting mother's benefit. In cases like that, provided the woman has previously lived in Australia for at least 10 years, the widow's pension or the supporting mother's benefit will be qualified for immediately on her return to Australia. I know of a number of cases in my electorate of women who have lived in Australia until the ages of 1 8, 20 or 25, then gone overseas and perhaps married overseas and had children. The marriage has broken up- there has been desertion, separation or divorce- and the women have returned to Australia, but they have not been eligible for a pension or benefit. But now, following the passage of this Bill, they will be eligible. I think this is a major reform in this Bill. 
I do not pretend that we have yet provided the ideal in social security or that there are no longer anomalies to be corrected, but I do claim that the Australian Labor Government has made unprecedented strides in this direction in only 2 Budgets. They are achievements of which we can be proud and we are continuing to develop many more improvements which we are anxious to introduce. 
I shall be relatively brief in my comments. I have entered the debate because of some of the comments made by the Opposition. The Opposition must have had a rather fiery debate in its Party rooms over this legislation. This is the impression I have gained from the range of comments that have been made. Initially we had the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp)  who had pressed his angry button and attacked the Government without really debating the philosophy of the compensation scheme itself. But then later in the debate we had fairly reasonable speeches from the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott)  and others. It will be interesting to see what is the outcome of the Opposition 's claim that it will allow the Bill a second reading if a committee investigation is carried out. Perhaps to begin with I should refer to the paragraph in the summary of the Woodhouse report on national compensation headed 'The Philosophy'.  Mr Justice  Woodhouse and  Mr Justice  Meares say: 
If there is to be a co-ordinated response to the many levels of the problem of physical and mental incapacity, there must be a basic framework of coherent and interlocking principles. A comprehensive scheme designed to support all incapacitated persons demands the application of several essential requirements. There must be responsibility universally accepted and shared in return for rights comprehensively available and enjoyed. There must be effective rehabilitation and compensation offered to all. And the assessment and distribution of benefits must be achieved on a basis that is efficient, consistent and just. 
The Opposition has accused the Government of indecent haste. Other speakers for the Government have pointed out the length of time since the tabling of the report and the wide opportunities that the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation,  Senator Wheeldon,  has offered to everyone in the community to comment, apart from their initial freedom to make submissions to the inquiry. Yet Opposition members say there was indecent haste. What they are forgetting is that during all the time before this scheme comes into effect, bearing in mind that it will be another 18 months before it is implemented, there are people who will be disadvantaged by the existing system. We want those people who are disadvantaged to come within the umbrella of this scheme as soon as possible. It is of no use saying: 'Let us look 6 years ahead'. That is no comfort to those who are injured within the next couple of years. It is no comfort at all because they will still have to suffer the problems in the existing system. 
There are at the present time a great number of problems involving common law damages. I am glad that some members of the Opposition acknowledge this. First of all, we have a system which largely is a pretence. We have a system of insurance companies arguing between themselves without people being involved. Insurance companies argue between one another about people's lives, incapacities and compensation. I think that sort of system is a pretence. I think it was the honourable member for Chisholm  (Mr Staley)  who said that the important thing that he supported was personal care- individual care. But what is the individual care that he is talking about? Some people insure themselves against personal injury, and of course we have compulsory third party motor vehicle insurance and workers compensation. But I cannot see how there is personal care, particularly when there is already compulsory insurance. The personal care on the part of the insurance company is not personal care. I think the honourable member of Chisholm tried to suggest that there was some sort of close relationship, a deep personal relationship, between a man or an employer and his insurance company. I think that is complete rubbish. 
What we have to have is a universal scheme covering everyone in the community and covering them for 24 hours of the day. The 24-hour cover is an important thing. One reads so many reports of workers compensation cases that involve legal argument about such matters as whether the employee took too long to get home, or went the wrong way or went in the back door of his house instead of the front door and therefore had already arrived home and was no longer eligible for compensation. We hear of other types of injury. I remember a woman who came to see me not many weeks ago whose husband was killed by a bus. The husband was deemed to have been partly responsible- I think SO per cent responsible- and hence the damages were reduced by that percentage. The damages would have proved inadequate even if they had been given to the woman. But then it was decided that as the woman had happened at the time of the accident to have a casual or temporary job she was not dependent on her husband and therefore was not eligible for any compensation.  Her  children were provided with compensation but they were not to get it until they were 2 1 years of age. At the moment I think they are 8 years and 6 years old. There is just no adequacy about the existing system. 
Of course it must be remembered that 40 per cent of those who are injured or killed on the roads these days get nothing because of the problem of proving fault. It is not as if the so called wrongdoer himself pays anyway. There are those who would argue that there must be some form of penalty involved. It is not as if the wrongdoer pays because it is the insurance company. So we have a partly community shared compensation scheme at the present time anyway, but it leaves out a large proportion of the population. It leaves problems about deciding on the amount of damages. It provides very often for once only lump sum payments which are not inflation proof. Let me remind the House that under our proposed compensation scheme there will be regular payments updated from year to year according to the consumer price index plus a percentage and the minimum and maximum amounts payable will be updated by changes in average weekly earnings. So the protection is there for the whole community. I think it is an overall community responsibility. I would like to quote paragraph 254 of the Woodhouse report in relation to the criteria for a new scheme. It reads: 
There is the initial principle of community responsibility. For three main reasons the community must accept the obligations that are clearly owed to every person who has been struck down by sickness or by injury. First there are the civilised reasons of humanity. Next, there are the economic reasons of self-interest. If the well-being of the work force is neglected the economy soon will suffer injury and society itself thus has much to lose. Finally, there is the plain fact that rights universally enjoyed must be accompanied by obligations universally accepted. The scheme proposed is a national scheme. It involves a national responsibility. It must be organised as a responsibility of the State. 
It is the only way that it can be done. It has been claimed that under workers compensation an employer would have that much less care about safety but I do not see that the argument really holds much water, that there has to be this financial inducement to an employer to be safe in his working conditions. If there is inadequacy in the law covering safety requirements, let that inadequacy be corrected. But there is not the financial inducement even now because of the fact that there is this insurance and pretence about there being a case between the employer and the employee. 
The honourable member for Balaclava  (Mr Macphee)  suggested that there would be widespread retrenchments in the insurance industry. There seems to be a wide variety of opinion in the insurance industry as to the effect that the proposed scheme would have on the industry. There are sections of the insurance industry which are all in favour of this scheme. There are some which are not. I acknowledge that. I have not heard anybody suggest the numbers that would be affected by our proposed scheme. It has been suggested to me that the result will be that sections of the industry will be able to cope quite well and will be able to branch out into other forms of insurance. The honourable member for Balaclava mentioned the usual Opposition argument about there being a bureaucracy and about the bureaucracy deciding things. But there is provision for appeals. The honourable member accused the Government of saying that reasons for decisions taken would not be divulged, but that is wrong as well. A particularly important aspect that will be covered under the new scheme is congenital injuries- injuries from birth. This is certainly a great protection that has been needed for a long time. 
I would like to conclude my remarks prior to the dinner break so I will wind up by saying that I think this debate has illustrated the basic difference between the Government and the Opposition. The Government as a progressive Party believes that it should not have to wait to be pushed by the community to do something for the benefit of the community. We believe that a government has a responsibility to lead. In comparison I think the Opposition believes that a government should wait to be pushed by the community and that delay does not matter. The fact that there are people disadvantaged at the present time not properly compensated and without the community properly sharing equitably in their coverage is all right according to the Opposition, but the Government disagrees with that. The principle of community responsibility embodied in this legislation and the fact that the rights of people are universally covered and that there is 24-hour cover for everyone in the community are aspects of the scheme which must receive the support of this House, and Parliament as a whole and also the support of the community which when they see the benefits that they will receive under this scheme will welcome it with open arms. 
Sitting suspended from 6.15 to 8 p.m. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Social Security. In spite of the increased interest being shown in the Australian assistance plan, are there yet enough people involved in each region? Can the Minister inform the House what measures have been taken to stimulate the expansion of the Australian assistance plan so that more people have the chance to be involved in developing welfare facilities in their own community? 
-Following the Prime Minister's announcement last night that $ 1 50m will be made available immediately to savings banks for housing loans, can the Minister for Housing and Construction indicate how many homes this amount will prove? Will this sum be sufficient to stimulate employment in the building industry? 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) Did he say, in his speech on 1 1 September 1 974 on International Women's Year, that Australia is not a party to the Convention on the Political Rights of Women because there is still legislation in two States, South Australia and Tasmania, that does not yet fully conform with the requirements of that Convention. 
If so, to what specific legislation was he referring, and in what way does it not conform with the Convention. 
Can he say whether the States mentioned are taking any action to correct the situation; if so, what action are they taking. 
Are South Australia and Tasmania the only States with offending laws. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Health. I refer to the fact that the Hospitals and Health Services Commission has appointed a committee to examine health careers, personnel and training so that statistics and recommendations in this area, which have been sadly lacking in the past, can be obtained to help the Government in its planning of health services and thereby enable it to meet the real needs of the community. Is the Minister aware that professionals in the health fields are anxiously awaiting the committee's report? Can he give any information as to when the report will be available? 
My question, which is addressed to the Prime Minister, is in connection with the collapse of the Tasman Bridge in Hobart. By way of preface, I express the appreciation of the people of Hobart for the speedy way in which the Government committed itself to reimbursing Tasmania for the cost associated with repairing the bridge, the upgrading of what is now the shortest route and the provision of defence services so early in the piece. My question is: Will legislation be necessary to provide that finance? If so, when is it likely to be introduced? 
--I rise to support the Family Law Bill. I shall speak relatively briefly since I believe that all the issues involved have been adequately canvassed already in this debate and I have no wish to delay the passage of the Bill. But I feel obliged to inform the House of my views in the hope of improving the chances of the Bill obtaining a second reading and in fairness to my constituents who have a right to know my intentions in this matter. I point out, however, that I have always made clear my strong support for the principles embodied in the Bill. I spoke publicly about the Bill last year. 
As the House knows but many of the public may not, giving the Bill a second reading involves support for the general aims of the Bill without necessarily agreeing with the detailed wording of every clause. Consideration of the Bill in detail, clause by clause, takes place in the Committee stage prior to the third and final reading. There may be some amendments to the clauses moved in the Committee stage which will be worthy of support but I shall be working on the premise that unless an amendment is of major importance or else an essential drafting matter, I shall vote for the clauses of the Bill as they stand. I want to avoid the situation, if possible, of the Bill being passed back and forth between the Senate and this House in a never ending ping-pong game, thus delaying its implementation. 
It is a good Bill and there are far too many people who have been waiting far too long for this Bill to become an Act. I want to provide those people with the up-to-date divorce legislation for which Australia is now well and truly ready. My support for the reforms in this Bill is based on the view that marriage is entirely voluntary. No couple is forced to marry. It is not illegal not to marry. Likewise, no couple who wish to continue to be married can be forced to be divorced. This Bill presents no threat to them, nor to anyone for that matter. Those who do not believe in divorce are perfectly entitled to their opinion. The Parliament is not legislating to change their views; nor should the Parliament legislate to make too difficult the termination of a voluntary union which is no longer desired. 
Divorce law is mainly necessary to provide for the problems arising from shared property and for maintenance and children. It is needed to settle such matters once a marriage has already irretrievably broken down. This Bill does not break down marriages. That just happens, for a thousand and one reasons. Even if it were possible to attribute degrees of fault and innocence it would be very rare to find an entirely innocent person. As I have said, this Bill does not break down marriages. The breakdown is entirely a personal matter. But the Bill provides for the means of tidying up things after the breakdown has occurred with as little acrimony, and pain and expense as possible for all the parties involved, including any children. The 12 months separation provision is merely evidence of an irretrievable breakdown. It is a symptom and not a cause in the same way as the present so-called matrimonial causes of cruelty, adultery and so on are symptoms of a broken marriage and not causes. 
As previous speakers have said, most divorces occurring under the current law are not contested. The Family Law Bill does not really introduce a new principle. Separation is already a ground of divorce. I believe that one year's separation- a whole year- before any action is taken is quite adequate evidence, particularly given the safeguards contained in the Bill. The safeguards are there in many different parts of the Bill. Clause 48, about which the opponents of the Bill object, includes sub-clause (3), which states: 
A decree of dissolution of marriage shall not be made if the court is satisfied that there is a reasonable likelihood of cohabitation being resumed. 
The honourable member for Berowra  (Dr Edwards),  who was the previous  speaker  in the debate, referred to that provision. Of course, a subjective judgment will have to be made. One cannot measure such matters objectively. But there are other protections in the Bill, including clause 14(1), which states:  
Where proceedings for a dissolution of marriage have been instituted, or financial' or custodial proceedings have been instituted by a party to a subsisting marriage, it is the duty of the Judge or magistrate constituting the court and of every legal practitioner representing a party to give consideration, from time to time, to the possibility of a reconciliation of the parties. 
That provision goes on to provide for referral to marriage guidance and marriage counselling organisations, investigation of the possibility of reconciliation and so on. 
The Bill is supported by the marriage guidance councils. It is supported by most churches and sections at least of other churches. I have no doubt that the Bill's principles have majority support throughout the community. I have certainly received many more indications of support for the Bill than opposition to it, not that I am one who weighs the volume of mail one way and the other. I have carefully considered all the points made by those who have asked me to vote against the Bui and I am convinced that their objections to what they think is contained in the Bill are adequately covered. I acknowledge the sincerity of those in this House and in the community who are opposed to the principles contained in the Bill, but I must in conscience vote for it. I believe that the net result of the vote in this House will probably reflect the total community view. That is why there are 1 27 of us here and not just one. 
I could say much more about the Bill, particularly about the Family Court provisions. I believe that the Family Court will be eventually reformed even more. I can say much more about the maintenance provisions which, despite what has been said by some people, are entirely fair to women and protect the rights and status of women. But in the debate on the motion for the second reading of the Bill I wanted to express some simple principles rather than to defend the clauses in detail. I strongly support the Family Law Bill and I will not be voting for the amendment. The Bill provides not so much for no fault divorce as no blame divorce once the breakdown has occurred. That, is a very desirable principle which I commend-to the House. 
-Much as I would like to spend some time commenting on the speech of the right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon)-  I think that he could have been fair to my colleague the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)-  I will concentrate my remarks in this debate on Appropriation Bill (No. 4) on the grant to Tasmania in respect of the Tasman Bridge disaster and of the investigation into the proposal to provide a further permanent bridge across the Derwent River. It is probably true to say that not many members in this House and not many people in Australia realise the dire effects of the loss of the Tasman Bridge on all the people of Hobart. The eastern shore of Hobart has been affected much more than the western shore- the eastern shore is represented by the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Sherry)-  but the loss of the bridge has had a total effect on the whole community of Hobart. Certainly more people travel to work from the eastern shore of Hobart to the western shore and now they must do so mainly by ferry, but there are people on the western shore, in my electorate of Denison, who must travel to work on the eastern shore. People on the western shore face the problems of travelling to the airport to catch aircraft. Instead of a journey of 10 miles when the bridge was in operation, the trip the long way around is 46 miles. Problems arise also in respect of people who live on one side of the river and who have relatives, perhaps aged relatives in nursing homes, on the other side of the river. They are now psychologically cut off as well as physically cut off from those relatives. 
We have heard stories of people who, only days before the bridge collapsed, moved from the western shore to the eastern shore and now wish that they had not done so. It is very hard for people not living in Hobart to realise the intangible effects suffered by people in Hobart. I refer to the psychological problems of reduced mobility resulting from the breaking of the link between the 2 shores. The effect of these psychological problems can be quite deep. I am sure that great social problems will arise in the next few years and until the crossing is restored. I suppose that there are some intangible effects with respect to tourism. There may well be some prospective tourists from the mainland who feel that, because of problems of transport, they should not now go to Hobart. I can assure them that any such problems would be exaggerated in their case as any difficulties would be a once only experience, for instance, in respect of a day trip from the city side to look at places on the eastern shore or to travel to Port Arthur. So, I do not think that any need arises for tourists to be reluctant to come to Hobart while the bridge is not in use. 
The response of the Australian Government to the problems of Hobart has not been criticised and I do not think it is possible for it to be criticised. Within hours of the collapse of the Tasman Bridge, a commitment was made that the Australian Government would pick up the tab for any of the costs involved in connection with the disaster and the flow-on financial requirements from that occurrence. That commitment was confirmed at a relatively notional figure of $13m within a few days. Of that sum, $6m is provided in Appropriation Bill (No. 4) 1974-75. 
The Department of Defence came rapidly to the rescue. In less than 12 hours of the collapse of this bridge, Navy divers had flown from Sydney and were in the water searching for cars that had driven off the bridge and casualties from the ship and from those cars. A helicopter service was provided by the Department of Defence to enable ambulance cases to be flown across the river. In the early stages following the disaster, the ferry service was entirely unpredictable. Queues, several people wide, extended for up to a mile at times. People must experience such frustrations to understand them. Army landing barges were made available to provide ambulance services across the river for urgent cases and for buses taking children to special schools, retarded children centres and so on. 
This Bill makes provision for the temporary crossing that is to be built for essential services. This Bailey bridge will be provided by the Army. The Postmaster-General's Department reacted very quickly. At least half of the telephone lines across the river were broken by the collapse of the bridge; they were part of the bridge structure. It is now a couple of weeks since those lines were replaced by submarine cables. That is an example of a ready response to the need which arose. There are other much smaller needs for which responses came, such as the rapid provision of public telephones at the ferry terminals. 
The major cost to the Australian Government may well be the repair of the bridge itself, though this depends on the outcome of insurance and possible litigation about it. I do not want to discuss that matter at this stage. The cost of the repair of the bridge if this must be financed by the Government will probably be the major one. The rebuilding of the Old Beach Road is progressing urgently to provide a slightly shorter route from east to west. The distance is still a long way around, but what is more or less a track in places is being upgraded to a highway. That work is ahead of schedule and, hopefully, will be completed before September. 
Ferry terminals have been provided by the Tasmanian authorities but the cost associated with this work is being met by the Australian Government which also will meet any losses which might be incurred by those ferry services. At this point, I mention how much the people of Hobart appreciate the fact that the Sullivan's Cove ferry service was in operation. This service commenced a couple of years ago, more or less as a tourist facility. It did not attract much commuter traffic. Following the collapse of the bridge, the existence of this service was appreciated. Services provided by ferries have been increased by the loan of one ferry, so far, from the New South Wales Government. Soon two more ferries from that source will be operating. These additional services are greatly welcomed. 
The need to provide facilities for the ferries is a problem, as is the waiting time for ferries and the unpredictability of services. Timetables took a while to settle down and turn-around problems arose. I urge the Tasmanian Government not to hold back in extending services even if they run at a loss. It is important to provide predictable services, running to a timetable, so that people may catch a ferry at a specified time without needing to arrive half an hour or an hour earlier than that time to make sure that they do catch the ferry on which they wish to travel. 
So far, the Australian Government has not refused one proposal from the Tasmanian Government. The Australian Government has agreed to provide money in respect of every proposal which has been put up for funding. There should not be any reluctance on the part of the Tasmanian Government to be quite radical in its proposals to overcome the problems of the people of Hobart, particularly those on the eastern shore, which will present themselves in the next couple of years. 1 mention in passing that it would be a good thing if people continued to use the public transport services, that is, the buses and the ferries, when the rebuilding of the bridge is completed. Beneficial results from the increased use of these services have included the easing of traffic problems in Hobart and an easing in pollution levels. I hope that the ferry and coordinated bus services will be built up to such an extent that people will want to continue to use them with continuing beneficial effects for Hobart. I am pleased to see that my suggestion earlier that the Elizabeth Street wharf in Hobart be used as a central terminal is to be taken up and that various other proposals will be given effect with the assistance of the Australian Government. 
One specific need is the provision of a health centre on the eastern shore. This was originally proposed by us in 1973. Problems have arisen including difficulties in negotiations with the medical profession. I hope that once again these inhibitions will not affect the State Government and that it will press ahead with the provision of a proper medical centre on the eastern shore so that services which are presently not available there can be provided. 
There is much more that I would like to say about the Bills in general and about the proposed expenditure in regard to Hobart. The Government's urgent humanitarian response to the problem cannot be criticised. I hope that the Opposition will support this measure so that money can be provided to reimburse the Tasmanian Government for all the costs associated with the Tasman Bridge disaster. Once again I urge the Tasmanian Government not to hold back in putting up proposals. The decisions and initiatives for proposals must come from the State Government. It is not for us to impose our proposals on it. Bearing in mind the record of the acceptance of proposals which have been put to us so far, I think the Tasmanian Government should keep putting up proposals for us to agree to. I think that such proposals will meet with a sympathetic response. 
I shall try to control myself in responding to the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott).  He made a number of rather empty points. I shall make several overall points. First of all, the Tasman Bridge Restoration Bill which we are debating is a Bill to ratify the agreement between the Australian and Tasmanian governments about the restoration of the Tasman Bridge. It is quite specific. The comments which the honourable member for Wentworth made should have been made at the rime of the debate on the Appropriation Bill which specifically provided money as a result of the collapse of the Tasman Bridge and the effects which arose from it. That is when those remarks should have been made but the honourable member did not speak in that debate. 
-I do not know why he did not speak. 
-He was at the time. 
-Recently for a short period he was not the shadow spokesman for Tasmania but he has been brought back. I realise that the Opposition sees its function as having to criticise and oppose but the emptiness of the criticism is rather appalling. The honourable member says as, naturally, do many people particularly in Hobart: 'We wish something would be done soon'. I agree that is what is said. But if engineers need this time to plan- planning must be done despite what the honourable member said- I cannot see how an Opposition Liberal Party barrister can suggest that the bridge can be built in 5 minutes. If he thinks that he can do it I suggest that he put in a tender. 
I think the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Sherry)  covered most of the points that are related to this Bill.  His  electorate is affected more than is mine, although of course the people of Denison are definitely affected as well. The whole of Hobart is affected by the loss of the bridge. In reflecting the views of the people, it is very easy for the Opposition simply to repeat the words: 'We wish that something would be done'. But the honourable member for Wentworth made no constructive suggestion, except for his suggestion about putting up some aluminium structure across the gap in the bridge. If that suggestion were feasible I am sure that it would have been examined. 
The main point is that the planning has to be done. The first thing that has to be done is to determine the situation at the bottom of the river. The House knows- the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  said this- that that cannot be done by the divers because of the tens of feet of mud covering the ship. The location of the ship and its relationship to the pylons has to be determined. The barge carrying the necessary equipment to explore the bottom of the river has now arrived in Hobart, and there are various options open, depending on what that exploration determines, as to how the bridge can be rebuilt. I have criticisms of some of the problems, particularly some of the minor niggling problems, that have occurred. Certainly some things could have been done more quickly. But we are talking about the reconstruction of the bridge. 
If the honourable member for Wentworth had been in Hobart he would have known that people were saying, particularly in the weeks immediately after the bridge collapsed, that even when the bridge is restored they will not travel across it because they will not be game to do so. That was quite a general comment. Other people have said that once it is restored and it has stayed up after a few big trucks have gone across it they will travel across it but that they will turn around and go back again if they see a ship approaching. These fears are very reasonable, but surely the way in which to overcome such fears is to ensure that proper planning is done by expert engineers and not by lawyers. 
One of the major points that must be made in this debate- I think this shows up the hypocrisy of - the Opposition- is that had this bridge collapsed in the time of a Liberal government absolutely nothing would have been done by Canberra. A Liberal Federal government would have said: 'This is a State matter; it has nothing to do with the Commonwealth; it has nothing to do with us; nothing shall be done'. No Appropriation Bill, such as the one we had last month, would have been introduced to provide funds. There would not be this agreement between the 2 governments to ensure that all the expertise in Australia can be co-ordinated properly. A Liberal government would have said: 'It has nothing to do with us'. We would not have even talked about it in this place. But because this Government is interested in helping people in all areas it is ensuring that expertise is made available, and that finance is made available from the area of government which has the financial flexibility to pick up such large sums. I think it is quite hypocritical for the Opposition to carp about delays in action because if the Opposition had been on this side of the House there would not have been even any talk about the problem, let alone any action. 
The honourable member for Wentworth referred to the Bailey bridging. Most of the Bailey bridging has arrived in Hobart. There was no point in its being taken there earlier, before the approaches between the land and the water were ready. It is quite a ridiculous point for the honourable member to make that the Bailey bridging should have been taken down to Hobart a month ago so that it could have just floated in the middle of the river without anybody being able to drive across it. The honourable member admitted that he does not know much about Tasmania. I think he has been down there once since the bridge collapsed. He did not make any statements about the - 
If he has been down more than once, I am sorry that I did not notice it. 
-No, but if the honourable member had talked about something worth reporting I am sure that the 'Mercury' would have published it in contrast to its attitude occasionally to some things we say. 
He was not repotted, so obviously he did not have something to say. The honourable member for Wentworth said that it is very easy to make plans and another thing to do something about them. That, of course, is true as far as it goes, but is he suggesting that the experts will not make proper plans? If more could be done it would be done because the Australian Government has said that any reasonable cost associated with the collapse of the bridge will be covered by Australian Government funds. The reconstruction of the bridge is a big and difficult task, and the honourable member for Wentworth does not do this Parliament or the feelings of the people of Hobart any good by his carping criticism. I think he would improve the situation much more if he were to give calm support to what the Government is doing but which a government of his political colour would not have done and if he were to help the people to come to terms with the unfortunate but necessary situation which confronts them at the moment. I travel across the river on the ferries quite frequently. I join the ferry queues and so on. 
-I am not boasting about it or anything like that. Ferry travel is the most convenient way of getting across the river. I know the feelings of the people of Hobart. Certainly there are some people who get their letters published in the newspaper and who ring up the open line radio programs and harp in the same sort of way in which the honourable member for Wentworth did. But most of the people have a reasonable level of tolerance of the situation. They want the planning for the reconstruction of the bridge to be done properly so that once it is rebuilt they will be able to drive across it with confidence and in safety. That is the key point. 
I could answer many more of the other things said by the honourable member for Wentworth but they are really not applicable to this Bill, which is the Tasman Bridge Restoration Bill. I wish that the honourable member had spoken in the debate on the Appropriation Bill which provided the sum of $6m to the Tasmanian Government. If he had I could have taken the opportunity then to reply to him. I know that other honourable members want to speak in this debate and that the Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard)  is intending to speak also. I shall conclude my remarks there so that the Bill can have a speedy passage. 
-Obviously, the Opposition is going to try to mislead the House about the whole matter of this Bill. The main point that must be made in answer to the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon)  is that if we are talking about goods or trade and commerce, or whatever, and if a particular arrangement is unfair, unreasonable, if it disadvantages or discriminates or gives too much of a preference or advantage, it ought to be adjudged as such. That is what the Bill is about. Surely that is what was intended by the Constitution in stating that the Inter-State Commission should have a trade and commerce power. That is what the Bill is providing. 
I thank the honourable member for Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh)  for keeping his remarks brief. In the short time at my disposal, I shall speak to the Inter-State Commission Bill, but I am afraid that I shall not be able to match the beautiful mixed metaphors of the honourable member for Darling Downs. The Opposition is merely trying to delay this Bill. Opposition members are using a lot of colourful language about this being a 'monster', 'insidious threats', 'sinister', 'a device to gain complete control ' and so on. But what the Opposition is doing is asking this Parliament to ignore the Constitution. It is rather ironic that Opposition members who have been defenders and upholders of the Constitution as it was formulated in 1901, for some reason or other want to ignore section 101 of it which states that there shall be an Inter-State Commission. They want to ignore that. I do not know whether the Tasmanian senator,  Senator Wright,  still supports it, but to his credit he has been a supporter of the reintroduction of the Inter-State Commission for which the Menzies Government repealed the Act in 1950 even though it was out of existence long before that. 
The Opposition has described the Inter-State Commission as a socialist plot. Does it also say that the framers of the Constitution were preparing a socialist plot? The Opposition says that, yet it complains about what it calls the lack of ministerial control. The Opposition cannot have it both ways. The Commission is to be an independent body. I do not know why the Opposition has any fear about the Government of the day. In any case, as it has acknowledged, there is an appeal to the High Court on matters of law. That is what the High Court is there for- to interpret the Constitution. But the High Court cannot interpret in a vacuum. It has to look at legislation and deem whether it is in accordance with the Constitution and whether any judgments are in accordance with the Constitution. In any case, the Parliament still remains supreme. If the Parliament disagrees with any judgment of the Inter-State Commission, the Parliament can legislate against that decision. The Opposition has made wild assertions about absolute power, supreme power to the Inter-State Commission, the fourth legislative arm and so forth. But the Parliament still retains its supremacy. It can amend this Act after the Bill becomes an Act, the Parliament can introduce superseding legislation if it wishes. The Inter-State Commission is set up under an Act of Parliament. 
The purpose of the legislation is protection of the people- protection of the small man, the small business, the small State, and the farmer in particular. The Opposition seems to be acting as a puppet for the large corporations in this country and their preferential position in trade and commerce. I wonder how many communications the Opposition has had from  Sir Reginald  Ansett in the last couple of weeks? The Opposition wants to delay the Bill so that it can whip up a frenzied and misleading opposition. It does not want to put itself in the position of giving actual opposition to the Bill because of its new form whereby it wants to appear not to be blocking legislation. But deferring a Bill which is as straightforward as this is as good as blocking it. It is a straightforward Bill; it repeats sections of the Constitution and merely gives expression to what the Constitution requires. Clauses 10 and 1 1 are perhaps the key provisions of the Bill. As the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott)  said, clause 1 1 is the linchpin- I think that is the way he described it. Clause 1 1 states: 
The terms and conditions on which a service by way of or in relation to inter-State transport is provided shall be reasonable and just. 
The Opposition has said that we do not need to have a system to provide that interstate transport shall be on conditions which are reasonable and just. 
Clause 10 states: 
It is unlawful, in respect of or so as to affect overseas transport or inter-State transport, or in or in connection with the provision of any service by way of or in relation to overseas transport or inter-State transport, to- 
give any particular person, State, locality or class or kind of transport any preference or advantage; or 
subject to any particular person, State, locality or class or kind of transport to any discrimination or disadvantage. that the Commission has adjudged to be undue and unreasonable. 
Surely that is what we need to ensure, that the disadvantages which exist at the moment do not continue? The Commission can investigate; it can arbitrate- and that is an important power. It can arbitrate between people, between companies. Under clause 15 the Commission can, with the consent of the people involved, arbitrate on any matter relevant to or affected by the provisions of the Constitution relating to trade and commerce or of laws made thereunder. 
I wish to refer briefly to this Bill as it affects Tasmania. It amazes me that the Opposition front bencher who speaks for the Opposition in this House on matters related to Tasmania- I refer to the honourable member for Wentworth spoke to the Inter-State Commission Bill without once mentioning Tasmania and the importance of the Inter-State Commission to that State. The people of Tasmania are waiting for this legislation. They have been waiting for it since 1972, if I can ignore the previous period. In 1972 the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  came to Hobart and promised that, if elected to government, the Australian Labor Party would reintroduce the Inter-State Commission. At the same time, he made some specific promises about ensuring equality of cost per ton mile for goods transport between Tasmania and the mainland when compared with transport costs between other points on the mainland, which is one specific way in which the Inter-State Commission can adjudicate. If an inter-State commission had been in existence this Government would never have had to set up the Nimmo Commission of Inquiry into Tasmania's transport disadvantages, and I think that even the Opposition will acknowledge that Tasmania has been disadvantages in interstate transport. This Government has made great strides in attempting to overcome those disadvantages, but as far as Tasmania is concerned the Inter-State Commission will be a permanent royal commission into Tasmania's transport disadvantages. It will be a protector of Tasmania's interests, and the same can be said in relation to Western Australia, which is another small and very isolated State with particular transport disadvantages. As I said, if there had been an inter-State commission in existence there would have been no need for the Nimmo Commission because the Inter-State Commission would have had Tasmania's interests already under control. 
I should warn the Opposition that if it is concerned about its image in Tasmania it ought not to block this Bill. Support for the amendment foreshadowed by the Opposition will be a vote against the interests of Tasmania. I support the Bill and I hope that it has a speedy passage. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Is the drug Lioresal of use for patients suffering from spasticity. 
Is it available on the Australian market; if not, why not. 
-I ask the Minister for Social Security whether he is aware that a group of Hobart medical practitioners is planning to challenge Medibank in the High Court of Australia on the ground that there are differences in Medibank refunds among the States although tax scales are uniform. Is it not a fact that fees for medical services vary between the States and that if the New South Wales refund, for instance, were paid in Tasmania there would be no patient moiety to which the Australian Medical Association is so strongly committed? Which is more important, the absolute amount of refund or the relationship which it bears to the schedule fee? Can the Minister say whether there is any likelihood of the challenge succeeding? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Transport. I refer to the ferry 'Lady Ferguson' which was towed to Hobart from Sydney recently for the trans-Derwent ferry service but which apparently has now been found to be unserviceable. Was the inspection by officers of the Australian Government Department of Transport intended to determine the ferry's suitability for the trans-Derwent service or only to see whether it was capable to undertake the tow? Is there any way by which officers of the Australian Government Department of Transport could have picked up the fault in the vessel before it left Sydney? 
I was interested to note that the honourable member for Bennelong  (Mr Howard),  who is leading for the Opposition in this debate, did not really go into the details of the boundaries of the Tasmanian seats. I too will not go into great detail except in regard to my own area. Firstly, I would like to correct a couple of things that were said. The honourable member maintained that there was an equivalent increase in the number of electors in Denison and Franklin. 
-That is what you said. You said that it was a static situation. 
The honourable member said that the rate of increase was similar in both electorates. That was a once only occurrence. The population of Denison, particularly in the middle of the electorate, is gradually decreasing. The reason for the increase in the period referred to by the honourable member- he should have looked at other periods as well- was because of the once only introduction of the 18-year-old vote. The University of Tasmania and the College of Advanced Education are situated in the Denison electorate and hence the electorate has a very much higher proportion of 18-year-old voters than does the electorate of Franklin. The net population of the University of Tasmania and the College of Advanced Education is relatively static. As I have said, the increase in population due to the 18-year-old vote is a once only change. The electorate of Franklin will continue to increase at a faster rate than will Denison. 
The honourable member asked why it was necessary to have a redistribution. Why was it necessary for the Liberal-Country Party Government to carry out a redistribution in Tasmania in 1968? The same argument applies. But there are additional arguments now because the Commonwealth Electoral Act has been changed. The whole problem is that the Opposition cannot accept that the Commonwealth Electoral Act was altered at the Joint Sitting to provide for different margins from the mean in each State and some slight changes in the criteria to be applied by the Distribution Commissioners. Hence it was reasonable to ask the Commissioners to undertake a redistribution. They did so. The honourable member broke down his own argument as soon as he set it up by saying that the Distribution Commissioners having examined the situation could have set the same boundaries. They could have, but they did not. There were anomalies in the boundaries. The commissioners had different criteria to examine, particularly the use of natural boundaries, which they have done. The simplification of the boundaries is one of the beautiful things about this redistribution. On the argument of the honourable member for Bennelong there would probably never be any redistribution in Tasmania. He says he has never attacked the commissioners. Perhaps he has not done so directly, but in the way in which the Opposition is disagreeing it is, at least by implication, making an attack on the integrity of the distribution commissioners. 
One other point that the honourable member for Bennelong made was that Denison is a critical seat. That is rather interesting, because the latest statement that the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  made about the Opposition's chances of gaining seats in Tasmania mentioned only seats of Bass, Braddon and Wilmot. I was taking some heart from that. I thought honourable members opposite had conceded that the Opposition is not worried about Denison and Franklin. 
A tremendous amount of hypocrisy is being exhibited by the Liberal Party in particular and by the National Country Party as well in opposing the current series of redistributions. As I said, the main reason for opposing them is that the 
Opposition does not accept the fact that the Joint Sitting of this Parliament passed changes in the Commonwealth Electoral Act. That Joint Sitting followed an election in 1974 during which the people were able to consider certain Bills which were the cause of a double dissolution. Hence the Government had a perfect right, because it had the mandate of the people, to amend the Commonwealth Electoral Act at the Joint Sitting. The situation we could get ourselves into by not accepting what is the law is quite ridiculous. You could say that the law has been changed by the Joint Sitting but then never accept any of the redistributions based on it preferring to carry out redistributions on a completely different basis. 
The other point of hypocrisy of the Opposition in opposing the redistribution in Tasmania is that it is opposing exactly what it proposed in 1968. In 1968 the General Secretary of the Liberal Party in Tasmania,  Mr D.  H. Tribolet, signed a submission to the then distribution commissioners proposing boundaries which would include Fern Tree and Taroona to the south in Denison and extend the northern boundary of Denison into Franklin. This is exactly what this redistribution proposes. The other changes in the boundaries are relatively minor, involving the swapping around of small areas in order to have more logical and rational boundaries instead of the ancient boundaries of properties, the middle of roads and so on. Most of the boundaries are simple and straightforward. They are watercourses and other things such as electricity transmission lines and mountains which actually divide communities and thus comply with the requirement relating to community of interest. Under the old boundaries the description of Denison took 40 lines of type, but it now takes only 6 lines. It is a simplified description using natural boundaries which divide communities. I congratulate the commissioners on simplifying the descriptions, because it is important for people to know in which electorate they live. Boundaries which go down the middle of the streets- I realise this is unavoidable in the very large cities- are confusing to people. Natural river boundaries are the most logical boundaries. 
The changes, of course, mean changes in the people I represent. I will regret not continuing as the representative of the Kingston-Kingston Beach-Blackman's Bay area if this redistribution is passed by both Houses, because I have particularly good relations with many of the electors in that area. However I accept the report of the commissioners, the report of the referees. It is certainly a logical one on the rationalisation of the boundaries. The situation at the southern end of Denison was becoming unsatisfactory because housing developments were going over the boundary. The boundary had to be shifted either south or north. The commissioners decided to recommend that it be moved slightly north to a river, retaining within Denison the strictly urban part of Hoban and excluding an area that is not. The northern boundary has also been moved to a watercourse which can be quite clearly defined. Although Denison 's northern boundary with Franklin might not be quite satisfactory at least not both the northern and southern boundaries will be untidy. 
The commissioners have been attacked not only in this House but also outside it. Of course they cannot answer for themselves. Their independence and integrity have been attacked by the Opposition and also by people commenting on the first draft of the redistribution. One individual wrote to the commissioners telling them that their proposal was 'patently a political motivated move'. That is a shocking statement to make.  Senator Wright,  a Tasmanian member of this Parliament, wrote a letter to the commissioners.  His  third ground of objection states: 
That 6 years ago Kingston-Blackman's Bay was taken out of the Franklin Electorate and transferred to Denison when the member for Franklin -  then a Liberal-  resided in the Kingston-Blackman's Bay area, and now, when the candidate - 
This is the Liberal candidate-  announced for Denison resides in the area, it seems unfortunate and inappropriate to switch the area away to another electorate. 

 Senator Wright has an absolute cheek to suggest such a factor as where the Liberal candidate for Denison lives even entered the minds of the commissioners or was something that was taken into account. Such a suggestion is despicable, because the commissioners are independent. They comprise the Australian Electoral Officer for Tasmania, the Surveyor-General in the Tasmanian Government, the appointment of those 2 people being obligatory, and a former Tasmanian Commissioner of Police. 
I turn once again to the report. As I have said in the past, Tasmania is a difficult State to divide up into 5 divisions because of the configuration of its population. Denison is completely surrounded by the division of Franklin. That is not the most satisfactory situation, but it has been like that for a long time and it would require a totally radical change to alter it. In fact, the community of interest of the Kingston-Blackman's Bay area and the hinterland down to the Huon is similar to the community of interest on the eastern shore, which is also in Franklin? 
The Opposition has no reason to oppose the redistribution in Tasmania. If honourable members opposite are basing their opposition on the judgment that any seat in Tasmania will be harder for the Opposition to win, which is not altogether a proper judgment, it can only follow that it will be easier for the Opposition to win other seats, because the Government holds all 5 seats. So honourable members opposite have no reason to oppose the redistribution. It is a very fair redistribution done by independent commissioners in accordance with the law as approved by the people, and deserves the support of the House. If anything, overall the redistribution favours the Liberal Party but, as I said, we accept the referees' decision and support the changing of the boundaries to a relatively slight degree and in a rational way to provide much improved descriptions of boundaries. That is why the Government is supporting the redistribution recommended. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security. I refer to the agreement reached last night by the Tasmanian Legislative Council to the signing of the hospital agreement under Medibank between the Australian Government and the Tasmanian Government and the historic nature of that first signing. In view of the conservative nature of the Upper House in Tasmania. what will be the effect on New South Wales, Western Australia and Victoria? 
-0( course the Government cannot win in such a debate as this when the Opposition tries to have it both ways. It criticises the Australian Government for delays and other such problems that might be occurring arising out of the collapse of the Tasman Bridge. Yet if in January the Australian Government had moved in to Tasmania and said: 'Right, out of the road, State Government. We will take over and do the lot' the Opposition would have kicked us to death about it because we would have been interfering in what was basically a State responsibility. So when the honourable member for Bass  (Mr Newman)  refers to the fact that Australian Government supporters seem to be talking only about the money involved, that to some extent is true. The best thing that we can do for this problem is to provide the finance. The State Government has the responsibility for most of the work involved and the Australian Government provides the finance so that the agencies in Tasmania can do the job, but with the assistance and advice of members of the Australian Government and of its departments. 
We have provided a transport adviser, the cost again being provided by the Australian Government, to help in overcoming the secondary problems associated with the collapse of the bridge. The money is being put to good use. I am not suggesting, in response to the honourable member for Bass, that there has not been some wastage. In the expenditure of the sum of $ 13m, I am sure there must be some wastage and that when actions are taken in an attempt to carry out urgently the works that are required the money is not always used in the best way possible. Surely a great deal more money would have been wasted if we had rushed in even more rapidly than we have done and went about reconstruction in the wrong way. Surely in an engineering problem of this magnitude, planning must be carried out. 
The honourable member for Bass suggested that too many committees had been set up. A private firm of engineers, Maunsell and Partners, was engaged. There was a marine court of inquiry. When we add up all the bodies involved, they certainly do come to a lot of committees. But all of them were useful and met with some specific purpose in mind. I do not think that the honourable member has any basis for saying that the bureaucracy is increasing. My impression is that the stage has been reached where everything is going along smoothly. The size of the bureaucracy is being reduced. A number of committees have finished all of their work. The ferry services, the work on the Old Beach Road and all the other projects in which the expenditure of Australian Government money was involved are going along without a great need for the involvement of the committees that initially had to be set up. 
The honourable member for Bass mentioned a number of other matters. He claimed that the Department of Defence had taken too long to set up the Bailey bridge. Let me remind the honourable member that the Department of Defence provided the Bailey bridge spans. A condition of this temporary bridge being provided was that all of the construction work had to be done by the Tasmanian Department of Public Works. That is what has happened. I think that everyone knows that there were unavoidable delays in the availability of the appropriate barges with the necessary pile driving equipment on them. This was because these barges mainly were used first to explore under the Tasman Bridge and to determine the shape of the bottom, if I may use that expression, in respect of the 7000 tons of concrete to which the honourable member for Franklin referred. If a decision had been taken too quickly and it was said: 'We cannot do anything without moving that concrete', a whole year would have been added to the reconstruction time of the bridge. 
We have been accused of being long on words and short on action, but I do not think that either the Australian Government Ministers or the departmental officers involved can be criticised in any way at all. Criticisms have been primarily made when referring to Ministers about the attitudes of some State Ministers whose words have been taken in a way in which they were not intended to be taken. 
I refer next to the delay in the reconstruction and to the industrial dispute. Thankfully, that industrial dispute is over. May I remind the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon)  that there are always 2 sides to an industrial dispute. The House will note that the honourable member glossed over that aspect to some extent. The Opposition could not engage in its usual union bashing because, as I think the honourable member for Gippsland realises, the leadership of the union concerned recommended a return to work but the rank and file voted otherwise. The Opposition usually tries to make out that in union affairs the leadership imposes its will on the rank and file. Now that the Opposition has had presented to it an example of the recommendations of a union leadership being rejected, rightly or wrongly, I think that the lack of understanding of Opposition members of industrial relations has been shown up. 
Let me refer now to some of the detail of the Bill. Partly because its contents are short and partly because the Opposition wants to make some political points, the Bill has not been referred to all that much. Most of the debate that has taken place so far this afternoon has been a re-run of the debate in April on the original Bill, which is now the principal Act, by which the Tasman Bridge Restoration Commission was set up. This body is a joint commission of Australian Government and Tasmanian Government appointees who have the responsibility for the reconstruction of that bridge. The primary tasks of that Commission are spelt out in the Schedule to the Tasman Bridge Restoration Act in the form of an Agreement. 
The Tasman Bridge Reconstruction Bill (No. 2) which we are now considering seeks to provide a supplementary agreement between the Commonwealth and the State of Tasmania so that a fifth lane can be added to the bridge. Those honourable members who visited Hobart before the Tasman Bridge was damaged will recall that the bridge had 4 lanes. With traffic growth over the years, those 4 lanes had become inadequate, particularly at peak hours. In recent times, before the collapse, during peak hours 3 lanes operated one way and one lane the other way. That arrangement sought to cater for the traffic during those peak hours. 
One factor that has become clear this year is that, with the development of services on the eastern shore, even when the bridge is reconstructed there will not be the same disparity in traffic flows in opposite directions at peak hours as there used to be. A 4-lane bridge on which 3 lanes operated one way and one lane the other way would result in a situation where quite possibly one lane operating in the off-peak direction would not be sufficient to cater for the increased traffic in that direction. So, reasonably enough, in order to provide for a total increase in traffic lanes and for a better configuration of division at peak hours, the proposal is that a fifth lane be added to the bridge, using the width now taken up by footpaths on the bridge. In peak hours, there will be a traffic flow of 3 lanes one way and 2 lanes the other way, with the 2 lanes designated as off-peak lanes being used for the minor traffic flow at the relevant peak period. 
Despite some concern that originally footpaths would not be provided, footpaths will be provided on the bridge. A footpath will be located on each side, supported by steel cantilever supports added to the existing structure. Those footpaths will be the same width as the existing footpaths. The completion of the work on the bridge will result in the provision of more adequate facilities on that bridge. Perhaps the new bridge will not look quite so good as the original one. In order to speed up construction, to some extent there will be a lack of symmetry in the pylons of the bridge. But the widening of the bridge and the provision of an additional lane in the reconstruction is really what this debate is all about. The main debate held in April dealt with the reconstruction generally. The provision of a fifth lane on the bridge will assist the situation a great deal. 
As in the previous Bill, this Bill provides for the reconstruction to be co-ordinated and controlled by one body, the Tasman Bridge Reconstruction Commission. There was a joint expert advisory committee which reported on the design of the bridge. It carried out that work with the assistance of private contractors such as Maunsell and Partners. The honourable member for Bass referred to the marine court of inquiry as being, apparently, an unnecessary committee. That statement surprises me in view of the fact that the holding of a marine board of inquiry was obligatory to determine the cause of the collapse. The Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  was required to set up that body. 
The key clause in the Bill is clause 4 in the Schedule which says: 
The Commission shall, by way of addition to its present functions be empowered to exercise and may perform all or any of the functions ... of superintending, coordinating, directing, managing and executing the planning and performance of any work associated with the structural modification of the Bridge throughout its length to accommodate five lanes of vehicular traffic. 
Consequent upon that further duty of the Commission will be adjustment of the approaches to the bridge. Those honourable members who are familiar with the bridge will know that the flyover arrangements at each end of the bridge cater for only 4 lanes. So there will have to be quite extensive reconstruction of the approaches to the bridge, particularly on the western end. I agree with the honourable member for Bass that there is also a need to ensure that the problems of the railway roundabout which causes bottlenecks a mile or so from the bridge are also catered for without too much delay. But that is entirely a matter for the State Government. 
The Australian Government has done all that it is possible to do with this project. The setting up of the Joint Tasman Bridge Restoration Commission has been hailed as the most appropriate way of doing this work. It means that experts from both governments can easily be coordinated. The reconstruction is proceeding. It will resume in three or four weeks time. There was not a 9-week delay on the bridge reconstruction because steel already fabricated was able to be used. In three or four weeks time reconstruction of the Tasman Bridge will recommence. Last weekend work resumed on the temporary Bailey crossing which is being constructed by the State Public Works Department. I support the Bill and hope that it has a quick passage through both Houses. 
Can the Treasurer say whether the Government gave careful consideration to ways of achieving a reduction in public spending during the preparation of the Budget? Is he able to say whether there are additional measures through which an extra $ 1 ,000m in savings could have been achieved? 
I address my question to the Minister for Science and Consumer Affairs. Can the Minister confirm that an arrangement with the universities is likely so that the Australian Research Grants Committee will have sufficient funds for the calendar year 1 976? Has the Minister any plans to alter the ARGC triennium to bring it into line with the intention to start the new triennium for education in 1977 instead of 1976? 
I should like to pay tribute in particular to the former Minister for Science,  Mr Morrison,  for taking up my idea. I also thank him and the present Minister for Science and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  and the former and present Ministers for Housing and Construction for their help and co-operation in this project. I mention the work of the staff of the Division and its Director,  Dr  Garrod,  the Department of Science and Consumer Affairs and the Department of Housing and Construction. I trust that there will continue to be good cooperation and the minimum of delay in the remaining stages of preparation for what is to me, and I hope for the design team and the Division, an exciting project. I commend this reference to the Public Works Committee to the House. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-Is the Minister for Health aware that tobacco manufacturers are diverting promotional expenditure into sponsorship and other forms of advertising to avoid the intent of restrictions on television and radio advertising of tobacco products? Is it still intended totally to prohibit electronic media advertising of tobacco products in September next year? If so, what can the Minister do to prevent companies from flouting the spirit of the restrictions? 
I support the motion moved by the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Riordan)  that this project be referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works. The Antarctic Division was created in 1948 within the Department of External Affairs. It was later transferred to the Department of Supply. When the present Government came into office and the Department of Science was created, the Division was incorporated within that Department. In 1972, the previous Government decided to move the Cosmic Ray Section of the Antarctic Division from Hobart to Melbourne where all the other sections have been located. At the time I raised the matter with the then Minister for Supply,  Mr Garland,  and asked him if the Cosmic Ray Section could be kept in Hobart. I suggested that the location of the whole Division should be in Hobart.  His  reply was that it would not be possible. During the 1972 election campaign, I promised to work for the transfer of the Antarctic Division to Hobart. The idea was received enthusiastically in Tasmania. As soon as  Mr Morrison  was appointed Minister for Science, I started the campaign to have the Division moved to Hobart. During 1973 I made a series of submissions to the Minister and convinced him of the feasibility and desirability of the move. Finally in January 1974, Cabinet approved the transfer. The Antarctic Division began preparing the preliminary design brief which was completed in June 1974. The then Department of Services and Property began a search for a suitable site and Kingston which is just outside of 
Hobart was selected in May 1974. The purchase of the site was completed in October that year. Following that, preparation of the draft environmental impact statement was begun by the Department of Science and was published in February this year. Public comments were sought. The final environmental impact statement was begun in March 1975 and cleared by the then Department of Environment and Conservation in May 1975. The project was then referred to Cabinet which has approved its inclusion in design list C which allows the Department of Housing and Construction to prepare sketch plans, limit of cost estimate and documentary evidence for the Public Works Committee. The Department of Science, as the client Department, has also prepared evidence. 
That having been completed and the Treasurer having approved the limit of cost estimate, the Minister for Housing and Construction has today moved the referral of the project to the Public Works Committee. There now must be public notice given notifying of public hearings and calling for evidence. I understand that the Public Works Committee will be able to hold its hearings in Hobart in the first week of November. I hope that interested persons in Hobart will examine sketch plans and the model of the project which I believe is available. It is my hope that the Public Works Committee will be able to report to the Parliament before the end of November and that the Parliament will approve the project so that the Department of Housing and Construction can forge ahead with the task of detailed contract documentation, with tenders being called and construction commencing by half way through next year. 
Some people have been frustrated at the time taken by all these necessary preliminaries of last year and this year. But it is a major project- a multi-million dollar project- and there has to be careful preparation for such a major expenditure of the taxpayers' money. The original proposal has been expanded and the project not to be just the headquarters of the Antarctic Division, but the Department of Science and Consumer Affairs complex. As the Minister said in his motion, it is a multi-building development for the Antarctic Division and also for the Australian Government Analytical Laboratories. The function of the Laboratories has been expanded by the Government's greater involvement in consumer affairs, apart from a generally greater demand for analytical services. The new procedures for environmental impact statements also added to the lead time but were an essential part of government policy in the public interest. 
I should now like to turn briefly to the reasons for siting the Antarctic Division headquarters in Hobart. Tasmania has had a relatively low level of Australian Government departmental spending because of the concentration of activities of the Government in Canberra, Sydney and Melbourne. My wish was to have any appropriate activities located in Tasmania to go some way towards correcting the imbalance and to provide the substantial spin-off benefits for the city of Hobart and the State of Tasmania. The Antarctic Division represents a most appropriate activity to establish in Hobart for a variety of reasons, including the proximity of Hobart to the Antarctic and its good port facilities. The Division's activities at present are dispersed over six locations, five of which are in various parts of Melbourne. They do not provide suitable accommodation, as they are inconvenient, inefficient and lead to low morale of the staff of the Division. This proposal will provide a permanent headquarters, bringing together into one location, all the Australian based activities of the Division, leading to a more effective operation. There will be mutual benefits for both Hobart and the Antarctic Division. To save the time of the House, I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  my statement of 25 January 1974, commenting on the announcement of the Government's plans. The honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street)  has already given his consent for which I thank him. 
I support the original motion as moved by the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman),  that the House notes with satisfaction the higher standards of health insurance cover provided for all Australians through the introduction of Medibank. This motion cannot be denied. The Opposition, with its proposed amendment, has said that Medibank will provide a lesser health service at a greater cost and believes that reforms should be enacted immediately to overcome its weaknesses. Nobody is suggesting that Medibank is perfect or is even working perfectly at the moment. But for heavens sake, give it a chance. It has been in operation for only 3 months. 
I should like the House to recall the previous health insurance scheme. One of the problems with introducing reforms is that once those reforms are introduced the matter is no longer an issue. So it is important to remind the House and to remind the people about the previous health insurance scheme that Medibank has replaced. The House will recall that at any one time under the previous scheme about 1 million people in Australia had no health insurance cover. About 1 million people were unable to have any of their health costs reimbursed by anybody. There were others who were prevented from making a claim because of fund rules about waiting periods and other such things. But perhaps the greatest problem with the previous scheme was the fact that people did not know from where their medical health insurance cover was coming. Only a small proportion of the population was aware that in fact a high proportion of their medical benefits refunds under the previous scheme came from the Government, from taxpayers money, and that they were already paying for it. The part about it that was absolutely appalling was that those who did not pay a private insurance contribution were not eligible to receive their rightful amount of taxpayers' funds for that proportion of health insurance costs provided by the Government. 
Even worse than this was the special account rort whereby at the decision of the private fund a patient could be determined to be on special account because he had made too many claims or had spent too long in hospital. At the fund's discretion the whole of that person's medical expense rebates were paid for by the Government out of taxpayers' funds. But the only way anybody could be eligible for that was by continuing to pay contributions to a private fund. So it is undeniable that there has been an improvement in the health insurance cover for everybody in Australia. Everybody is covered for his medical and hospital costs. People may still choose to take out additional insurance for private hospital cover. People may, unfortunately I say, take out additional insurance to cover the gap between the 85 per cent rebate and the scheduled fee. But I suggest that before people continue with this gap insurance they just look at the return that they are likely to get from it. I think it is a rip off. I suggest that unless people fall into categories whereby they are likely to make large claims for ancillary benefits and so forth that they not cover themselves with gap insurance. I think it is a waste to do so. 
In the few minutes remaining in this debate I should like to answer some of the points referred to by the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp).  He at least acknowledged that Medibank has some advantages. I am afraid that the honourable member for Hotham has been a bit hot and cold on the whole thing over the last couple of years  (Quorum formed).  I regret that the Opposition Whip took away two minutes of my time- there is only  VA  minutes left- because there is a large number of things that I should like - 
-The standard of debate on this motion, as the honourable member for Hotham acknowledged, was very good. We were debating in a sensible and reasonable way. I wanted to answer a number of points made by the honourable member for Hotham. He referred to pathology charges increasing under Medibank. But such things as pathology investigations are not services that patients choose; they are services that the medical practitioners choose. If the Opposition wants a private practice system, as it says it does, we must leave it to the private practitioners to determine whether medical services should be available. This is certainly not a case of patient induced abuse, it is a matter of - 
It is again up to the doctor to decide whether he bulk bills or accepts the rebate as the total amount paid or whether he charges the scheduled fee. If he wants to do that he can. The point is that the honourable member for Hotham and the private funds are supporting gap insurance- there is no gap for people to pay if they have gap insurance- at the same time as saying that there ought to be a patient contribution. They cannot have it both ways. 
There are lots of things that ought to be answered. The honourable member referred to the situation of hospitals in New South Wales and Victoria. The State governments have assured the Australian Government that they will conduct the negotiations and that they will provide sufficient public beds and services under the Medibank arrangements. It is the State Governments which have promised that. The increase in claims that has occurred since the scheme came in has been for a variety of reasons- people experimenting with Medibank, people putting in fewer services per claim form than they did under the previous scheme - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Armitage)Order! 


 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I seek leave to continue my remarks when the debate is resumed. 
There are just a couple of points I would like to make in reply to the honourable member for Bass  (Mr Newman)  and also to some extent to the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon).  The debate could go on all night as to who thought of what first. 
-I will come to that in a moment. The honourable member for Gippsland claimed to have long been a supporter of the establishment of a maritime college. But the question I should like to ask him is: Why did he not do something about it even during the time when he was Minister for Shipping and Transport in a previous government? He may well have thought about it occasionally but he did not do anything about it. In 1973 this Government appointed  Mr Summers  as a royal commissioner into the maritime industry. One of the specific terms of reference, item 6 in fact, was the training requirements of the industry including the establishment of an Australian merchant marine college. That was in the terms of reference given to  Mr Summers  in September 1973. He finalised his report in May 1 974. So references by the honourable member for Bass to the proposal being mentioned in policy speeches by the Liberal Party in 1974 and by its leader in 1975 are not relevant. This Government was committed in 1973 to the establishment of a maritime college. The detailed recommendations about how it should be established were referred to  Mr Summers  who reported to us in May 1 974. 
The honourable member for Gippsland obviously has some worries about the College being at Launceston as he made some off-the-cuff remarks about wanting it established at Lakes Entrance. He also queried the Government's conviction about Launceston. He pointed to clause 7(1) (a) of the BUI and said that the interim council would have to make recommendations with respect of the site of the seat of the College. He raised the question whether the Government would continue to ensure that it will be at Launceston. He completely ignored the fact that clause 4(2) is specifically written into the Bill to provide that the seat of the college shall be at or in the vicinity of Launceston in the State of Tasmania. 
Over the last few months there has been a bit of Opposition stirring in Tasmania, raising doubts in people's minds without any justification about whether the Government would go ahead with its commitment to establish this college at Launceston. 
-Quite a number of Liberal Party people in Tasmania. They referred also to things like the Antarctic Division headquarters in Hobart and said that the Government obviously will not do anything about that. Yet following the procedures that are laid down that proposal is currently under study by the Public Works Committee as required by the law. In the case of the Maritime College, it was unjustifiable to raise doubts. It has been planned and drafted into the legislation that it be established at Launceston in the State of Tasmania. 
I do not want to raise in this place any sign of rivalry between the north and south of the State. I think that is something we should best keep to ourselves. In answer to the earlier interjection of the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Duthie),  Denison of course is in Hobart. All Labor members from Tasmania were supporting the case for the maritime college to go to Tasmania. I was certainly raising the advantages of Hobart which are in existence, but the prime aim was that the College be established in Tasmania. I have long made the point that Australian 
Government spending in Tasmania needs to be increased and hence my proposal from very early in the piece about the Antarctic Division. This was a further example of a most appropriate institution to be located in that State and provide additional Australian Government spending for it. 
There are a lot of advantages which honourable members who spoke previously have outlined. I shall not delay the House by repeating them. But I think one point that needs to be made is that Tasmania is a good place to study, as to climate for a start. I think students who have to study in the northern parts of Australia have a great disadvantage in concentrating on their work and a milder climate like Tasmania's is certainly appropriate. Of course the existence of the College of Advanced Education and the Technical College at Launceston means that there can be mutual benefits for those institutions and for the Maritime College and through it, the shipping industry. 
As specified in the Bill, there is initially to be an interim council for the College which will make recommendations about the specific details of the functions of the college, its constitution, arrangements for determining financial needs and the way in which it should co-operate with other educational institutions. We are not laying down specifically in this legislation the precise functions of the College because this is a professional judgment that should be made by experts in the field who will be appointed to the interim council. 
Once that interim council has made its recommendations a permanent council will be set up and the interim council will cease to exist, and there will be regulations under the proposed Act to specify the functions, constitution and so on. The College will be an autonomous institution. Like all of these major developments a lead time is involved in construction and in setting up the institution. These are inevitable- frustrating but inevitable. However I gather that there is some chance that there could be initial enrolments on a limited scale as early as 1977, with the cooperation of other educational institutions, by the use of facilities which are already in existence. Of course, the major building project involved may not be completed for several years. 
I know that the House has other Bills to be passed tonight so I shall complete my remarks. I conclude by saying that I am very pleased that Tasmania was chosen as the site for the College. Launceston deserves to obtain it. It is pleasing that despite a long period of gestation, of mere thinking by the honourable member for Gippsland in the previous Government, this Government has actually done something about establishing the Maritime College of Australia. 
Has the Treasurer seen the reported comments in Hobart of a Canadian professor on inter-governmental relations that Australia should not leap into a StateCommonwealth tax-sharing arrangement and that such a scheme would not work as easily in Australia as some people think? What would be the effect on Tasmania of a scheme of double taxation on personal incomes? 
-Can the Prime Minister inform the House what steps the Government has taken to reduce hardship for people who depend on the Appropriation Bills if those Bills should not be passed by the end of the period of the Supply Acts? 
-Is the Treasurer able to say whether any damage has been done to the economy yet as a result of the delay in passing the Budget? What is likely to be the effect on the economy if the delay in passing the Budget is prolonged? 
