
 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I congratulate you on your appointment to your office, and I ask you to convey to  Mr Speaker  my congratulations on his appointment to the high office of  Speaker.  Also, 1 express my thanks to the people of the Berowra electorate for electing me as their member in this House. I assure them that 1 will do all in my power to represent them effectively. I should also like to take this opportunity to pay tribute to my predecessor,  Hon.  Tom Hughes, Q.C., who voluntarily retired from this House.  His  service to the Parliament included a period as AttorneyGeneral. He commanded the respect of members of all political persuasions, not least for his capacity to listen to and to accept an argument from either side of the House. 
In rising to speak about the GovernorGeneral's Speech I refer to and applaud the intention of the Government, expressed in that Speech, to play an energetic part in the forthcoming round of international trade negotiations due to open later this year. This round will come to be known as the Nixon Round. Nothing is clearer than that in the past few years the international economic and financial system has been in disarray. There are problems of trade and problems of the exchanges. The man in the street knows these as 'currency crises'. Of course, the two are intimately bound up together. There is and there has been for some years a substantial imbalance in international trade. This results from a multitude of causes. 
The flow of trade is hampered by tariff barriers and, even more importantly, with the substantial success of the 'Kennedy Round' of trade negotiations, by a bewildering array of non-tariff barriers. The General Agreement on Trades and Tariff Secretariat a little time back identified some 800 forms of non-tariff obstacles to international trade, such as quotas, import controls, export subsidies, restrictions in the name of health standards and so on. No country has clean hands in this respect. But I venture to refer to the rigid apparatus of agricultural protectionism associated with the Common Agricultural Policy of the European Economic Community as an outstanding instance, to the widespread judgment - it is extremely difficult to document - that the controls of this sort on imports into Japan are particularly severe, and to the quotas and especially the voluntary restraints on imports of traditional manufactures of the United States. These are major factors contributing to the present imbalance of trade both within the developed world and as between the developed and developing countries. 
Looking at the causes of the world trade imbalance on a broader canvas and a longer perspective, the resurgence of Europe, particularly West Germany, after World War II, and the spectacular economic progress of Japan, have decisively eroded - relatively speaking, mark you, not absolutely - the dominance of the United States in the supply of goods and services to the world which prevailed at the end of World War II and resulted at that time as its natural concomitant in the era of the 'almighty dollar', as most honourable members of this House will recall. It is worth emphasising that there is nothing mysterious, chauvinistic or reprehensible in that. It was just the fact of life that in the post-war circumstances the American industrial machine was intact and massive and could supply the goods the world wanted, while America for its part wanted relatively little from the rest of the world. Therefore US dollars - the means to buy from America - were scarce, valuable and coveted. And entirely naturally therefore, the US dollar became the medium for international buying and selling. In plain terms it was international money - as good as gold. 
In this House last week, the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  spoke warmly in his tribute to former United States  President  Harry Truman of the monumental generosity of the United States in contributing vast sums, and thus essential goods and services, to the restoration of war-devastated Europe. But now, as 1 said, there has been some inevitable evening up. The relative position of the United States has changed. The United States trade surpluses of the 1950s and early 1960s have given way to massive deficit while yet the US dollar, in plentiful supply but no longer convertible into gold, continues, for practical and understandable but hardly rational reasons, as the major form of international money. It is important in this situation to maintain a proper perspective and in particular a balanced view of the role of the United States. 
For my own part I find the attitude of honourable members opposite to the United States disturbing, to say the least. I referred  a  moment ago to the generosity of the Prime Minister's statement in relation to  President  Truman. It contrasts oddly with the almost pathological anti-Americanism of other members of the Government. The views of the Minister for Labor  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  and the Minister for Overseas Trade and Minister for Secondary Industry  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  as expressed on the occasion of the maritime ban earlier this year when these Ministers referred to the leadership of the United States in the most deprecating terms - indeed as maniacs - are clear. The position of the Prime Minister is more difficult to spell out. As honourable members will recall, he did not have a great deal to say at that time. But at this point, so far as I can judge, I would say that he sees the United States as immensely powerful and well-meaning but rather myopic and blundering in its conduct of international affairs and in need of some guidance in its actions from smaller and more sophisticated friends - like Labor-governed Australia. 
Be that as it may, one can certainly go along with the Prime Minister to the extent of agreeing that the United States is immensely powerful. Its sheer economic dominance is indicated by its gross national product of approximately$US1,100 billion - using 'billion' in the American sense. I will focus on the approximate figure of $US1,100 billion and compare it with the second most economically powerful country in the nonCommunist world, Japan, with a gross national product of upwards of $US200 billion. West Germany has a gross national product just nudging that figure. Britain's gross national product is about$US150 billion. Australia, taking note of the recent revaluations, has a gross national product of the order of$US50 billion. To give honourable members a perspective of this figure, it would be absorbed in the margin of error allowance in the projection of the United States gross national product by American economists. 
Now it is true that as a result of the inevitable historical development to which I have referred and the relative incidence of barriers to international trade we now have a world trade pattern the outstanding feature of which is the very large United States trade deficit with its major counterpart, an almost equally large surplus in Japanese trade. These conditions indeed spell a weak US dollar in the foreign exchange markets. But make no mistake about it, it does not - I repeat, it does not - spell an economically weak America. The statement by the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  that we should have no truck with the United States dollar because it is on its way down to being 'worth nothing' is indicative of his own bias, but it is pitifully off beam as an appreciation of economic reality. Similarly, the view expressed by the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  that there will be further devaluations of the United States dollar may prove to be correct, though undoubtedly death and higher taxes to finance this Government's inflationary program are a much higher probability!) 
My point is that if there are any such further devaluations they will be deliberate ones, ploys in the tough bargaining by the world's No. 1 economic power for a re-alignment of trade barriers and international currencies, bargaining by a United States Administration which is skilled in the art of the big league power play and not in any need of the advice of self-professed sophisticates from other countries, small or large. 1 cannot underline too strongly the point that, as things stand, while the United States dollar is weak in the exchange markets of the world, the dominant economic strength of the United States stands unimpaired. Cheap tills at the currency position are in poor and uninformed taste. 
The central point is that the United States, in the face of a Europe and Japan reluctant to come to terms with a clear need for trade and currency negotiations with a view to farreaching and, in the monetary sphere, fundamental reform, has served notice that it is time - to use a phrase familiar to all honourable members - to get down to business. The United States can exert some muscle in these matters. The United States devaluation of 12th or 13th February - depending on which side of the Pacific one is on - was a major contribution in itself, as the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  stated in a recent interview with  Mr Peter  Long, the 'Sun-Herald' financial editor. But it was not the only measure announced by the United States Government. There were other measures affecting - I say affecting, but to speak plainly, encouraging a restriction of - American investment abroad and there was a clear indication of the possibility of further action to come in the trade field. Honourable members will recall the 10 per cent surcharge on imports imposed at the time of the United States initiative in August 1971 - a restrictive measure of no mean order. This time Representative Wilbur Mills, the influential  chairman  of the House Ways and Means Committee, has suggested a 15 per cent import surcharge. 
Far from being a weak element in the international community, the United States has presented the world with a choice. The world can pursue constructive international trade and monetary reform with some urgency, or the imbalance can be resolved the American way - in the latter event with unpredictable damage to world economic growth - and, be warned, with the rest of the world and, in particular the developing world, risking heavier economic losses than would be faced by the United States. In that sense the world trade and financial system stands at a crossroads. 
So I commend the Government's intention to take an energetic part in world trade negotiations. lt bad better get cracking on the necessary industrial and rural reconstruction programs which inevitably will be required under reciprocal GATT concessions. Hand in hand with these negotiations must go a beginning to the task of reforming the world currency system - a move, perhaps, towards something in the nature of an 'SDR standard" or special drawing rights standard - if some measure of stability in exchange rates, albeit with a greater flexibility than now, is to be achieved. The SDR standard would include as a key element the demonetising of the 'swags' of excess United States dollars now sloshing around - to use the colourful phraseology of the financial Press - in the foreign exchange markets of the world, and poised per medium of the sophisticated development of the Eurodollar market and the operations of the multi-national companies, to flood in this direction or that direction whenever the betting is good for up-valuation of a currency. 
However, in this context also we should approach the exercise with a right perspective on the matter. To hear some people talk it would be thought that when the Japanese, for example, buy up an avalanche of United States dollars it is in some way embarrassing to the United States. That is not so. The Japanese would be doing it not to support the US dollar, as it was misleadingly put, but to prevent an appreciation or up-valuation of the yen against the. dollar and, by preventing that, to maintain the Japanese competitive edge in world markets. 
Against this background the national interest of Australia is to guard its options carefully and to mesh our actions into the big league'. I am somewhat loath to criticise the recent actions by this country in the currency field because perhaps it can be said that the matter is in the very best of hands'. 1 refer to  Dr H.  C. Coombs, a gentleman whom I hold in the highest esteem and, indeed, revere. I gather from the Press that the Prime Minister, if not the Treasurer, consulted  Dr Coombs,  but the process is a little confused, lt seems pretty clear that neither of them consulted the Cabinet. 
As loath as I am to do so, 1 feel bound to say that with the United States deficit in 1972 and the Japanese surplus being the size they were, a blind man could see in the latter months of last year that a major realignment of world currencies was inevitable and imminent. When in addition it is recognised that we had already effectively revalued our currency to some extent, what was the purpose of drastically curtailing our options in the imminent major international readjustment by the unilateral 7.05 per cent revaluation at Christmas eve weekend? Two reasons spring to mind and neither is very sound. Firstly was the capital inflow which was said to be building up troubles for monetary control. Those difficulties will be compounded by the mounting Government deficit which at this very moment is heading towards an inflationary record. The capital inflow could have been contained by more direct measures. The second argument was, in effect, to keep election faith. 
As the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  said recently, the noel had been given to the international speculators and the payoff had to come. 
Be that as it may, given the decision of 23rd December, it was certainly difficult for the Government, in the light of our obligation to contribute to the stability of the present rather fragile monetary system, to do other than stand pat when the United States devalued on 12th February. But that does not alter the fact that the combination of the decisions of 23rd December and February add up to a very big change. I ask the House: Would the Government, that is, the Cabinet, have acquiesced in that if there had been no revaluation in December? Would the Cabinet have acquiesced in an up-valuation as against the United States dollar of the almost unprecedented order of nearly 20 per cent? That is what has taken place since December last. In all there has been a revaluation of almost 28 per cent since 1971 and an up-valuation overall of the Australian dollar at least of the order of 10 per cent since December last. 
I believe that it would not have done so. But if the answer from the honourable members opposite is an unrepentant yes, I would say, that is the answer of men who have not had to make a sale overseas of meat or other rural products, of iron ore or any other mineral product but, most importantly, of an Australian manufactured window frame, a radio microwave link, a motor car or a desk calculator - in a word, any one of the great range of items which today make up our increasing export trade in manufactured goods. That trade is of the utmost importance for Australia's long term prosperity and growth and therefore - and I ask the honourable member for Casey  (Mr Mathews),  who led in this debate, to mark this especially - this trade is important for the chances of this Government making a reality of the programme of social and economic development outlined in the Governor-General's Speech and so eloquently supported by the honourable member for Casey. I might add that the domestic program - its objectives, as distinct from its ways of obtaining them - is widely supported on this side of the House. Honourable members opposite do not have a monopoly of a concern for social justice, as they often like to imply. 
If Europe revalues upwards this week it will help a bit. But, by and large, I would suggest that it is time, past time, that we called it a day in upvaluing the dollar. I strongly urge the Government to do this because with the current high wool prices being, unhappily, unlikely to last forever, with imports likely to increase notably with the resurgence of strong economic growth, and with an acceleration of inflation being the inevitable outcome of the policies of this Government, the Government will need all the leeway in foreign exchanges it can get- 
I commend the intention of the Government to take an energetic part in the great matters affecting the welfare of the whole world and of this country in particular. Of them to whom much is given much will be expected. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Dr Jenkins)Before calling the honourable member for La Trobe I would remind the House that this is the honourable member's maiden speech and I trust the House will extend to him the usual courtesies. 
My question is directed to the Treasurer. I refer to his answer to a recent question asked by the honourable member for Cowper. I ask: Would the Treasurer confirm that it was inaccurate and misleading of him to attribute $170m of the projected increase in the Budget deficit to changes of mind of the previous Government between 17th August and 2nd. December last? Is it not a fact, as set out in the Treasury Information Bulletin' to which the Treasurer referred, that nearly $150m of this increase is due to revisions of expenditure estimates having nothing to do with new policies or changes of mind by the former Govrnment, and that only $21m is attributable to new initiatives undertaken after the Budget by the former Government? 
 The major items in the schedule of moneys to be appropriated, in particular under Appropriation Bill (No. 4) 1972-73, are the grants for unemployment relief and, in particular, the $30,350,000 grant to the States for employment creating purposes. It is not my purpose to oppose the approval of these moneys which doubtless are already, or soon will be, woven into the spending programs of the States for the period to the end of June. However, it is instructive to consider for a while the whole approach and framework of thinking of this Government which these grants reflect. What is ultimately at stake - as my colleagues who have already spoken in this debate have made clear - is the sound economic management of this country. There is hardly an issue of greater concern to this Parliament. The fact is that the Government, bewitched by its own election propaganda, has something of a fixation about unemployment. We have heard repeatedly from the Treasurer  (Mr Crean),  the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  and even the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  about the unemployment situation that the Government inherited'. 
The Minister for Labour was perhaps the most beguiled. When in mid-December the end of November unemployment figures were announced the Minister-designate for Labour pounced on them, mouthing great forebodings of gloom. In fact the figures showed a small improvement in the position to an unemployment level of 1.94 per cent of the work force on a seasonally adjusted basis, compared with a peak of 2.14 per cent at the end of August. There had, in fact, been a small improvement every month from August to November. Perhaps that should have counselled some caution, but not to the Ministerdesignate. The Minister-designate was reported in the 'Sydney Morning Herald' in these terms: 
It would be at least a year before the Government could see any appreciable improvement in the unemployment position', he said. 'It must get worse', he went on. 'You do not turn the economy on and off like a tap. The unemployment figure would be 200,000 by February . . . 
That is what the present Minister for Labour predicted. And much has been said in this House since then about unemployment. I am not belittling the problem of unemployment. As usual, to hear honourable members opposite speaking one would think that they had a monopoly of concern for the hardship and the human problems and difficulties associated with unemployment. I believe honourable members on this side of the House are, and have always been, every bit as concerned as the Government with the hardship and the human problems of unemployment. 
Contrary to statements from the present Government, the truth is that in December last year, as the seasonally adjusted figures indicated, the Australian economy was on course for the achievement of full employment, as members of the then Government asserted prior to the election and Opposition spokesmen have claimed since the election. The progress towards full employment has gathered pace. At the end of December the seasonally adjusted unemployment figure was 1.78 per cent of the work force compared with 1.94 per cent at the end of November. At the end of January the figure was 1.66 per cent and at the end of February it was right down to 1.54 per cent. To get away from the seasonally adjusted figures I quote the Treasury's own recent Round-up of Economic Statistics: 'Between the end of November and the end of February there has been a fall in the actual number of persons registered' - not seasonally adjusted - 'for the first time in 25 years.' In short the cyclical downtrend in unemployment - the cyclical upswing in economic activity - has over-ridden the normal seasonal increase in unemployment, so strong has been the movement. And as set out in the Round-up there are other indicators of the strong foward surge of the economy. 
Predictably, of course, it is now claimed from the other side of the House that this has been due largely, if not wholly, to the advent of the Labor Government. That is rubbish. The additional employment creating grants we are now discussing have had some effect, to quote the rather muted praise of the Treasury Round-up, by way of reinforcing the underlying trend. But, by and large, the leads and lags of economic events are longer than that; they are such that the onward march of the economy is not so quickly or simply manipulated. As the Minister for Labour said: 'You cannot turn the economy on and off like a tap'. Quite right. 
These events, this recovery and this movement of the economy go much farther back than December. But that having been said, the time is not far distant when the policies of this Government will make themselves felt and, indeed, I venture the view, and I warn the Government, that the cumulative effect of its own direct action since assuming office and the indirect influence of the Government on economic affairs will, if the present course is maintained, result in a resurgence of inflation and over-full employment greater than this country has seen for many years. When men tioning the indirect influence of the Government on economic affairs, I refer for example to its all but unqualified support of the claims at present being considered in the current national wage case, claims for a large increase in the minimum wage, a substantial flat increase in the total wage and the restoration of cost of living adjustments. I shall come back to these later. 
I refer also to the Government's legislation for 4 weeks annual leave for Commonwealth public servants as a lead to the rest of the work force; and I refer to the Government's support for the 35-hour week, ostensibly only in the oil, power and vehicle industries, but in fact since it cannot be quarantined there, in industry at large. 
I say that the effect on total demand of the free spending by the Government, as evidenced by the emerging record budget deficit on which I have commented previously, along with a resurgence of private consumer spending and some investment spending, especially on housing, contains seeds for the emergence of excess demand. The combination of free spending by the Government and these trends in the private sector, together with the cost pressures stemming from heavy wags demands, a shorter working week and longer holidays - and, to give the whole picture, the impact of the current world food shortage on the prices of some key food items notably meat - may spell inflation in a very big way. To put the stress on inflation in this way is to attract from the Treasurer the charge that he made the other day in speaking to his proposal for a joint parliamentary committee on prices. Presumably he was referring mainly to honourable members on this side of the chamber when he said: To hear members of the House speaking you would think that inflation in Australia was an entirely new phenomenon'. He must have been joking. The prevention of inflation has been a key concern to honourable members on this side of the House for quite some time. 
I go no further back than January 1971 when the then Prime Minister, the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  addressed the nation on inflation. That speech was so highly regarded by Professor Hancock and collaborators that it features as an important document in a textbook of Readings for Australian Students of Economics. Of course, that was at about the time when inflation had got away somewhat from the then Government. 

 I concede that we on this side of the House to some extent are speaking from experience on this matter! But the policies of the then Government were getting inflation under control. The facts are set out in the Treasury Round Up' No. 1. Thus, while the inflation built up, in terms of the increase on the position a year earlier, to a rate of 7 per cent in the December quarter of 1971, in the June quarter of 1972, prices were up by 6.1 per cent on the position a year earlier; in the September quarter they were up by 5.8 per cent: and, in the December quarter, they were up by only 4.6 per cent. I say 'only'; that is high enough, but 4.6 per cent compares very favourably with the 7 per cent increase on a year earlier recorded during the previous December quarter. But I am willing to bet that that is the end of the improvement - and that is what the matter now before us is all about. 
Unemployment is a great social and economic evil; but so is inflation. A significant build-up in the rate of inflation makes the Government's professions of concern for social justice ring very hollow. How can we square them with the professed objectives of a new deal for the poor, the pensioner and the underprivileged? The rich, by and large, are well set to cope with, if not to gain from, inflation. It is the poor who must struggle to keep up and fight the never ending battle of stretching shrinking dollars to cover family needs* Perhaps, as one political analyst put it, it is true to say that the poor, by and large, are locked into safe Labor electorates or otherwise - I am thinking particularly of pensioners - they are to be found in the so-called widow belts of seats held by honourable members on this side of the House. So, in crude political terms, the Government can tolerate a spanking rate of inflation and. having appreciated the exchange rate, it can later depreciate it with reasonable impunity as costs and prices get too far out of line. Perhaps that is an unduly cynical approach; so I shall take the more charitable view that the Government simply has not perceived the end point of the path on which it has now embarked. 
Basically, this is the point I wish to underline in speaking to these Bills. While 103,845 people - in actual terms - out of work at the end of February (the Minister predicted 200,000) still leaves things to be done, it is inflation and all the inefficiencies of overfull employment which, if the Government stays on its present course, are the problems which are just over the horizon. And what it is necessary to stress is that the economic is a stern task master. The economic capacity of the nation imposes limits - a little elastic, it is true; but not very much so - on what can be done at any one time. Increased pensions and repatriation benefits such as the Government has introduced into this House in the past few weeks are indeed of the highest priority. But a resurgence of the rate of inflation can undo what is done and can set back in time the achievement of the Government's objective of increasing pensions to 25 per cent of average weekly earnings. That is the point that I would stress. 
We have before us 2 Bills which will approve, among other things, the allocation of $30m to the States for employment creating purposes. I take it that that is in pursuit of the objective of the Government, as forcefully affirmed by the Prime Minister recently in answer to a question, that full employment for this Government means virtually zero registered unemployed. That is a laudable objective and one that we could hardly oppose - even if, unhappily, it  is  impracticable. As I mentioned, recently we have been presented with a Bill to increase pensions and repatriation benefits. That is a most laudable objective that we could not and would not oppose. The Government has introduced a Bill to grant 4 weeks annual leave to public servants. Again, that in itself is a laudable objective that we could not oppose. Who would oppose it, considered as a particular measure? Other measures are in the pipeline. There is the proposal for a subsidy on interest payments on housing by making such payments tax deductible. That is an extremely attractive measure. A number of people said to me that they voted for the Australian Labor Party because of this proposal, and it is with some regret for them and for myself that I applaud the Government's dragging its feet in relation to that measure. 
All these measures are laudable; they are the sorts of measures that we on this side of the House would support. But what is lacking is any explanation by the Government of how it sees these measures in relative priority; for instance how it weighs the proposal to provide an extra week's leave to public servants against using those funds to pay in whole or in part an extra $1.50 a week in pensions. I suspect that the Government has not really got around to thinking these priorities through. I suggest that the march of events, as I have tried to set them out, is soon going to change that. 
 I rise to speak to this Bill conscious that the circumstances and problems of the industry to which it relates and which give rise to the need for the Bill are extraordinarily complex and difficult and that there are no simple or facile solutions. Technological change in the industry has been a major contributor to the problems of the industry; it has brought about a large drop in the number of workers required, but the fact is that there is a degree of featherbedding in this industry which would make the situation often alleged in respect of some rural industries, for example, look mild. The passage of this Bill will not itself solve anything and the problems will remain on the plate of the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  even with its passage. The fact is, one says with some regret, that notwithstanding the high hopes held out for greater efficiency and industrial peace in the stevedoring industry, following the implementation of the Woodward proposals, and notwithstanding the very considerable cost of implementing the proposals, on which I will focus in a moment, industrial strife in the industry has worsened in recent years, not improved. 
Statistics show that man-hours lost due to industrial stoppages, as a percentage of manhours worked, on an Australia-wide basis, were worse in recent years than in 1965-66, 1966-67 and 1967-68. While the blame for this must in part be recognised as associated with the general increase in militancy and industrial unrest, including so-called political strikes, widespread throughout the nation, it does raise serious questions about the very high cost of the Woodward proposals as to whether the game is worth the candle. The Bill before the House provides for an increase in the rate of the class A charge under the Stevedoring Industry Charge Act from Si per man-hour to $1.50. This is a maximum and the actual rate of charge may not rise immediately to this level. However, the class A charges are the dominant source of revenue of ASIA, that is, the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority, not to be confused with ASIO about which we have heard so much, and provide $10.7m of the gross revenue from charges of $13.2m in 1970-71. There can be no doubt in view of the precarious financial position of the Authority that an increase in the actual charge will soon take place. 
The Minister for Labour in his second reading speech gives 2 reasons for the proposed increase in the class A charge. The first of those is to contribute to the funds necessary to pay the guaranteed minimum wage in non-permanent ports. As the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  has said, the Opposition fully supports that part of the proposal. The Minister suggested, I think, that the amount for this purpose might be as little as 3c of the charge or could be as much as 10c; in any event, it is small in relation to the proposed increase from $1 to $1.50. The second reason for the increase is to meet increased costs and in particular increases in the level of payments to be made by the Authority in respect of 'idle time*. There can be little doubt that this part of the increase is designed to and will have the effect of putting more feather into this featherbed. 
It will be recalled that the Woodward scheme was, in the interests of better industrial relations in the industry, to provide for permanent employment for waterside workers weekly hire' attached to a particular employer, and thereby to create more normal employeremployee relationships along with benefits such as annual leave, sick leave and so on. The costs of the proposal would be met by charges imposed under this Act. One can have no objections to all this and by making the provision for permanency of employment we all had high hopes that the system would work better. The tragedy is that if we look at the facts we see it has not worked better. One measure of this, and in the last analysis the most important, is the cost of handling goods, which has risen very greatly indeed and there can be little doubt that a return to the pre-Woodward restrictive practices on the waterfront has been one very considerable factor. 

 Mr J. V. Ramsden not, I think, known as a friend of the overseas ship owners - in a recent article in the 'Australian Financial Review' cited one ship owner's calculation of the average cost of handling goods in terms of the cost of moving a ton of goods into or out of a ship in Sydney to have risen as follows: In July 1969 the cost was $6.42 per ton. in July 1971 $10.63 per ton, and in December 1972 $14.42 per ton. That represents an increase over that period of some 125 per cent, an average annual increase of more than 30 per cent. So far as wage costs are concerned - a declining component of total costs with increased mechanisation - between 1969-70 and 1971-72 there was an increase of 13.2 per cent in the weekly wage, but there was at the same time a decrease of about 20.85 per cent in hours worked for the average wage. Thus the increase in the hourly rate was 44 per cent over the 2 years or an average annual increase per man-hour of upwards of 20 per cent. 
As I have said industrial unrest continues and the cost of handling cargo increases. Why has the new system not worked well? There are a variety of reasons, but in the time available to me, I would like, as the previous  speaker  the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson),  to focus on the issue of idle time and the problems of redundancy in the industry. Payments for idle time are a major charge on the moneys raised under this Act and in recent years have risen rapidly. In 1970-71, the year to which the latest report of the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority available to me referred, of the gross revenue from charges of $ 13.2m and a net revenue of $9.6m, $6,177,948 to be precise went in payment for idle time. I gather the figure for 1971-72 was in excess of $8m and I would suspect that it is at a higher annual rate now, hence this Bill to increase the permissible charge. To paint the whole picture I go back to the figures for 1967-68. The payment for idle time in that year was $824,000, in 1968-69 it jumped to $2.8m and then to the figure which I mentioned of $6.2m in 1970-71 and $8.2m in 1971-72. lt reminds me somewhat of the situation that used to prevail in the United States of America under the soil bank scheme. I recall a letter purporting to have been written by a farmer to his senator along these lines:  'Mr Senator, my  friend Smith over in the adjoining county has just received a cheque for $1 ,000 for not raising hogs. I want to go into the not raising hogs business. I want to know what is the best kind of farm not to raise hogs on and the best kind of hogs not to raise. P.S. May I raise an odd hog on the side just for my own purpose?' 
In number terms there were 81,460 manshifts idle in 1967-68 compared with 465,224 in 1971-72  -  and that latter figure applies to a decreased work force. In a sense there is no great difficulty in finding the underlying reason for the clear situation of redundant workers in the industry revealed by these figures. It is to be found in technology changes, in increased mechanisation and containerisation. These things put a premium from the employer's point of view on industrial peace and keeping the man on the job - in a word, peace at any price. It is important, speaking to the matter from this side of the House, that this be said. But should the community pay this price? One estimate of the cost per year for each redundant worker would be about $3,000. The cost is of that order although that figure may be a little high - it depends a little on how we interpret the figures we have for idle labour. However the cost is pretty high. It is of great interest to note that the approximate average cost of what might be referred to as the golden handshake, the payment on the termination of employment in the industry, at the scale introduced in May last year is also of the order of $3,000. But that would be a once for all payment, not a payment recurring annually as is the payment for idle time. There is a once for all payment of $3,000 to a worker leaving the industry, compared with $3,000 recurring each year as idle time payment to retain the worker in the industry. 
The question arises: Why are these redundant employees retained? Why does the shipper, the Australian community, pay for them to sit around? Essentially the reason is that in the big ports the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority can declare people redundant only if the Association of Employers of Waterfront Labour and the Waterside Workers Federation take the initiative, or it can happen on the recommendation of the AEWL in association, in certain circumstances, with the WWF. It is clear that the Federation would have no interest in taking any initiative in respect of redundancy. On the other side one is bound to say that the AEWL is in a position not to care too much. It knows that industrial strife will hold up its ships. It knows that provided the cost is one which applies across the board to its competi tors as well as to itself the conference system will enable it to recover the cost. So it is necessary to say that the AEWL can prove to be a compliant employer. Indeed, the former Government faced up to this when it attempted to restrain the pace setting industrial agreement in the industry including the 35 hour week provision last year. So in the end the shippers, the importers and exporters using stevedoring services have to pay. 
Is there any solution to this vexed question and to the national loss involved in this feather-bedding? I understand that nationalisation has long been the catch cry, the panacea, the solution, voiced by honourable members opposite but I get the impression that they are backing off from that idea. There are quite a few problems. What would be done about the privately owned and leased terminals and depots that employ waterfront labour? Where would it end? Would it include the waterfront clerks? What about Commonwealth-State difficulties in disputes where some national authority would seek to supersede the Maritime Services Board of New South Wales, for example - or the Fremantle Harbour Trust, seeing my colleague the honourable member for Stirling  (Mr Viner)  seated in the chamber. 
Perhaps the most feasible immediate step would be to vest in the Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority control of all, or at least a substantial part larger than the existing SEAL pool, if I may refer to it in that way, of waterfront labour. 
No. I am suggesting this as a step short of nationalisation. The Australian Stevedoring Industry Authority would have in particular the responsibility of declaring redundancy. If that seems to represent a retreat from the notion of permanent employment - more 'normal' industrial relations - I think it would be fair to say that the incidence of idle time, together even with the equalisation of wages, has made a mockery of what was sought to be achieved by that idea anyhow. If control, or a major part of it, were vested in the Authority perhaps we could overcome a situation which is now common in the industry at all the major ports. I refer to the fact that there can be an overall shortage of labour on a particular day while at the same time, through labour being locked up in permanent employment by operational companies and being nontransferable, an approximately equal number of watersiders are at home receiving idle time payments. I quote without official confirmation an instance referred to by  Mr Ramsden  in the article ,in the 'Australian Financial Review' to which I referred earlier. In the week ending 9th February there was in Sydney an overall shortage of labour of approximately 228 men while at the same time 175 men were being paid for idle time. In a situation where it is cheaper or at least of the same order of cost, to offer a once over golden handshake than to meet the cost for one year of paying a redundant worker, how long are we to let this situation continue? 
In referring to the statement by the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  relating to the international monetary system. I should like to congratulate him on his lucid and most informative account of the state of the batting in the discussions in the Committee of Twenty on reform of the international monetary system. The contrast he draws between the problems of the 1930s, especially the competitive exchange depreciations of that period, and the problems of the 1970s, especially - to use his felicitous phrase - the tendency to competitive non-revaluation, is most apposite. In the latter part of his speech he reports on the broad conclusions reached by the Committee of Twenty, and as one interested for a long time in these problems I find these conclusions extremely heartening. 
I strongly support - and urge the Government so to do - the broad drift of the Committee's view. I will refer to 4 points. First, the reformed exchange rate system should remain based on stable par values but with a greater measure of flexibility than in recent years. Second, the question of 'disequilibrating capital flows' - and the related problem of bringing about a 'convertibility' obligation on the part of the United States and the United States dollar, to which I might say the United States, as I understand it, is by no means averse - is of key importance. 
What is involved here is the devising of a scheme to fund or demonetise - as I put it in an earlier speech in this House - those swags of excess United States dollars now 'sloshing around' in the foreign exchange markets of the world and poised, per medium of the Euro-dollar market and the operations of the multi-national companies, to flood in this direction and that whenever the betting is good for up-valuation of a currency. With a devaluation, actual or relative, of the United States dollar imminent in early February last, the central banks of Europe and Japan - as the Treasurer records in his statement - absorbed no less than $US9 billion in the first 9 days of February. To get that sum in perspective our own total of official foreign money reserves was of the order of $5 billion at its peak in December last. It is now nearer $4 billion. In fact the sums footloose in the world today to indulge in these one-way bets is vastly greater than $9 billion or so. Some have put it as high as $100 billion. Be that as it may, there can be no sound international monetary system until this vast de-stabilising element is neutralised - hopefully, by funding into longer-term United States bonds or other assets, not necessarily American, encouraged by sufficiently attractive terms. 
The Treasurer refers to his insistence at the meeting on 'voluntary participation' in this process by the holders 'for whom these dollars represent not an "overhang" but actual reserves'. I have no quarrel with the necessity for voluntarism and hence my reference to sufficiently attractive terms. But for a man professing a concern for reforms of the system, the Treasurer's statement is a bit carping. The essence of the matter is precisely that many countries, including Australia, do have holdings which are - and the Treasurer used the word a few sentences back in his account - excess' to their reasonable requirements for national reserves. In our own case, as recently as the beginning of 1971, our total reserves stood at $1.6 billion to $1.8 billion - contrast the $4 billion now, and I am using the word billion in the American sense of 1,000 million - and that, at about half a year's purchase of imports, was pretty favourable by the standards of earlier years. There can be no doubt that we do have a surplus which, while small in the overall scheme of things, is a component of the so-called 'overhang', and the Treasurer cannot blink that. 
It is perhaps worth noting in passing that within our total reserves there are some $US2 billion, as the Treasurer himself stressed recently in an address to an AmericanAustralian Association luncheon in New York. And as he added: *We have been very firm holders of dollars'. Very good chaps, us. I am, of course, aware of the background of this large holding and, as the Treasurer told his hosts after referring to the risks in this holding in the light of the 2 recent devaluations of the dollar: 
But then we have been holding United States dollars for decades - sometimes at very attractive rates. 1 find the Treasurer's stance acceptable but somewhat in contrast with that of his colleague the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor). 
As my colleague says, the hillbillies. I was about to say that I can scarcely refrain from wondering whether that latter gentleman would characterise the Reserve Bank of Australia and the Government, as he did the businessmen who negotiated our export mineral contracts, as 'hillbillies'? 
The other main elements of the Committee's view were, third, that the SDR - Special Drawing Rights - should become the principal reserve asset of a reformed system. I have advocated this in a previous speech in this House and I return to the theme in my concluding remarks, and fourth, that it is essential that there be a better working of the balance of payments adjustment process, as the statement stresses, by surplus as well as by deficit countries. Of course, the United States of America is the archtype of the sluggish deficit adjuster and Japan of the sluggish surplus adjuster. In this connection the Treasurer, I might say, preens himself both in this statement and in other speeches on Australia's unilateral revaluation of the currency on 23rd December last and the effective revaluation of 12th February. 'I told them, both in Washington and New York,' he says about this, no doubt basking in the approbation of his hosts - one might point out that they were self-interested - like a schoolboy receiving a school-masterly pat on the head. But what a misguided exercise of Australian independence and national pride. 
I can recall the Treasurer rebuking an honourable member - in fact several honourable members - on this side of the House for not taking pride in the movement of the Australian dollar in the recent past, specifically the appreciation of the Australian dollar against just about everything - even fractionally the yen. But this is not a context for national pride. That was the bane of England with the Churchillian return to the gold standard in 1926. National pride, which resists both an appreciation, for fear inter alia of giving something away, and a depreciation, for fear of losing prestige - 'going down' as the newspapers say - is at loggerheads with the objective of a better balance of payments adjustment process, to which the Treasurer referred. And what posturing we have seen. Far be it from me ever to sell this country short, but look at the position. The Treasurer himself refers to a payments deficit by the United States of around SUS30 billion in 1971 - the actual trade deficit was less than that - and the Japanese surplus, the major counterpart of the United States deficit, was of the order of ยง6 billion. What of our puny current account surplus in that league? At its peak in the recent December half-year it was at an annual rate of the order of $0.6 billion. 
Not national pride but our reasonable national commercial advantage should be the guide in these matters. I am not urging that there should have been no revaluation in the first quarter of this year, but I do urge, as I have in my previous speech on this subject, that, taking account of our position in the world league, a proper regard for our national interests would have counselled a prudent Australian Government against reducing our options by the unilateral revaluation of the exchange rate on 23 December last, an action appropriately and rightly described in the current issue of the 'Economist' as a 'political gambit' and counselled against the magnitude - it is too large - of the up-valuation which we have, so to speak, been led into. Of course, the current value of the Australian dollar is great for travellers and ever so timely for the junketing, or should I say overseas trips, of many members of the front bench opposite. I was privileged to travel extensively abroad in 1971. In the first part of that year I was getting about $US1.10 for my $A1. So honourable members can see that I am consumed with envy for the traveller today getting SUS1.42 for his $A1. But the situation for our exporters, especially of manufactures, is hardly such a happy one. 
The fourth point refers to the Special Drawing Right as a reserve asset. I wish there were time for me to review the history of the emergence of the SDR in greater detail than was possible for the Treasurer in his nevertheless very complete and very interesting statement, including the appendices supplied therewith. I believe that the devising and development of the SDR must be acknowledged as an outstanding chapter in international financial co-operation. It began at the extended meeting in Rio de Janeiro in 1967 at which, if I recall correctly, the right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon)  was head of the Australian delegation. The first SDRs were created on 1st January 1970. I stress the word 'created'. This arrangement of Special Drawing Rights is not a cloak cup- board affair like the ordinary drawing rights of the Fund where no more comes out than is put in. The SDR is a near-unconditional reserve asset created by the Fund and in that way is indeed, to quote the Treasurer, 'a contribution' - I would say a contribution potentially of the very greatest importance - to better international management of liquidity'. 
But the Special Drawing Right is still something of a tender plant. So in conclusion I put this to the Government: If the Government is serious in its concern for the development of a sound international monetary system, Australia should at a suitable opportunity follow the recent lead of West Germany and express the parity of its currency in SDRs as an earnest of its support for fundamental reform of the international monetary system. The parity would be of the order of $A1 to 1.16 SDR. That is the enlightened, albeit difficult and complex, path we and the world should follow along of course with appropriate trade policies and programs for the accelerated economic development of the developing world. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the AttorneyGeneral and Minister for Customs and Excise in his latter capacity. I refer to the decision of the Minister for Customs and Excise to refer to the Tariff Board the question of allowing duty free entry to Australia for a wide range of basic construction materials - a decision of which, with his characteristic reticence, the Attorney-General and Minister for Customs and Excise did not, according to Press reports, inform his Cabinet colleagues, even though as the 'Australian Financial Review', for instance, rightly suggests this move by the Minister for Customs and Excise is worth a dozen inquiries into meat prices on which Cabinet placed such stress at the time in its fight to contain inflation. Will the Minister give urgent consideration to including sawn timber on the list of materials in the reference as this would lead automatically to a significant reduction in the cost of home building which, as has come out this morning, is a matter of some concern to people, including his colleague the Minister for Housing? 
I rise to speak to this Bill gratified by the presence of the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron).  Apart from the Minister, up until the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Duthie)  walked into the House a moment ago not one single other Government supporter was here to consider or to join in these deliberations on this most important measure. What we are concerned with in this Bill is in essence another episode in the continuing search for a satisfactory adaptation of the conciliation and arbitration system in this country to the circumstances of full employment which have prevailed since World War II. This situation of continuing full or near full employment is a most important aspect to be taken explicitly into account. It contrasts, of course, with the situation which prevailed before World War II. Many of us fail to bear in mind that even as late as 1935-36 the proportion of trade unionists unemployed was 12 per cent to 13 per cent. Of course in 1932 it was up around the 30 per cent mark. Let us hope that that sort of situation never recurs. But by contrast in the post World War II period an unemployment rate nudging 3 per cent in 1961 all but unseated the then Government. 
The implication of this situation of full employment is that there is in this country a dual system for the determination of wages and salaries. There is on the one hand the system operated through the arbitration tribunals which fixes minimum rates of pay and other conditions. We have in effect superimposed on that a system of negotiations between employers and employees a form of collective bargaining. The 2  -  the system of statutory minimum wage fixation and the system of negotiated payments, particularly overaward payments - go hand in hand. It is not realistic any more to pose the 2 as alternatives. The arbitration system has been with us for a long while and, as the Government professes to be and as we are most concerned to be, we are determined that it should continue. After all it contributes to the solution of the preponderating number of disputes. The persistence of the other system is, as I think the Minister put it in his speech, inevitable. I concede that. It can be neither ignored nor, as I think he put it, ended. In these circumstances we have to consider what we would do. We on this side of the House would seek to bring the agreement area within the ambit and purview of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission with a view to preserving and upholding the public interest in the context of the settlement of industrial disputes. The Government's approach is different from this although in a sense, the broad objective is similar. To repeat, the objective is to arrive at a meshing of the Commonwealth conciliation and arbi tration system with collective bargaining and to do this within the total social and economic process. It is a matter of the procedures for the settling of industrial disputes, but as my colleague the honourable member for Stirling  (Mr Viner)  mentioned, the problem is not only that industrial relations are of key importance to the economic management of the country. They are necessarily involved in the effective economic management of the country in achieving the major objectives of economic policy - a reasonable distribution of the national income between the different sectors of the community, as well as in coping with the central problems of achieving full employment and minimising inflation - with a reasonable degree of price stability. So we must face the fact that, with continuing full employment, the area of negotiated agreements - the collective bargaining area - is inevitable and cannot be ignored. A number of important implications are involved in this. One that we need to note and which we must fit into our scheme of things is that the more extensive the area of negotiated agreements becomes, the less scope there is for the centrepiece of the present arbitration system, namely, the national wage case, in which judgment was given this very day with a very substantial and, indeed, a very proper rise in the minimum wage along with an increase in the total wage. The scope for the national wage case decision is obviously constrained by the extent to which wage increases are granted in the outside area, in that there is a limit - a constraint - on wage increases which can occur without accelerating inflation. The more that is appropriated outside the arbitration field in the area of negotiated agreements, the less there is available for distribution by the national wage case decision. Therefore, in this Bill the Government is allowing an open season for the negotiation of agreements outside the system without restraint and is thereby substantially narrowing the scope for sizable increases in awards within the major wage case heard by the Arbitration Commission. Does the Government really mean to do this? 
As my colleague said, the Government does not know what it is doing. Nevertheless, we are confronted with the difficult issue of meshing the 2 parts of our dual system in  a  way which is consistent with the achievement of the major objectives of national economic policy. So far as one can judge, the meshing, the reconciliation, of the  2  parts of the system which the Minister offers will promote without restraint the development of the collective bargaining area. That is done with very little reward for the third party in these matters - that is to say, the public at large - and also with very little regard to the enhanced inequality in wages and conditions which is likely to be the result of this unrestrained development of the collective bargaining sector. 
If it is a correct interpretation that the Government would foster this part of the system, I draw attention to the view expressed by the Minister for Labour in an address to the sixth annual convention of the Industrial Relations Society in October 1971. He said: 
The general principle of honouring a voluntary agreement is one that cannot be repudiated. It is fundamental to better industrial relations that agreements be honoured. Unions and employers have a moral obligation to abide by their agreements and I can see no reason why parties acting in good faith will object to agreements becoming legally enforceable. 
One might ask: How legally enforceable? Clearly not by statutory penalties, as would be appropriate to cases where the public interest is truly and seriously threatened; by this Bill the Government will do away with those penalties. Clearly not by some form of civil procedure for the recovery of damages, which procedure 1 gather was, in an earlier time, advocated by the Minister. 
 I am pleased to be able to speak briefly to this Bill, as it gives me an opportunity to congratulate my friend and erstwhile colleague, Professor Alf Pollard, on the excellent report he has prepared and which forms the basis of this Bill. Indeed, if I may be forgiven for injecting a personal note into the debate, I have always regarded it as amongst the best things that happened to the infant Macquarie University and to me as the foundation head of the School of Economics and Financial Studies at the University that Alf Pollard joined the School in its earliest days and has adorned it ever since, currently as its head. The Government could not have obtained the services of a more able, world renowned and respected authority to report on this subject. 
I congratulate Professor Pollard on the quality of his report and also on the expedition with which it was prepared. The inquiry was commissioned in November. Some work was then done, but the formal work did not get under way until 15th January last. The report was completed, handed to the Government and tabled in the Parliament by 10th April. The honourable member for Banks  (Mr Martin)  preened himself and his Party and the Government on the speed with which they brought in this Bill. I suggest that that was made possible by the excellence and precision of Professor Pollard's report, which left virtually nothing further to be investigated. It is a report which was initiated, as the right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon)  said, by the previous Government in the context of the continuing development of its policy in respect of pensions and their adjustment to inflation. 
The purpose of the Bill, as has been said, is to provide for automatic annual increases in pensions for retired Commonwealth employees. By and large the protection provided for is that pensions should keep pace with the cost of living, that is, that they should maintain their real purchasing power by annual increases designed to meet rising prices. It has been suggested that the adjustment proposed is likely to result in a provision that is somewhat better than a matching of the cost of living, that is, that the purchasing power will be more than maintained to provide the pensioner with some share of increased productivity. To some limited extent that is doubtless true. I believe that that part of it will depend on what may accrue to the pensioner out of the fund as distinct from the Commonwealth payment. 
The honourable member for Banks made reference to the fund. Being relieved of any necessity in respect of the cost of living adjustment there is a real probability of a surplus emerging in the fund which would be available to provide some sort of additional benefit - a benefit beyond keeping pace with the cost of living and making possible some share in increasing productivity. But the broad effect of the proposal in the Bill is to ensure the maintenance of the pension in step with increases in the cost of living. The effect of the factor of 1.4 applied to the five-sevenths of the pension provided by the Commonwealth will be overall to increase the pension by the increase in the cost of living. The 1.4 times the increase applied, as I have said, to fivesevenths of the pension will have that effect. That is a pretty generous benefit, though perhaps not the bonanza to which the honourable member for Banks referred and which perhaps he and others anticipated. It will replace an ad hoc and infrequent adjustment by an adjustment which is certain, automatic and frequent. Further, as I have said, there will be some prospect of additional payments being made out of the emerging surplus in the fund. 
What of the cost of this proposal? Only one figure has been given in the Bill. That is that it will cost $8.4m for the financial year 1973-74 - a truly trifling figure in the league that we have been working in this year, with a budget deficit running at the order of per haps $ 1,000m and the stage being set for a rate of inflation greater than this country has seen for many years. But that cost - the $8.4m - is by no means the whole story. Indeed, it will be the beginning and not the end of the impact. This measure, like the granting of 4 weeks' annual leave, will become a pace setter in the field. In this matter the Commonwealth is giving a significant, and in itself admirable and praiseworthy, lead. In respect of the impact of this meaure there will be immediately the impact on the so-called approved authorities under section 145 of the Superannuation Act which will be under pressure to provide the same sorts of benefits. 
My understanding is that the Post Office, for example, is still arguing or negotiating with the Treasury over meeting its obligations arising out of the 1971 adjustment. The impact on the Postmaster-General's Department of making provision for the present proposal for automatic pension adjustments will be of this order: The employers' superannuation contribution by the Postmaster-General's Department is currently about $40m per annum, but it is likely to increase to about $80m. That is because of the greatly increased cost of funding a liability to provide a benefit which is to increase annually as compared with funding the liability for a fixed annual sum. I might say that that estimate, which is Professor Pollard's, of the increased cost is on the basis that the cost of living increase will be of the order of 3i per cent per annum. It is likely to be very much greater the way things have been going recently. 
The Post Office also will have to find a lump sum in respect of existing contributors and pensioners. That has been estimated by Professor Pollard to be of the order of $31 lm. Perhaps it might persuade the Treasury, as he has suggested, to let it fund this over 10 years. Spread over 10 years with appropriate interest adjustments the cost would be $40m per annum. The total effect will be that the Postmaster-General's Department, if it is to match these proposals, will be up for about an extra $80m per annum - an amount that will be not, as it is now approximately 10 per cent of its annual salary bill, but approximately 30 per cent. I think that the impact of that on the rates and charges for postal and telephone services from which it will have to be found can be judged from the fact that that sum, compared with a gross revenue in 1970-71 of $7 17m, represents upwards of 10 per cent of that revenue. That is a measure of the sort of increase that will be necessary in postal and other charges to finance this proposal. Overall, there would be an offsetting within the public sector as a whole as a result of the net surplus in the Consolidated Revenue Fund in the early years in respect of these proposals if they were to go forward. Nevertheless that is some indication - some measure - of the impact of this  sort  of proposal on not only the approved authorities but also the private sector of the economy, which would find it necessary to fund its liability for automatic annual pension increases as pressure develops there for similar benefits. An amount, as I have said, of the order of 30 per cent of the salary bill is no mean impost. It could be said that something of a rod is being created for everybody's back. 
Let  me say that the community, conscious of its obligations to the aged, doubtless wants the very considerable net transfer, which is growing and will progressively grow, from current income earners to retired persons involved in this process. It is not a transfer that is of a necessarily undesirable or gratuitous character but rather the beginning of a correction to the inequity which inflation inevitably imposes on those in receipt of fixed incomes. Accordingly the Opposition supports the Bill. But I stress that the procedure of the Government in relation to this Bill is part of the continuing pattern of action by the Government that we have seen in this House. The Government wants to do this, that and the other - everything - all at once. Put before us one by one, the Opposition supports these measures - the proposals for 4 weeks annual leave, higher age and repatriation pensions, additional finance for housing and so on. But does the Government realise that these things must all fit together and that it will frustrate its own purpose if it does not think this thing through? 
Professor Pollard's estimates of the cost of his proposals, to which 1 have referred, are based, as I have said, on an estimated increase in the cost of living of the order of 3.5 per cent. They would be more than doubled if the rate turned out to be 7 per cent. The effect then is that either the Government must provide a lot more money or the Government's purpose is frustrated. The latter may well turn out to be the case. Take the Government's policy with respect to the ordinary age pension. If the rate of inflation accelerates further, the proposal for an increase of SI. 50 each autumn and spring will not result in achieving the avowed policy objective of the Government of raising pensions to a level of 25 per cent of average earnings. This, I stress, is the point, not that the net transfer that is possibly involved in this Bill is undesirable. It is desirable, but so are many other objectives and if these are not carefully thought through each and every one of them may be frustrated. What I am trying to say is that it would be enlightening once in a while for the Government, and the Treasury in particular, to give us the picture whole - to give an account to the nation of its economic policies. I say to the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  that there is a lack of communication and a great deal of uncertainty on every side, contrary to the professed intentions of this Government to communicate and provide open government. It is time that that lack was put right. 
The Opposition is in a difficult position in relation to this Bill. In the terms in which the Government has come to use and understand it, it can be said that it has a mandate for this type of action. But we will urge the Government to have some further thoughts about this Bill. The Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  began his own second reading speech, very properly, with some account of the theory and practice in the control of inflation. This is right because inflation is indeed the No. 1 economic and social problem that confronts the Government and this proposed Prices Justification Tribunal fits in as a component of the Governmment's strategy. The Treasurer concedes, with appropriate modesty, that the Government does not pretend that 'some simple solution' to inflation 'has been revealed to it', and I would agree that there is no simple solution. One comment in passing is in order here. I am sure I can say that it is universally agreed that a first necessary, albeit not sufficient, condition for the control of inflation is to keep an adequate but taut rein on aggregate effective demand in the economy. I am pleased to note that the experts of the Treasury whom, as the Treasurer said a few days back, 'it is important to keep on tap but not on top', have got on top of him on this point. It was disturbing when in a recent address to the Company Directors Association of Australia in Melbourne on 13th April the Treasurer said: 
The Government rejects the concept of over-full employment as a major cause of inflation. 
That is a view right in line with the Prime Minister's interpretation of the meaning of full employment which in answer to a question in this place the other day he gave as meaning absolute zero unemployment. That, unhappily, is infeasible and equally, as the Treasurer now concedes, it is, 'obviously' necessary as part of an anti-inflationary strategy 'to avoid the emergence of overall excess demand'. That is rightly so. 
But, as the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  quoted the Treasurer as saying, it also widely recognised that policies to contain inflation must be broad and multi-pronged'. One such component is the effort to contend directly with prices and costs under the now commonplace heading of 'a prices and incomes policy'. The proposed Prices Justification Tribunal is a major step into this area. It is, of course, an important area of debate as to whether a prices and incomes policy can or cannot contribute effectively to contain inflation, especially over the long term. But the considerable resort to such measures overseas and notably in the United States and the United Kingdom is a pretty compelling reason for trying. So we must try this along with control of total effective demand. 
The honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Whan),  who has just left the chamber, referred to the deficit that is emerging. That is indeed a major component tending to lead to excess demand. It cannot be attributed to the actions of the previous Government. We have explored this in an earlier question without notice. An amount of $630m was in fact budgeted for by the previous Government as keeping it within the limits of responsible economic control. There were certain changes of mind after that which account for some $21m only, but the build-up from that to the iresent figure, which I suggest is now probably of the order of $ 1,000m is the present Governments responsibility. When the Treasurer investigated it, it was of the order of $950m, but it was then acknowledged that that excluded certain measures which the Government had not costed - either the Treasury was unable or unwilling to put a figure on them. So in that area it is important that the proper restraint be exercised. But in addition, as I have said, there is the field of the effort to contend directly with prices and costs. The mechanism or the shape of a prices and incomes policy can vary widely. There can be variations according to the dimensions, whether it is voluntary or mandatory, whether it is in the short term - including at one extreme a complete freeze as was essayed in the United States from August to November 1971, the main impact of which is to give a shock effect to inflationary expectations - or in the long term; according to the scope of the controls in respect of prices, whether it is limited to firms of a certain size; and so on. In the broad, however, the mechanism is prices and incomes controls, including profits through the price control mechanism and also dividend control. The institution of these sort of policies are, typically, a prices body and a wages body. In the United States there is the Price Commission and the. Pay Board. Similar bodies were set up recently in the United Kingdom. The reasons for the 2 bodies are at once technical and operational but also sociopolitical. They are technical because the mechanism of inflation involves in the broadest analysis one casual chain from price increases to wage demands and wage increases - I concede that - and another from wage increases to price increases. 
The essence of an incomes policy is the attempt to restrain the response in each context, in the one case of wage demands to price increases - which stimulate those demands - and in the other, of price increases in response to wage increases. The reasons for this, as I say, are technical. They are also socio-political. There must be not only a more or less equally weighted prices and income control system but it must be seen to be there if any progress is to be made towards the community consensus without which the policy will never work. So I say that by and large we recognise the need and the mandate to establish some institution in the prices area. 
The Government in some measure acknowledges not only the necessity for an institution in the prices area, but the need for something on the wages side. I recall words to that effect by the Treasurer in his speech in setting up the Joint Committee on Prices. 
But it is significant that this debate follows in close juxtaposition to our discussions last wek on the Conciliation and Arbitration Bill. It is something of an article of faith of the Labor Party and of the Government that wages are already controlled and hence, in looking towards the institution of an anti-inflation policy, the prices bodies must come first. But by what mechanism are wages and salaries controlled? Minimum rates are fixed by the arbitration tribunals and from time to time the Full Bench takes an overall look and, having regard to one criterion - the capacity of industry to pay, but not only to that; also to equity considerations - it makes a general award wage increase. But, as we discussed at length last week, over a wide area employeremployee negotiations, a form of collective bargaining, is superimposed on the arbitration system in determining actual wages and salaries, and every year the margin by which actual rates forge ahead of statutory minima increases. 
What does this Government which is professedly anxious to balance the social equation between prices and wages do in the collective bargaining area? In its new industrial legislation the Government has given every encouragement it could to the further development of that sector. Every restraint on the exercise of muscle by the unions has been, or will be if the Bill ever becomes an Act, taken away. This open season for collective bargaining is a guarantee of excessive wage increases because in this country the principle of comparative wage justice is perhaps more strongly entrenched than in any other country. Where each industry is left, as it will be increasingly under that legislation, to determine its own wage levels and pay formulas, this will lead to excessive wage increases as the pace is set by the industries with the largest pay increases and on comparative wage principles these increases extend to all industries. 
So the course that we were on, whereby the Full Bench of the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission could have become something in the nature of a pay board, a board of review of inflationary wage settlements, has been put in reverse. What we have is that on the other side of the equation prices are now to be subject to the most minute surveillance. So the sweet reason of the Treasurer's early speech to which I referred is, I suggest, hollow humbug. The 
Government is just not serious about the control of inflation, and the people of Australia need to realise this. 
Turning to the specific proposals for the tribunal, I said that prices are now to be subject to the most minute surveillance. At least that is the possibility under this Bill. Clause 18, which I will not read out in full, requires a notification of every price variation by a company. I have one representation on that clause from a company that (fits into the $20m sales criterion. This company is a brewery and its main products are beer and stout. But it also owns and runs hotels which sell meals. When the price of steak goes up the price of hotel steak meals also goes up. Does this company have to give notice of every variation in the price of steak meals that it sells in its pubs? 
I might say that this is a problem that will arise in other areas of seasonal fluctuation of prices. Perhaps that case is something of an extreme one. I take this opportunity to pass on a representation that has been made to me; but there, can be no question as to the potentially vast scope of the operation of this legislation if it is enacted. This clause would not be of such moment if the penalty were not so severe. But the penalty for not notifying a price increase - could this be the price increase of the steak meals in the pub? - is $10,000. I have some recollection that the Treasurer made some remarks, typically in a Press release and not in his second reading speech, about 'the intended scope of the Tribunal's operations. I would like to hear him further on this matter. 
The second matter to which I want to refer is the important aspect of the whole theoretical basis of this operation, namely, the proposition in the second reading speech that -  there is in much pricing behaviour, particularly by large firms, a considerable element of discretion - scope to adjust prices without close and detailed discipline of the market. 
In some degree there is this discretion, as I have said in other writings on the subject. But it will not be an easy thing for the Tribunal to identify, if and where it exists. It would by no means be always simply reflected in too-high profits. It can get appropriated in higher levels of wages and salaries and fringe benefits in an industry; in selling costs and, perversely, in inefficiency. The honourable member for Eden-Monaro had a good deal to say about this. It will be en lightening to see how the Tribunal can attempt to track this matter down. 
Then, of course, there are the problems in most firms of this size of the sheer number of products. I know of one company with over 1,500 products that called in a management consultant to try to determine for it just which of the products were and were not profitable and gave up baffled after a considerable period. There are real problems here in determining the profitability and the rightness of one price over a large range of products arising from the spread of the overhead costs, the common costs and other factors in the firm. Another point in this connection is that if the tribunal were to achieve some success in ferreting out this so-called discretionary excess pricing, the overall contribution to the constraint on inflation at a rate of 5 per cent to 10 per cent could only be marginal. In 1969-70, for the whole manufacturing sector the ratio of operating profit to sales was 8.4 per cent, and of net profits to sales 4.5 per cent. One would be going some to knock that down by even one per cent of final prices, because to do that in a context where the ratio of operating profits to sales is 8.4 per cent would be to effect overall a decrease in profits of 12.5 per cent. Is that really feasible across the board of manufacturing industry? 
That gives me the thought that the Tribunal may have the benefit, by way of community education, of demonstrating to the supporters of the Government that business is not the bottomless goldmine - the veritable magic puddin - that so many of them so fondly believe it is. The view is widespread, but not true, that existing prices are too high - some perhaps are, but by and large this is not so- and that cost increases can readily be absorbed without price increases and without damage to the efficiency and the growth of business. If the Tribunal tends to counter this idea, that will be a considerable contribution. 
I would mention briefly several further points in conclusion. They arise not only from the all-embracing scope of this legislation but also from its permanency. One is the issue of efficiency in the situation with this Tribunal where increased costs justify a price increase. That can have a significant effect in blunting the incentive to improve efficiency and cut costs. That relates, too, to a second point: If the policy bites too deeply - witness the recent Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd case this year - in the effort to succeed as an anti-inflationary measure in a context where costs and especially wages are uncontrolled, it could hardly fail to have an adverse effect on investment and growth. A third point is that if it is made difficult in this way for firms to increase prices, the more surely will they avoid ever reducing prices. But it is an essential component, when one gets into the area of a reduced level of inflation, down to the 2 to 3 per cent range, that prices in areas where productivity is increasing should be reduced. 
The Opposition concedes, as I said at the outset, that the Government has a mandate for an institution of this general character. But the Government did not say during the election campaign how this was to operate. There was no mention of a penalty of $10,000 for mere failure to notify a price increase. If considered in terms of the letter of the legislation this Tribunal will require for its operation a truly massive bureaucratic machine. Perhaps the Government will think again about this measure. 
ds - Class 6, later Class 7 
In speaking to the Supply and Appropriation Bills before the House it is appropriate, to offer some comment on the economic policies of the Government. We live in stirring times. I doubt that there has been a time for many years when there has been so great a degree of uncertainty, not to say alarm, among the Australian business community - in manufacturing, mining, agriculture and, indeed, tertiary industries as well. I have only to instance the building societies as well as the high feelings of lawyers and doctors. The wage and salary earners of the nation, and their families, who derive their livelihood from employment in the factories, the mines, the farms, the shops and the commercial enterprises of this nation will see and experience the effects of that alarm and uncertainty in their own way. 
Not even the massive burgeoning bureaucracy and other changes threatened by recent legislation of the Government will change substantially the fact that this country is as of now, a predominantly free enterprise economy where the goods and services and the employment opportunities are provided by private firms and industries in accord with the circumstances and demands of the marketplace. Work, production and economic life are predominantly a partnership effort and not a struggle situation which is the dominant emphasis of honourable members opposite. A partnership is the only enduring view. 
The first and most immediate reason for this uncertainty and alarm is the clear evidence that this Government, despite its protestations, is not really serious about inflation. This makes its professions of concern for social justice ring somewhat hollow. How can we square its attitude to inflation with the professed objective of a new deal for tfe* poor, the pensioner and the underprivileged? 
By and large, the rich are well set to cope with, if not to gain from, inflation. It is the typical family and the poor who must struggle to keep up and fight the never-ending battle to stretch shrinking dollars to cover family needs. By and large, the poor are locked into safe Labor electorates and the pensioners are to be found in the so-called 'widow belts' in seats held mainly by members on this side of the House. So, in crude, short-thinking political terms, the Government may think that it can tolerate a spanking rate of inflation, but the fact is that it cannot. The community will not accept the adverse effects of a spanking rate of inflation - one might speak of super-inflation, but any rate of inflation in excess of, say, 3 per cent - that may sound exaggerated - is unacceptable in the long term, and we need to lose no opportunity to stress the fact. The community will not accept the adverse effects of super-inflation as they become increasingly manifest. The electorate will not accept them; it will reject them and it will reject the Government that is responsible for them. 
The true attitude of the Government towards inflation comes out on two of me main fronts of a policy to contain inflation. The first is the necessity to contain demand, to keep aggregate demand adequate but taut, and the second is the sphere of contending directly with prices and costs - a so called prices and incomes policy. The Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  revealed the true disposition of the Government m relation to total demand, as I mentioned the other day, when he said in an address to the Company Directors Association of Australia in Melbourne on 13 April: 
The Government rejects the concept of over-full employment as a major cause of inflation. 
In this respect, fortunately for the country, those experts  el  wham the Treasurer recently said 'It is important to keep them on tap but not on top' have got on top of him in this matter. When he was introducing the Prices Justification Bill' recently, he stated that 'obviously' a necessary part of an anti-inflation strategy is 'to avoid the emergence of an overall excess demand*. But there can be, no doubt that mis Government will err on the side of excess demand rather than on the other side. The Government's own free spending since attaining office has been a major Sector contributing to the imminent reemergence of excess1 total demand in the economy. 
In the prices and incomes field, the Prices Justification Tribunal is to be established, but nothing is to be done on the incomes side, and that means in effect the costs side. Everywhere else in the world where a serious prices and incomes policy is essayed the institutions of the policy typically are 2 bodies - a prices body and a wages body. In the United States of America there was set up the Prices Commission and the Pay Board. Similar bodies were set up recently in the United Kingdom. As I stressed in a recent speech in this House, the reasons for the 2 bodies are at once technical and operational and also socio-political. They are technical because the mechanism of inflation involves, in the broadest analysis, one causal chain from price increases to wage demand and wage increases - this is the area of which Government spokesmen frequently put great emphasis. I concede its importanceand another causal chain from wage increases and cost increases to price increases. 
The essence of a prices and incomes policy is the attempt to restrain the response in each case - in the one case the response of wage demands to price increases which, amongst other factors, stimulate those wage demands; and in the other case of price increases in response to wage increases. So, the reasons for the twofold approach are, as I say, technical and also socio-political. Not only must there be an equally weighted prices and incomes control system but also it must be seen to be there if any progress is to be made towards achieving that community consensus without which the policy will never work. So as I said on that earlier occasion, the Opposition supports an institution in the prices area - though perhaps not this all-embracing and, as it stands, pretty unworkable and, to boot, toothless creature - I was going to say monster' - for which the Government's present legislation provides. 
But what I do want to stress is that, on tha costs side of the equation, the Government not only is doing nothing but is positively reversing the course we have been on whereby the Full Bench of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission could have become something in the nature of a pay board - a board of review of inflationary wage settlements. Thus, as I have said, in this sphere of prices and incomes policy the Government is not really serious about the control of .inflation. What this one-sided approach will involve, if it is effective at all, will be a squeeze on profits. That focuses the whole stance of the Government. We on this side of the House stand unashamedly for private initiative, self-help and free enterprise, though not untrammelled laissez-faire. The very structure of modern society with giant firms on the one hand and, on the other, big unions (and if the Government's legislation fostering union amalgamation goes through, there will be still bigger unions) and with neither side necessarily or primarily concerned with the public welfare - this very structure of modern society makes government oversight of the economy and government intervention in the economy in some measure essential. I need mention only one particular aspect, and that is that big industry and rapid economic growth impinging on a finite environment necessarily spells pollution in a big and accelerating way, in the absence of a vigorous government policy to combat it and so maintain and in some cases restore the environment and the quality of Australian life. But that having been said whereas this side of the House welcomes and fosters the endeavours of private enterprise as a partner with government in the development and prosperity of the nation, the stance of this Labor Government is clearly and unambiguously antibusiness. By and large, the Government chooses to spurn the leaders of industry and commerce and, perhaps I should say, also the larger group of the managers of large organisations and the proprietors of unincorporated businesses. It does not consult or inform where it should, but proceeds headlong in pursuit of its doctrinaire policies. I need refer again only to the ill-thought-out shape of the proposed Prices Justification Tribunal, the Government's penchant for unrealistically low interest rates and the problems that can cause, and the undisguised push towards the nationalisation of the oil and gas industry in this country. 
The total effects of the Government's policies will converge, in the last analysis, on one thing - the rate of return to enterprise and capital. That may become the focus of the squeeze on business or on the private sector of the economy. It is true that right at this time production and business activity in the economy are expanding; so, by and large, Gales are not the problem. As I said, the cause for concern will be the rate of return. The profitability of business enterprise in many spheres is threatened by an array of measures, ill-conceived or not thought through at all and, above all, not explained to the people of this country. There is, as I have said, the pressure to be applied to keeping prices down, so far as it is effective, through the Prices Justification Tribunal machinery. There is the boost to wages and salaries from the open season to collective bargaining, which is the essential outcome of the Government's amendment creating a toothless Conciliation and Arbitration Act. 
Thirdly there is the inevitable pressure for 4 weeks annual leave in industry at large stemming from the Government's legislation for 4 weeks leave in the Commonwealth Public Service. There is the Government's support for the 35-hour week, ostensibly only in the oil, power and vehicle industries, but in fact, since it cannot be quarantined there - and we would not have it quarantined there brought in over a reasonable period - in industry at large. It can be demonstrated that if output in a particular firm is to be maintained at anything like its current level the impact of the 35-hour week and an extra weeks leave in many industries will be to increase wage costs by some 22 per cent. As this works its way through all industries there will be an upward thrust to total costs of a similar order. 
The fourth factor which will contribute to the squeeze is the view expressed in person by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  that the Australian tariff structure is too high and needs to be brought down. This is a complex and increasingly difficult area, made more so by the international climate of fluctuating exchange rates. Decisions as to what areas of manufacturing industry the investor and the nation should foster and develop must be based on clear assessments as to the long term prospects not only for world prices for goods but also the relative values of national currencies. The issues will have to be looked at pretty broadly and in dose consultation with industry, for clearly concern as to the precise magnitude of ad valorem tariffs, on which debate has most frequently centred in the past, can be quickly swamped by exchange rate fluctuations of the order of the past 18 months. 
That bringo me to the fifth factor, the appreciation - I should soy the excessive appreciation - of the Australian dollar with its deleterious effects on rural industries and manufactured exports. The anti-rural stance of the Government is a subject in itself. 
You do not think there is? I think the honourable member should have a look back through some recent Hansards, expecially the debate in this House last week. Further, there is the question mark over export incentives, renewed only grudgingly for another 12 months. And there is the withdrawal of the subsidies for mineral search and exploration and the threat to the mineral exploration and production industry from the whole thrust of the Government's policies towards nationalisation of that industry. Is there not therefore a real basis for the uncertainty, for the alarm, that pervades the Australian business community and indeed the whole community. 
Yet the major and unrestrained thrust of Government policy is in the field of social welfare. Every one of the Government's initiatives in this area can only be applauded. Much of what has been done is progressive and in some cases has been overdue, but the Government needs, as I have said previously, to look closely at the total effect. It is a fine thing to become the pace-setter for the nation but if the pace is too hot not only can the situation in the private sector become intolerable but the very purposes of the Government can be frustrated. It is a great thing to create in the Commonwealth Public Service an elite but it may be important to ensure, for ez ample, that the 12 weeks maternity leave for the young woman graduate in the Public Service does not prejudice the very job of the low income woman factory worker in Redfern because of the inability of her employer to match this benefit, among other measures. Again provision for the adjustment of Commonwealth employees' pensions according to the cost of living is a most admirable proposal but how, or rather how quickly, can employers in the private sector match the benefit, the cost of which will be an increase in employer contributions to the private superannuation funds from something like 10 per cent of their wage and salary bill to the order of 30 per cent? 
To come bade to the starting point of inflation, if inflation continues to accelerate as it has in the recent past, what of the proposal to raise the standard age pension to the order of 25 per cent of average earnings? The amounts of 81.50 each autumn and spring proposed es am -increase by the Government will not attain S&amp;s objective with inflation at a growing rate. So, as 1 have said, the Government's objective can be frustrated. I say that there is an urgent need for the Government to think through its policies and explain them to the Australian people. If not, while inflation will intensify, with the uncertainty and alarm which now prevails there will be a loss of confidence and momentum in the private sector of the economy. The drive too quickly to redistribute the cake will pull down, . amidst increasing inflation, the very growth of the whole cake, which in the long run is the only effective way of achieving the Government's aspirations. The end outcome then is likely to be that most unhappy of conditions, stagflation, in perhaps a somewhat new form - the superinflation of prices accompanied and exacerbated by a slack not so much in total demand but in productive investment and aggregate supply, with everybody in for the 'quick buck' investment. I warn the Government that that is where the Australian economy is headed. 
My question is addressed to the Treasurer. Against the background of your difficulties,  Mr Minister,  in accommodating the many demands of your colleagues for greater expenditure in the emerging situation of overfull employment, I refer to an estimate by economist Kenneth Davidson in yesterday's 'Australian', that over $4m could be saved if the Black Mountain tower project were replaced by an alternative scheme which is acceptable to the National Capital Development Commission, I gather, would fully satisfy the Postmaster-General's requirements and would be acceptable to those concerned for the environment. I ask: Where development, technical and environmental considerations can thus be harmonised and are further supported by the economics of the matter, and still the environmental viewpoint is overruled, does not the Treasurer agree that the professed concern of his party and his Government for the environment, which it is said was an important factor in their winning the last election, is humbug and a sham? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Overseas Trade and Minister for Secondary Industry. I refer to the 25 per cent across-the-board tariff cut announced in July and the proposals for adjustment assistance to be administered by the Department of Secondary Industry - in particular, the undertaking to pay assistance at a weekly amount equal to the average wage in the previous 6 months for an employee who loses his job. While appreciating the expediency of making this provision with a view to 'selling' the tariff cut proposal to the Australian Labor Party's trade union controllers, I ask: Is not unemployment benefit at this rate highly discriminatory as compared with the $23 a week  standard rate and $40.50 a week married rate established by Act No. 1 of this year as amended by the recent Budget? Is it to apply in respect of all economic policy initiatives by the Government? I have in mind that, according to the Treasury, the tariff cut was akin to a revaluation of the order of  2i  per cent. No such provision was made, was it, for employees displaced by the much larger 7 per cent devaluation of December? 
While these Bills are mainly machinery measures, I rise to support the remarks of my colleague, the honourable member for Paterson  (Mr O'Keefe).  The reference by the honourable member for Darling  (Mr Fitzpatrick)  to the necessity for the reallocation of resources seems to me to have very little relevance. The fact is that the provisions of the recent Budget provide the wine growers, especially the small ones, and the Australian Wine Board with some problems. Those provisions were the increase in spirit excise applied to brandy - the loss of the duty differential which has long been accorded to brandy - as well as the changes proposed for the valuation of wine stocks. 
Beyond supporting the earlier remarks of my colleague, it is true that the principal content of these Bills is the conversion to metric measure of the definitions of 'winery' and distillery' for the purpose of the several Acts specified in the Bill. In the case of the Wine Grapes Charges Bill, where the minimum annual grape intake to determine whether an establishment is liable for the charge is at present 10 tons, this is to be changed to the nearest metric equivalent, namely 10 tonnes. The maximum charges provided for per ton in the Act I understand will remain unchanged per tonne. As a tonne is some 2,204 lb as compared with the 2,240 lb of the ton, the maximum levy per lb will thereby be increased by about  li  per cent. The levy is not a price, but this is perhaps illustrative of how, if vigilance is not applied, metric conversion can lead to upward creep. 
In the case of the Wine Overseas Marketing Bill, as the honourable member for Darling said, for the purpose of a poll and voting the definition is changed from the present relevant annual grape intake of 25 tons to 25 tonnes. As the wine industry and for that matter its products are not subjects with which I am overly familiar, I am curious about the differential in magnitude in the qualifications provided for in the 2 Bills. I gather that the lesser quantity specified in the Wine Grapes Charges Bill - the charge finances the administrative and marketing activities of the Australian Wine Board - is designed to spread as widely as possible the burden of financing the Board. It seems curious to me that where an establishment is liable to a financial obligation it is not thereby qualified to participate in a poll, the apparent purpose of which is to determine the issue of whether the Wine Board - the very reason for the charge - should continue in operation. Perhaps the Minister for Northern Development  (Dr Patterson)  might make reference to this point in his reply. I conclude by saying that as these are broadly machinery Bills to effect metric conversion, the Opposition supports them. 
The Bill before the House has 3 purposes. The main purpose is to continue the export incentives grants scheme for a further 12 months, as my colleague the honourable member for Paterson  (Mr 0'Keefe)  has just been stressing, but not necessarily beyond that. It has 2 other subsidary purposes - to remove certain disabilities affecting marketing authorities under the present legislation and to permit wider participation by gold producers in the export incentive scheme. This grudging extension of the export incentive grants scheme should be a cause of considerable concern to all. I am not saying, however, that we would necessarily agree with every feature of the scheme, but its elimination would be a most unwise course. It is true that during the past 12 months we have had a record surplus on Australian trade and indeed even a surplus on current account. This outcome owes much to high world prices for foodstuffs and other commodities. There is evidence that at least some of the latter, if not the former, have peaked and already begun to decline. That, at all events, is the hope of many governments throughout the world. 
In the long run, taking a long perspective - beyond the present situation - the important potential growth area for our exports is in manufactures. In the realm of world trade over the long period it is the area of manufactures which is the growth area, much of it, surprisingly to some observers, between the developed countries which are themselves highly industrialised economies. Nevertheless this is, and historically has been, apart from the recent upsurge in commodity prices, the growth area of world trade. Therefore from the point of view of the long term external viability of this country in relation to paying for necessary imports and services, it is of the utmost importance that we continue to foster the growth of manufactured exports. Of course, that is what this scheme is intended to do. 
In that area the development of export markets has to be carefully cultivated. It is something which requires concerted effort over time in order to develop the connection between the Australian exporter and his market overseas. The problem in respect of commodities is of a lesser order and in many cases markets can more readily be found. However, in the case of manufactured goods it is much more difficult to develop a design, to set up agents and cultivate markets. So what is important in this area is a reasonable certainty that the conditions under which one seeks to cultivate and maintain these markets will prevail. One of the main elements in this context is the export incentives scheme envisaged in this Bill. The total amount involved is relatively minute, particularly if we view it in relation to the assistance which is provided via- tariffs to the import-competing manufacturing industries. In that area I am not saying that assistance should not be provided. I may have some further remarks to make on that subject in the debate on a subsequent Bill. This result could be compared with what might be termed the macro-economic alternative to the tariff. 
It is not really,  Mr Leader  of the House, but it has possibilities. What we have to look at in this context is the relationship between the opportunity provided for import-competing manufacturing industries, and manufacturing industries which are potential exporters. As I was saying, the overall effect of the tariff has been to enable this country to maintain an exchange rate at a level higher than otherwise it would have been. In recent months we have seen a revaluation which raised the exchange rate even higher. The effect of that revaluation is to make more difficult the task of Australian manufacturers in making export sales abroad. I am suggesting that if overall the tariff was not there, rather than a revaluation of 0U currency to give it a higher value, it would be necessary to have a substantial devaluation, a substantially lower value to our currency. In a sense that devaluation would substitute for the tariff and, because the value was lower, it would provide a considerable stimulus to the export of our manufactures. There are good reasons why we do not contemplate the substitution of a devalued currency for the existing situation in which we have a tariff plus the present value of the currency. 
However, since we do not contemplate this, it is all the more important to recognise that within our manufacturing industries we are, in effect, favouring those industries which compete with imports as against those which potentially would be very competitive in export markets overseas. This export incentive grants scheme is, in effect, a means of redressing this balance to some extent and fostering the development of exports of manufactures. 
All that I have said could be summed up in a nutshell by saying that if we want to turn Australia into just the world's quarry - my impression is that the Government does not want to do this but rather the opposite - we could hardly do better than eliminate these export incentives and add to that situation further significant revaluations of our currency plus other measures, such as shorter working hours, the effect of which would be to price the export of services and manufactured goods out of world markets. It is sometimes said that the effect of these export incentives is to provide a benefit for foreign purchasers. That is not a valid argument. Broadly speaking, in these areas there is world competition and a meeting of a world price. By and large, our manufacturers have to meet it. If they do not, the foreigners to whom they might sell buy elsewhere. So, in point of fact, it is a question not of permitting foreigners to buy our goods overseas more cheaply but of enabling Australian manufacturers, in the whole context in which they find themselves, including the level of the exchange rate, to make sales overseas at some profit very often not at a very high profit. 
The remarks of the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  in introducing this Bill must represent a high point of waffle and a high point of providing one more element in what I have come to call the 'chaos theory' of managing the economy. In his second reading speech he said: 
What will happen after 30 June 1974 - as far as these export incentives are concerned - has yet to be decided, so it cannot yet be said whether the present scheme or some other scheme will operate or even no scheme. That will be decided later, in the light of a number of relevant factors. In the event that there were no schemes, consideration might be given to the need for hardship relief, but if that proved to be the situation such relief would not, of course, provide under a different name concessions as generous as the present incentives. 
What I have referred to as the chaos theory of managing the economy is an approach in which the Government combines unpredictable and arbitrary measures with as many ambiguous, qualified and non-committal statements as possible, with a view to creating the maximum of uncertainty - indeed, alarm - amongst the business community, thereby inhibiting investment and other spending plans, restraining total expenditure and the total demand for resources and combating inflation. I should say perhaps 'combating inflation in the short run' because the Government is holding back the very development of that productive base - the source of additional supplies - which is the prime requirement of the medium and long term fight against inflation. 
Thus, in accordance with this theory - at least until the Budget last Tuesday night - the Government created uncertainty about the continuance of the investment allowance. Uncertainty was implicit in this waffle of the Treasurer in introducing the Export Incentive Grants Bill. He said that the grants were to continue until June next year. After that they may or may not continue. They may be smaller, they may be larger; they may be this, they may be that. Also as I said, the Government has taken arbitrary and unpredictable actions. For instance, last July it slashed tariffs across the board, contrary to the law of the land and to established practice in this area. Only a day or so previously - I propose to make some remarks about this on a subsequent Bill - the Treasurer had piously and unequivocally supported the established practice in tariff changes, of open public inquiry and then action in the light of that inquiry. In addition to the things that I have mentioned, the Government withdrew incentives for oil and mineral search and made all sorts of noises about using public money to chase oil. Again, inflation is rampant. The Government set up the Prices Justification Tribunal, which half the Government takes seriously and the other half does not. Meanwhile other industries are harassed by the Joint Parliamentary Committee on Prices. On the costs side, the Government sets the pace with the 35-hour week and extra leave for Commonwealth public servants which will add upwards of 20 per cent to costs if emulated in the private sector. 
The Government promotes an open season on collective bargaining. And it brings in a Budget which clearly is designed not to fight inflation but to play its role in sustaining the upward gallop. 
To characterise this as a theory is, I think, going a little too far. It would be altogether too novel and imaginative - I will not say sophisticated' - for the Treasurer. I suspect that the Treasury, which despite the attitude of this Government has the best and most experienced economic policy group in the Government machine, would regard such an approach as untidy and rather unprofessional. Nevertheless, this is the way that the Government is proceeding. In this most important area where the external viability of this country in the long run is at stake - that can rest only on the continued expansion of manufactured exports as a key component of our exports - it is to be hoped that the Government will continue to maintain these export incentives that have been so important for the development of this facet of our economy. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
The purpose of this Bill is to extend the operation of the cellulose acetate flake bounty until 30 June 1976. As the Minister for Overseas Trade and Minister for Second Industry  (Dr Cairns)  stated in his second reading speech, this is in conformity with the Tariff Board's suggestion that the bounty be continued until the Board has examined this and other acetyl products in its 1975 general review of the chemical industry. I would agree that it is appropriate that this examination of the wisdom or otherwise of this bounty be conducted as part of the general review of the tariff intended by the preceding Government. 
This might be an appropriate opportunity to recall to honourable members' minds the actions and the approach of the former Government in this respect. It starts from the proposition that the tariff is important for the balanced and efficient growth of Australian secondary industry. The former Liberal-Country Party Government was committed to the continuing and systematic review of levels of protection, and to the setting of protective tariffs at levels appropriate to enable economic and efficient industry, viewed within the overall framework of a balanced and viableindustrial structure, to compete effectively with imports. It recognised that the procedure nf examing industries in isolation could over the long term lead to inconsistencies in tariff making and inevitably to a sort of creeping increase in the overall level of protection. 
Recognising this and in pursuit of the objective of protecting economic and efficient industries to which I have just referred, the former Government in 1971 instituted the progressive' or 'systematic' review of the tariff, as it came to be known, commencing with those areas where protection was the highest and had not been reviewed for many years. There are current review references before the Board at this moment pursuant to that program, on electronic and electrical equipment and on domestic appliances. 
T  also note in passing that in April 1972 the so-called '1000 items excess margins' references was sent to the Board. The primary purpose of that was to provide information for trade negotiations but also to serve as a major indicator of areas of excess protection. I think there is agreement on all sides by all commentators as to the importance of moving to eliminate excess - that is to say unnecessary - protection from the tariff schedules. The membership of the Board was enlarged by the former Government to expedite these inquiries. There can be no doubt that the end point would have been recommendations for reduced tariff rates in many cases on a properly selective basis and after open public inquiry. 
That was the direction and the manner of the policies of the preceding Government. I am led to ask: Do I conclude from the second reading speech of the Minister in relation to this Bill that the present Government embraces this approach to the tariff? It certainly appears to be so from the statement of the Minister, that he has accepted advice that the cellulose acetate flake bountry be extended to 1976 so that the scheduled 1975 general review of the chemical industry can take place. Of course, 'scheduled' is used within the context of the progressive review of the tariff to which I have referred. 
This is backed up by the statement of the Treasurer in a speech given to the Australian Electrical Manufacturers Association on 5 July last. I draw the attention of the House to that date because it is very significant in relation to events of 18 July which, for the information of the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  had nothing to do with airports at all. 
What happened on 12 July? 
Oh yes. I have not got mixed up in those affairs. 
Let us not open up old wounds. We are talking in an area where I had hoped there was some consistency of view as between the previous Government - the Liberal and Country Parties now in Opposition - and this present Government. I am saying that there is some indication of this in the second reading speech by the Minister, and I am also supported in that view by the Treasurer speaking as recently - as we have raised the whole question of dates - as 5 July last. He said: 
Let me begin by saying something on the machinery for formulating government policy decisions regarding the tariff. The Government firmly supports the system of open inquiry by the Tariff Board. This is consistent with our general approach of favouring open government. 
I shall make a reference in a moment to the 25 per cent cut in tariff so honourable members may be permitted some sort of horse laugh at that point. The Treasurer continued: 
The Government has confirmed its support for the progressive review of the tariff which is now in progress. We will see that the further references required to enable the review to be completed will go forward. This procedure ensures that the issues involved are examined independently of the pressures of day to day politics and that the examination will be open to public scrutiny. 
I can only express the hope that this procedure will be adopted and in future will be adhered to by the Government, for where is the consistency in the intention evidently expressed by the Minister for Overseas Trade, who is now in the chamber, of referring this matter in the course of the systematic review for further consideration in 1975, and the statements by the Treasurer, with the recent move by the Government to cut tariffs - including I can only presume, certain tariffs in the chemical industry - across the board by 25 per cent? I am not sure what other parts of the chemical industry may have felt the effects of that move, while at this time we proceed to continue unchanged the cellulose acetate flake bounty until 1976. The fact is that the recent action of the Government in relation to tariffs - in particular, its 25 per cent cut - on the face of it, seems to have been adopted as some form of alternative to the speeding up of the tariff review, which would have been a very proper procedure. As against that, the Government has favoured an across the board cut with subsequent attention to those who squeal the loudest. 
I submit that the Government, in doing that, was acting clearly counter to the law of Australia, as in fact was pointed out at the time by my colleague the honourable member for Kooyong  (Mr Peacock).  Section 15 (1) of the Tariff Board Act states: 
The Minister shall - 
It states 'shall' -  refer to the Board for inquiry and report the following matters - 
the necessity of new, increased or reduced duties, and the deferment of existing or proposed deferred duties; 
Section 16 of the Act refers to the report forthcoming under that mandatory requirement. How then can it be argued that a 25 per cent cut across the board without report from the Board, albeit on the basis of a hastily prepared report by a committee under the  Chairman  of the Board, was in accordance with that requirement? 
Also, in this respect the Government was acting against the views expressed by its own distinguished consultant in the person of  Sir John  Crawford who, in June, reported on a Commission to Advise on Assistance to Industries. In paragraph 58,  Sir John  refers to the mandatory requirement in the Tariff Board  Act  for the Minister, before taking action, to refer to the Board for inquiry and report the necessity for reduced duties, as refered to in the section of the  Act  1 have just quoted, and he goes on after some discussion to state in paragraph 62: . 
Although there have been occasions when the mandatory requirement has been ignored... . . it does appear that these are strictly in conflict with the law. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER  (Mr Berinson)  Order! I have to put it to the honourable member for Berowra that he is getting very wide of the mark. If I understand him correctly, there is no suggestion that the Bill at present before the House involves any conflict with any requirement in  respect  of Tariff Board procedures, and I would ask him to come back to the subject matter of the Bill itself. 
That isso,  Mr Deputy  Speaker; but I am trying to elucidate the intentions of this Government which often are not very clearly expressed..  As  I said- 
The Opposition is interested in the tabling of this report. It recognises the reasons the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  has mentioned why in general such reports are not tabled. In this case the Opposition takes the view that the procedure followed is a very good idea. We thank the Government for the procedure adopted and we too will be interested in studying the report. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I move: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent the Minister for Transport making a statement on the proposed airport site atGalston and the debate proceeding forthwith. 
The situation in regard to this matter is one which has the odour of political expediency and partisanship about it. It may be suggested - the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Mr Charles Jones)  has attempted to do this - that on previous occasions statements have been made, views expressed and decisions taken in relation to the second Sydney airport on political grounds. We have already heard something on this matter from the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton),  who is a former Prime Minister, and we will hear more from him. But in the light of the Government's commitment to 'open government' and in the light of the impact this decision could have for many people by opening up a period of doubt and dread as to the future of the region, I believe it is of the utmost importance that the Government take steps to make available all the facts about the situation. 
So far as one can judge - this is why it is important that the matter be debated and that we suspend Standing Orders to do so - the decision to site the second Sydney airport at Galston has been taken against all available advice of a significant character. It has been taken against the advice of the high powered Commonwealth-State committee set up to advise on the matter. It has been taken against the findings, so far as we know - it is in this regard that we want to find out the facts - of the British firm of specialist consultants hired to assist the Commonwealth-State committee. This British firm of R. Travers Morgan and Partners worked with an environmental study group established, so far as I understand, by that committee. 
The decision has been taken against, I suggest, the thinking of the much vaunted Coombs committee which was set up to advise the Commonwealth Government on matters of economic priority. The matter is an important one and should be debated because, so far as we can ascertain the facts, the. decision was taken in the teeth of the advice and thinking from all these sources which favoured a different course of action. I understand that their investigations - I would like the Minister to confirm this - have already cost upwards of $500,000 which mainly has been expended this year. The Commonwealth-State committee commissioned a cost-benefit study by the British firm R. Travers  Morgan  and Partners, the cost of which would be part of the $500,000. Against their advice the Government decided in a precipitate manner - one might even suggest a casual or frivolous manner; certainly  a  political manner - to site the proposed airport at Galston. 
The decision was taken to dump what for the Government threatened to be a political embarrassment on the doorstep of, as one journalist put it, a group of North Shore silvertails and semi-rural dwellers at GalstonDural. As the Minister will find when crowds of people from this area come here today, semi-rural' does not mean sleepy, relaxed or easy going. He will find the people to be tough, united and implacable in their opposition to the proposal to turn this scenic and recreational heritage, which is as fine as any in the land, to this purpose. As far as one can judge, the decision has been taken in an unwarranted and unjustified way. There appears not to have been a detailed feasibility study. The Commonwealth-State policy committee which was set up comprised top public servants from the Commonwealth and State government departments and the State Planning Authority of New South Wales. The committee, as I have said, commissioned at great cost, the study by the British consultants, which took the form of a complex and comprehensive cost-benefit study of alternative sites. That firm includes persons of very high international standing. This matter should be debated. A considerable amount of detailed study and expert evaluation has thus been made of about 15 sites. I would like the Minister to confirm that. 
As a result of this investigation the Galston site was rejected decisively in the recommendations of the Commonwealth-State committee on environmental grounds and also on economic grounds, especially as compared with the upgrading of Mascot airport. As I understand it, the study by the British consultants was supplemented by investigations by an environmental study group established by the committee. Such a group would have taken into account the environmental aspects which are particularly important in the case of the Galston area. It is one of the finest residential, scenic and recreational areas in Australia. It contains a number of important reserves including the Hallstrom reserve, the Muogamarra Sanctuary and others. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Berinson)Order! The motion is for the suspension of Standing Orders to allow the Minister to make a statement. The mover has had considerable latitude but I think that he is getting too wide of the subject when he goes into the detail he is now pursuing. I ask the honourable member to come back to the motion, which is for the suspension of Standing Orders. 
I am submitting that Standing Orders ought to be suspended to enable this matter to be debated because of the odour of political partisanship which surrounds this decision and the fact that although this Government is committed to open government we have not yet heard the facts of this situation. I am endeavouring to set out some of the facts as I understand them with a view to underlining the importance of the need for the Minister to make a statement and to confirm them. A very important aspect is the figure quoted in the Press as to the cost of this project. It is said that it could be in excess of $ 1,000m as compared with an alternative costing the order of ยฃ350m. 
I support the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden).  The honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Lamb)  said that this was an honest Budget. He referred to a 92 per cent increase in education expenditure but he omitted to draw attention to the takeover of tertiary education by the Commonwealth, which provides a significant component of that increase. I am sorry that I have not more time to deal with some of the other inadequate statements of the honourable member. We have heard a great deal in this debate along the line that the Budget will effect a large transfer of resources to the public sector. 
This is clearly a primary objective of the Government but it is not the only objective that the Government is pursuing. That is an important point because it is linked directly with the key issue of the Budget, that is, that contrary to the argument of the honourable member for La Trobe this Budget does not combat inflation. 
I have no hesitation in conceding that the Budget contains a wide range of appealing social measures such as increased spending on education, the beginning of the school dental scheme, increased pensions - but not sufficient to keep up with the rising cost of living - and welcome initiatives in the field of urban and regional development. But the greatest social benefit that the Government could implement would be to combat inflation. That would give substance and not illusion to higher pensions and real value for money in return for the sums allocated to other and important purposes such as the new growth centres, city transport, sewerage and so on. However, the Government not only does not make in this Budget a serious attempt to fight inflation. I go further and assert that it is not able to do so, which is a serious statement to make. It is unable because it is seeking to pursue 2 broad objectives which inevitably come into collision; at least they do when attempts to reach them are pushed too hard and too quickly. 
The first of the 2 broad objectives is rapidly to expand the public sector by direct spending on goods and services, education, hospitals - or at least one hospital, in Parramatta - health services and the cities, but not defence. The promise to maintain defence expenditure at about 3.5 per cent of gross national product is not kept. I repeat that the first objective is rapidly to expand the public sector both by direct spending and transfer payments, increased welfare and social service benefits. The second objective fostered by the Government is to lift incomes, the wages and salaries, the real private spending power of the electorate which the Government professes to represent. I refer to the ordinary man in the street and his family, with their legitimate aspirations for a better house, a better car and 2 or more of them, and enough money not to have to pinch and scrape to clothe the kids and so on. 
No one denies the importance of that second objective, but how much store is the man in the street prepared to put in the rhetoric of the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  about our being much better at selling cars than providing decent public transport services. At least the Treasurer has adapted the familiar Gailbraithian line that we are better at producing cars than we are at providing decent roads on which to drive them.  His  is the up-to-date, more with it 'Down with the freeways'. However, I suggest that  Mr Average  Bloke is also very interested in roads. The latter will say: Better public transport is good thinking but my own decent car comes first, and after that my second car'. 
Like the Treasurer, I do not want to labour the point but honourable members should make no mistake. The conflict is a real one. Perhaps it is personified by the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  and the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  who are keen on an enlargement of the public sector, and maybe the Minister for Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  as the high priest of high wages, shorter hours and longer holidays, in pursuit of the other objective. So I stress again that the Government wants to enlarge the public sector by spending up on social welfare, city development and the rest, and  Mr Clyde  Cameron, together with, the broad mass of the electorate in a perfectly legitimate way, wants higher incomes and more money for the goods and services they choose to acquire; in short, they want more real private spending power. I contrast these objectives of enlarging the public sector, of spending up in the public sphere, and the perfectly legitimate aspiration of the broad mass of the electorate for higher incomes for more private spending capacity. 
In his Budget Speech the Treasurer said that the priorities were all wrong. To whose priorities was he referring? Was he referring to the priorities of the Minister for Social Security for public sector spending or of the Minister for Labour for the private sphere? The Treasurer said that the priorities were all wrong and the Budget shifts the emphasis to the public sector. A series of Government supporters have stressed the fact that this Government will enlarge the public sector. 'But will it? I would not bank on it. The Treasurer is clearly reasoning that the Budget provides for an increase of expenditure of the unprecedented order of 19 per cent. With inflation at 10 per cent built into the Budget he might reason that that should do the trick. A 10 per cent price and cost rise would still lead to real expansion of the order of 9 per cent That is greater, even with considerable economic growth, than the economy overall can possibly expand. The economy cannot expand in real terms - in terms of actual goods and services produced - by more than about 6 to 7 per cent, which is the Treasury estimate. We will be lucky to realise that target even with increased imports. If the public sector goes up by 9 per cent the private sector must increase by significantly 'ess than that - perhaps of the order of 5 per cent. 
How is this to be achieved? The Government will not increase taxes', affirmed the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam);  but taxes have been increased overtly through the hardy perennials of increased taxes on cigaretes, spirits and petrol. This is a real blow to the man in the street, perhaps raising the price index by the order of 1 per cent Taxes have been raised less overtly in the decision to commence to move towards a system  Df  collecting company tax by quarterly instalments. That will be  of  assistance to economic management when implemented but it means - I do not know how far the business community is awake to this - that a business will be up for about 125 per cent of its normal tax bill in this calendar year and at least that much again next year. That will have a pretty hefty impact in the approaching conditions of monetary restraint and for some businesses perhaps will cause a difficult liquidity problem. 
More importantly than these measures or some of the other Coombs dismantling or culling operations that appear in the Budget, taxes have been raised by the more than proportionately increased tax take as average earnings rise by an anticipated 13 per cent. That is an increase in taxation which economists call the real rate of taxation. This was forcibly illustrated in the examples given by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  who showed that as the earnings of an employee receiving average earnings go up by 13 per cent the tax take will increase from 14 per cent to something greater than 16 per cent of his earnings. A person receiving $150 a week will experience an incerase of from 20.7 per cent to the order of 23 per cent. That is the tax take as a proportion of income. So, in this way, there is an increase in income tax. It is an increase which I would judge is probably against the swing middle income voters who put the Government into office. I base this on the fact that the rate of change in the current schedule of marginal rates of income tax is more rapid in the vicinity of the level of income received by the average wage and salary earner than on the higher income levels. So, as was stressed by my colleague the honourable member for Sturt  (Mr Wilson),  there has been this increase in income tax. 
The story does not and cannot end here. This is the hub of the matter and underlines the key point that the Government has not recognised or acknowledged the very great difficulty of effecting a significant shift in the pattern of resource use in conditions of full employment. Will the wage and salary earner acquiesce in this situation? Will he take lying down this, in effect, confidence trick so clearly illustrated in these figures? There is an increase in gross pay of the order of 13 per cent but the wage earner is then slugged by increased taxation. When this happens the 13 per cent increase is reduced to a smaller effective increase and what is left is all but completely cancelled out by the rise in prices written into this Budget. Will he take this lying down in this overheated economy, urged on by the Minister for Labour and with the pace setting Commonwealth Public Service out in front showing the way? I suggest that the answer is that there is not a chance. I would warn the Government that as part and parcel of the private sector in effect rising up to defend its share of the cake, with private consumption expectations and aspirations in the vanguard, if the rise in average earnings is held to just 13 per cent - they were up  I2i  per cent in the recent June quarter on a year ago - it will be some achievement, if not almost a miracle. If, in its turn, the public sector, finding it needs to spend more money to achieve its target purposes, does spend more money, the whole thing will be 'on' with a vengeance and inflation, with all its attendant social and economic ills, will accelerate. 
What is the end point? I would say to the Government, despite the protestations of the Treasurer, that if the Treasurer succeeds, when this time next year the whole process is added up, in expanding the public sector proportionately by 1 percentage point, I believe he will be lucky. I urge the Treasurer and the Government to take note, firstly, that in conditions of full employment and resurgent private demand, which is the position now, with vacancies in excess of registered unemployed - a truly full employment or over-full employment situation - a significant enlargement of the public sector cannot be achieved without an increase in tax rates carefully and honestly explained to the electorate. I recall a speech some months ago by the Minister for Social Security who said this straight out.. He was honest about it. 
Secondly, I would say that the course that the Government is presently embarked on, without truly draconian measures of monetary policy, will lead to an acceleration of inflation unprecedented and not tolerable in this country. Last weekend we had measures of monetary policy announced. This will result in a rise in interest rates. Perhaps this is just the beginning of the rises that may be seen. When the effect of that policy starts to show up in increases in mortgage repayments, when the bond rate goes up to 8i per cent and when the lending rates of institutions such as building societies and insurance companies operating in this field go up to 10 per cent or more, the man in the street and in particular those people who were led by election promises to expect not higher mortgage repayments on their houses but an effective reduction as the interest component in that was to be made tax deductible, will rise up in anger at the actions of this Government in seeking not to attack inflation in this Budget but in this way to throw the whole weight of attacking it onto monetary policy. 
I urge the Government to take stock of its spending plans. The honourable member for La Trobe asked honourable members on this side of the House to nominate what expenditure they would cut. I do not propose to enter into that process, because it is the Government's responsibility. Perhaps the Government could start with the pipeline. The Government will have to cut its spending plans or - perhaps this is not so far off - introduce a mini Budget to increase tax rates. One or other of those ways is the only sound course for demand management which, as the Leader of the Opposition said, quoting the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, is at least 60 per cent of the inflation control problem. Contrary to the assertion of the honourable member for La Trobe, I suggest that the Government will have to work in cooperation with the Premiers of New South Wales and Victoria - not necessarily with Bjelke-Petersen - and its Labor counterparts in South Australia, Western Australia and Tasmania, to institute a freeze on prices and incomes and indeed hours of work with a view to breaking the inflationary expectations building up in this country in a truly alarming way. The Government does not want to do it because it shies off the task of controlling not only prices but also incomes. But every day this is becoming more and more essential as these expectations build up. In conclusion I ask the Government whether it can be serious about inflation. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. The remarks he made after the expiration of his time will not be recorded. 
As the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  said, this Bill provides for the deletion of section 6 of the Principal Act. The Minister for Overseas Trade and Minister for Secondary Industry  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  pointed out in his second reading speech that section 6 ties subsidy rates to circumstances as at 1 December 1969 and in general very strictly limits the circumstances in which the schedule of subsidies can be amended. In that way this Bill paves the way for implementing the proposal referred to by the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  in his Budget speech to widen the margin in petrol prices between city and country areas from 3.3c a gallon to 5c a gallon. Thus a large and important benefit will be reduced. Farmers, the people in country towns, and country industries will pay 1.7c a gallon more. 
On the face of it, the scheme itself is not to be abolished. That is to say, the principle and purpose of the scheme are to be retained; at least I hope that will be the case. As my colleague pointed out that is by no means certain. It is presented to us at this stage as enabling legislation for a cutback, as one of the Coombs culling operations, and it is one of those acts of bastardly or antagonistic- 
 Yes. It is one of those acts antagonistic to country people that we have come to accept from this Government. As I have said before anti-rural is the stance of this Government. There can be no doubt that this scheme has been of great benefit to a variety of people. I mention first country dwellers, not to mention of course country industries including State and municipal governments' power generation authorities and other bodies. I shall come back to that point. The scheme has been a very significant factor in welding metropolitan and country life into one Australian community. There is a basic justice - equity - in all Australians whether in the coastal cities, the larger inland cities, the smaller country centres or on the farms, paying similar prices for the same products. 
The case in equity is all the stronger when it is recognised that in country towns in many cases there are forces making for lower wage rates for the same job as compared with the larger cities. I have a young relative who is a machinist-fitter who draws about $30 to $40 a week less than his counterpart in the city. A scheme such as this one designed to effect some equalisation of prices - the original objective was actual equality - provides a partial offset to the situation. And yet here is the Government increasing the differential. One would have thought that this so-called Australian Government - those are the words Government supporters like to use - would have been more sympathetic to the view I am putting. I suppose to some extent, as I have said, we are not certain whether continuation of the scheme is approved in principle. I pose the question: Is it, or is it not? At least at this stage it can be said that the Government has not legislated to abolish the scheme. But of course if one reads the gospel according to Coombs in the Coombs report, one sees among the possibilities the phasing out of the existing program over, say, 3 years by progressively raising the subsidy margin. This legislation is the first raising of the margin giving vent at least to that extent to this Government's anti-rural bent. 
I have referred to the moulding of one Australian community. The interdependence of the city and country is of course absolutely fundamental. The best evidence perhaps is the high correlation that exists between the prosperity of the rural sector and the prosperity of the nation as a whole. When I speak of the prosperity of the nation as a whole I speak in particular of the major capital cities whose interests this Government so carefully studies to the neglect of the country areas. The slack in general economic activity in 1971-72 about which Government supporters are always so keen to castigate the Opposition, falsely attributing it entirely to the former Government's budgetary policy, was in fact caused to a large degree by low farm incomes. They had the effect of retarding the growth of private consumption, perhaps by as much as 1 percentage point. I will not elaborate but that is very important in that context. This Government which sees itself so much as city based had better remember that its fortunes are also tied in this way to the prosperity of the rural sector. 
The enlargement of the margin - this reduction or cheese paring of the benefit I suppose one might call it - will not affect only country people. 
It will. As my colleague says it will affect the whole of the national economy. When the widening of the margin and the increased excise duty on motor spirit provided for in this Budget are combined, the estimated result is that rural transport costs for farm produce will increase by up to 27 per cent. There will be consequential increases in food prices which will affect all purchasers, both city and country. 
Yes. So these problems will affect the city also and at a different extreme is, as I said a while ago, the impact on country industry and especially remote industry. Great but also small mining enterprises and their dependent communities will be affected. Need I stress the point? We all know the stance of this Government in the mining context under the leadership of so dogmatic, if I might say, and so prejudiced a man as the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor).  Mining enterprises in remote areas are already reeling under the difficulties of 3 revaluations with only partial compensation, apart from the iron ore industry. The proposed extra 5c a gallon is now to be payable directly on fuel and there will be this reduction in the benefit by the enlargement of the margin. As has been said, 'business is always one damned thing after another', but for the Australian mining industry things are coming too thick and fast altogether. 
I have referred to the issue of whether this legislation presages the elimination of the scheme altogether. On that point, as my colleague the Leader of the Australian Country Party said, the Minister does have a tilt at the scheme as a whole. In his second reading speech he said: 
The scheme is, however, expensive and less efficient in achieving its objective than is desirable. 
One gets little insight as to just what is the objection save the Minister's remarks when he said: 
In practice the largest pay-outs under it are made in major inland cities. 
So what? The purpose of the scheme is the fostering of the one metropolitan-rural national Australian community. For that purpose there is a compelling case for it in equity and a compelling case in terms of encouraging regional development - or at least countering some of the pressures that work against it. So what then, if large payouts do accrue to the residents of Canberra, Broken Hill and Toowoomba? 
In respect of the efficiency of the scheme it has also been said against it that it is not economic logic to provide a -subsidy which encourages people to remain in remote locations and to do this in such a way that the greatest encouragement goes to those in the most remote places. Distance, it is said, involves a real cost to the community and such a policy would enlarge that cost. But again, I suggest that that is to allow strictly doctrinaire economic thinking to run away and override considerations of justice and equity. Fortunately - if one can use that word in this sorry context - the flat, uniform widening of the margin will affect proportionately least the stalwart citizens, if I might so describe them, of the remote areas of Australia who live and work in the isolation of those places in the interests of this whole nation. They deserve better treatment than they are meted out by this city oriented, anti-rural Government. 
I address my question to the Minister for Transport and Minister for Civil Aviation. Notwithstanding the answer of the  Deputy  Prime Minister to the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, which still leaves the Galston position unclear, I ask the Minister: Can he say whether the DirectorGeneral of Civil Aviation has made a report to him on the significance of the proximity of the Royal Australian Air Force base at Richmond to the proposed international airport at Galston? If so, what was the gist of it? Was the cost of adapting RAAF operations at Richmond, or relocating the air base, included in the cost-benefit study of 15 sites carried out by the British consultants for the Commonwealth-State committee on the possi.bility of a second airport? I come finally to the interim report of the CommonwealthState committee which recommended the upgrading of Sydney (Kingsford-Smith) Airport plus 5 sites, not including Galston, that the Minister undertook to table on 29 August, 3 weeks ago. Will we see it this side of the Parramatta by-election? 
These Bills- the Excise Tariff Bill (No. 3) and the corresponding Customs Tariff Bill, which relates to similar commodities which are imported, and the Diesel Fuel Tax Bills - implement first the increased duty of 5c a gallon on petrol and aviation fuel. This represents an increase in the retail price of the order of 10 per cent and is estimated to yield some $157m in a full year. The Bills implement also the increased duties on cigarettes and tobacco - again 5c on a packet of 20 cigarettes. This represents an increase in price of slightly more than 10 per cent. So these are Bills which are considerably inflation producing. Thirdly, there is the increased duty of about 3c a nip on spirits. After making some exhaustive inquiries from among my colleagues I gather that this also is an increase of the order of 10 per cent. 
It is 3c a nip. 
It was a long time ago that that would have happened. This, of course, represents a substantial increase in the total duty - approaching the order of 100 per cent. I foreshadow that in relation to Excise Tariff Bill (No. 3) I will move: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to inserting the following words in place thereof: whilst not declining to give the Bill a second reading the House deplores the adoption of measures which serve to worsen the already alarming inflationary situation and impose directly an extra burden on the living costs of the Australian community, and greatly increase the cost of transportation at the expense of the community in general and the development of decentralised industry in particular!' 
I did not mention that the increased duty on cigarettes and spirits is designed to yield $112m in a full year, so with the yield from the petrol tax increase a total of $268m is involved in a full year. 
Also in this group of Bills being debated is the Excise Bill (No. 2) 1973. I think it is one of the really phoney elements of a phoney Budget. One had to be a keen listener to what was said on the night the Budget was brought down to detect anything being said about there being an increase in the excise payable on beer in addition to the additional taxation that I have just mentoned on the ordinary man's cigarettes, petrol and, if he takes them, spirits. Nevertheless that will be the effect of the passage of this Bill. There was, of course, a reference in the Budget speech of the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  to an increase in the specified dutiable contents of beer vessels. Apparently actual average fills are typically larger now that stain ess steel containers are widely used instead of the traditional wooden keg. I do not know whether that makes any great difference to the taste of the product; but that is the situation. The passage of this Bill will result in excise being charged on 79 litres a kilderkin - in plain language, an 1 8-galIon keg - instead of 76.5 litres, as was the case previously. I understand that this will result in an increase in duty payable of 63c a kilderkin. That is according to the report of the Coombs Task Force. 
I take this opportunity to correct a reference I made in a speech the other week to the report of the Coombs task force. I referred to it as the gospel according to Coombs'. A good Christian would know that 'gospel' means good news. Since there is in the report of the Coombs taks force hardly anything that amounts to good news - there is only doom to many sections of deserving Australians in it - I withdraw my reference to it as 'the gospel'. But according to the report of the Coombs task force this increase in the deemed dutiable content will increase the duty payable on beer by about $7m per annum. That is not a large amount in the league in which we are operating. It represents about 0.2c a 10 oz glass. 
About 0.2c a 10 oz glass. 
It probably will be managed. Just the same, I guess the draught beer drinker will, after some backing and filling by the Prices Justification Tribunal, end up paying for it in one way or another. In the other cases, as I have said, the increases in duty represent substantial increases in retail prices. Thus they will give a direct impetus to inflation and for the ordinary man in the street, who is the professed concern of this Government, will mean a lift in prices where it hurts a lot. 
The overall effect on the consumer price index can be variously estimated. In ratio of gross national product the sums I have mentioned represent rather less than a percentage point. But .the impact of the increase in the price of petrol and diesel fuels will be more complex and more insidious than the others. Transport costs enter into every product, and in its non-private component as this increase works it way through the various stages of the production process it is inevitable that it will be subject to a mark-up. Thus the impact on the price level certainly may be put at upwards of the order of a percentage point. While governments of all colours have over the years fallen back on the hardy perennials of higher taxes on the ordinary man's cigarettes, drinks and petrol, the introduction of these measures on this occasion, when the containing of inflation is the dominating issue of national economic policy, are so inappropriate as to be ludicrous. Perhaps 'ludicrous' is not the right word, as it is no laughing matter. Perhaps I should have said 'as to be utterly and completely irresponsible'. I believe that the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  spoke for most honourable members and most ordinary people when - as reported at page 475 of Hansard of 28 August 1973 - he said: 
Let me say that I do regret the indirect taxes, particularly the increase in petrol prices, because of their effect on the consumer price index and inflation. 
It is good that so economically literate a supporter of the Government - indeed, the  Chairman  of the Joint Committee on Prices - as the honourable member for Adelaide should acknowledge that. I think the key issue in this matter can then be put this way. While the effect of these increases in duties will add directly upwards of the order of one percentage point to the increase in prices over and above the momentum of the current inflation stemming from more general causes the key issue is whether these increases in duty together with all the other tax increases in the Budget - the covert ones as well as the overt ones - are likely to have an outweighing, restraining, dampening effect on the fundamental inflation momentum. 1 am saying that the direct effect on the man in the street of a rise in the price level of cigarettes, petrol and spirits is adding to inflation. Is the indirect effect of these duty increases in company with the other tax increases in the Budget likely significantly to dampen down inflation? It has to be said that the revenue from these increased duties is comparatively small change compared with the increase in the personal income tax, which has been projected at no less than a cool SI, 089m. That is a figure which I would suggest the tax paying public should note in this Budget of no increase in income tax'. Technically, 1 concede, there has been no increase in tax rates. It is a truly massive take, even in this overall Budget context where Sim can easily become lost in the areas of estimating. That take in income tax is large by any standards. It represents an increase of 27 per cent and thereby raises the ratio of personal income tax to personal income, which is the only tax rate that really counts when one is arguing about tax increases, by a percentage point or two. Incidentally the increase in income tax of SI, 089m - over $1 billion, as the Americans would put it - that is anticipated this year compares with an increase of only S321m under the previous Government last year. I leave it to the people at large to judge whether the Government has kept within cooee of the spirit of its election promise not to increase taxes - under the breath, of course, 'tax rates' - in the formal sense. 
In addition to that massive income tax take, the increase of S50m in private company taxes, the additional charges on meat exports, which are to yield S20m, and, indeed, the massive sum of S330m-odd which will be the impact within the short period ahead of the bringing forward to December of a quarter's payment of public company tax, the Government has imposed these duty increases. Why? What is their purpose? The Treasurer in turning to the excise increases towards the end of his speech said that despite the revenue arising from measures announced up to that point in his speech 'further revenue measures are needed'. We have to move on to the end of his speech for an explanation. By adding the estimated S223m to bc derived in 1973-74 from these increased duties to the swingeing increase in the personal income tax and other tax increases, the Treasurer gets a prospective total increase in receipts of nearly S2,000m or, to use the American term, S2 billion - to match the Government's irresponsible super boost in spending of $ 1,938m, an increase of 18.9 per cent overall, but in its impact on the domestic economy - the effect that counts - it is an alltime high increase of 20 per cent. By adding the revenue from these duties to these other sources of revenue the Treasurer in this way can match the record boost to expenditure proposed by this Government. 
In fact the Treasurer can do a bit better. With these additional duties he can show an increase in receipts somewhat greater than the increase in expenditure. A prospective domestic deficit of about $S3m, slightly smaller than last year's, is involved. And all this, the Treasurer manages to convey, is terribly responsible - responsible budgeting - 'appropriate as he put it, to the 'buoyant economic circumstances' confronting us in 1973-74. What a way to assess the impact of the Budget! The country is in a position of overfull employment brought on by the Government's topping up to overflow the nicely judged 1972 Budget of the previous Government. We are in a full employment situation induced in this way which has been exacerbated price index-wise and thence in its effect on wage demands by the externally - admittedly externally affected to some extent - rises in food and commodity prices - rises which the Government has done nothing, did nothing to ameliorate those rises. 
In this submission the Government budgets for a real expansion of the public sector spending of, as I have just said, 20 per cent. What does that mean in real terms? The lowest estimate of the sort of price increase built into this Budget I have seen namely - 7 per cent - does that imply a real expansion of 13 per cent? Inflation built into the Budget is, I believe, at least to the order of 10 per cent. With an expenditure increase of 20 per cent does this mean a real expansion of some 10 per cent? If it does, it is not feasible because overall as authoritative estimates, as the Treasury estimate would have it, we will not do better than an increase in real terms in the output of goods and services than about 6 to 7 per cent. If the public sector is aiming to take the amount to which I have referred, what is to happen to the private sector? As the Treasury Roundup No. 8 says, private demand is rising very fast. Private consumption, housing, other private non-building despite a small reduction in July, even now at long last and hopefully private fixed investment are rising at real rates which are equal to the projected total output of the economy. 
We have a situation in which the Government projects an expansion of an order which, taken along with the expansion taking place in the private sector, is not feasible. Therefore I suggest that the deterrent effect to private spending of these additional duties will be swallowed up in the absence of truly Draconian monetary or credit restrictions, as the private sector with personal consumption expectations and aspirations in the vanguard rises to defend its share of the national cake. In this way as the private sector competes with the public sector for resources inflation is stimulated. When all things are counted up 12 months from now and we have the national income White Paper with the proposed enlargement of the public sector, if it exceeds the order of an additional percentage point in proportion to national income I will be very surprised. In the meantime accelerating inflation will be the outcome. 
As I said, this Budget is best categorised as the phoney Budget and the greatest phoney aspect is that the Budget, the main instrument of sound and responsible economic management of the economy, should be constructed on this occasion as an instrument not of containing inflation but of sustaining, and indeed as I have suggested, of fostering galloping inflation; that is to say, domestically generated inflation superimposed on the situation where it is true there has been a significant measure, but not exclusively so, of so-called imported inflation. What I am saying is that in point of fact the responsibility of this Government was to contain and to cut back its spending and thereby to have eliminated the need for these unjust and unfair inflationproducing imposts on the ordinary man's cigarettes, petrol and to a much more limited degree, beer. 
The Government could have started with the pipeline. It could have proceeded to do something about the expanded expenditure on the Public Service, and beyond that it is the Minister's responsibility. 
I said that the increase projected for expenditure in that area could have been less than is projected. 
I draw an analogy between these increases in duties and the monetary or interest rate weapon which the Government is now relying on almost wholly to rein in the gallop. What I have tried to make clear about these increases in duties is that they add directly to the rise in costs and prices in their impact on tha man in the street and that this effect, in all the circumstances, outweighs any restraining effects through a concealed curtailment of spending power. On present indications at least the same can be said of the Government's monetary measures. 
Higher interest rates are forcing up costs and affecting prices. For instance they are affecting the price of a refrigerator that the ordinary man is buying on hire purchase. They are likely to do that in prevailing circumstances more than they are likely to curtail the demand. These items are an element in a Budget which is inherently and significantly inflationary in its impact. These duty measures in particular impinge on the ordinary man in the street. As the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurtford)  implied, the Government stands condemned for these increases in indirect taxes and particularly in petrol prices. At a later stage when the Excise Tariff Bill (No. 3) is before us, I will move the amendment that I foreshadowed earlier. 
I am happy to seize the opportunity to give some measure of reassurance to the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford).  The broad objective of this legislation is to extend the system of public inquiry and scrutiny of government assistance to industry, which now applies to secondary industry through the Tariff Board, to rural industry and, indeed, if the Government should so elect, to areas of tertiary industry as well. Generally speaking the principle is one which the Liberal Party, as a truly national party, welcomes. In that way this Party is in sympathy with the central principle and thrust of this legislation. The argument for the single body is made cogently by  Sir John  Crawford, a good friend and mentor of mine, in the report which forms the basis of this Bill. It is essentially that a decision regarding assistance to one industry inevitably has implications directly or indirectly for a whole range of other industries and therefore it is desirable to co-ordinate decisions and, in particular to take account of the inter-relationships as between industries. These are perhaps obvious enough in the context of the rural sector as such. My colleague the honourable member for Corangamite  (Mr Street)  who will be speaking later in this debate, will elaborate on this aspect. But, of course, the same applies as between manufacturing and rural industries and, indeed, tertiary industries - for example, transport - as well. Nor can it be denied, as I said in a recent speech in this House, that the examination of industries ad hoc - I have in mind the secondary sector under the present Tariff Board arrangement - and piecemeal in isolation undoubtedly has led to some extent to inconsistency in tariff making and to an upward creep perhaps in the overall level of protection. It is thus necessary to seek coordinate policies of assistance to different industries in Australia, lt can be argued cogently that procedures for examining the merits of proposals for government assistance to industry should be on a common basis. This was forcefully contended by a variety of industry bodies in their submissions to  Sir John  Crawford. These bodies included, as  Sir John  perhaps not without some sublety quotes in his report, the 
Australian Industries Development Association. At page 28 of his report  Sir John  quotes that body as saying: 
It is recommended that questions of government assistance to any industry - rural, mining, fishing, manufacturing or tertiary - 
I will comment presently on the reference by the honourable member for Adelaide to tertiary industry -  should be referred to the Commission. Procedures for examining the merits of proposals for government assistance to industry should be on a common basis. 
I stress the words 'should be on a common basis'. The Commission should, in effect, stick to its last - the cobbler's last. The focus of the Commission is or should be on the assessment of long-term trends - trends in new technology, in productivity here and abroad, in likely trends in relation to international currency movements and exchange rates. Of course exchange rates is a real guessing game under the present Government - there should also be assessment of the balance of world trends. This is the focus and speciality of such a commission. This is its task and its focus; its ability to make judgments, looking five or ten years hence, as to how far any particular industry is likely to prove - to use the old terminology now considerably elaborated in section 22 of the Act - 'economic and efficient' in the Australian context. 
Hence it can be argued that one commission should be charged with the job of making long-term judgments about industries in all sectors of the economy - of course in an advisory position only. Only the Government makes tariffs and grants financial assistance. To these remarks I would add the hope that the activities of the one protection commission will serve to foster greater mutual understanding of one another's problems by the various sectors of industry and the community at large. For too long there has been a widespread attitude that assistance, protection to the rural sector has been too generous - too much in comparison with protection to secondary industry. In my judgment as an economist, that attitude is not soundly based, as a glance at the calculations in the appropriate appendix to the report of the Committee of Economic Inquiry, the Vernon Committee, of a few years ago - admittedly a little dated now - would show. Examined under the umbrella of one body, hopefully a more balanced appreciation of the relative extent of protection to primary and to secondary industry may emerge. 
In these terms the Liberal Party supports the thrust of this Bill. It is a cardinal principle of policy in this Party that we stand for the adequate protection of Australian industry - economic and efficient industries viewed within the overall context of the development of a sound and balanced Australian industrial base. As I said, this Bill, concerned with assistance and protection to industry and with its emphasis on the co-ordination of assistance measures under the purview of one body, is not opposed by this Party. But the acceptance of the Bill in broad principle is one thing; its detail can be a different matter. There is the matter of the guidelines set out in clause 22, about which my colleague the Leader of the Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  had something to say in his speech. The clause makes good reading, even good rhetoric. But I am doubtful, save for the specific reference to, the addition of, urban and regional development to the general objectives of the Government as written into the clause, that it moves in practical effect beyond the guidelines laid down many years ago in that notable speech by  Sir Robert  Menzies. The combined emphasis, one might suggest, of paragraphs (a) and (b) taken together undoubtedly expresses the intention of this Government to move for generally lower protection. That is in line with the professed belief of the Prime Minister  (.Mr Whitlam)  that protection afforded to secondary industry in this country is too high. I do not know how far concern for urban and regional development may turn out to qualify or to muddy that intention. Still, the Prime Minister's judgment is an interesting one, but I suspect largely a doctrinaire and theoretical one, light on for good evidence, especially when everything is taken into account, including the non-tariff barriers to trade so much more widely resorted to overseas. 
Meanwhile, though, the Prime Minister and other members of the Government will doubtless claim, as they have on earlier occasions, that despite loud crys of opposition and anguish, the 25 per cent across-the-board tariff cut that the Government imposed last July has led to very little dislocation of industry. Of course it has not. The nation is in a state of high boom resulting from the policies of this Government. 
Let me carry on a moment. The nation is in a state of high boom and there is undoubtedly a boom in all the leading industrial countries of the world. The Government knew or should have known that this was the imminent position at the time of imposing that cut. Estimates were that a number of the order of 29,000 persons were to be displaced from industry. These estimates which were fed out to underline, in effect, the great courage of the Government in this sensitive policy area were phoney estimates in the circumstances in which that cut was made. 
Put the 2 things together and let the Australian people be the judge. On the one hand the professed justification of the measure was to ensure a surge of imported supplies to add to domestic production and thus counter inflation. Every day it was becoming more and more evident that too much money was or would be chasing too few goods. On the other hand it was safe politically. The Government knew, as everybody knew, that in the current world situation goods for import were hard to come by, so industries vulnerable to imports were for the time being safe. What hypocrisy! The Government can get away with it just because the measure could not do the job that the Government professes it would do. 
I only give this warning: As the world boom reaches its peak - it may have already done so - there will be a flood of imports and a setback to industry in this country of very significant proportions and that will be a major contributing factor to the stagflation - continuing inflation but a slack and perhaps some unemployment in the productive sectors of the economy - which will in due time inevitably be the outcome of the policies of this Government. Meanwhile the damaging effect of this measure will be on business confidence and the long term forward planning by industry on which the thrust of continued sound economic growth depends and on which many of the proposed policy objectives of the Government depend. 
In saying these things I recognise that in the way this Bill is drawn, such acrosstheboard cuts are not ruled out. It is not our intention to suggest any amendment that would do so. But I take the opportunity of saying that that is not the sort of treatment that this side of the House would wish to mete out to industry. I take the opportunity to stress that at the same time as I say that, lest it be said that I speak as an arch protectionist, let me say that the Liberal Party, while committed to adequate protection of economic and efficient Australian industry, when in Government did not rest content with the existing levels of protection. It was the Liberal-Country Party Government in office which instituted the present systematic review of the tariff. It was in 1971 that the progressive or systematic review of the tariff, as it came to be known, commencing in those areas where protection was highest and had not been reviewed for many years, was instituted, and that was followed by the April 1972 so-called 1,000 items excess margins reference. The membership of the Tariff Board was enlarged to expedite these inquiries. This Bill, despite the vast increase in the purview of the Commission, cuts its number of members back to nine. That is a significant matter. I believe it is significant in relation to some other clauses of the Bill, and these perhaps we can discuss more fully when we come to the Committee stage. 
In the time that remains to me let me indicate that the Opposition has had some difficulty with some clauses in this Bill. In relation to the mandatory clause 23 we will find it necessary to move an amendment. I hope that in the application of that clause the Government is sincere and that it does not represent a compromise between that one side of the Government which I believe is committed to that principle, and the other side of the Government represented by the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  which is not. For clearly it can be bypassed where it is provided firstly that a time can be laid down during which the Commission must deliver a report, and 30 days after that, in the absence of a report, the Government may act. It could therefore be circumvented by the simple expedient of laying down a time that is infeasible for the Commission, and thereafter the Government can act. 
The only other matter that time permits me to touch on is the provision in clause 26 relating to temporary assistance. In this area there is a proposal that in the event of the requirement for emergency assistance the  Chairman  of the Commission shall nominate a Commissioner to hear evidence on the matter and to prepare a report. I believe it is of the utmost importance that the Commission should stick to its last', and its last is the consideration of the issue of long term protection - whether in the light of trends in technology, productivity and relative exchange rates, looking 5 or 10 years ahead, this or that industry is likely to be viable in the Australian context. The problem of assessing the day to day problems which could arise through trading practices perhaps originating from overseas is a problem in a different context altogether. In this area there should be a temporary assistance authority separate from the Commission to deal with these problems. 
Sitting suspended from 6.16 to 8 p.m. 
The amendment I propose to move is similar in import to the previous proposal I mentioned. I referred to the provision in clause 9 that the power of the  Chairman  in regard to certain responsibilities can be exercised only after consultation with the Commissioners. In clause 18, which we are now considering, powers again are conferred on the  Chairman  and it begins with the words 'Subject to this section'. I move: 
In Sub-Clause (1) omit the words 'Subject to this section', substitute the following words: 
Subject to sub-section 9 (3) and to this section'. 
The clause would then read: 
Subject to sub-section 9 (3) and to this section, the  Chairman  shall convene such meetings of the Commission as he thinks necessary .... 
The purpose of making this subject to clause 9 (3) is that in the exercise of these powers the  Chairman  shall consult with the Commissioners. 
I seek leave of the Committee to incorporate in Hansard the remaining amendments which stand in my name. 
I indicate that the Government accepts those amendments circulated in the name of the honourable member for Berowra, which are amendments Nos 8 and 9 relating to clause 23. I also formally refer to the Government's proposed amendment, relating to clause 23 (5), which simply aims at tidying up one aspect that can be tidied up and improved. So that vetting of rural industries by the Commission can be phased in during the transitional period, we seek to insert after the word 'paragraph' the words 'or occurred before the commencement of this Act'. 
What is the amendment proposed by the Government? 
 The amendment to be moved to this clause relates to some following amendments to later clauses which have a similar import. In my second reading speech I expressed some concern as to the size of this Commission in relation to the potentially vast range of inquiries and matters that it may be required to encompass. 
I do not want to traverse too much ground which properly should be covered when we deal with a later clause of the Bill. Having such a small number of Commissioners to consider such a vast range of matters will potentially require the development of a vast bureaucracy. I want to underline the concern about that matter which has been expressed by a number of my colleagues from the Australian Country Party. They expressed concern about reducing the number of members from 
I I in the case of the Tariff Board to 9 in the case of the Industry Assistance Commission. It is to be a comparatively small Commission with considerable powers apparently vested in the  Chairman.  I now come directly to the subject matter of our amendment. Without suggesting that there is any explicit intention in the Bill to the contrary, we believe it is important to maintain, and important that there is seen to be maintained, the concept which I think is appropriate in this context, namely, of the Commission as a body comprising a number of independent Commissioners of generally equal status. We believe that recommendations on assistance to industry and tariff policy should be a matter for the meeting of several minds, so to speak, with members of the Commission meeting as a group to determine matters of policy and other very important matters. The Commission should consist of a number of independent Commissioners meeting together and policy should thus be in their hands rather than potentially in the hands of one man should the situation emerge of there being a particularly dominant  Chairman.  Therefore I move: 
Omit the words ', as far as practicable,'. 
Clause 9 (2) (a) and (b) sets out the powers of the  Chairman  to convene meetings and so on. The Bill as it stands provides that that power shall be exercised 'as far as practicable' only after consultation with the Commissioners. Surely the  Chairman  will be in constant, perhaps almost daily, contact with his Commissioners. It is difficult to see why there should be this qualification' as far as practicable'. We suggest therefore that the clause should more appropriately provide that the Chairman's powers be exercised only after consultation with the Commissioners. 
I propose to move a further amendment to clause 18. Without suggesting that there is any explicit intention in the Bill that in this context the appropriate concept is other than of a number of independent Commission members of generally equal status meeting together and determining matters of policy in these great issues of assistance to industry, nevertheless, it has sometimes been suggested that it is important in the determination of these important issues that there be frequent discussions of policy by the Commission as a whole - an appropriate meeting of minds of the Commission as a whole - on contentious issues. Of course, this cannot take place unless the Commission meets as a body to determine these issues. There may be from time to time disagreements within the Commission and the members of the Commission who are in disagreement may not have an opportunity within a reasonable interval to express their point of view. It is suggested, therefore, that by way of amendment a new clause 18 (1a) be inserted. My original amendments as circulated show proposed new subclauses (3a) and (3b), but taking the advice of the Parliamentary Counsel, I now move: 
After sub-clause (1), insert the following sub-clause: (1a) Notwithstanding sub-section 9 (3), the  Chairman  shall convene meetings of the Commission at least once in each month and shall convene such a meeting whenever he is requested in writing to do so by not less than three Commissioners.'. 
The next amendment I propose to move also is related to clause 18 and is in pursuance of the same aim of establishing machinery whereby the Commission meets as a whole to determine policy and other matters. Clause 18 (6) (a) provides that the  Chairman  and merely 2 other Commissioners, in a body which may be made up of between 5 and 9 members, may constitute a meeting of the Commission. Considering the vast range of matters which can be brought under the purview of the Commission, it is likely that the Commission will comprise 9 members, in which case it appears to us that the  Chairman  and 2 others is a rather small number. One then asks: What number is appropriate? The  Chairman  and 4 others gives a rather larger quorum. While this may appear to be a comparatively minor quibble, the proposed amendment does seem to establish a better percentage of the membership of the Commission meeting together to form a quorum. We propose that a quorum should consist of the  Chairman  and 3 other Commissioners. Therefore I move: 
In sub-clause  (6)  (a) omit the word 'two', substitute the word 'three'. 
This clause refers to the functions of the Commission which are to hold inquiries and to make reports to the Minister in accordance with this Act in respect of matters affecting assistance to industries and 'other matters' that may be referred to the Commission in accordance with this Act. I rise to suggest that the area of possible inquiry by the Commission under this clause does appear a vast one, so vast that it undoubtedly opens up, or can well open up, the prospect of the Commission blossoming into a huge bureaucracy. This is a point which was well taken by one of my colleagues. It is intended that the Commission itself should do all the work of assembling the necessary data for its inquiries?  Sir John  Crawford had a great deal to say about this in paragraphs 118 to 128 of the report. But I ask the Minister for Secondary Industry  (Mr Enderby):  How far will the hope as expressed as I read it in  Sir John's  report, and widely held in industry, that the Commission should draw as much information as possible from the relevant departments brought in by this extension of the purview of the commission by the Bill - the Departments of Primary Industry. Secondary Industry, Minerals and Energy and 
Transport - and supplement this only as required from its own resources, be realised? 
One could perhaps go further and propose that it should in fact be the duty of the relevant departments assisted as appropriate by, for example, the Bureau of Agricultural Economics and the Bureau of Mineral Resources, where it is proposed to refer an industry to the Commission for report as to what assistance if any should be afforded it, to prepare some sort of initial position study of the industry for the benefit of interested members of the public as well as for the industry itself, related industries and the Commission, this study to be forwarded to the Commission with the reference. Of course, the Commission might wish to top this up, so to speak, in various ways. But if this were done much of the burden of detailed investigation of an industry would not need to be duplicated. Perhaps in this way the size of the Commission bureaucracy, about which I think there are legitimate fears, might be contained. I do not intend to make any formal proposal in that respect. But I would certainly express the hope that the Commission will work more along these lines. 
The activities of which the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  gives an account in this statement arose in connection with the Minister's visit to Tokyo for the initial meeting in connection with the next round of negotiations of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade. I am bound to say that the Minister's account contains much of dogma and prejudice tempered, as one would expect of the Minister, with a little idealism and of unreal expectations. For example, it expresses the idea of this country moving into products and processes out of which the Japanese have moved what products and processes are these? The statement contains much wishful thinking for example, that there can be effective or beneficial entry by the Japanese into motor car manufacture here. The statement includes also contradiction and some self-congratulation. 
At the outset I should say - this also is a disappointment - that there is very little in the statement about the great matters which - or a beginning to which were to be the focus of the Tokyo meeting. I refer to negotiations to reduce non-tariff barriers and agricultural protectionism as well as industrial tariffs as barriers to the growth of international trade, and the future systems of safeguards and adjustment assistance in the event of real progress towards a reduction of barriers. In the statement the Minister speaks in a way typical of this Government, as if his side of the House has a monopoly of concern for the potentially adverse social consequences of change and adjustment with a freer flow of international trade. I refer to the need for employees to find and train for new jobs, and for firms to turn to new avenues of production and investment. This matter was well canvassed in the discussions and preliminary papers preceding the meeting in Tokyo. So concern for these matters is hardly the monopoly of the Minister, although a casual listener to his statement might have gathered that impression. As a matter of passing interest, the Japanese have had an adjustment assistance law in being since 1 971 . 
The Minister made no reference at all to the problem of the so called link between the reduction of barriers to international trade, tariffs and non-tariffs, and an effectively functioning and adaptive pattern of relatively stable exchange rates - in short, an adequate international monetary system. The reduction of barriers to international trade and the development of an adequate international monetary system go hand in hand in promoting an expanding, balanced and equitable flow of world trade - one that is mutually beneficial to developing and developed countries alike. This problem of the 'link' has been widely acknowledged in the world's financial Press as being perhaps the most tricky issue facing the Tokyo conference. But there was no reference to that in the Minister's statement. Perhaps it would have been appropriate for the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  to have joined with the Minister in making a joint statement, or do they belong to different wings of the Government party? At all events the Treasurer made such a statement before the suspension of the sitting for dinner. 
Rather than focussing on the great if frustratingly difficult issues of trying to find constructive ways to make the world trade and financial system work better, the Minister early in his statement adopts the typically Anti'-prejudice, if I may call it that, that the developing economies have gained little from past trade and aid programs. He says that they have not achieved much and that we need to look more realistically at the major issues - with the presumption that this is not being done. The Minister takes a swipe at the developed economies of the world when he refers to 'the usually non-competing enterprise system which characterises the developed countries and which operates to the disadvantage of the economically weak economies and less well-organised and more highly competitive enterprises of the developing world'. To say that the enterprise systems of the developed economies are usually noncompeting is just plain factually incorrect. I am set to wondering just how close the Minister has ever got to the problems of making sales of manufactured products in the shifting conditions of modern trade and variable exchange rates. He ought to talk to some of the developed European countries about the difficulties of competing effectively with a new undervalued United States dollar. I hope that the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  takes some note of that in the light of some of his earlier statements. 
The sort of stance that is taken at this point in the paper - of the disadvantageous impact of the developed economies on the developing - is no doubt influenced by hoary arguments, such as the extent to which the prices of manufactured goods are held to have increased much more favourably relatively to the prices of primary commodities which figure so heavily in the trade of the developing countries. This particular bit of folk lore in fact is not proven, even over the long stretch prior to the rises in commodity prices that we have witnessed in recent years. Be that as it may; what I stress is that in the very process of competition between the developed, the advanced countries, the development of secondary industry in the developing countries is assisted. The fact is that increasingly firms from the industrialised developed countries have shifted into the developing economies, and this has helped the expansion of the developing - that is the poorer - economies' trade in manufactures. It is this indeed which has been a major factor in making enterprises in the developing economies more competitive in international markets and has fuelled the increased rate of growth of their exports of manufactures. And as I stressed in a recent speech in this House, the thrust of the overall expansion of world trade is the growth of trade in manufactures as between the advanced industrial countries of the world, as well as between them and the developing economies. 
If, even so, progress in development is too slow for the Minister's liking as well as for my own, what we have to recognise is that one of the present facts of life is that the quantum of trade in manufactured goods by the developing economies is quite small. However, it is also a fact that those economies have been growing more rapidly than those of the developed countries and the socialist countries when it comes to manufactured goods. That has to be recognised. The trouble is the small base - so that even with a relatively high rate of growth, the impact on the development and overall trade of the developing economies can only be small. Realistically this situation will remain for the rest of the decade. But it is wrong to imply that the operations of the developed countries screw down on, necessarily operate to the disadvantage of, the developing economies. 
What I would like to put as strongly as possible is that we also should increasingly be part of the process I have described - that is, participating in the development of secondary industry in the developing countries. In his statement the Minister makes a passing reference to discussions with Nissan and Toyota and to the fact that the Government welcomes them to engage in the manufacture of motor vehicles in Australia. I note that there was no reference to the key problem in this industry of too many separate motor vehicle plants in this country, and to the problems of achieving economies of scale and efficiency which would be exacerbated by the simple addition of Nissan and Toyota to the list. What is essential is that policy with respect to Nissan and Toyota should be combined with some trade within the East Asian region, involving Australia exporting components and parts as well as importing other components and parts from the developing economies or from Japan, to mutual benefit in the realisation of economies of scale and thereby lower end prices. 
In general terms, what I am trying to say is that what the Government should be seeking to foster as part and parcel of promoting world trade and development is our own overseas investment; investment by Australia in foreign countries, particularly in the south and east Asian regions. To assist in and foster the activities of Australian enterprises in this process is, I suggest, a proper role for the Australian Industry Development Corporation - even an expanded AIDC - but not, I believe, the potential cancerous incubus that was proposed by the Bills before this House last week. I am led to make that reference to the AIDC because the Minister himself referred to it in his statement, in connection with overseas investment in this country. I can only say that I am gratified by the drift of the Minister's statement just prior to that reference where he welcomed overseas investment as a vehicle of new technology and know-how in this country. 
I am greatly in favour of the fostering of our own overseas investment, so that as one of the rich countries of the world we contribute - and I would hope on an increasing scale - to the growth of living standards, particularly in the developing world. I noted, therefore, with particular interest the Minister's words when discussing his visit to South Korea - 'the Republic of Korea. He declares it to be Government policy that we would welcome investment by Australian firms in that area. I cannot quote the statement precisely, but that was the effect of it. However brief, we have there a statement relating to the requirements as the Government sees them for Australian foreign investment - something which, as I have said, I should like to see more of. 
I had proposed to refer to the Minister's statement in relation to his' visit to North Korea. The possibilities referred to there are the exchange of Australian mineral products for North Korean manufactures. There are then possible difficulties for our own manufacturing industries that that could give rise to in the future. It is the sort of problem that we have foreseen in relation to our trade with Japan. I think that is indicative of the sort of troubles that the Government is likely to get itself into in trade problems with this personal and ad hoc - not to say ideologically directed - approach, country by country, of the Minister. 
To return to the main theme, the Tokyo meeting was the beginning of a round of negotiations which is to be the successor of the earlier and very successful Dillon and Kennedy rounds. I wish the Minister a successful participation in what I hope will be a successful round of negotiations. If they succeed, the end result will most likely be a never-ending round of negotiations designed to combat barriers to trade between nations, with permanent machinery to deal with specific problems. If they should fail, there is a strong chance that the world would break up into rival protectionist groupings to the detriment of the whole world and not least of the developing world which is close to the interests of both the Minister and myself. 
The Opposition agrees with the Government's view that even more effective legislation in the area of trade practices and monopoly is important and essential. There is no disagreement on that point. If any evidence is necessary, one has only to look at the proposals which were introduced into this Parliament last year by the then Government which recognised the need, as the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  was pointing out, for dealing more expeditiously with the number of agreements then on the register. There were proposals to vary the procedure which then prevailed and still prevails - the Government went out of office before the measure was enacted - in various ways, including changing the onus of proof in proceedings before the Tribunal, eliminating the requirement for compulsory consultations under section 48 and otherwise accelerating the process. So, it is sufficiently evident from those proposals brought down by the Attorney-General of the previous Government that honourable members on this side of the House are concerned about making legislation in this area more effective. 
I refer briefly to one other point that the honourable member for Gellibrand made, and that is the folklore that the measure introduced in 1965  -  the so-called Snedden Act - considerably watered down the proposals made by  Sir Garfield  Barwick. It is not possible for me to go into this question in any great detail. I will cite just one point: Under the Barwick proposals monopolisation was a matter for the ordinary courts. All experience indicates that there would never have been a conviction in those circumstances. Under the Snedden proposals monopolisation became a matter for the Trade Practices Tribunal where a more expeditious hearing would have occurred and a lesser standard of proof would have been required. 
The other point, which has been mentioned repeatedly by speakers from the Government side and referred to by members from this side, concerns the relationship of this measure to inflation. As the Minister for Secondary Industry  (Mr Enderby)  said, this measure is especially important because of its relevance to inflation. That is true. But relevance to inflation should not be confused with immediacy. Trade practices policy or antimonopoly policy fits into the category of long haul policies to manage and shape the proper development of the economy. It is in the same category as effective tariff policy, changing and adapting the arbitration and industrial relations system, measures to foster research and development, and policies for rural and industrial reconstruction. 
Of course, the classical argument for the policy of competition, which I am sure is accepted by both sides of the House, is that a policy of greater competition serves to restrain the improper exercise of economic power. We want to foster competition for that end. Also it is the self-regulator. It is the socalled 'invisible hand', encouraging and directing private activity without too much central control. But apart from this, as I say the policy of promoting competition goes along with the other policies I have mentioned in fostering the good working of the economic system and economic growth. The presumption is that in most or many but not all circumstances - 1 stress that and will come back to it in a moment - competition promotes efficiency in production, an effective allocation of resources in response to consumer preferences, innovation and economic growth. In this way it can have an important and beneficial effect on trends in prices and thus, in the long term on a slowing of the pace of inflation that otherwise would be the case. The combating of restrictive agreements can have some effect in other ways in countering the inflationary process, such as in making it somewhat more difficult - but only somewhat - to achieve concerted industry action in raising prices in the event of wage and cost increases. To that degree it might inhibit the granting of excessive wage increases, but I stress that it would be only to a limited degree. It is well established in economic theory that changes in costs of this nature are the basic factor resulting in industry-wide price increases. All I am saying is that the agreement may foster this process to some extent; but, by and large, it would occur anyhow. 
For all these reasons the policy of promoting competition and striking at restrictive trade practices and monopolies is important. I repeat that on that point there is no disagreement between this side of the House and the Government. But it is idle to pretend that the passage of this legislation can have any very significant effect on the price level in the short run. If, owing to these practices, prices are somewhat higher than they otherwise might have been - I am not convinced that that effect is large or widespread - then the effect would have applied last year and the year before as it applies this year and therefore contributes little, if anything, to the process of accelerating inflation. Indeed, in this urgent task of combating the current inflation - now running at the incredibly high level of 14 per cent per annum - it is effective short term policy that is required. A sound, honest, counter-inflationary Budget would have been the most important thing the Government could have done in this area. This legislation is no substitute for the deficiencies of the August Budget. It is idle, therefore, to argue that this Bill needs the most urgent attention. To enable us to look at it closely and to contribute positively from this side of the House to achieving an effective measure, an amendment has been moved. I seconded it. The amendment says:   the House is of opinion that the Bill should not be proceeded with until there has been more adequate time to consider the implications contained in the provisions of the Bill. 
The Bill represents a significant change in approach. That is one of the things which I want more time to assess and on which I want to seek opinions. On the face of it it adopts the American approach of proscription - a general prohibition on a wide range of practices which then become illegal, and engaging in them attracts penalties. This compares with the procedure hitherto of compulsory registration, investigation of agreements where appropriate and prohibition in relation to any cases where, on balance, the public interest is adversely affected. However there is what appears to be a let-out - the procedure for authorisation or clearance. This is something about which one wants to know more. Clause 45 of the Bill, which prohibits a variety of agreements, including price agreements, is one of the key prohibitions to which I have referred. In relation to this one. however, we have clause 88 (2). On my understanding of clause 88 (2) - the Minister will confirm thisthere is no possibility of seeking an authorisation or a clearance in relation to price fixing agreements. 
It can be accepted that there is a wide measure of opinion not only in this country but world wide to the effect that by and large such price fixing agreements are against the public interest and ought to be prescribed. But is it essential that every conceivable agreement of this nature be so outlawed? When I look at the law as it applied in other countries in November 1971  -  perhaps this OECD publication does not give the very latest position - I see that in Austria, for example, horizontal price fixing agreements are permitted in principle provided they are duly entered in the cartel registers. I look at the position in Belgium and Denmark and in Germany, where horizontal price fixing is prohibited in principle, but price fixing agreements may be exempted individually from the prohibition if they meet certain requirements, and there is a list of exemptions. And so I could go down the list. In Japan horizontal price fixing is prohibited in principle but exemptions are provided. There are similar provisions in the Netherlands and so on. 
In the majority of countries, practically all countries other than the United States, there is this provision for possible exemption. There are notable cases that have been decided in other places - in Britain for instance. I think of the cement manufacturers' case in which it was established to the satisfaction of the court that the organisation of the market under the agreement in question resulted in prices lower than would otherwise prevail and that the agreement was in the public interest. I could think of other agreements or cases relating to glazed wall and floor tiles, steel scrap and a number of other such cases. Is not the experience in this and other countries of any guidance in this matter? I can think of possible situations nearer home. I have some acquaintances in the insurance industry. I would not want to elaborate on that matter. Perhaps some representations have been made. But there, if nowhere else, is an industry where irresponsible pricing of the product can lead ultimately to very serious consequences, the difficulty in that case being, of course, that the inadequacy and insufficiency of the pricing does not become evident for a very long while, and then a lot of people can be severely hurt. 
Assuming that the Government could be moved to amend clause 88 (2) of the Bill we would then have a situation in which under clause 45 price fixing, market sharing and like agreements are proscribed but are subject to authorisation - the obtaining of an authorisation or a clearance. Similarly, under clause 46 exclusive dealing agreements would be proscribed but subject to the possibility of obtaining a clearance, and under clause 50 mergers are proscribed if they substantially lessen competition. So that covers the main range of restrictive agreements. There are of course the other provisions relating to monopolisation in clause 46 and those relating to price discrimination in clause 49. It is hard to conceive of these practices being subject to authorisation or clearance. But the problem in that connection is for industry to know just what is and what is not illegal or unlawful conduct. In respect of monopolisation, for example, what is, as clause 46 states, 'a corporation in a position substantially to control a market'? How will any firm assess whether it is in a position substantially to control a market? The test of the illegality of a price differentiation not subject to exemption in clause 49 (2) is whether its effect 'will be or may be' - I am not quite sure and perhaps lawyers will explain to me some time why 'may be' is not good enough - substantially to lessen competition or result in a position substantially to control a market. How will firms interpret this? May I ask the question which I think my colleague the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  raised? What is a market? In the celebrated cellophane case in 1953 in the United States 70 per cent of the cellophane market was not deemed to be dominant control, because you had to take the whole market for wrapping materials, of which cellophane comprised only 15 per cent. 
We have this position that the main practices are subject to authorisation. What I am trying to judge is whether this legislation is in effect legislation for a case by case approach in disguise. We recognise, for instance in relation to mergers, that we not only have provision for seeking a clearance but we also have clause 90 (9). I do not profess to understand all the legal technicalities, but that clause seems to me to empower the Attorney-General to direct the Trade Practices Commission. Presumably, therefore, if a particular merger viewed objectively under the terms of the legislation would substantially lessen competition and be illegal, the Commission could nevertheless be directed to permit that one on the grounds of efficiency. That brings us to the essence of the matter. The transference of the American procedure to the Australian situation is not readily appropriate because of the critical fact of the small size of the Australian market, using that term broadly. In America, for instance, the annual production of motor vehicles would be of the order of 10 million. In Australia it is 400,000 or 500,000. How then is it possible to transfer the American presumption of the general beneficence of competition - that you can achieve efficiency always by enforced competition - to the Australian situation? This is the key difficulty with this approach. I conclude therefore by saying that what we need to ascertain and what we need time to ascertain is the meaning of the complexity of this legislation and particularly the assessment of what is involved in this process of apparent general proscription but with the provision for authorisation and clearance and for this process of ministerial direction to which I have referred. In those terms I second the amendment moved by my colleague. 
 My question is directed to the Prime Minister. I refer to the latest report or speculation in this morning's Sydney Morning Herald' concerning colour television sets, which contains statements as to what is proposed by way of low protection tariffs on television sets and other electronic manufactures. I ask the Prime Minister: Does the Tariff Board report include an assessment of the impact on employment and production in this key Australian industry which employs more than 40,000 workers - an impact which, according to reliable industry sources, could mean the dismissal of as many as 10,000 employees and the cessation of Australian production of a range of electronic components and products? Will this not put this country at the mercy of overseas interests charging prices for imports at a level which the market will bear, as witnessed by the higher import prices for many items following the recent 25 per cent tariff cuts, thus resulting in higher priced television sets anyway - and all this apart from the crucial importance of this industry for Australian defence? 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes. I wish to take this opportunity, in these terms, to make some remarks in reply to the remarks that the Minister for Secondary Industry and Minister for Supply  (Mr Enderby)  made, which I think were barely in order, in the course of his lengthy discussions, and to dispel in particular the suggestion that was made about honourable members of the Opposition, excepting my colleague the honourable member for Moreton. I do not know how honoured he is- 
I stress that we on this side of the House are every bit as concerned to achieve an effective measure to combat harmful trade practices and monopolisation as is the Government. Our protest at this stage is about the lack of prior time for consideration of a measure which, as will be shown later in this Committee discussion, is a radically different approach and one which therefore calls for a lot of consideration. It is a measure which also fits in the category, as I said yesterday, of long haul policies. 
I just want to make the position plain. The Minister had the opportunity to make those remarks. I shall leave it at that. 

 Mr GRASSBY (Riverina - Minister for Immigration) - I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Clauses 45 to 51 - by leave - taken together. 
Clause 49. 
A person shall not, in trade or commerce - 
induce or attempt to induce a corporation to discriminate in a manner prohibited by subsection (1); or 
enter into any transaction that to his knowledge would result in his receiving the benefit of a discrimination that is prohibited by that subsection. 
This Bill seeks to introduce a number of changes designed, in effect, to increase taxation. The situation is an interesting one in that the Government was elected on a program involving a vast range of expenditure proposals which, to the understanding of the lay voter, was to be achieved without an increase in taxation. lt is true that under, I think, clause 6 (1) of the cognate income Tax Bill the schedule of rates of personal income tax is unchanged. In that sense, there is no increase in personal income tax. The effect of the situation with which we are confronted is vastly different from that. What is significant in this context is what economists would call the real rate of taxation. This refers to the income tax which a taxpayer actually has to pay as a proportion of his income. 
The effect of the policies of this Government in contributing to a rate of inflation, of price increase and associated increase in earnings, is that the impact of the unchanged schedule is to lead to a vast increase in personal income taxation. Indeed, the increase projected in the Budget papers - if I recall correctly - is $l,089m, a total increase in this taxation area alone of the order of fully 27 per cent. The total of taxation on individuals has increased gradually over many years, but in this one year there is an increase of the order of 27 per cent. I repeat, this has happened in the context of the understanding by the lay voter - if I may put it that way - that the proposals foreshadowed by this Government were to be financed without an increase in taxation. The fact is, of course, that the Government in its Budget, the enabling measures of which we are debating now, implemented a record increase in expenditure and of course it has come up against the difficulty of finding adequate means to finance it. 
I have stressed the effective increase in the personal income tax rate where the proportion of taxation to personal income projected in the Budget papers increases significantly. We previously debated, in the context of this 'no increase in income tax' Budget, measures to increase indirect taxes - the excise taxes on the ordinary man's petrol, cigarettes and drinks including, as it will work through the system, his beer. I take this opportunity of reminding the listening public that if it was, as I believe it was, the impression of the lay voter that the proposals of the Government were to be financed without increases in taxation, not only is there this increase in the personal tax when expressed in the only way that is really meaningful - that is as a proportion of his income - but also there are these previously debated increases of excise tax on petrol, cigarettes and on some drinks. 
The consequence of the policies of the Government and particularly its budgetary policy has been to foster rather than to restrain inflation in this country and inflation is now proceeding at a record rate. Let me recall to honourable members another facet of this situation and that is that to compensate for a Budget where there is agreement on all sides that it contributed to the acceleration rather than to the restraint of inflation it has been necessary to have supplementary measures on monetary policy. One result of that was that I received through the post the other day a notice from an insurance company from which, when in financial straits a little while ago, I was obliged to borrow some money. The notice stated, in effect: 'It is herey notified that the rate of interest on those loans is to be increased H per centage points'. That increase has a direct impact on me. But many other members of the Australian public at this moment are paying higher charges for their hire purchase contracts. What does that mean to the ordinary man in the street who is unable to purchase a large expensive item in any other way? It is simply an increase in the price he pays. In other spheres such as building I am not quite sure what decision this Government of great decision, speedy decision and compulsive decision when it comes to airports, has yet arrived at in relation to finance for home purchase - but many people are already paying for bridging finance and other supplementary finance higher rates of interest for their loans. These are major imposts on the man in the street - the average voter - in addition to the direct imposts I have mentioned on his petrol, cigarettes and drinks which are for all practical purposes equivalent to increases in taxation. 
The Government has chosen in this clandestine way to make up for the obvious deficiencies of the Budget pointed out, I might add, by no less a person than  Dr H.  C. Coombs, the economic adviser or assistant to the Prime Minister, and I might also mention  Mr R.  J. Hawke, the Federal  President  of the Australian Labor Party. Therefore in the Bill before the House is a variety of measures designed to increase the revenue. Among these is a provision to do away with the age allowance relating to income tax on persons aged 65 years and over. The effect of that measure is that it is put forward in a context where the Government is removing the means test in a limited area on pensioners aged 75 years and over and at the other end is making some provision by way of tax rebate to reduce this impact. But for a considerable range of taxpayers in the age group 65 years to 75 years taxation by this measure is being increased. Is there any justice in a measure of that nature? 
We have had reference in this House today to the impact on wineries One could go down the list. There is the position in relation to the investment allowance on new plant being installed in manufacturing industry and in rural industry. This particular measure is not a short term measure designed to be turned on and off in accordance with current business conditions. The purpose of the investment allowance in a competitive world is to provide an offset to high labour and other costs and to foster the investment in plant and equipment and the mechanisation of production with a view to increasing productivity. It had been my intention in speaking to this measure to table certain figures prepared by an economic task force of inquiry set up by the United States President which show the amount that can be written off after various periods - the table in fact shows the amount that can be written off after 3 and 7 years - in most countries of the world. The fact is that, even with the investment allowance, the extent to which investment in new plant and equipment can be written off after 3 years and then after 7 years in this country is one of the smallest in the world. Provision made in other countries for the writing off of new investment at a more rapid rate - it can be done at a very high rate in Britain, for instance - is the sort of provision made in those other countries to stimulate mechanisation and investment in new plant and equipment, thereby raising productivity and international competitiveness. 
This is the long run purpose, the important purpose, of such an allowance. Its removal at this stage is, I believe, simply a matter of dogma, and it is inappropriate in the context in which we find ouselves. In fact, it fits in as one ingredient of the whole program of management of the economy by this Government. Not only is the appropriate control of demand on the one side not carried through and notable in this respect is this Budget, but measures are taken which inhibit and will inhibit the proper development of supplies, looking at the matter of inflation not from the demand side but from the other side. We have a situation to which I previously referred as perhaps the 'chaos theory' of managing the economy. The Government makes a variety of ambiguous, equivocal, qualified statements and combines these with arbitrary and unpredictable actions such as the 25 per cent tariff cut, and in this way inhibits industrial planning and creates uncertainty. The export incentive grants scheme was a case in point. The Treasurer said: Yes, we will renew it for 12 months. After that we may or we may not. It may take this form; it may take that'. Where does industry stand in this situation? At that time there was the same uncertainty about the investment allowance. In one sense that uncertainty has been reduced. The investment allowance has now been removed by this legislation. 
As I said previously, it was understood by the lay voter that the Government would proceed without an increase in taxation. But although the schedule of rates of personal income tax remains unchanged the Government, by the variety of measures contained in these Bills, proposes to raise substantial additional taxation revenue. A few days ago the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  said that his Government would be proud if its record in relation to the Aborigines was remembered. As a member of this Parliament I would like to be associated with that statement. But the Government will be remembered for less worthy achievements. It will be remembered for creating the circumstances for an acceleration of inflation in this country not previously known in a time of peace. It will be remembered as the government which presided over the highest interest rates ever to prevail in this country - a good record for a party pledged to low interest rates! It will be remembered as a government which has brought the state of the defences of this country to perhaps the lowest point within memory. I would say that the members of this Parliament and the members of the Press should honour the Opposition this day that has opposed, as we do oppose, measures as inequitable as the abolition of the age allowance and other measures in these Bills, and yet inappropriate, and indeed in many cases irresponsible, as the total Budget strategy is, these measures to raise additional revenue are not opposed by us to the point of refusing this Bill a second reading. 
The measures before the House deal with certain metric conversions in pursuit of the objective of progressively introducing the metric system. The measures are part of a series of Bills which will be necessary. We have had some of these Bills already. The Honey Levy Bills provide that the maximum levy that can be applied is to be converted from lc per lb to 2.2c per kilogram. This is an almost exact conversion - actually there is a fractional decrease in the maximum levy of the order of 0.2 per cent. The Egg Export Charges Bill makes provision for the rate of charge on exports to be similarly converted. Again it is an almost exact conversion. It also involves a decrease of the order 0.2 per cent in the actual rate of levy. As these are simply machinery measures to effect metric conversions' the Opposition supports the Bills. 
The purposes of the Customs Bill 1973 is to amend a section of the existing Customs Act which exempts from Customs control produce of the sea brought into Australian ports by Australian shipping. In order for the Government to accede to the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Flora and Fauna, it is necessary to amend the present exemption and in effect to make provision for the Department of Customs and Excise to exercise some control in respect of species specified in this Convention that may be endangered species of wild fauna and flora. But it is only such species to which the waiver of the exemption is sought or proposed by the Government. The Government does not suggest that the provision in the Customs Act which exempts from Customs supervision produce of the sea brought into Australian ports in Australian ships be waived except in respect of species endangered or considered to be endangered under this Convention. 
The purpose of the Opposition amendment is to underline that this is the intention of the Government. The intention of the Government is only that the possibility of Customs oversight and control be extended to species specified in this Convention. The amendment proposes to insert after 'produce of the sea':  specified in the Convention on International Trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora- 
The wording of the amendment then continues as the wording provided in the Bill and then adds at the end of the proposed sub-section, in order that people shall know where they stand on this matter: 
The regulations shall specify those species of wild fauna and flora which are applicable to the provisions of the Convention on International Trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora. 
I hope that the regulations will be couched in good plain Australian because, when I looked up this Convention and tried to read it through and understand the species, I was simply floored by the Latin. I managed to detect certain species of whales but not the sorts that are permitted to be hunted under the provisions of the International Whaling Commission. The purpose of the Opposition's amendment is to give effect to what we understand is the Government's intention, but hopefully to limit the powers sought within that compass. 
It is something of an irony that the Minister for Secondary Industry  (Mr Enderby),  who preceded me in the debate, talked about the economy being in a mess at the time when the Australian Labor Party took over government. It is the mess that the economy is in now that this debate is all about - a mess that exists after 12 months of Labor Government rule. 
As my colleague says, the Government created the mess. There are shortages of steel affecting the building and consumer durables industries. There are shortages of cement, consumer durables of all sorts, including furniture, and food products. My colleague, the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony),  has stressed the position. It is a situation which the Minister almost accurately described. He said that it is one of too much money chasing too few goods. It is too much demand chasing too few goods that is the cause of the trouble. Money is one thing; it is when it is exercised as demand that it starts to cause the sorts of trouble about which we are talking today. It shows up in a fundamental shortage of labour. It is true that some of the present problems are due to power shortages in New South Wales and Victoria, which in one State at least were fostered by a Minister of this Government, and an enlarged incidence of industrial unrest, absenteeism and labour turnover, all of which contribute to the present situation. They all reflect basically the situation of too much demand chasing too few goods, showing up in a dominating shortage of labour. 
One statistic bears eloquent testimony to the whole tale. At the end of October the number registered for employment was just short of 60,000, which is one per cent of the work force, and employment vacancies numbered 86,000, which is way above the number of unemployed. The Minister referred to the situation that existed 12 months ago, when there were higher levels of unemployment. I do not like high levels of unemployment, but inflation rates of 14 per cent per annum are also a great social and economic evil. Let me add, without time to elaborate, that the unemployment at that time was by no means due to the Budget to which the Minister referred. 
The Minister said that under the Labor Government production performance, albeit there are shortages, has been great stuff. We have had increases in many items. I think he said that we have had increases as large as 20 per cent in many items. That is true. I might say, though, that to achieve it all the stops have been pulled out. There has been a record increase in the work force, especially in the number of married women in employment. In the month of August there was an increase equivalent to an annual rate, I believe, of the order of 8.2 per cent; and overtime is right up. But that is the end of that road. The stops are all out. The expansion rate of the production performance which has been recorded until just recently cannot possibly continue. That applies to the short run. In the short run that sort of expansion of the labour force is not possible. It applies even more importantly to the medium run and the longer run, because so many of the actions of this Government have created uncertainty and an uncertain basis on which to plan. Investment in productive equipment, which is the long term basis of increased supplies, is inhibited and is not proceeding as it should. So, in the future the situation of shortage that we now have can only get worse. 
The position is that demand is way out in front; hence the shortages that plague and disrupt us. This position is due to the policies of the Government. The Government has taken a few steps. It has cut tariffs by 25 per cent. The Minister talked about courage. What hypocrisy! He himself stressed the shortages of available supplies in the world and the virtual inability to obtain goods from overseas. In that situation this courageous Government cut tariffs by 25 per cent. It has raised interest rates to the highest level on record - that has been a great performance by this Government! But its free spending from the very time it took office, superimposed on the recovery which was then under way at an appropriate rate, plus the Government's recent Budget - irresponsible, dishonest and inflationary as it was - which provided a stimulus to spending superimposed on the resurgent private sector, have contributed to the present situation. So when this Government says that it has done all it can to contain inflation it deludes itself and it deludes the Australian public. Its policies to control inflation amount to a nimble footed but pointless operation with one foot hard on the accelerator and the other administering some light but ineffectual jabs on the brake. 
I would like to say more about what the Government should do but in the time available let me say one thing that it ought not to do. In this situation the Government now seeks from the people powers to bring in price control. It also talks about incomes control but we would not see any of that even if the people of Australia chose to confer the power on the Government. It is a cruel delusion that the Government would foist on the Australian people that in these circumstances price control is a solution to our problems. 
It is a cruel Government, as my colleague says. To think that in this situation of excess demand chasing goods already in short supply you can cure anything by imposing price control is a delusion that this Government has led the people of Australia to accept. We heard calm words to a different effect from the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  in this House yesterday but that is what the people of Australia expect - a panacea for these problems. In fact, the effect will only be the creation of a vast bureaucracy to run it and to create worse shortages, blackmarkets and all the difficulties that go with them. The only solution is that this Government should adopt proper policies to bring demand and the supply of goods back into balance. Then and only then will the Government not frustrate the social and economic policies that it seeks to implement. 
I do not propose to detain the House for long. I have previously expressed the view in relation to the 25 per cent tariff cut that is being validated by this Bill, that it is not the sort of treatment that this side of the House would have meted out to industry. 'In saying that, I want to underline 2 points. The Leader of the 
Australian Country Party,  Mr Anthony,  has already done so to some extent, so I will not be repetitious. But I do stress that while it was a cardinal principle of policy of the previous Government - of the Liberal Party and of the Country Party - that adequate protection should be afforded to economic and efficient industry, the previous Government did not rest content with existing levels of the tariff. It did institute the so-called systematic review of the tariff, which is continuing,  beginning with those areas  where protection was the highest and had not been reviewed for many years. The report that we have had on the electronics industry, including specifically the problems associated with the introduction of colour television, was in accordance with that review. 
I think it was in April 1972 that the previous Government instituted the so-called 1,000 items margins' reference. The principal purpose of that inquiry was to provide information for trade negotiations, but it was also to serve as a major indicator of areas of excess protection. The membership of the Tariff Board was enlarged by the previous Government to expedite those inquiries. There can be no doubt that the end point would have been recommendations for reduced tariff rates in many cases on a properly selective basis and after open public inquiry. That was the manner and the policies of the preceding Government. 
In contrast we have in this action of a 25 per cent across-the-board cut in tariffs, a measure properly of a long-term character, but introduced in the context of the shortterm management of the economy. In my view, it did not attack directly any of the major causes of the inflationary problem with which the country was faced. It did not attack Government spending directly. When I mention Government spending I usually get a reaction from the other side of the House asking whether the cutting of Government spending is the only sort of approach that I can suggest should be taken. Sometimes that is the only action that can be taken in a situation in which private spending is in a resurgent condition. 
The Minister for Overseas Trade interjects. He wants me to tell him where Government spending can be cut. Look,  Mr Minister,  the answer to that question is that we must look at the overall condition of the economy. There were many responsible commentators at the time of the introduction of the Budget, commentators sympathetic to the Government's side of politics, who said that the sort of increase possible within all the circumstances for Government spending is perhaps 15 per cent - at the outside an increase of 17 per cent. That indeed would have been the sort of judgment one might have come to. The procedure then is that you come up with the sorts of proposals which amounted within Australia to an increase of 20 per cent. You then look at the effect of a cutback to 17 per cent. If there were particular items where such a cutback would be crucial, they would presumably get some priority. Other areas would be reduced. 
This is the sort of choice that we are making all the time. This is the sort of choice the Minister undoubtedly had to make to keep expenditure increases to 20 per cent. I would suspect that the Government's aspirations would have exceeded even 20 per cent as, indeed, would perhaps mine. But in the circumstances in which members of the Government found themselves, the responsible course of action as enjoined upon the Government - I repeat by commentators many of whom were sympathetic to the Government - was to contain total spending to that sort of level. If, in fact, even so, the Government wished to go beyond that level a possible procedure - with which I have not a great deal of sympathy because of its deleterious effects on wage claims and productive effort - would have been an increase in taxation beyond those increases that the Government in fact did implement. It implemented plenty of those. For that action, the Government has had advice given to it by people I am sure it will regard as sympathetic to its cause,  Dr Coombs  and the Federal  President  of the Australian Labor Party,  Mr Hawke,  I believe, and, in an earlier speech which I could easily turn up, by the Minister for Social Security, the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden).  That would have been the responsible course of action. 
But that, I repeat, is by way of digression. The tariff cut has no effect in that area. It could have been predicted that it would not have a short-run effect on the problem of excess demand because as my colleague, the Leader of the Country Party, said, the position of world supply was such that no surge of imports in response to it could be anticipated. It could have a marginal effect only on the cost-price spiral which was beginning to take over at that time as a predominant cause of inflation. I could add that it could have only only a marginal effect on the problem of imported inflation. At no stage have I suggested that our current inflationary problems do not have a considerable element of imported inflation. But a good deal of that imported inflation is by way of so-called 'exportables', and there specific action could have been taken. The Government set up a committee. It eventually came in with a report as to what might have been done about meat prices in particular. Something could have been done about meat prices in particular but not, in my opinion, along the lines laid down in that report in which there are, in my views, major errors which invalidate it. But this action could have been taken earlier on and would have been a good thing. So, on any of these points on the matter of Government expenditure which is one thing under the Government's control, and on its impact on the imported inflation the tariff cut could have only a very minor effect via the cost of imported goods. And, in terms of its impact on the wage-cost spiral, the short term impact was very limited. 
I say, therefore, that to the extent that the decision did involve courage - I have suggested previously that perhaps the suggestion that it did has been overrated in the circumstances in which ft was clear that the anticipated boost to imports could not take place for some time - I can only express a hope as to the longer term potential benefits of this sort of change, in terms of forcing some reallocation of resources and in eliminating the so-called water' in the tariff which should have some ultimate effect on the cost-price spiral. But that is something which could have been considered directly - the Government had the report on the 1,000-item inquiry. I believe in fact that was considered in this Report - Ways of Increasing Imports which was brought down for the consideration of the Government. 
I express the hope that these potential longer-term benefits may outweigh the other long-term and overriding, in my view, disadvantage of this move, that is the potentially harmful and damaging effect on business confidence. It is that long-term planning by industry on which the thrust of continued sound economic growth depends and, therefore, on which many of the social and economic aspirations of the Government also depend. It is, as the Leader of the Country Party pointed out, superimposed on a very considerable revaluation of the Australian currency. I take this opportunity to repeat what I have said on several occasions, that for my own part a revaluation of the Australian currency was indeed inevitable. I have commented, on the timing and magnitude of that revaluation. I noticed in a report of calculations by the National Westminster Bank, which provides a service that is reproduced regularly in the Economist' of the movement in currencies of most countries since Smithsonian, which was December 1971, that we are at the top of the league in terms of up-valuation. In fact, we are way up now above the Japanese yen and even above the Deutsch mark. 
I think one must consider taking a longer view of whether this kind of policy is appropriate, because in the longer term the effect is to make more difficult the achieving of manufactured exports, which in the long run is the big growth area for exports, and on its effect on the stimulus to imports. It is feasible that, without the explicit consideration of these exchange rate matters, we could in this way revalue, so to speak, out of existence the potential surplus or even balance on current account that we have achieved. This is a point I would have thought would be somewhat dear to the Minister's heart also, namely, that a situation of potential surplus or even balance on current account is the basis for playing a responsible role in world economic development 
We are a wealthy country. To revert to the kind of situation that prevailed in the 1960s, when we were a large net importer of overseas capital, is hardly one consistent in my view with our role as a rich nation in a capital-hungry world. So, to proceed in this way to permit a revaluation, the effect of which as things begin to turn around will be to revert to the deficit situation on current account that was characteristic of the 1960s, seems to me to be a policy both unwise in the interests of Australian industry and irresponsible in terms of our obligations as a rich nation in a world in which many countries are in a developing phase and in need of assistance. 
The only other matter in the Bill on which I will comment is the Report on Consumer Electronic Goods and Components, a report with which it is almost impossible to deal in any detail. The Tariff Board is to be congratulated on such an insightful and wide-ranging report. No doubt my colleague the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  will endorse my view. Yet, for my own part I confess to some unease, which evidently is shared to some extent by the Government. So far as I am aware, of all the decisions we are validating today, this one represents the only case in which there has been a significant departure from the Board's recommendations. To say that the report is accepted - I think the phrase was 'the thrust of the Board's report was accepted', and perhaps we can agree with that - is one thing, but the precise recommendations that there should be a 25 per cent tariff on components and a 30 per cent tariff on finished products were not. 
What we have is a decision that there should be a 35 per cent tariff on components and on the finished products. On the face of it, and taking those figures in the formula for effective protection, it really does not change the protection afforded the assemblers at all, but leaves much to depend on the Government's actions regarding what it has said it proposes in respect of subsidisation. In this technological age the importance of a viable electronics industry to the future of Australia is strongly supported by the Opposition Parties. Still unresolved, as we have yet to have the second instalment, so to speak, of this inquiry, is the major question of how far the viability of the industry, including the capacity to maintain a nationally independent program of research and development, is dependent on an integrated operation combining a thriving consumer product division together with production for the professional market. 
I suggest that the Government has taken the view in its decision for a 35 per cent protection that the consumer products section of the industry must be afforded reasonable assistance - although less than the industry would regard as adequate. A great deal will depend on what the industry can achieve by way of rationalisation and restructuring of its operations in response to the Government's proposed subsidies for components. The problem of potential unemployment in this industry was raised during question time this morning by the honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes),  if I remember correctly. The Tariff Board's report refers to unemployment or a change in employment in this one section of the industry of about 4,500 persons. However, the Board sees this situation being offset by increased employment in the production of coloured television sets and in the servicing of them. That is a matter about which I would have some reservations. I repeat that the Opposition supports the importance of a viable electronics industry, and assures the Government that it will not hamper its attempts through these proposals for subsidisation to achieve such an effective and viable Australian industry. 
In this matter of the Industries Assistance Commission Bill, the Party for which I speak has seen very much eye to eye with the Government. As the Prime Minister (Mr Whitlam) said, the amendment to clause 22 was introduced by the Government. It seems important that in that clause, which sets out in detail the objectives of this legislation, there should be this explicit reference to the producers of goods and services engaged in economic activities. I think that applies not' only to self-employed persons but also to producers generally. 
The Government's amendment which seeks to add certain words at the end of sub-clause (3) of clause 23 is one in which we would join with the Government in saying that it is important that some of these measures, particularly those which assist primary industry, should foe permitted to get under way and to that extent be free from the mandatory provisions until 1 July next. 
The amendments relating to the 2-year period were, as has been said, proposed from this side of the chamber. We believe this will allow for a more effective assessment of the assistance offered. Amendment No. 7 on the schedule relates to clause 23. The purpose of this amendment which was moved by the Opposition was to minimise the possibility - we do not say it was necessarily intentional - of the requirement for mandatory reference being by-passed. The original clause referred to 'industry'. That meant that where industries A, B or C had to be referred separately if they were referred together then the provision could be by-passed. I see no reason to detain the Committee any longer. I concur with the remarks of the Prime Minister and I express the gratification of the Opposition that these amendments to the Bill have now been accepted. 
 Mr Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
I address a question to the Minister for Transport. I preface my question by noting that the petition lodged by me today protesting at the proposed siting of a second Sydney airport at Galston contained some 6,000 signatures which were not by any means all from that area. I ask: In respect of the report of the CommonwealthState committee on the siting of the airport, which the Minister with strong protestations of his own and his Government's commitment to open government undertook on 29 August last to table, will he table that report before the House rises? 
The Opposition welcomes this indication of further development work in relation to the international terminal and other aspects of the Sydney (Kingsford-Smith) Airport. I should like to urge the Minister for Works and Construction  (Mr Les Johnson)  and the Government to commence further work at the airport, particularly on the proposed north-south runway which was mentioned in the report tabled by the Minister this morning. I am at some disadvantage in saying this because, as I represent the people of Galston, it will be thought that I am speaking from a biased point of view. But I draw attention to the fact that, as the report tabled by the Minister states, the construction of the additional runway in fact will reduce the level of aircraft noise in the areas surrounding the. Sydney (Kingsford-Smith) Airport. So, it is in the interests of residents in those areas that I would urge the further development of work at Sydney (Kingsford-Smith) Airport, which the present motion moved by the Minister suggests may take place. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Overseas Trade. I refer to the Minister's announcements about new arrangements for export incentives and to the phrase 'corporation or any related corporation or corporations'. I ask the Minister: Is it correct that the upper limit of $100,000 for export incentive payments is to apply to a group of related corporations even in cases where each is a fully self contained enterprise, manufacturing and exporting products entirely different from the products of any of the others - for example, one in tyres, one in textiles and so on - and each of which is expected to stand on its own feet and operate profitably within its own operation? As each of such corporations may, in itself, be a large business capable of developing large export volumes, would it not be more reasonable and equitable if the upper limit - if there must be an upper limit - applied individually to each corporation? I say that it would be more equitable and also good for exports, as something good for exports will be needed as the cumulative effect of rapid domestic inflation, revaluation and other measures moves the balance of payments into deficit. 

 - Mr Speaker, in speaking to the motion to take note of the paper I wish to offer a few comments on the speech of the Minister for Secondary Industry  (Mr Enderby).  In the statement the Minister gives an account of the objectives of 'the Government in respect of manufacturing industry and what it sees as its achievements to date. The Minister speaks, in terms one can only applaud, of the Government's objectives for greater efficiency in industry, a better allocation of resources, the fostering of high technology and greater specialisation in industry, and also of its plans for adjustment assistance and so on. He refers, as an important initiative, as the Government sees it, to the decision to establish a small business bureau, and we have heard of the industry advisory panels that have been set up. 
In this statement there is much talk, but I fear not too much of substance, and when one gets down to the substance, the nitty gritty of what the Government has done, the negatives would, in the opinion of many, out-weigh the things to which the Minister has referred. For instance, there has been the removal of the investment allowance in new plant and equipment. This is not a short term measure to be turned on and off in accordance with current business conditions. The purpose of the investment allowance in a competitive world - greater concessions that are available in many countries with which we have to compete - is to provide an offset to high labour and other costs and to foster investment in plant and equipment and the mechanisation of production with a view to increasing productivity. But the investment allowance has been withdrawn. 
There has been the 25 per cent tariff cut to which the Minister has in fact referred. Its effect on inflation in all the circumstances has been pretty minimal, but on the other hand its adverse impact on the long term planning and long term expectation of business has been very significant. There is the very high rate of inflation itself and the veritable - as one journalist put it the other day - wage-pay rocket that is about to take place and all that that implies for the competitiveness of industry - of 
Australian manufacturing industry competing with imports and of Australian industry seeking to compete on export markets. 
There has been the revaluation of the Australian currency. I am not suggesting that the Australian currency should not have been revalued, but the extent to which it has been revalued - to the point where it has been revalued practically more than any other currency in the world - is open to query, and it is a serious inhibiting factor on the possibility of securing markets for Australian manufactured exports. The Minister also referred to the trade practices legislation. During the last session of Parliament he castigated members from this side of the House - I will not debate the issue; it is before the Senate - for pointing to uncertainties and difficulties with this legislation and for seeking more time to work it out and to suggest appropriate amendments. But what happened? The Government, of its own initiative, introduced about 100 amendments into the Senate, but still the uncertainties remain as to what constitutes a market and so on. This is just another factor in the adverse effects on the development of secondary industry offsetting the factors to which the Minister referred. 
Also there has been the halving, as I might put it, of the export incentives scheme to which I made reference during question time this morning. The Minister referred to the fact that manufacturers are demonstrating their long term confidence in the future of secondary industry by undertaking substantial increased investment. I have not the precise figures, but reading from a graph it seems that the figure the Minister quoted for the December quarter 1973 concerning investment, claiming that it demonstrates the great confidence of manufacturers in the Government's handling of the economy, only brings the level of that investment back to what it was in 1971. I very much doubt whether this is real evidence of a resurgence of confidence. Since 1971 there has been no growth in the level of investment. Obviously what has happened is that business put off investment quarter by quarter until the time came when something had to be done to keep operations viable. I suspect that such a point has been reached in a wide range of industries and that this largely accounts for the December upswing to which the Minister referred. I have doubts as to how much of it is investment for real expansion. 
There is no need for the Minister to remind me or to spend time telling the House that industry has been going like a bomb. I concede that point. The Government, as he said, has fostered high levels of demand - too high, and hence a major cause of the current inflation. Owing to world wide shortages imports have been slow in responding to the revaluation and the tariff cuts. What is and will be increasingly critical is what the impact on industry will be when these chickens - the excessive revaluation of the currency and the tariff cuts - begin to come home to roost. This is another major shadow under which secondary industry operates. 
The Minister said that he seeks greater specialisation of Australian production. I applaud the objective. I suggest that it will be achieved only if industry can take an increasing part in exports. As I have said, the revaluation and the halving or significant change in the export incentives are hardly the right way to promote greater participation in exports which will enable this greater scale of operation - this greater specialisation - which all honourable members would seek. I make only one further comment. In his statement the Minister referred to the transformation of the Tariff Board into the Industries Assistance Commission as a major expression of the Government's determination to have a more co-ordinated and rational approach to protection and assistance. As the Minister will be aware, the Party that I represent concurred in and supported that change. 
The Minister says: That is one of the best things we have ever done*. Nevertheless the procedures of the Industries Assistance Commission up to now have been such that manufacturing industry may have cause for some uncertainty and fears. I noted that the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  in a speech the other day wherein a large number of persons were listed as rendering assistance to the Government stated: 
We have appointed 4 noted businessmen -  Mr Dudley, Mr Hampel, Mr George  Johnson and  Mr Grace  - to the Industries Assistance Commission. 
He takes this as evidence of the Government in sympathy with secondary industry. This is perhaps a somewhat delicate matter but on my understanding and my information, of these gentlemen referred to in that statement three were appointed as associate commissioners and of those two, Messrs Dudley and Hampel, were previously Tariff Board members. It would appear that these 2 gentlemen at least have been demoted for reasons about which one can only speculate. So far as I know, this leaves no person of experience in the practice of manufacturing industry as a full member of the Industries Assistance Commission. I mention this as a procedure not likely to inspire confidence in secondary industry. 
The Customs Tariff Validation Bill 1974 raises a number of important issues. The Minister for Overseas Trade  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  stated in the latter part of his second reading speech that under this Bill the 25 per cent tariff cut and the revised and expanded system of tariff preferences for imports from developing countries will be validated. The system of tariff preferences for developing countries is one which is strongly supported by honourable members on this side of the House. I have a particular interest in this area. 
The original system of such preferences - generalised non-reciprocal tariff preferences to developing countries - was instituted by the former Government in 1964 and approved by the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade in 1965. In doing so the former Government was ahead of international initiatives in that area and alone among developed or advanced countries. So it is an initiative which derived from this side of the House. It has now been extended by the proposal, which will be validated by the passage of this legislation, to comprise a system whereby as from 1 January of this year imports from developing countries will receive a tariff preference in the form of a reduction of 10 percentage points. Of course that may well represent a much larger percentage reduction in the tariff granted. The reduction of a 35 per cent duty by 10 percentage points to 25 per cent is a very significant proportionate reduction. 
While broadly in sympathy with this approach I think there will be some difficulties. While agreeing that indigenous industries, in particular, in developing countries should be given encouragement to increase their exports in this way I think that care needs to be taken in looking at the impact on Australian industry. There is the very real possibility that this preference to developing countries will be used by developed countries to avoid the incidence of tariff duties, through subsidiaries established in developing countries to take advantage of the preferences so accorded. For instance, major Japanese competitors could operate from Hong Kong, Singapore or Indonesia and United States companies from Latin America and the Philippines. So I think it is important that this aspect of a general policy with whichthis side of the House is in sympathy should be kept under review. I understand that a further reduction of 10 percentage points is proposed in 2 years time. It may well be that that proposal should be carefully considered in the light of any response along the lines I have suggested to this proposal. 
I think that some of the difficulties which can arise are illustrated by the document which has been tabled relating to the printing industry and which is to be validated by this Bill. The system of preferences to which I have referred was instituted on 1 January and, as I recall, the Government's decision in relation to the printing industry was brought in on 4 January. That was in accordance with an investigation in this case by the Tariff Board - the predecessor of the Industries Assistance Com mission - which took place over a period of upwards of 4 years preceding the lodging of the Tariff Board report in question. After all that time and all that deliberation the Tariff Board recommended and the Government accepted in certain key areas a tariff of 35 per cent. When the Government looked at this report the question of the preference to the developing countries came up and, despite the fact that the origins of competition in certain key areas are specifically referred to in the report as being from countries which would be classified as developing countries, the duty as recommended by the Tariff Board- was reduced by the 10 percentage points in question from 35 per cent to 25 per cent. I instance that only as a way in which a policy which broadly has the support of this House - indeed, which this side of the House initiated, as I have said, ahead of international initiatives in this area and alone among advanced countries - needs to be implemented carefully in view of its effect on Australian industry. The fact that the Board deliberated for over 4 years to arrive at its conclusions and that in one fell swoop, in accordance with this arrangement, the considered opinion of the Board is significantly reduced indicates that we have a situation which needs watching carefully. 
I think this episode is perhaps symptomatic of a situation in which there is a great deal of uncertainty, in industry concerning the Government's policies. Tariff policy is one of those areas. One can ask the question: What is the Government's tariff policy? The answer is that it is not clear, except that bv and large it is seen by industry as being 'anti*. I would say that the stance is for low levels of protection, but it is a stance which, in the absence of a detailed statement from the Minister, would appear to be of a theoretical and doctrinaire kind involving, as it would seem, the somewhat haphazard removal or reduction of protection all round. I refer to the situation in respect of the domestic appliances report that is to be validated by the passage of this legislation. It is a very significant report. It is one of interest in that to my knowledge it would be one of the first in which there is a significant number' of cases in the schedule where the general and the preferential rates have been ironed out into one single rate, which did raise difficulties at the time. When the Government accepted the report it stated that people could look forward to widespread reductions in the prices of these products. But the decision inevitably had the effect in the case of some imports where the single rate was fixed above the previous preferential rate, of prices increasing. However, I mention only that it was a significant report. 
In the context in which it was announced, the Government put a good deal of stress on the fact that it implemented the proposals in a period of high domestic demand and one could add to that the situation of local and overseas shortages of supply. There was the implication that all of this would considerably soften the impact on the viability of the industry and on prospective unemployment in the industry. Now, that is as it may be. But surely the tariff decisions must be seen as long term. The frame of reference and the basis for action should be normal levels of demand and total activity in the economy. It is to be hoped that the requirements of this industry have been judged in that sort of context. But it is difficult in the light of the Government's emphasis on the effect of high levels of demand and local and overseas shortages in softening the impact, to know just what the policy is. 
There is the statement by the Minister for Overseas Trade, who is sitting at the table, in relation to the tariff on vehicles. He is quoted in the Press - I do not know whether correctly - as saying in Adelaide that: 
One does not need a crystal 'ball to realise that the Industries Assistance Commission will recommend the reduction. 
There was a reference to a reduction in tariffs on imported cars. Not being familiar with the Government's policy in relation to tariffs, I ask: Why is a crystal ball not needed? Why then a long and protracted inquiry to determine what is the appropriate level of assistance? We have a recent query in relation to the report on woven products. The interdepartmental committee dealing with the matter apparently wrote to the Commission requesting it to comment further on the reasons for its recommendations for an effective rate in excess of 50 per cent. It said: 
We have in mind the 1967-68 Annual Report of the Tariff Board where it was indicated that in the areas of production which are found to have little prospect of operating with an effective rate below SO per cent, sufficient protection to allow the industries concerned to compete for resources on the same terms as low cost industries would not be recommended. 
This query derives from an important committee, a committee of key advisers to the Government in this area. I put this to the Minister: Does this indicate that the Govern ment's tariff policy is identical with that laid down in the 1967-68 Tariff Board Report, which was to the effect that industries requiring protection in excess of 50 per cent effective rate were to be eliminated? Is it on the basis of reference to these arithmetic steps or levels of protection? One gathers that a level of 25 per cant was perhaps anticipated for the motor car industry. There was the reference to why the Commission should look to effective levels above 50 per cent in this one case. Have these arithmetic levels proposed by the Tariff Board been accepted by the Government? So far as honourable members on this side of the House are concerned, such arithmetic levels are not accepted in the tariff policy of the Liberal Party. 
As my colleague says, they were not accepted by the Minister when he was in Opposition. I am now trying to find out what the position is. So far as Liberal Party policy is concerned, a Liberal Government would not be so committed. We have stated publicly in our policy that we do not accept the proposition that protection is not justified simply because the required protective duty exceeds any particular percentage. Nevertheless, the imposition of high duties, I agree, requires greater justification. 
The policy of the Liberal Party in this respect is to afford adequate protection to economic and efficient industries viewed within the overall context of the development of a sound and balanced Australian industrial base. In making this reference to overall development, I say that tariff policy, of course, is only part of an overall policy for industrial development. Among other things, in looking to a balanced and sound industrial base such a policy would put emphasis on high technology industries. In a number of cases these are the very industries that are vulnerable to overseas competition. They are vulnerable in a way in which industries such as bricks, and beer and bottles, for example, are not. Those latter industries do not have to supplicate or to cry out for adequate protection. But we have to consider what is important to Australia's long term future. 
In this context I refer again to the decisions with respect to the report on the consumer electronics industry which are to be validated by this Bill. I am checking the Minister's speech,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  to. see that I am not out of order in this respect, knowing how careful you are in these matters. 1 do not want to have further encounters with you,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  In speaking to a Customs Validation Bill in the final days of the parliamentary session last year I stressed that in this technological age the importance of a viable electronics industry to the future of Australia is strongly supported by the Opposition parties. I raised the question, which was still to be resolved, of bow far the viability of the industry, including its capacity to maintain a nationally independent program of research and development, is dependent on an integrated operation combining a thriving consumer product division with production for the so-called professional market. 
I take this opportunity to ask the Minister for Overseas Trade what is the situation in this respect now. I took note at that time of the proposal by the Government, in announcing its decision in respect of this report on consumer electronic equipment, to look to further ways of assisting the industry. Particularly, the Government made reference to the subsidisation of certain sectors of this industry. I said at the time that the Opposition assured the Government that it would not hamper its attempts, through those proposals for subsidisation, to achieve the effective and viable Australian industry that we support. Through you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I ask the Minister: How far have matters progressed in that particular area which is of vital concern to us all? 
What I think is essential to Australian secondary industry is a clear understanding of the Government's policies in respect of tariffs. One fears that the tariff pressure and the uncertainty to which I have referred are part and parcel of the veritable onslaught by this Government on secondary industry. Secondary industry, I submit, has taken quite a bashing. The investment allowance, so vital for the development of productivity and technology, has been removed. There is in the pipeline a proposed halving, if I might put it that way, of export incentives. There is the excessive revaluation of the Australian currency. I take the opportunity again to say that I have not opposed a degree of revaluation of the Australian currency. But even so distinguished an authority as  Sir John  Crawford recently has expressed the view that the Australian dollar is overvalued. This makes extremely difficult effective competition or effective penetration of export markets by Australian industry. It is on the build-up of manufactured exports that a main part of the future of the exports of this country relies. There is the limitation which was brought in on amounts available for research and development. As I have tried to stress, for the effective development of Australian manufacture and of those products which can compete effectively in overseas markets, research and development are of the utmost importance. There is this tariff pressure and uncertainty. Above all, of course, secondary industry labours in this context under the. impact of the rampant inflation of domestic costs and prices which have occurred under this Government. In this context, as we validate these measures in the tariff field, secondary industry may legitimately state: Time is catching up on this Government and it is time for a clear statement of its tariff objectives and for a removal of the uncertainties under which industry has had to operate. 
I am flattened. These are the Pollyanna policies of the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  at their best - or their worst. We have had the usual sugary, not to say evasive and naive, account of the daunting situation confronting this country. Until the last few minutes 1 had been trying to make up my mind whether the Treasurer was denying that there was a credit squeeze and whether yesterday's events were just matching rates operating outside the system. The rates are what they are because of the Government's policies, so where does that get us? The fact is that there is a squeeze on money and credit. What else does a rise of bank deposit and loan rates of up to 2 per cent as from yesterday and the new rates on the proposed Commonwealth loan signify but that? As was stated in the 'Financial Review' yesteday, the increase 'spells out the Government's intention of persisting with a tough monetary policy of tight supply and high rates for the rest of the calendar year.' That is the Government's policy. 
The Treasurer referred to events in 1971. They are just not comparable. Did we then face the current headlong rush of leap-frogging wage-salary and price increases that we have today, which spell out inflation at an alarming and accelerating rate? Things should never have been let go so far. It is like a runaway train - there is no way we will stop that situation by traditional fiscal and monetary policies. That is the essence of our problem. The Treasurer in effect says, if he concedes that there is a credit squeeze, that it is there to contain inflation. I say it will not contain our current inflation within any acceptable time horizon but rather, if persisted in, will serve not to curb inflation but to cause unemployment. The distinguished visiting American economist,  Dr Sidney  Weintraub, reviewing these matters in an academic sense, wrote in the 'Financial Review' the other day: 
From the evidence, monetary policy packs its wallop against output and employment ... Its impotency in stemming prices is marked. 
We on this side of the House are not attempting to be scare mongers about unemployment. 
Indeed, I would assert - 1 hope in the company of the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  who is now at the table - that with commonsense and sensible policies we can beat this inflation which threatens the economic and social fabric of the nation, which is the social and economic consequence of the Government's policies we are talking about in this urgency motion, without large scale unemployment. But, persist in this tight money policy along with other policies of the Government and there is no way in which the Government can avoid accelerating inflation, considerable unemployment and a large balance of payments deficit. 
Time does not permit me fully to review the events that have brought us to this situation. However, I think it is salutary to do that briefly. One can refer - the other side of the House frequently does - to a build-up in the money supply in 1972. But the cause of this inflation is the massive growth in government expenditure last year superimposed on a resurgent private sector with the open encouragement of the Government to increases in incomes and associated conditions. Only late in the piece was the attempt made to institute this policy about which we are now talking, so that as late as September, by another measure of the money supply, the annual rate of increase of that supply was of the order of 30 per cent. I do not reject what happened in 1972, but in 1973 the money supply was still expanding at this very rapid rate. In that sense - the present position, as I said, was brought about largely by government spending - the Treasurer has a very great responsibility for the present situation. I recall when  Mr Max  Walsh was speaking in Hobart in March last, he said: 'Federal fiscal policy has sent inflation along at a dizzying rate'. Last Monday's 'Australian Financial Review' states: 
In the halcyon days following December 1972 it was all stops out as far as spending and expansionary policies were concerned. 
And that led on to the inflation. What was the major factor in that? The big spending Budget of 1973. The responsibility of the Treasurer lies in permitting that Budget and in bringing about this inflationary situation. Inflation having risen to 14 per cent and with the tax bite on increased incomes there is no way by monetary or fiscal policy to hold back this headlong rush of leapfrogging wage and salary increases and price increases. That is the burden of the argument of the Oppo sition. The trouble with the Government is that &lt;t is too conservative in its economic policies. It does not want to look at something new. It pours a bucket on any proposal from this side of the House that a more direct program, a restraint program of prices and incomes, needs to be instituted. But there is no other way in our present circumstances that the inflation will be arrested. There is certainly a credit squeeze. Anyone who does not think so should ask those seeking finance for houses. Ask the business firms seeking money to finance investment and even the working capital of their businesses. 
Ask Frank, I suppose the honourable member is talking about the architect of last year's Budget. I remember that at that time the 'Australian Financial Review' headed its report: 'Frank's Friendly Road to Inflation'. That indeed is what it has turned out to be. In this situation the credit squeeze that the Government continues to persist with can lead only in the direction of significant unemployment. So it is a matter of urgent public importance that this process be eased to achieve a better mix of fiscal and monetary policies to moderate demand, a necessary condition for the control of inflation, I do not deny. But it is equally urgent that the Government implement a restraint program of prices and wages to supplement it if inflation is not to undermine the social and economic fabric of this nation. 
I move: 
After sub-section (4) of proposed section 8, insert the following sub-section: (4a) The Corporation shall not, in the performance of its functions, seek to engage in an enterprise or project without the participation of another person or other persons except on a temporary basis or in a case where the Minister has taken action under sub-section (6) of section 8a in relation to the enterprise or project. 
The reason for this amendment is that despite the deletion from this Bill, as compared with the 1973 Bill, of certain additions to the powers of the Corporation, in particular the power to carry on any business or activity, yet it seems to the Opposition from a reading of the present statement of the functions of the Corporation as set out in clause 4 of the Bill, that the combination of the suggestion that the Corporation be empowered in pursuance of this provision to engage or participate in enterprises, with the powers conferred under section 5 (a) (c), which relates to the power 'to form or participate in the formation of a company' would be to confer power on the Corporation to act significantly in its own right  in  a particular line of business. As the Minister has pointed out, the objective is that the Corporation should act as a co-ordinator and that it should work in conjunction with private enterprise to enlarge the possibilities and scope of that activity. So the purpose of this amendment, which  I  think the Minister has indicated is acceptable to the Government, is to make clear that the Corporation shall not seek to engage in an enterprise or project without the participation of another 'person or other persons'.  In  short, it will proceed, in conjunction with an Australian enterprise, or on a joint venture basis, with another firm. 
The Opposition has no objection to this amendment. Under the Bill a number of new matters will have to be taken into account by the Corporation as well as the current monetary policy of the Government. It would seem to be quite appropriate to add to those. The Bill already goes so far as to include the policy of the Australian Government in relation to the environment, industrial relations and so on. The Opposition has no objection to the amendment. 
Amendment agreed to. 
The Opposition sees this amendment as merely consequential. Given the preceding amendment, a definition is necessary here. The Opposition accepts this proposal. 
Amendment agreed to. 
The honourable member for Henty  (Mrs Child),  who has just resumed her seat, expressed pleasure at the change of attitude on the part of honourable members on this side of the House to this legislation. The truth of the matter is that any change of attitude has taken place mainly on the part of honourable members on the other side of the House. The House has before it 2 Bills for debate. One is the Australian Industry Development Corporation Bill 1974, which has been considerably modified as compared with a similar Bill introduced in 1973. I am gratified that as a result of those changes and subject to certain further amendments being accepted the Opposition broadly will be able to support the measure. The broad objective of this legislation is to enlarge the scope of the Australian Industry Development Corporation, as established by the previous Government, to enable it more effectively to carry out its twin objectives of encouraging the development of Australian industry and resources and of fostering maximum Australian ownership and control of Australian industry and resources. 
Notwithstanding all that the honourable member for Henty said, those objectives - the exploitation by Australian initiative of Australia's vast potential for development with a maximum of Australian ownership and control - are every bit as strongly held by honourable members on this side of the House as they are by the supporters of the Government. I concede that by and large- the Australian Labor Party has perhaps done a better job of convincing the electorate of its concern about these matters than honourable members on this side of the House. The Labor Party, with good nationalistic rhetoric, attacks the hated multinational companies and thereby adds an extra dimension of fervour to its story. But in practice the truth of the matter is that the . Government has not done anything very specific in this area. It has not laid down guidelines for foreign investment. It has not re-examined the taxation legislation that applies in this area. It has not toughened up in any sense; rather it has renewed unchanged the Companies (Foreign Takeovers) Act brought in by the previous Government, the legislation that was designed to protect Australian companies from overseas takeovers. The Government's only policy initiative in the general overseas capital area - the noninterest deposit requirement on overseas borrowing - has in fact limited the borrowing capacity of Australian-owned businesses to a much greater degree than overseas companies. So it is a case of much talk and no action. 
I repeat that this side of the House is resolute in its determination to see strong measures to ensure that Australians have maximum control and ownership of our national resources and industries, consistent with the fostering of the full and continuing development of this country that we all want to see. This Bill to enlarge the Australian Industry Development Corporation is an initiative in that direction. Of no little interest is the proposal for a mechanism for the participation in major Australian development of the ordinary man in the street, referred to by the honourable member for Henty, through the Investment Bonds of the National Investment Fund. As a matter of interest, I advocated something very much along those lines in an address given some years ago. I was keen then - I am still keen, and the cynical might aver that I am idealistic enough to want to see the small man get a stake in the 'big time'. I do not mean a buy-back of General Motors-Holden's Pty Ltd or something phoney like that, but a stake in a ground floor major Australian development. 
But while that aspect of the National Investment Fund proposal appeals, unhappily there are other aspects of the very comprehensive proposal of the Government in this second Bill about which one can express only the deepest reservations. I sincerely hope that the Government in a spirit of constructive co-operation will accede to our view that the proper course is to await the report of the Senate Select Committee on Foreign Ownership and Control of Australian Resources, established to consider the 1973 legislation. I hope that in the light of its considerations the Committee may assist with a proper assessment of the present measure, and that the Government will await that report before these Bills are finally disposed of by the Parliament. 
Whilst the Opposition will be proposing some further amendments to the Australian Industry Development Corporation Bill, it welcomes the changes that the Government has seen fit to make in the present legislation as compared with that introduced last year. Notable among these are the restraints now imposed on the AIDC against entering into any major business activity entirely on its own account. The Opposition has been 
The Opposition welcomes this amendment to clause 6 of the Bill. It will be a protection against actions about which the Opposition had some fears when the 1973 measure was first introduced. This new provision states quite categorically that the Corporation shall not in the performance of its functions seek to acquire or acquire a controlling interest in a company in which Australian residents have a controlling interest. I repeat that the Opposition welcomes this provision. The Minister has pointed out that the Corporation shall not do this except where the acquisition will forestall, so to speak, or is necessary to prevent foreign interests or foreign persons from acquiring a controlling interest. The difficulty that the Opposition had with this provision, as the Bill was first drawn, is that the exception was couched in the terms that the acquisition is 'considered by the Board to be necessary'. We believe that the substantial intention of the Government, as has been confirmed by the Minister, is that the acquisition is necessary to prevent this. Accordingly, the Opposition is gratified, firstly, for the proposed new subsection (5) being included in proposed clause 8 and, secondly, for the change that has now been accepted by the Government. 
Amendment agreed to. 
I move: In sub-section (14) of proposed section 8a., omit 'Minister appoints including a person appointed on the nomination of the Minister for Minerals and Energy', substitute 'Governor-General appoints'. 
This matter arises in the context of the National Interest Division to which the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  has referred. It is a major new part of the legislation as compared with the 1970 Act. One hopes that in this area the Government will provide as soon as possible a more comprehensive statement of its policy and the sorts of principles it proposes to apply, particularly in assessing the national interest. 
The proposed section 8a provides, amongst other things, for the appointment of a National Interest Committee which is given the task of advising the Minister on national interest projects. My colleague the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony),  in speaking to this measure last night, said that the Committee has a somewhat shadowy role and composition in this legislation. However, it would seem - given the importance of the matters that are likely to arise in this area - that the membership of the Committee should be as far removed as possible from the hurlyburly of the political scene and also that the appointment should be made in a way which enables the Parliament to have power to scrutinise and, if it were the opinion of the Parliament, to override the appointment. So the proposal is that the appointment in question should be made by the Governor-General as distinct from the Minister. No doubt in effect the Minister will make the relevant recommendation but by providing for appointment by the Governor-General the matter will come before the Parliament. 
As the Special Minister of State  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  has pointed out this corresponds to a similar provision in section 18 of the Act. As I now understand it with this amending Bill there are 2 types of inquiry - first, that in relation to a notified price increase of a prescribed company and, second, that of any company including a prescribed company which is having its prices looked at, whether an increase has been notified or not. The effect of this amendment is to put the 2 types of inquiry on the same basis in respect of the companies and the Tribunal's response after the inquiry by the Tribunal. The Opposition does not oppose the amendment. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Clause, as amended, agreed to. 
Remainder of Bill - by leave - taken as a whole, and agreed to. 
Bill reported with amendments; report - by leave - adopted. 
The Opposition does not oppose the Minister's proposal. 
Clause negatived. 
Clause 7 to 11 - by leave - taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 12.  "(2) For the purposes of sub-section (1), the prescribed day is whichever is the earlier of the following days: - 
the day on which a copy of the report by the Tribunal in relation to the price or proposed price is received by the company; or 
the fourteenth day after the expiration of - 
the period of 4 months that commenced on the day on which the Tribunal served notice on the company that it intended to hold the inquiry; or 
such further period as is, or such further periods as are, specified in a notice or notices served on the company under subsection 19 (2).". 
We have heard a great deal from the Minister for Science  (Mr Morrison)  in his remarks on this Bill about what the Opposition has torpedoed. What about the example you sought to set the whole nation last week in respect of the increase in parliamentary salaries? It is said: 'Accept it all - no deferment or example'. All right, we torpedoed that, but we did not torpedo or seek to torpedo the Bill establishing the Prices Justification Tribunal, and we do not seek to torpedo the Bill at present before the House to enlarge the powers of the Tribunal. The Minister referred also to the referendum on prices and incomes, when the Government sought separate powers in relation to prices and incomes. Nothing was clearer at that time than the fact that the Government had no intention of using these powers. Certainly it had no intention of using the incomes power - and the one power is of no effect without the other. Indeed, was it not the  President  of the Australian Labor Party,  Mr Bob  Hawke, who was in the vanguard of the opposition to the incomes power? As I say, if the Government has no intention of using one, of what effect is the other? Price control on its own leads only to deterioration in quality, distortion in the allocation of resources, shortages, black markets and a huge bureaucracy. 
We support this measure relating to the Prices Justification Tribunal as an intermediate procedure, which falls short of price control with all its attendant inequities and evils. My concern today is to keep it that way. I will come back to that. It is true to say, as my colleague the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  pointed out, that this Bill provides for a considerable expansion of powers. The main provision is that in clause 10 of the Bill amends section 16 of the principal Act to permit the Tribunal, either at the direction of the Government or on its own initiative, to inquire into and report on prices charged by companies irrespective of their turnover. It is still true, of course, that only firms with an annual turnover in excess of $20m are required to notify increases, but the Tribunal is empowered to inquire into firms of lesser size. I repeat that by and large the Opposition supports this extension of powers. There have undoubtedly been situations where the end manufacturer has had a turnover in excess of $20m but the companies supplying him with parts and material have had a lesser turnover, but the increases in the prices of the supplier's materials has been the basis of the difficulties for the larger company, the one subject to the purview of the Tribunal. So this extension of powers to permit the Tribunal to look at companies of lesser size is undoubtedly a reasonable one. 
Perhaps the other main thrust of the extended powers is that the Tribunal is empowered to take a close look at activities in respect of retail prices and the prices of imported goods. While supporting these measures, I think it is appropriate to look briefly, as the Deputy Leader of the Opposition did, at the criteria that the Tribunal, in the short period of its existence, has evolved. As the Deputy Leader of the Opposition pointed out, the Tribunal does not propose and has not proposed to lay down any formula or detailed code which could be applied automatically to determine what is a justified price. It has based its approach particularly on the notion of justifiable cost increases. A cost increase which is not justifiable is one which could be shown or be seen to be avoidable. But beyond that, as the Deputy Leader of the Oppo sition pointed out, the Tribunal has a notion of what constitutes a fair profit. Even a justifiable cost increase can be passed on with the approval of the Tribunal only if it is necessary to earn a fair profit. Indeed, further than that, even if a cost increase is held to be justifiable and the resultant price increase is apparently made in prospect of only a fair profit, nevertheless it can be subject to question if in the opinion of the Tribunal the company is not operating in a broadly efficient way. For instance, in this context, in the case involving Lever and Kitchen Pty Ltd the Tribunal referred to the high costs of packaging and advertising. 
I go over that ground because the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  in his speech introducing his non-anti-inflationary measures recently implied that the Government would propose to the Tribunal - I think 'invite' was the word he used - that it add to those criteria I have just been referring to in a way which, he implied, would toughen up the surveillance of prices that it carries out. He referred to the Tribunal scrutinising with care' price claims that are based on wage costs in excess of awards and to scrutinising with care price claims 'where profit margins exceed those operating in 1972, where firms are unwilling to absorb reasonable increases in wages and costs by improvement in efficiency, where prices are expected to contribute towards further capital expenditure or where selling costs, including advertising, appear excessive'. 
The fact is, from the account given of the Tribunal's activities, that, for the most part, it is already doing that - in short, it is scrutinising those matters with care. As I said a moment ago, there was explicit reference in that case to the high cost of packaging and advertising. That no doubt would have influenced the Tribunal's final recommendation. So, like the rest of the Treasurer's mini-Budget speech, that part of it also did not amount to very much. But it does draw attention to the key point that honourable members on this side of the House made at the time of the introduction of the original legislation, that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition made in the debate a little while ago and that I again stress, that is, that the work of the Tribunal, if it is to be really meaningful and effective, must be integrated into a thorough-going overall policy against inflation, which of course we have not had from the Government or, alternatively, we have had half a dozen competing plans from as many Ministers! It must be integrated. 
I would concede in this context, as the Minister for Science said a while ago, that there is no easy solution to inflation, but an overall policy against inflation must include effective demand management through a proper mix of fiscal and monetary policy, and it must include policies to encourage the growth of supply and especially the fostering of industrial investment. But within that main framework and especially with the alarming thrust of cost-push inflation at present there must be a program for the more direct restraint on prices and incomes. Thus in the area of prices and, indirectly, of profits we have the Prices Justification Tribunal whose scope and purview it is sought to enlarge by this Bill. But still there has been nothing on the incomes - notably wages and salaries - side. The  Chairman  of the Tribunal has himself cried out, as reported in the 'Australian Financial Review' of 10 July this year, at the frightening prospect of the reopening of the metal trades award and generally at the rate at which wages and salaries are rising in the community. 
I have said that the Government has said nothing about that area of incomes control. In the Treasurer's speech of the other night we had perhaps the beginning or a suggestion of action in this respect. The Treasurer spoke about inviting - hardly a strong policy initiative^ - the Tribunal to scrutinise with care price claims that are based on wage costs in excess of awards. In this, the latter part of my speech I would like to make a number of comments on that because I fear that thu might become the beginning of a move by the Tribunal along a path which would spell the end of its usefulness, as I believe it has operated to date. The first comment is that the suggestion that the Tribunal should scrutinise with care price claims that are based on wage increases in excess of awards might be all right so long as it is only a matter of scrutinising with care, but it would concern me if it were to be taken to reflect the view that over-award payments in particular are somehow abnormal and improper in the system. In fact in many respects and in many contexts they are not - indeed, sometimes they may serve very useful purposes. I would be very concerned if only wage settlements negotiated outside the Commonwealth arbitration system, as has been put, should be subject to careful scrutiny by the Tribunal. A consent award certified by the Commission, which is increasingly the norm in important wage and salary settlements, may be equally suspect although, as I have said, they are certified by the Commission and negotiated within the purview of the Commission. They may be equally suspect from the point of view of a coherent program of prices and incomes restraint. 
I suggest that in this context there can be no escape from the necessity to propound a national guideline for wage and salary settlements. I have argued elsewhere that in the present situation it is urgent to proceed in this way. There is no other way in which to proceed, given the complexity of our system of wage determination - the combination of arbitral authorities and collective bargaining - and the wide diversity of circumstances and interests even within, let alone between, the major social groups in the community. There are no monoliths - neither the unions, the employers nor even the government - in this respect. There is no other way given also the multiplicity of wage fixing authorities. There are about six of them for Federal and State public servants. In those circumstances, in order to get some sort of order and some measure of restraint, there must be a national guideline for wage and salary increases with the lead coming from the Government, with every device of persuasion - publicity and the carrot and stick approach being brought to bear to publicise it - and being used to get agreement with it in as wide a context as possible and to encourage conformity with it. Of course, along with such a guideline there would be a guideline for prices, perhaps at some 3 percentage points below the former, thus guaranteeing built-in gains for employees. 
By way of correcting a misrepresentation that has appeared elsewhere of my view on this matter, I take this opportunity to stress that I do not thereby advocate a guideline of zero - a wage freeze. In a context of 14 per cent inflation and a massive tax bite on income increases, how crazy would one have to be to suggest that? Nor even would I suggest 8 per cent, as I was once quoted 'as saying. But, bearing in mind that wage and salary increases are currently running in excess of 20 per cent and that there will be correspondingly high price increases, it is probably necessary to think in terms of a guideline of as high as 12 per cent to IS per cent with a cut in personal income tax to encourage acceptance even of that. 
A point I would make is that to such a guideline for increases in wages per employee the Tribunal might well advert disallowing, for the purpose of justifying a price increase, any increase in wages and salaries paid above that guideline. 
But the final point I wish to make is that the policing, so to speak, of the observance by companies of such a guideline should not be a function of the Tribunal. That would surely involve a truly vast extension of the work of the Tribunal and of the bureaucracy to service it. In fact, as near as one could get it, it would be a comprehensive system of price control, the objections to which I referred earlier in my remarks. So it would involve, as I have said, a truly vast extension of the work of the Tribunal and a diminution of its capacity as a sort of roving investigator to make effective, acceptable judgments as to the appropriateness of price rises that would command respect by the very depth and authority of the Tribunal's inquiry in the particular case. 
To seek compliance with that guideline encouragement should be given through the tax system. Every company tax return would include a certified statement of the increase in that company's wage and salary bill per employee during the previous 12 months and any excess over that would be either disallowed as a cost for tax purposes or could attract additional company taxation in accordance with the excess of the increase. I am convinced that the sort of proposal which I have just suggested is administratively feasible. It could be comprehensive, covering every company, and it would be every bit as effective in stiffening resistance to excessive wage and salary claims as the proposal suggested in relation to the Prices Justification Tribunal. Meanwhile the Tribunal, contained in size to a reasonable compass, would continue particularly the work which it is now doing with the degree of success which, as the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development put it, is 'encouraging', namely, checking out prices and price rises in areas of the economy of weight and significance, in sufficient depth and with sufficient authority to. command respect and general acceptance. 
 I preface a question to the Minister for Labor and Immigration by saying that I have read with interest the proposals that he has persuaded the Government to put to the forthcoming Moore conference on wage fixation. While expressing my sincere hopes for a successful outcome of the conference, I also note that the best informed economic commentators have stated flatly that his proposals will not work. Is he aware that the Opposition and myself in particular have put forward proposals in terms of a negotiated national guideline for wage and salary increases which could, in effect, embrace a form of indexation? Further, although some commentators have also poured a bucket on these proposals, as the Minister is a fair man, not to say a statesman, would he arrange for these views to be drawn to the attention of  Mr Justice  Moore, since presumably only parties to the original wage hearing are in a position to. present views themselves? 
This Bill commanded the general support of the Opposition and most of the amendments which have been returned from the Senate originated from this side of the chamber. The Opposition is gratified that the Government has seen fit to accept these amendments in this place. However, there were additional amendments to which the Opposition attached some importance. It attached considerable importance.  to the amendment which was numbered 7 when it was moved in this place. It proposed to add the following sub-clause to clause 25 of the Bill: 
Without limiting the generality of paragraph 8 (c) of the Reserve Bank Act 1959-1973, the powers conferred on the Reserve Bank by that paragraph are exercisable in relation to registered corporations being building societies. 
The effect of that amendment would have been to authorise the Reserve Bank to use, in respect of building societies, the powers contained in section 8 of the Reserve Bank Act. 
In drafting that amendment we had in mind a statement made to the Parliament by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  on 23 May 1973 when he said, in part: 
It would be a very proper thing for this Parliament now to see that such basic financial institutions as building societies are equated much more in their operations to banks - that is, we should guarantee their security and in return they should pursue the public interest in their lending policies. 
This amendment falls short of the guarantee advocated by the Prime Minister. It does not equate with lender of last resort facilities. But it does - or would, had it been passed - provide the Reserve Bank with a capacity to assist building societies should the Bank consider it to be warranted. In expressing our gratification that the Government has accepted the amendments that were carried in the other place, we press the Government to give further consideration to this line of thought that we have advanced. 
One other amendment which was defeated in the other place, to which we attached considerable importance, was the amendment numbered 9. It sought to bring the operations under this Act under the scrutiny of this Parliament. By and large the Act is an enabling one. The Reserve Bank gives effect to it by regulation. We sought by this amendment to introduce the notion of the 'affirmative resolution' by which regulations formulated by the Reserve Bank in pursuance of the Act would be brought before the Parliament. I would like to stress - I am sure that the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  was aware of it - that there was no suggestion in the amendment that determinations under the regulations be so brought. If it were desirable for the Reserve Bank to give effect to a change of interest rates or a change of asset policy under a regulation which had been brought in and approved by the Parliament then that is a matter of a day to day determination. Perhaps, for instance, a certain group of companies is to be classified as a group and be subject to interest rate control. The regulation in the broad sense should be brought before the purview of both Houses. The Opposition presses the Government to give further consideration to the wisdom of these additional amendments which were moved by this side of the chamber. Again I express the gratification of the Opposition that the amendments carried in the other place have been accepted by the Government. 

 -Mr Chairman, in winding up this debate for this side of the chamber I begin where the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  left off. Throughout this Sitting it has been the constant charge of Government speakers, beginning with the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  that the attitude of this side of the Parliament has been 'blind obstruction'. That is not so. I remind the Australian people that 250 pieces of legislation, in round figures, were introduced into the Parliament last year and that the great bulk of them were passed into law. These 6 Bills found their way to this Joint Sitting and they are opposed even in this last hour by the Liberal and Country Parties, not out of wanton obstructionism but because this side of the chamber, representative of opinion held over a wide spectrum of the Australian people, believes that they are bad in principle and are likely to detract from the effectiveness of our parliamentary democracy. 
Coining to the Bill, the Opposition subscribes in every way to the 2 main bases, the 2 essential propositions from which the Bill before the Sitting springs. The first of these is the critical and increasing importance of energy in the modern scheme of things, and especially so for Australia as an island continent. We recognise this as clearly and explicitly as the Government professes to do. Indeed, given the present and continuing run down in exploration and mining activity, we see the matter as urgent, but the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  gives no evidence of seeing it that way. It reminds me of that story so current last year about the chap who said to a top mining executive: 'Cheer up. Things could be worse.' So he cheered up, and sure enough things got worse. And they do to this day. The second basic proposition- if anything the more basic point- is the legitimate national sentiment of the Australian people, that Aus.tralians should be in the vanguard of the development of this country and that there should be a maximum of Australian ownership and control of our industries and resources. 
There is no way- just no way- in which the Government can pretend to be more concerned about Australia, about the development of Australia and about the true welfare of the Aus.tralian people than this side of the chamber. What is happening in the country right now? There is the worst inflation, the worst wave of industrial strikes, with virtual industrial breakdown and the threat of widespread unemployment. This Joint Sitting may be historic after all. Notwithstanding all the anti-climax, it may be historic in its irrelevance to the frightening situation that prevails in Australia and to the bankruptcy of the leadership and the example that this Canberra government is giving to the Aus.tralian people. How we are going to get home tomorrow is one question in point! 
So I readily aver- the Opposition avers- that increased Federal Government oversight and control of the energy and minerals industry in Australia, and indeed increased Government muscle in negotiations especially with overseas interests, is both desirable and inevitable. What is in dispute in relation to this BUI is the degree and the manner of Federal Government intervention. That is what the argument is aU about. The key point is that while we want a maximum of Australian ownership and control of our industries and resources, we also want to ensure that the momentum of the full and continuing development of the country is not held back. For that purpose we want a real, effective and productive partnership betwen the Government and industry- both Australian industry, capital and enterprise, and overseas capital and enterprise. As my good friend and colleague, the honourable member for Stirling  (Mr Viner),  has so often said in this chamber, there is no other way. It is 'not on' that the Government can do it on its own, even though the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  said here this afternoon that it could. 
But how is such a partnership to be achieved under the shadow of this instrument of truly awesome power that is now before the House? How is the $250m to $300m of high risk capital, which the best and most informed estimates suggest is necessary to achieve a high degree of self sufficiency in Australia in the coming decades, to be forthcoming if private enterprise is to be called upon to operate in the context of inferiority and uncertainty which would be established by the enactment of this measure? So the real danger at this time in the history of this country and, indeed, in the history of the whole world, when exploration for and the development and recovery of energy resources is of increasingly critical importance, is that the performance of the industry in this country will be diminished by proceeding in the way the Government proposes. 
I said that the Opposition has been charged with obstruction. Let me remind the Joint Sitting, as it is very relevant to the issue, that the week before last, after a debate which the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  described as a 'very constructive one', in this very chamber the Government and the Opposition concurred in the passage of a BUI to enlarge the capacity and scope of the Australian Industry Development Corporation. What further instrument does the Government require for the production side- as distinct from a Petroleum and Minerals Authority which perhaps could act in the role of independent regulator, co-ordinator and adviser to the Government? The establishment of an Australian exploration and mineral resource development enterprise of the largest dimension is now, or soon will be if the AIDC legislation is passed, within the will and capacity of the Government and the nation. 
But, of course, the AIDC is subject to certain constraints, such as the imperative to proceed as part of or on a joint venture basis with an Aus.tralian free enterprise company, with the need to divest which has now been written back into the legislation, and so on. That gets to the nub of the difference between those on this side of the chamber and the Government. The Government is interested in government action and Aus.tralian ownership, as government ownership, as an end in itself. That is the socialist objective of this Government. As my friend, the honourable member for Stirling, has so often emphasised, we on this side are interested in fostering Australian free enterprise exploration and development of our resources, although certainly with an increased measure of Federal Government coordination and direction and, indeed, direct participation. To do this by Australian free enterprise and with Australian ownershipownership either by individuals or by companiesis the proven method by which to achieve this objective. So we reject the Government's approach. 
The Bill provides for the setting up of an Authority which, in short, has excessive and unreasonable powers conferred on it. It is inequitable and out of consonance with the requirement  for  a maximum effort in the development  of  energy resources in the interests of this country and, indeed, the whole world. The Opposition is opposed to the measure. But why prolong the proceedings any further. Now the numbers will determine the matter, but in the end, 'magna est 
Veritas  et praevalebit'- truth is great and will prevail. The Minister and his followers behind him are like 'greyhounds in the slips straining upon the start'- sorry, the vote and the finish. So be it. Let the vote be taken. 

 -Mr Chairman, in winding up this debate for this side of the chamber I begin where the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  left off. Throughout this Sitting it has been the constant charge of Government speakers, beginning with the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  that the attitude of this side of the Parliament has been blind obstruction'. That is not so. I remind the Australian people that 250 pieces of legislation, in round figures, were introduced into the Parliament last year and that the great bulk of them were passed into law. These 6 Bills found their way to this Joint Sitting and they are opposed even in this last hour by the Liberal and Country Parties, not out of wanton obstructionism but because this side of the chamber, representative of opinion held over a wide spectrum of the Australian people, believes that they are bad in principle and are likely to detract from the effectiveness of our parliamentary democracy. 
Coming to the Bill, the Opposition subscribes in every way to the 2 main bases, the 2 essential propositions from which the Bill before the Sitting springs. The first of these is the critical and increasing importance of energy in the modern scheme of things, and especially so for Australia as an island continent. We recognise this as clearly and explicitly as the Government professes to do. Indeed, given the present and continuing run down in exploration and mining activity, we see the matter as urgent, but the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  gives no evidence of seeing it that way. It reminds me of that story so current last year about the chap who said to a topmining executive: 'Cheer up. Things could be worse.' So he cheered up, and sure enough things got worse. And they do to this day. The second basic proposition- if anything the more basic point- is the legitimate national sentiment of the Australian people, that Australians should be in the vanguard of the development of this country and that there should be a maximum of Australian ownership and control of our industries and resources. 
There is no way- just no way- in which the Government can pretend to be more concerned about Australia, about the development of Australia, and about the true welfare of the Australian people than this side of the chamber. What is happening in the country right now? There is the worst inflation, the worst wave of industrial strikes, with virtual industrial breakdown and the threat of widespread unemployment. This Joint Sitting may be historic after all. Notwithstanding all the anti-climax, it may be historic in its irrelevance to the frightening situation that prevails in Australia and to the bankruptcy of the leadership and the example that this Canberra government is giving to the Australian people. How we are going to get home tomorrow is one question in point! 
So I readily aver- the Opposition avers- that increased Federal Government oversight and control of the energy and minerals industry in Australia, and indeed increased Government muscle in negotiations especially with overseas interests, is both desirable and inevitable. What is in dispute in relation to this Bill is the degree and the manner of Federal Government intervention. That is what the argument is all about. The key point is that while we want a maximum of Australian ownership and control of our industries and resources, we also want to ensure that the momentum of the full and continuing development of the country is not held back. For that purpose we want a real, effective and productive partnership betwen the Government and industry- both Australian industry, capital and enterprise, and overseas capital and enterprise. As my good friend and colleague, the honourable member for Stirling  (Mr Viner),  has so often said in this chamber, there is no other way. It is 'not on' that the Government can do it on its own, even though the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  said here this afternoon that it could. 
But how is such a partnership to be achieved under the shadow of this instrument of truly awesome power that is now before the House? How is the $250m to $300m of high risk capital, which the best and most informed estimates suggest is necessary to achieve a high degree of self sufficiency in Australia in the coming decades, to be forthcoming if private enterprise is to be called upon to operate in the context of inferiority and uncertainty which would be established by the enactment of this measure? So the real danger at this time in the history of this country and, indeed, in the history of the whole world, when exploration for and the development and recovery of energy resources is of increasingly critical importance, is that the performance of the industry in this country will be diminished by proceeding in the way the Government proposes. 
I said that the Opposition has been charged with obstruction. Let me remind the Joint Sitting, as it is very relevant to the issue, that the week before last, after a debate which the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  described as a very constructive one', in this very chamber the Government and the Opposition concurred in the passage of a Bill to enlarge the capacity and scope of the Australian Industry Development Corporation. What further instrument does the Government require for the production side- as distinct from a Petroleum and Minerals Authority which perhaps could act in the role of independent regulator, co-ordinator and adviser to the Government? The establishment of an Australian exploration and mineral resource development enterprise of the largest dimension is now, or soon will be if the AIDC legislation is passed, within the will and capacity of the Government and the nation. 
But, of course, the AIDC is subject to certain constraints, such as the imperative to proceed as part of or on a joint venture basis with an Australian free enterprise company, with the need to divest which has now been written back into the legislation, and so on. That gets to the nub of the difference between those on this side of the chamber and the Government. The Government is interested in government action and Australian ownership, as government ownership, as an end in itself. That is the socialist objective of this Government. As my friend, the honourable member for Stirling, has so often emphasised, we on this side are interested in fostering Australian free enterprise exploration and development of our resources, although certainly with an increased measure of Federal Government coordination and direction and, indeed, direct participation. To do this by Australian free enterprise and with Australian ownershipownership either by individuals or by companiesis the proven method by which to achieve this objective. So we reject the Government's approach. 
The Bill provides for the setting up of an Authority which, in short, has excessive and unreasonable powers conferred on it. It is inequitable and out of consonance with the requirement for a maximum effort in the development of energy resources in the interests of this country and, indeed, the whole world. The Opposition is opposed to the measure. But why prolong the proceedings any further. Now the numbers will determine the matter, but in the end, 'magna est 
Veritas et praevalebit '-truth is great and will prevail. The Minister and his followers behind him are like 'greyhounds in the slips straining upon the start'- sorry, the vote and the finish. So be it. Let the vote be taken. 
I preface my question to the Minister for Labor and Immigration by saying that recently in Sydney the employees of a small textile manufacturer were stood down. This was attributed to the 25 per cent tariff cut. The employees are being paid at the rate of their normal earnings. Can the Minister give me an up to date figure as to how many persons throughout Australia are at present being paid unemployment benefit at this rate-or is it rather structural adjustment assistance? How many persons paid in this way does the Minister plan for? Incidentally, can he confirm that persons in this category are counted as unemployed? Someone has suggested to me, perhaps rather maliciously, that they are employed, so to speak, on re-training. 
I support the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  to the Appropriation Bill (No. 1) 1974-75. This Budget and the Government's overall economic policy are not adequate to meet the serious economic situation confronting the nation- accelerating inflation, rising unemployment and the deteriorating balance of payments situation. The speech which has just been delivered by the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley),  dealing with the all-important matter of education, underlines the thrust of this Budget. As the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  stated clearly, the overriding objective is to carry through the political social program of the Australian Labor Party. One is in danger of being misunderstood in drawing attention to the fact that it does not contend adequately with the major problems that I mention. The Opposition supports the aspirations of the Government in these fields and the program which the Minister has just outlined, but that program and other programs proposed to be carried through in this Budget will be marred- nay, frustrated- by rampant inflation and increasing unemployment if the situation is allowed to go unchecked. When I refer to rising unemployment, I am talking of a very significant increase which might take place. I stress that no responsible Opposition and no responsible Government would want to return to the conditions of the over-heated economy and the over-full employment situation of earlier this year. But the prospect in view is possibly a very severe one. I repeat that the Opposition supports the aspirations embodied in this Budget but points to these major economic problems that confront the nation. So the Budget is a social document with the overriding objective I have stated. 
The economic role of the Budget, so far as I can discern it, is this: By embodying the Government's program in the Budget in this way, and by a show of 'soaking the rich' and demonstrating a real concern to redistribute income towards lower income groups- I refer to the tax on unearned income and the capital gains tax, hitting the multi-national mining companies and the fringe benefits of business men, the reduction in the allowable tax deduction for school expensesthe Government will be able to achieve a social contract with the unions, that is, achieve wage and salary restraint, an agreement to limit income increases, as the means of countering the current accelerating cost inflation spiral. As the Treasurer puts it in the Budget Speech, 'the Government is convinced that the best course is to attack the cost-price spiral directly. ' This is the only measure in the Budget to fight inflation. 
In the Opposition economic policy a program of prices and incomes restraint also has a part, but I stress that it is a supplementary role to appropriate policies of overall demand management, that is, policies to ensure adequate but taut total demand, and to the fostering of increased supplies, and in particular to the fostering of industrial investment, which is the necessary basis for the increase in national product and output by which the social objectives of the Government can be achieved. I said that gaining the understanding of the unions was the only measure to fight inflation. Otherwise, the Budget in its overall spending and tax-raising program is heavily expansionary. It needs to be noted, though, that with the Budget being so late and with the nature of some of the programs, the main expansionary impact is likely to be in the second half of the year, with the real monentum in mid- 1975. 
So we have a Budget which for its own part in the scheme of things writes in an inflation rate of the order of at least 20 per cent, and by spending up in line with burgeoning receipts- even with the tax cuts provided for in the Budget, as has been pointed out, personal income tax is projected to increase by a staggering 46 per centthe Government is sustaining and fostering inflation at the rate of 20 per cent at least. That the increase in spending is only of the same order as burgeoning receipts is no indication of restraint or neutrality in terms of the impact on real resources. The vast expansion in Government spending proposed in this Budget adds to demand pressures, even if on the face of it the Government in the broad is doing no more than balancing the Budget. 
Pointing to a surplus of $23m is laughable. What conceivable confidence or accuracy can be attached to $2 3 m in a Budget in which each side of the account is of the order of $ 16,000m, as is the situation? I think the sheer size of those figures is worth emphasising. We have a growth over the 2 years up to June 1975 of very great magnitude. In the financial year 1970-71 both sides of the Budget were of the order of $8,100m: Just 4 years later, in 1974-75, we have a Budget in which each side of the balance sheet is of the order of $ 16,000m. That is a doubling over the short period I have mentioned. This derives basically from the rapid acceleration of inflation under the present Government. It is irrelevant to make comparisons with previous deficits or surpluses, or even to look at the proposed surplus to which I referred a moment ago. The Treasury refers to the case where inflation should be less severe. But if inflation turns out to be worse than projected, as is probable, there will be a resultant and fortuitous larger surplus than the $23m but this could not be said, in any way, to have subtracted from inflation as a surplus is supposed to. Therefore, as I have said, this Budget sustains and fosters inflation. 
On the tax side the Budget surely will smartly frustrate the hoped-for social contract as things stand at this stage. I fervently wish for success in seeking the co-operation of the union movement in a program of restraint. But when one looks at the tax side it is no wonder that the price that the union movement demands, in effect, so far as one can judge from the last few days, focuses on the tax scale. One just has to look at the figures provided in the table associated with the Budget to see that. An income of $6,400 per annum, which represents about the average earnings today, taxed at 1973-74 rates so that the tax would be $1,400, would result in an after tax income of $5,000. If that average income rises by 25 per cent to $8,000, as well it might because an increase of at least 22 V4 per cent is written into the Budget, and tax of $ 1 ,960 is taken from it on the new reduced scale, the after tax income will be $6,040. So, that income would move from $5,000 per annum to $6,040. 
With a 20 per cent inflation rate, that $5,000 has to rise to $6,000 anyhow. The $40 would provide less than a 1 per cent improvement. If the inflation rate goes higher than 20 per cent, as is very probable, the average employee will be not better off but worse off. So, I would be inclined to support the employee who says, as well he might: 'I will show a bit of restraint, mate'- he might say it to  Dr Cairns  or Bob Hawke- 'if the Government does the same and cuts that 45 per cent increase in tax back a bit and does the same with the corresponding spend-up'. Note that the increase in tax to which I just referred is an increase of 40 per cent. The so-called tax cut goes along with an actual increase in tax of 40 per cent. 
The Opposition has argued that the approach in this area needs to be a more practical one, with a tax cut of a greater magnitude than this. Our argument has been that the only way to approach this matter is to arrive at a negotiated 'guidelines agreement' as to the permissible increase in incomes on the one hand and prices on the other, at a rate of increase somewhat below the increases in the recent period. 
The basis of this negotiated agreement is in the first instance an offer to the employees of a significant tax cut so that they may get an increase in after-tax income of approximately 3 per cent or 4 per cent. To achieve that on a gross basis would require an increase in actual income of 6 per cent or 7 per cent, when the tax bite is allowed for. If the tax cut is of a sufficient magnitude to achieve an increase of 3 per cent or 4 per cent in the taxpayer's income, one can in this context hopefully negotiate the guide lines for wage and salary increases of the order of 15 per cent. Along with that would be a price guideline which would be some 3 points below the wage/salary guideline to ensure built-in gains for employees. 
This proposal, which I cannot elaborate fully at this time, is so often misunderstood. It is said that in this way there would be, from this result alone, a considerable increase in consumption spending- that is, ordinary private spending. The idea is to seek an agreement by this means which will reduce claims for actual wages and salaries thereby reducing the costs of employers so, to that extent, making for an immediate break in the cost-price spiral. The increase in take-home pay via the tax cut replaces to a considerable extent increases that would otherwise occur in gross pay. So, to the extent that it succeeds, the expansion in private consumption expenditure from this measure alone is only to a small extent greater than would otherwise occur. It is important to stress this because the essence of a successful policy in this area is to maintain 'economic room' for an expansion, a recovery of investment expenditure. This is the proposal, which I cannot elaborate further, which we put from this side of the House. It is a proposal which one would have hoped to have seen tried before the Budget was introduced. It is a proposal which can yet be pursued, but which would require a subsequent revision of the Budget now before the House. 
The Government seeks to achieve something of this purpose in terms of a proposal for indexation. I wished there were time to dwell on that matter for a while. The difficulty is that there are so many surrounding conditions for indexation to work in this way that one can only be sceptical about it. But I will not further elaborate at this point. So, I say that the Budget in its own ambit builds in and sustains a rate of inflation of approximately 20 per cent. 
In the area of combating cost inflation, the fact that the impact of tax is maintained as it is, is very likely to frustrate the endeavour to achieve a breakthrough on the cost inflation front. On the other hand the Budget does little- indeed, it does nothing- to counter the other major problem of rising unemployment. As I have already stated, the expansionary impact of the Budget on business activity will be felt mainly in the second half of the financial year. 
Meanwhile, what is the position of the private sector? Are we really to have a relaxation of the credit squeeze? What incentive does the Budget contain for a recovery of private investment, as I have been stressing, and of business confidence generally? Notwithstanding yesterday's devaluation, there are few prospects for this recovery. The continuing squeeze of money and, looking at the manufacturing sector, in particular, the tariff cuts, the halving of export incentives, the withdrawal of investment allowances last year, the new taxes on property income and a capital gains tax which, so far as I can judge, makes no allowamce for the effects of inflation, further imposts on the insurance companies and the effect of this on the supply of funds, the import 'overhang'- the stuff that is already on the wharves and on the seas- all contribute to and go along with the generally grim psychology and lack of confidence of the business community. One can only anticipate that in these circumstances employment in manufacturing industry in particular is likely to decline further. 
So it was inevitable that there would be measures supplementary to those contained in the Budget, and the devaluation is the first of these. Unfortunately that is a decision which has all the signs of the haste and ad hoc-ery characteristics of most of the Government's moves in the economic policy area. I welcome this decision but it is incredible that such a change in the exchange rate was not co-ordinated with the Budget and other measures to present a comprehensive overall economic policy to contend with these major problems on inflation, mounting unemployment and a deteriorating balance of payments position. We have a continuation of the ad hoc and unco-ordinated policies of the last yearthe 'big spend up' making for inflation, the 'big squeeze ' to haul back the private sector and contend with inflation, the big up-valuation of the currency, the tariff cuts and so on. 
In summary, the Budget does nothing to restrain inflation, it will not arrest the empolyment slide, and the whole effect of the policy is to inhibit the production and investment- not least in oil and mineral search and recovery- and the productivity and increased supply, the real economic growth, which in the long run are the principal counters to inflation and the necessary means of realising the Government's objectives. To redistribute income and reallocate resources to enlarge the public sector may be fine if done in an effective manner which means, above all, gradually. But to do it at the cost of sound economic growth and at the risk of undermining the social and economic fabric of the nation is madness. 
-As the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  stated in his second reading speech, the purpose of this Bill is to implement the Government's decision to adopt a recommendation of the then Tariff Board that assistance by way of bounty be afforded the manufacture in Australia of sealed unit compressors of 1.5 kW or less, the bounty to be in addition to the protective tariff. The tariff rate on these compressors, following the 25 per cent across-the-board cut, was 43.125 per cent. What extraordinary apparent precision! In its report of 10 October 1973 on 'Domestic Appliances, Heating and Cooling Equipment, Etc' the Board recommended that the tariff rate be reduced to 25 per cent but that for a period of 2 years from 4 February 1974 a bounty of $5 be paid per compressor with an annual limit of $2m to the subsidy. Since it is held to be important from the point of view of the finished appliance manufacturers that the new 25 per cent rate apply immediately the provision of this bounty is essential if the industry is to have any chance to survive, so the Opposition supports the Bill. At page 1 1 of its report the Tariff Board states: . . . local production costs (and consequently disabilities against imports) are ... so high that it may not be possible to reorganise production in Australia on an economic basis. 
Later on that page it states: 
Useful economies would be realised if production were less fragmented. There is also substantial excess capacity. It is clear that the local demand for compressors in this range will support economic production by no more than one company, and even then economic production may not be possible without continued substantial export sales. 
Hence the board considered that the present main producer . . . should be given the opportunity to develop profitable operation under the proposed level of protection. 
Later in the report the Board says: 
It would . . . be in the interests of all concerned if other manufacturers took advantage of the adjustment assistance provisions being recommended to discontinue their present production which operates largely on a marginal cost basis. 
There are those who would argue that this represents an unacceptable degree of interference with private industry and the market mechanism. But for my part I would not accept that view; rather I believe it is only reasonable to recognise that the vitality and competitive power of Australian manufacturing will benefit from the greater rationalisation of manufacturing industry. I say that, notwithstanding the philosophy of the Trade Practices Act which pushes the other way. In point of fact too much of this is happening today. The trade practices law, the Prices Justification Tribunal and the 
Industries Assistance Commission are all pulling, or perhaps pushing, industry in different directions. I have said that I support the proposed rationalisation. In fact, I wish the Government would come up with a bit of planned rationalisation in the colour television area. What a shambles looks like emerging there, repeating all the chaos of the early days of monochrome television. Far from heeding the warning of the Tariff Board on fragmentation and its advice on rationalisation, the Government and, in particular, the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  seem to have gone out of their way to welcome newcomers. 
Broadly, therefore, I support the Board's recommendations and the intention of the Government as evidenced by the terms of the Bill, notably clause 5(b), to give effect to these recommendations. But the rationalisation of this and other parts of the appliance industry, especially the domestic white goods industry, is commendable and desirable providing 2 things apply: First that the machinery for structural adjustment is around and functioning effectively. As yet I suspect it is not much more than words on paper- and likewise the labour retraining and relocation program. With present Government policies, both parts of the adjustment program are going to be increasingly necessary. But second, this rationalisation of industry in the manufacture of these compressors, the subject of the Bill, and in the areas where others are to be 'adjusted to' is OK if subsequently the Australian firms in these several areas of production can command the market. 
One may be forgiven for feeling some concerna whole lot of concern- as to whether this will be so. The rate of protection recommended for most things covered by this reference, 'Domestic Appliances' is 25 per cent. That, as I have said, is the long term rate recommended for compressors, the subject of this Bill. But even the IAC does not know whether it is adequate. Thus the Board states at page 1 2 of its report: 
Because of the significance of the price of compressors to the cost efficiency of (and the market available to) the white goods industries using them (as well as for more general economic reasons) it is considered that they should be accorded no higher rate of protection than that being recommended for white goods generally, viz., 25 per cent. 
But-  ... it remains uncertain whether such duties will support profitable production in Australia. 
As I said, even the IAC does not seem to know whether this rate will be adequate. But if we ask why the rate being recommended for white goods generally is 25 per cent we find a pretty general and wide ranging discussion culminating in this- I quote from page 7 of that Tariff Board report: 
In determining the appropriate duty rates, the Board has paid considerable regard to the points of reference described and discussed in recent Annual Reports and particularly to the range of effective protection designated as 'low cost by Australian standards', viz. up to 25 per cent effective. The duties recommended are, except for a few cases, equivalent to effective protection of the order of 25 per cent. 
We had a general and wide-ranging discussion culminating in that statement. I submit that that is hardly what one could call a convincing basis for so important a decision in the particular- this particular- case. 
I take this opportunity to assert again that the arithmetic or statistical levels of protection and points of reference just referred to are not accepted in the tariff policy of the Liberal Party. Evidently however, the Board- now the Industries Assistance Commission- and the Government in accepting the report, is so committed, especially, as the passage I quoted underlined, to the 'low point' or to what one might call the magical 25 per cent which keeps coming up. It came up in the report on foundation garments tabled yesterday. It is the same long-term rate recommended for the motor vehicle industry. It is the rate recommended for many of the goods under reference in the electronics industrythough that was not accepted by the Government which opted for a 35 per cent level. One could extend the list. 
The proposition evidently is- certainly there is an increasingly widespread belief in industry that this is so- and that what cannot survive at 25 per cent is dispensable. This is not the occasion to enlarge further on this theme. It is however, I believe, a matter of truly major moment for the sound working and economic development of Australia. If what is suggested were the guiding principle, it is not good enough, and the development by the Government of a national industrial policy with the tariff as the servant of the policy, not an end in itself, is becoming increasingly urgent. Meanwhile, the Opposition supports the Bill before the House. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
-My question is directed to the Prime Minister. Is it a fact that while he is or was strongly committed to tariff changes in the present style of the Industries Assistance Commissionas witness his strong words at the recent Heavy Engineering Manufacturers Association dinner- the Deputy Prime Minister on the other hand, accordingly to reports in this morning's 'Financial Review', supports an industry attempt to determine different, more appropriate criteria to be used by the IAC and to delay the current IAC review program until these things are achieved? Does the Prime Minister now agree with his Deputy or does he perhaps regard him as a 'nervous Nellie' on unemployment? In the interest of reducing uncertainty and as a contribution to restoring much shaken confidence in the business community, when can we look forward to a definitive statement of the Government's view on this quite crucial matter? 
I speak to the estimates for the Department of Manufacturing Industry which is concerned with the problems and the interests of a sector of the economy which provides directly upwards of one-quarter of employment in the Australian economy, a higher proportion of the gross national product, and indirectly much more of the employment in this economy. It is in some trouble. The Minister for Manufacturing Industry  (Mr Enderby)  has recently spoken about a fear of shadows.  His  colleague the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  has argued that the problems of the Australian economy are largely psychological, but, this is arrant nonsence. Are the unemployment figures getting up to the order of 500 to 1 , 000 a day being laid off a shadow? A shadow of fear across the nation, yes, but a real hard figure. Is the consumer price index showing a rise of 5 per cent plus for the September quarter a shadow? Is the rise in average earnings at an annual rate in excess of 20 per cent, as revealed by the June quarter figure, imaginary- with all that that implies in this context of manufacturing industry for the competitive position of Australian manufactures vis-a-vis imports and in export markets, and for the sheer difficulty of financing an operation in the continuing circumstances of tight liquidity? Inflation, on the one hand, and the accelerating onset of virtual recession on the other are things that are real, not shadows. It is only realistic, not scaremongering, to recognise it. 
The manufacturing sector and not it alone has been hit pretty hard by a succession of policy blows administered by this Government. I recite the main ones without elaboration. First, the excessive and unduly prolonged revaluation of the Australian dollar, partially restored by the devaluation of September last; second, the arbitrary, not to say reckless, and inapposite 25 per cent across the board tariff cut of July 1973; third, the policy of industrial restructuring, so called, and the associated tariff policy creating a climate of tariff uncertainty seriously inhibiting business expansion; fourth, the 'halving', as a rough description, of the export incentive scheme as from 1 July last; fifth, the anti-big firm delimiting of the research and development grants scheme; sixth, the credit squeeze of unparallelled severity directed against the private sector generally, and seventh, the rampant inflation itself with, as I have said, all that that implies for industries seeking to export and to compete with imports. Of these if the revaluation recently partially restored, the tariff cuts and the sheer severity of the squeeze in finance, have been the most directly damaging, for the future taking a long view it is the uncertainty and confusion arising from the policy of so-called restructuring industry and its associated tariff policy which is now of perhaps dominant concern. 
I refer to tariff policy particularly. In a question to the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitiam)  one day last week, I referred to tariff changes in the present style of the Industries Assistance Commission. He took me to task as one who in this Parliament had supported the establishment of the Industries Assistance Commission. I take this opportunity to state categorically that what the Liberal Party supported and still supports is the main thrust of the Industries Assistance Commission legislation, that is, to extend the principle of public inquiry, investigation and report in matters relating to the granting of protection and assistance etc., which has long applied under the Tariff Board mainly to secondary industry, to rural industry, mining and indeed tertiary industry as well. I say the Liberal Party supported that and still supports that. Further, it has no cavil with and no wish to cast aspersions on the integrity and objectivity and responsible approach of the Industries Assistance Commission as an institution headed by the redoubtable  Mr Alf  Rattigan. But the policy- I repeat 'the policy'- being put into effect by the Industries Assistance Commission in its recommendations to the Government, and the policy of the Government in that by and large it has accepted and acted on the advice of the Commission although perhaps it will not do so in relation to the car industry, is something different. 
For my part the Whitlam-IAC policy, as one might call it, is a matter of increasing concern. That policy has all the appearance of being associated with the so-called points of reference proposed by the then Tariff Board and the evident intent of the Board and now its successor, the Industries Assistance Commission, to propose one rate as the going rate for as many industries as possible- that rate to be the low point of the points of reference I have just referred to, namely, 25 per cent or thereabouts. This movement towards a uniform tariff rate would promote an optimum allocation of resources, so this line of thinking goes, and greater efficiency in the use of resources. 
For my own part I would argue that that is not a valid nor, in practice, a feasible basis for policy. The best that can be said for that as a 'policy' is that it takes up the vacuum created by the Government's lack of a national industrial policy. The Government does not have such a policy- but it urgently needs one as its feverish manoeuvring in relation to the motor car industry amply indicates. Belatedly recognising this the Government has set up the Jackson committee. What a responsibility that body now assumes. It will have to be some steed, if I may compare it to the horse, designed to salvage the position arising from the Government's cart before the horse restructuring policy and all its consequences for unemployment. 
The Jackson committee is to be the answer to every criticism. The Minister for Manufacturing Industry constantly refers to it. The Prime Minister in answering a question from me last week threw the full onus on to the Jackson committee to reconcile the conflict between himself as a 'Rattigan man'- his words, not mine- committed to tariff change in the present Industries Assistance Commission style, and the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  who seeks different, more appropriate criteria and a delay in the implementation of the Industries Assistance Commission review program. I say this to the Minister All power to the committee, but if, as I understand it, the deadline for its report is June 1975 and the report then has to be processed by Government and changes to procedure implemented, perhaps including any statutory change that it may be necessary, can we expect a positive industry policy this side of 1976? In the meantime large sections of Australian manufacturing industry are put in jeopardy. 
So I say to the Minister that it is increasingly urgent that the Government formulate with some precision its view of the future development of industry in this country, which means so much to Australia as we have known it and as Australians have chosen, for non-economic as much as economic reasons, over the years. We have preferred that to an Australia perhaps with a higher income per head, but less industrialised, more reliant on its mineral and rural exports, and on imports for its manufactures. That would be one view, but the Australia we have chosen over the years has been one with a vigorous and flourishing manufacturing industry. 
-There are 4 Bills before the House now on which the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  has suggested a cognate debate. My primary interest is in the Customs Tariff Bill 1974, the broad purpose of which is to pass into true law, so to speak, and thus establish in a consolidated new schedule of tariff rates, all the tariff changes implemented by the present Government since it took office. The Customs Tariff Validation Bill (No. 2) 1974 is a supplementary machinery measure. The other 2 Bills are of a quite different character, being concerned in the main with the Government's budgetary program. They are the Customs Tariff Bill (No. 2) 1974 and the Excise Tariff Bill 1974. They will implement increases in customs and excise, duties, on imported and locally made goods respectively on potable spirits and manufactured tobacco products. 
As I said, the last 2 Bills I have mentioned are concerned with the Government's budgetary program. They are not my words but those of the Minister for Overseas Trade in his second reading speech on the Customs Tariff Bill (No. 2) 1974. How exquisitely apt they are. The House will note that the Minister did not refer to 'the' Budget changes in these duties as would have happened in earlier years, but rather to the changes made in the course of the Government's budgetary program. The word ' program ' is right. We have had not one Budget but 3 Budgets. On 23 July, we had Budget Mark I-a fizzer. On 17 September we had Budget Mark II, which set up the massive transfer of resources from a dispensable private sector- that is the Government's view- to the all favoured Government sector. Last week on 12 November, we had Budget 
Mark III. It reassured the country- dare we believe it- that 'profit' is not a dirty word and that the private sector is not, after all, dispensable but indeed, on private investment, to use the words of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  'our economic growth and our continued prosperity greatly depend'. How often have we on this side of the House enjoined that thought on the Government. Then of course there have been all the huffings and puffings of the Treasurers- the official Treasurer, the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean),  the  Deputy  Prime Minister, and the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden),  not to mention the Prime Minister himself. Indeed, to use the Minister's words again, it is all part of the budgetary program. After all the convolutions and somersaults, the 20 per cent plus inflation and the 3 per cent plus unemployment are getting worse and will continue to do so because key elements of a proper overall economic program are still missing. 
This brings me to the heart of the matter. The very customs and excise Bills before the House are designed to enact into law higher duties on spirits, cigarettes and other manufactured tobacco products. Higher duties on John Citizen's drinks and cigarettes at the very time when the major thrust of the Government's policy, as propounded by the Prime Minister last week, is to seal the social compact with the unions. 
Shame, as my colleague the honourable member for Fisher says. The thrust is to persuade the wage and salary earner to reduce wage and salary claims in response to, as the Government proposes, tax cuts to take effect from January. Would not actual falls in the prices of the things the wage and salary earner buys be more persuasive? Yet the Government is passing these laws to legalise increased charges. Could anything underline more clearly the inconsistency and ineptitude of the Government's policy? I appeal to the Minister and the Government, putting all political points aside: What does $100m extra revenue from these increased excise and customs charges on spirits and tobacco products mean when the Government is contemplating running a Budget deficit of the order of $ 1,300m- and an even higher annual rate of deficit- next year? Does this revenue really matter? Surely what is important is the striking of a direct blow at inflation, by reducing some prices by calling off these higher charges and perhaps making reductions in other areas of indirect taxation, thus sealing the social compact. I appeal to the Government even at this stage to rethink the matter and perhaps withdraw and amend these Bills. This part of the Government's budgetary program, as the Minister expressed it, is a bit too inconsistent to be acceptable. It really is a bit thick. 
I turn to the Customs Tariff Bill, the main purpose of which is to pass into true law, so to speak, as distinct from their temporary validation, the customs tariff decisions of the present Government since its taking office. As well as the tariff changes for particular products or industries these decisions include 2 broad measures affecting a wide range of industries, namely, the July 1973 25 per cent across-the-board tariff cut and the revised and expanded system of tariff preferences for imports from the developing countries. It may be noted in passing that one clause of this BUI, in accordance with more acceptable current usage, provides for the use of the term 'developing countries' in preference to 'underdeveloped countries'. 
The 25 per cent across the board tariff cut was a major component of the Government's economic policy in 1973. It ranked with one, the revaluation of the Australian dollar, second the credit squeeze and record high interest rates implemented on 9 September 1973, unparalleled in the severity of their impact from about April of this year, and third with the big spend up on government account outbidding the private sector for resources, or also with the abolition of the investment allowance and other measures, as a major body blow directed at the private sector of the Australian economy, at the confidence and activity in the private sector. 
A new line is being put out by the Government to the effect that not only inflation but also the alarming and accelerating rise in unemployment is a world disease; that they are not the Government's fault; and that every country is suffering in the same way. That is rubbish. The Government knows it to be untrue and I am confident that the good sense of the Australian people will prevent their buying it. Australia, largely insulated from the effect of the quadrupling of oU prices, and given the Government's revaluation of the Australian dollar, partially reversed on 25 September, has been largely protected from the main international forces making for inflation. Yet Australia's inflation was at the rate of 16.4 per cent up to the September quarter last, at an annual rate of 20 per cent plus in the quarter itself, and is expected to be higher on today's figure for the current quarter. Australia is up in the high inflation league with the resources poor, non-oU producing countries of the world, and it ought not to be there. 
As to our high level of unemployment, it has resulted from the credit squeeze, the tight money situation and record high interest rate, as they have impacted on the building industry in particular and the private sector of the economy generally, also from the flood of imports stemming from the 25 per cent across the board tariff cut, plus the very large and unduly prolonged revaluation, and a variety of other measures on which I will not elaborate. These moves, which reflect the anti-business and anti-profit stance of the Government, have brought on a level of unemployment even now in excess of 200,000 persons and unhappily bound to get worse before it gets better. It may be- and this is a matter of the gravest concern- that the trend of world economic events, notably the oil price situation and the slow progress to date of the massive international process of readjustment to that situation, is towards a world recession which could be more severe than we have known since the great depression. This may impact on us at about the middle of next year. Let us hope that the world has the good economic sense to find its way around that situation. But in the meantime unemployment in this country, as also inflation for the major part, is home grown. It is the result of the disarray on economic matters and the plain bad economic management of this Government. 
As to the tariff cut before the House I quote from my speech on the Industries Assistance Commission Bill on 18 October 1973. 1 stressed that this is not the son of treatment that this side of the House would wish to mete out to industry, and I said this: 
I only give this warning: As the world boom reaches its peak- it may have already done so- there will be a flood of imports and a setback to industry in this country of very significant proportions and that will be a major contributing factor to the stagflation . . .. which will in due time inevitably be the outcome of the policies of this Government. Meanwhile the damaging effect of this measure will be on business confidence and the long term forward planning by industry on which the thrust of continued sound economicgrowth depends and on which many of the proposed policy objectives of the Government depend. 
Now, belatedly, a major objective of the Government's measures of 12 November is 'to restore business confidence'. That is the expression used by the Prime Minister. 'Restore' is the appropriate word, after the Government has done so much to undermine business confidence. The Government I fear will find that this same confidence- this intangible but vital factor in the sound functioning and development of the economy- once it is struck down by the succession of body blows administered by this Government is, unhappily, not so easily restored. 
I suspect that in reply the Minister for Overseas Trade will accuse me of exaggerating the effect of the across-the-board tariff cut-there was also the revaluation of the Australian dollar, now partially reversed, and in some respects it had an even greater impact. I will readily concede that the tariff cut was one body blow, and the revaluation was another body blow to many industries. In stages the exchange rate for the United States dollar went from about US$1.16 for $A1 to US$ 1.49 for $A1. A product imported from the United States valued at US$100 would have gone from a landed price of $A86 to $A67. Assuming an applicable tariff of 25 per cent, $2 1 would have been added to the $86, the original landed price, giving $ 1 07. At the new lower price of $67, $17 would be added giving a landed price of $84. After the revaluation and still with the tariff, we would thus end up with a landed duty paid price less than the original landed price of the product without duty. So, in short, the effect of the revaluation would have reduced the protection in effect to minus 2-plus percentage points. 
This is the rub. Albeit the Government has partially restored the exchange situation by the 12 per cent devaluation- it is wrong to see this as restoring the tariff cut, as some of the Press persists in seeing it, it was restoring, partially, the revaluation- the adverse effect persists and in some cases is permanent. Firms so affected should, it seems to me, qualify for structural adjustment assistance in the same way as firms affected specifically by the 25 per cent tariff cut. Yet, as I understand it, adjustment assistance to such firms is being refused. That is a specific matter which the Minister, if I can attract his attention for the moment, might look into. Meanwhile the general problem is the impact of prolonged changes in the value of currency on the protection afforded national industry. If after prolonged inquiry it is decided that protection of X per cent should be afforded an industry and then this is nullified in whole or in part by an upvaluation of the currency, where does the industry stand? I say this to the Minister: In some form or other it may become necessary to 'index* the tariff schedule for currency changes, to use that 'in' word. That is a large issue and I do not press the matter further at this stage. 
I refer next to the extended system of tariff preferences for developing countries whereby as from 1 January this year imports from developing countries receive a tariff preference in the form of a reduction of 10 percentage points from the rate applicable to imports generally. I take this opportunity to stress that the original system of such preferences- generalised non-reciprocal tariff preferences to developing countries- was instituted by the Liberal-Country Party Government in 1964 and approved by the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade in 1965. In doing so the former Government was ahead of international initiatives in that area and alone among advanced or developed countries. So this is an initiative which derived from this side of the House and which, therefore, broadly we strongly support. 
Nevertheless there can be difficulties. While agreeing that indigenous industries in particular in developing countries should be given encouragement to increase their exports in this way, care needs to be taken in looking at the impact on Australian industry. As I have said on a previous occasion, there is a very real possibility that this preference to developing countries will be used by developed countries to avoid the incidence of tariff duties through subsidiaries established in developing countries to take advantage of the preferences so accorded. For instance, major Japanese competitors could operate from Hong Kong, Singapore or Indonesia and United States companies from Latin America and the Philippines. So it is important that this aspect of a general policy with which this side of the House is in sympathy be kept under review. 
Some of the difficulties which can arise are illustrated by the Tariff Board report on the printing industry, action on which is being taken in this legislation. The system of preferences to which I have referred was instituted on 1 January and, as I recall it, the Government's decision in relation to the printing industry was announced on 4 January. That was in accordance with an investigation, in this case by the Tariff Board, the predecessor of the Industries Assistance Commission, which took place over a period of upwards of 4 years preceding the lodging of the Tariff Board report in question. After all that time and all that deliberation the Tariff Board recommended and the Government accepted in certain key areas a tariff of 35 per cent. When the Government looked at this report the question of the preference to developing countries came up and despite the fact that the origins of competition in certain key areas, are specifically referred to in the report as being countries which would be classed as developing countries, the duty recommended by the Board was reduced by the 10 percentage points in question from 35 per cent to 25 per cent. I instance this as a way in which the policy, which broadly has the support of this House and which this side of the House initiated ahead of international initiatives in the area and alone among advanced countries, needs to be implemented carefully in view of the effect on Australian industry. I think it is correct though to say that subsequently this matter was looked at and the rate changed back to 35 per cent after departmental investigation. 
Speaking in general terms, much is made of the importance for their development of expanding the trade of developing countries. 'Trade not aid' was once quite a slogan. Of course the main thrust of that was not marginal expansion of the developing countries' manufactured exports, which have been expanding rapidly anyway, but the attainment of higher stabilised prices for developing countries' commodity exports. The gains from higher oil prices is the outstanding example- though the resource poor among the developing countries are made worse off than ever, and the importance of aid, especially food aid, is thereby underlined. It must be said that at the recent Rome food conference the Government, on the face of it, put up a good show but the follow up to that is that the time will come when it has to deliver the goods. Then the Government's anti-rural policies- the abolition of investment allowances and of tax incentives to develop new land, and the proposed abolition of the superphosphate bounty-will tell. The sorry facts of the aid record of the Government are that it has discouraged rural production in a hungry world and it can muster only 0.6 per cent of the gross national product for aid, and that includes the specific obligation we have to Papua New Guinea. 
I turn in the remainder of the time left to me to the Government's tariff policy, if there is such a thing. To my knowledge there is nowhere any clear statement of it What we do have is a clear commitment by the Prime Minister to tariff 'reform' in some sense. As he himself put it, he is 'a strong Rattigan man'. 
He was. We will have to see what the change amounts to. If we ask what this means, on the evidence of a large number of the Tariff Board and Industries Assistance Commission reports listed as the basis of the actions we are passing into law under this legislation, especially those dealing with the more substantial areas- for example, the consumer electronic equipment report and the domestic appliances report, not to mention the motor vehicles report which is not the subject of the present Bill- the policy amounts to this: That as quickly as possible the rate of protection for as many industries as possible should be brought to the one level, namely, 25 per cent or thereabouts. It is an approach clearly associated with the so-called 'points of reference' of the former Tariff Board, and the so-called low point, a rate of 25 per cent, is to be the target going rate for as many industries as possible. The policy, as a practical industrialist might sum it up- though this is a bit oversimplified but much to the point- is that 'what industry cannot survive at 25 per cent is dispensable'. It is not difficult to see that the brunt of the thinking behind this policy- as quickly as possible to reduce as many tariff rates as possible to the uniform low rate- is the pursuit of, and I quote from the Board's annual report, 'efficiency in the use of resources'. This is economic efficiency rigidly and narrowly conceived- witness chapter 5 of that report together with the minimum regard to the significance of external effects and decentralisation referred to in Appendix 5.1 and Appendix 5.4 respectively. The Opposition would wish to see these things weighted differently. 
Thus, in referring to 'external effects', I mean for example the importance of an industry for Australian research and development and Australian technological know-how. Speaking to the Customs Validation Bill on 9 April last I stressed that in this technological age the importance of a viable electronics industry to the future of Australia was strongly supported by the Opposition Parties. I raised the question- and the Opposition would have few doubts as to the answerthat the viability of the electronics industry, including its capacity to maintain a nationally independent program of research and development, was dependent on an integrated operation combining a thriving consumer product division with production for the so-called professional market. So, in looking to a balanced and sound industrial base, the electronics industry is an industry which should have a key place in the Australian industrial structure. But this is just the sort of industry, especially at the consumer end, which is most vulnerable to overseas competition, and vulnerable in a way in which industries such as the brick, beer and bottle industries, viewed by the Commission in its latest report as good candidates for absorbing resources, are not. Those industries do not need to supplicate, to seek or to cry out for adequate protection. What has to be considered however is what is important for Australia's long term future. 
This is neither the time nor the occasion to pursue these matters in depth. But, in my view, this narrow economic approach apparently espoused by the Industries Assistance Commission is not a valid nor in the long run a feasible substitute for a national industrial policy directed towards the broadly based national growth, the geographical spread of industrial activity and the development and possession in Australia, in reasonable degree, of the technology and know-how of modern industry- in short those objectives long espoused for a variety of non-economic as much as economic reasons in this country and supporting the traditional Australian purpose of fostering a diversified broadly based dynamic manufacturing sector. 
I would like, if there were time, to put all that into strictly economic terms. But I conclude by saying that all this is not to suggest that changes in tariffs and some restructuring of industry should not be made. Let me stress, as I have done in the past, that the previous Government did not rest content with the level of tariffs. It was the previous Government, to make only this one point, that instituted the systematic review of the tariff and enlarged the resources of the Tariff Board to do so. What it does mean is that what changes would result in an improvement in the use of the nation's resources in accordance with our national objectives is a complex issue not to be determined by reference to a theoretical uniform standard. In particular, Australians are committed- and the Government should remember this- to a big Australia, a diversified Australia, with a broadly based dynamic manufacturing sector. 
As categorically as I can, I aver that the Liberal and Country Parties in this Parliament are unequivocally so committed. The alternative, to which, I suspect, the IAC would direct us, is an Australia with perhaps a somewhat higher income per head but less industrialised, more heavily dependent on its rural and mining export industries, and on imports for much of its manufactures. I repeat that this is not the sort of Australia that Australians have traditionally opted for and not what the majority of Australians want today. This issue- and the issue of a national industrial policy which is bound up with it- is a key one for Australia's development. The Government, as I have said previously, has in this matter put the cart before the horse. It has proceeded to knock down Australian industry without any clear view as to what will take its place. We have witnessed the Exodus before the Genesis- that is, widespread and increasing unemployment with no clear view of where the unemployed are to go. Belatedly the Government has appointed the Jackson Committee and hopefully it will indicate a clearer course. And perhaps the decisions on the motor car industry and the textile industry announced last Tuesday night presage a more reasonable approach and a stay of proceedings until the Jackson Committee reports. It is greatly to be hoped that that is the case. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Luchetti)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 

 -Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
-Yes. I claim to have been misrepresented by the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  who implied that I supported or should have supported his Government's credit squeeze. The Government initiated a credit squeeze on 9 September 1973, too late to be effective against the then inflation and to offset its massive government spending - 

I would not - 
He misrepresented me. He implied that - 
-Mr Speaker! 

 -Mr Speaker, I crave your indulgence. I have been grievously misrepresented. 
I tried to get it in. I said that he implied that I supported his Government's credit squeeze. 
Well, is there some other professor of economics on the front bench? 
The Minister said that I supported .it. I am making the explanation,  Mr Speaker,  that that misrepresented me. The credit squeeze was introduced very late. I would not have introduced it so late. It was introduced to offset the massive Government spending program. I would not have introduced it for that reason. 

 -Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
My question is addressed to the  Deputy  Prime Minister. Discussing comparative inflation rates recently he referred to inflation in Australia to September last as being 16.1 per cent. He then referred to high inflation rates for the same period in Japan, Italy and other countries, and then to the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development average of 14. 1 per cent, saying that all this was comparable with Australia. Is the  Deputy  Prime Minister not aware that the very OECD document to which he referred states with respect to inflation rates, and I quote: 
Two groups of countries emerge clearly - 

 -Mr Chairman - 
Motion (by  Mr Daly)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a third time. 
My question is directed to the  Deputy  Prime Minister. I recall the statement made by the  Deputy  Prime Minister on the day before the 25 September devaluation to the effect that it is difficult to say to what extent unemployment is as a result of tariff changes or of the appreciation of the currency, 'which was the far more significant of the 2 things'. That is to say, the up-valuation of the currency to that date, the next day partially reversed, was far more significant in its impact on industry, according to the Minister, than were the tariff changes. At present structural adjustment assistance is being made available to firms affected by the 25 per cent across the board tariff cut and other changes. Is it not a fact that the Government has refused structural adjustment assistance to firms put in jeopardy by the up-valuation- firms for which the devaluation came too late to affect decisions to change their operations or in respect of which the adverse effects of the revaluation persist? This, despite the revaluation, according to the Minister, being the more significant change. If this is so, will the Government reconsider its attitude in the light of the Minister's assertion and in view of the difficult economic situation? 
I rise tonight to draw to the attention of the House the rapid and massive changes which are taking place in the relations between the industrialised countries and the developing world, so-called, and the implications for the long established objective, or the program, of aid, for developing countries. At the present time, the commitment to international aid and development is more, rather than less, critical than it has ever been for the political and economic stability of the world and, thereby, Australia. The reason for this is that the world has shrunk. Modern communications are so much faster and more effective and, I might add, there are new ways of bringing to bear the problems and aspirations of the under-privileged, economically and politically. 
The fact is however that at this time it has to be reckoned that the developed countries have failed in the voluntary- albeit politically motivated to a significant degree- international aid and development programs as widely known and understood in the post World War II period. Proportionately, the international aid effort is less now than it was in the 1 950s and early 1 960s. We used to hear so much of the aid target of one per cent of gross national product. For official development aid the target was to be a minimum of 0.7 of one per cent of gross national product by 1975. What is Australia's position? It is proposed in the Budget Papers which were distributed with the Budget: 
To work towards the achievement of this target by Australia by the end of the current decade. 
The United Nations target was 0.7 per cent of GNP by 1975! Meanwhile for 1973 the proportion of aid was 0.44 of one per cent. 
-The official figure is 0.44 of one per cent. That is a miserable performance, with Australia ranking eighth out of 17 donor countries. The table I have before me shows that the level of aid has fallen from 0.59 of one per cent in 1 970. 1 repeat that it is a miserable performance for a Government that made so much of this issue during the run up to the December 1972 Federal election and since that time. The only thing that can be said in our favour is that Australia is not alone in this trend. The average contribution, as is given in this table showing the donor countries, has fallen from 0.34 of one per cent of GNP in 1 970 to 0.3 of one per cent of GNP. So it can be said that the voluntary international aid program has failed. 
Into this situation has sprung a new and powerful factor. It has always been a major objective or purpose of the developing countries, not just to receive aid directly, but also to achieve additional resources for development through international arrangements to stabilise and raise the prices of their commodity exports. This brings us right up to the moment. One group of predominantly developing countries, the members of the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries with the Arab countries in the dominant position, has taken hold of the situation. Beginning in the last quarter of 1973, just last year, they have deliberately and systematically increased the price of oil four to five fold. The significance of that for the whole world economic and social order is of massive, historic proportions. For one thing, the impact on the non-oil producing- the resources-poor among the developing countries- is difficult to the point of catastrophic. 
We have to think in terms of 4 world groups today. There is the industrial West; there is Russia and the eastern bloc; and among the developing countries, a third world- the oil rich of the developing countries; and the fourth world, the non-oil producing developing countries. I repeat that the impact on the latter group is difficult to the point of catastrophic. Hence the recent United Nations General Assembly's undertaking to provide a special $3 billion of aid at once to enable those countries hardest hit by the higher oil price to meet their bills for essential imports. As famine for many millions of people in these countries is not only their immediate situation but also a prospectively continuing one, we have the proposals which were put forward at the recent World Food Conference. 
But of more direct concern to us is the impact on the industrial West. There is a problem, as I have said, of quite historic proportions which confronts these countries. It is not only an economic problem but also a social and political problem as well. Witness the leverage which the massive money deposits of Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries and specifically Arab money in some European countries, will enable to be brought to bear. I am thinking of the balance of power in the Middle East. But the immediate effect of the quintupling of oil prices is to create a situation in which the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries are accumulating an annual surplus, vis a vis the rest of the world, variously estimated at $60 billion to $80 billion annually, with a corresponding deficit by the oil importing countries, principally the industrialised West. In real terms, in contrast to money terms, what is involved is a potential massive transfer of resources from the developed world to the oil rich developing world. 
One can illustrate it, dramatise it, by the report that at the time of the visit to this country of the Shah of Iran he had ordered from France some 5 nuclear power stations, half a dozen major plants or factories, including a steel plant, three or more railways, and so on. What I am saying is that that will amount to a massive transfer of real wealth, real goods, to Iran from the French whose standard of living will not grow over the next years as resources which would have produced things for them, produce these power stations, factories, and so on, for the Shah. There would perhaps be some poetic justice in it, were it not such a threat to the stability of the whole Western world. Whereas, as I said, the voluntary aid program could be said to have failed, now here we have a forced massive transfer to at least one group of the developing countries of a very large order. 
As I said a moment ago, there is a 'potential' massive transfer. The process is of such massive proportions that there is no way in which the world can adjust overnight. Glib talk of recycling petro-dollars is a dangerous, not to say treacherous, over-simplification. But ways must be found in the interests of both sides of solving the problem. For the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries, massive money deposits in Western countries will be more than worthless pieces of paper or book entries, only so long as the industrialised West remains viable and strong. Push the process of transfer too hard, too fast, and both sides will lose. There has to be mutual accommodation and one that embraces the other, the poor developing countries as wellwith United States food exports also a major factor in the balance. That is the task which confronts us. If some years back we could proceed in a relaxed way with international aid and development as a matter of little urgency, that has all changed. There is a new ball game. As the Economist' of 16 November put it, with the Middle East situation very much in mind, 'it is later than you think'. It is very much so if, as that sober and responsible journal also suggests, the issue of a fair oil price and the international economic adjustment to it is now tangled up with the issue of a fair Arab-Israeli settlement. It is fervently to be hoped that world good senseeconomic and political sense- will rise to the occasion. Let Australia's voice, small though undoubtedly it is, and Australia's resolve be directed to the devising of a viable and just world solution to this problem. 
-That is true. I want to say, as I have said before, that we support - 
I make it clear that we support the thrust of this Bill. We would normally have divided on the amendment if we had not been at this stage of the sitting. 
-In speaking to the motion that the Bill be read a third time I should like to emphasise that the Opposition attaches very great importance to the principle embodied in the amendment I moved. We feel that this Bill is a measure which opens up very wide scope for the patronage we have feared - 
I refer to clause 2 which reads: 
This Act shall come into operation on the day on which it receives the Royal Assent. 
I move: 
At the end of the clause add the following sub-clause: 
This Act shall not remain in force after 30 June 1975. and shall be deemed to have been repealed on that day by un Act other than this Act. 
This proposed new sub-clause is similar to that which is in the Companies (Foreign Take-overs) Act which was renewed only recently. The amendment underlines the interim character of the measure. I think the remarks of the Minister for Manufacturing Industry  (Mr Enderby)  underlined that very point. He said that he intends in the near future to develop the structural adjustment program by the establishment of a board and so on. This is what we are seeking. 
I stress that in moving the amendment in these terms the Opposition supports the thrust of this Bill. In his second reading speech the Minister said: . . . in most cases structural adjustment can be left to occur naturally as a continuing process of adaptation by individual firms. 
I think we have a firmer conviction about that than he does. But the difficulty is that we are in a situation which is not normal and in which particularly strong measures have been taken. In these circumstances the necessity for this Bill is doubled. It is a desirable measure in any case. But the point that we stress is that the Bill puts an unwarranted load on the Minister's shoulders. He has conceded that and has said that he wants to remove the load as quickly as possible. The purpose of this amendment is simply to underline this point, to underline the interim character of the measure. We hope that the Minister will proceed in the way he has suggested. 
I thank the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  for agreeing to propose amendments along these lines. I think that the situation the Opposition feared was that the Treasury- Australia- would in practice come to bear risks arising from exchange rate fluctuations, they being the order of the day in the current world economic situation. Other financial intermediaries in competition with the Australian Industry Development Corporation- for instance, the Australian Resources Development Bank- have to bear such risks themselves. I would agree that the amendment now put forward would make it clear that when the Treasury on-lends, as the phrase goes, funds to the AIDC, it would be on the same terms and conditions on which Australia has borrowed them and in that sense the AIDC would bear these risks. The Opposition thanks the Government for proposing the amendments. 
Amendments agreed to. 
Bill reported with amendment; report- by leave- adopted. 
-The Opposition does not oppose the main thrust of this legislation. Indeed, I would go so far as to say I am inclined to raise a cry in the style of the old time religion- 'Hallelujah! At last, at last!' This Government, from the start, has been bent on a policy of so-called restructuring of industry. Indeed, it has gone about it with some gusto. The only difference has been that neither the Government nor anyone else for that matter has any clear idea of just what the policy amounts to, and in particular, towards what end industry is to be restructured. The whole approach has been a matter of the cart before the horse or, as I put it the other day, we have had the exodus before the genesis. 
We have had a whole variety of measures- all candidates for being declared 'adjustment situations' in terms of clause 5(1) of this Bill all tending to force structural readjustment. One is the recent very large and prolonged revaluation of the currency, which was partially reversed on 25 September last. I presume that the Government was aware, when it instituted that measure, of the profound effects of such a move on industry, particularly manufacturing industry, competing with imports and manufacturing industry seeking to export its goods. A second is the now notorious and also substantially reversed- we go one way, then we move the other- 25 per cent across the board tariff cut. There have been other tariff changes- major changes in the electronics industry and in the domestic appliance industry. 
There has been a credit squeeze of unparalled severity, and other measures. 
Under the pressure of these changes, industry has changed, and is changing, in significant ways. For example, under the impact of revaluation, a major machinery manufacturer located in the Albury-Wodonga complex has packed it in and moved to Sydney to conduct an import operation. I would say that is great stuff for the development of Albury-Wodonga- a major objective, as one understands, of the Government under a different head. Incidentally, the firm involved applied for, but has been specificaly refused structural adjustment assistance. I think it is worth stressing this aspect of the revaluation. As I said the other day when speaking on the Customs Tariff Bill, the tariff cut was one body blow to industry and the revaluation, in its magnitude and the length of time it was continued, was another body blow to industry. The revaluation vis-a-vis the United States of America was such that an American product could enter Australia, be subject to a tariff of, say, 25 per cent- no relation to the 25 per cent tariff cut in Australia- and still sell for less than the landed duty free price before the revaluation. So the effect of the revaluation, even leaving the tariff unchanged, was effectively to reduce assistance to that industry to negative protection. 
I have cited the case of an industry- in the Albury-Wodonga area at that- which sought structural adjustment assistance and was refused it as if the currency change was of no relevance. As I said, we have had an exodus of firms and employees- it is in full swing- under the impact of the Government's amateur economic management and the misguided enthusiasm with which it has pursued the policies to which I have referred. After this exercise in confusion, to pursue this analogy, comes the Genesis or at least part of it. We have this Bill, the Structural Adjustment (Loan Guarantees) Bill, the purpose of which is to authorise the Government to guarantee loans to firms to facilitate their structural adjustment from one industry where they are in difficulties as a result of Government policy measures- for instance, the 25 per cent tariff cut might well qualify as such a measure under clause 5 ( 1 ) of the Bill- to some other sphere of operations. I think that is a relevant phrase which raises a good question. By the Bill, firms are to be assisted to adjust out of an industry, but to what? Others and I have pointed to this issue on many occasions. Apart from the generalities in the annual report of the Industries Assistance Commission, there are still no specific answers to that question available. 
This comes to the heart of the problem with this Bill namely, the extent of the ministerial discretion or discretions written into it- inevitably so with the Government floundering in the dark, as it is, but creating difficulties nevertheless in respect of this legislation. Thus clause 7(1) of the Bill states that the Minister shall not guarantee a loan unless he is satisfied of 3 conditions. The first is that he must be satisfied that as a result of the policy measure a significant and distinct part of a firm's assets has been rendered 'incapable of economic use.' The second condition is that he must be satisfied that the firm in which the loan moneys will be employed 'has taken all reasonable steps to adjust itself to that situation.' The third condition is that he must be satisfied that the manner in which the loan moneys are to be employed is consistent with the national interest in relation to the use of resources. 
That is a good question. I am looking forward to the Minister enlightening us as to the sort of factors he will look at in satisfying himself that clause 7 ( 1 ) (c) the 'manner in which the loan moneys are to be employed is consistent with the national interest in relation to the use of resources' and, where the prescribed adjustment situation relates to any action of the Australian Government, it is consistent with the objective of the Australian Government in taking that action'. In clause 7 (2) even the first of the requirements I have just mentioned is overridden. There do not actually have to be any assets that have been rendered incapable of economic use. The Minister is to satisfy himself on these matters. The Minister alone is to judge or assure himself that the loan moneys are employed in a way which is consistent with the national interest in relation to the use of resources. We could get a great variety of views on that matter right at this moment. At present there is a notable divergence between the views of the Government and its principal adviser on industry matters- the Industries Assistance Commission. The LAC is for manufacturing industry restructured- in the national interest, of course -on the criterion of the efficient use of resources interpreted, as I see it, in the most narrow economic sense. On the other hand, for a variety of reasons including its immediate electoral survival, the Government is taking a different view, as its decision in respect of the motor vehicle industry clearly indicates. 
It may be in the South Australian national interest but a wide national interest is involved here. I confess I am largely on the side of the Government. There is a national interest in maintaining the technology of producing a vehicle right through. Also factors other than the efficient use of resources in the narrow economic sense ought to be taken into account in these matters. There are strictly economic matters, notably growth. Pursuit of narrow economic efficiency can tend to undermine the capacity and incentive for growth in many respects. That is a very important consideration. It could be put this way: The doctrinaire pursuit of the efficiency criterion will blunt- it is already doing so in this country- the growth performance of the economy. In particular, uncertainty as to future levels of protection has been having a major inhibiting effect on new investment and capital expansion plans. I suggest to the Government that it bears that in mind in its current rather desperate measures to resuscitate business. 
I come back to my central point, which is that in the absence of a national industrial policysome understanding or some guidelines in the positive sense as to the activities which firms might adjust to- judgments under clause 7( 1 )(c) of the Bill will put a very heavy strain on the Minister for Manufacturing Industry  (Mr Enderby).  He has come to appreciate that traditionally imports come from overseas. 
-But how will he determine that proposals to employ loan moneys are consistent with the national interest in relation to the use of resources? Clause 8( 1 ) of the Bill reads as follows: 
The Minister shall not give more than 1 guarantee in respect of any 1 firm in relation to any 1 prescribed adjustment situation and for that purpose shall, unless he is satisfied that there are special circumstances that make it unreasonable to do so, treat firms that are associated with one another as 1 firm. 
I would be very interested to know about the special circumstances. I can certainly imagine cases of large multi-product firms which are producing different products in fairly distinct avenues. In such cases I hope that if any two or more of those avenues get into difficulty as a result of Government policy, the largely separate components of those firms will be permitted to qualify under this Bill. Again there is ministerial discretion. The Minister must be satisfied as to what these special circumstances will be. We have been given no indication of that. My honourable friend the Minister suggests that he has very broad shoulders. He looks robust enough now and in good shape. 
That is how he exercises them and develops them for the task that he is taking on under this Bill. The Minister is letting himself in for an almost impossible job. It is the sort of thing that belongs in another dimension, with the Industries Assistance Commission with its large and highly qualified staff- of the order or 400 or 500 people, no less- there to give guidance on assistance to industry. It is the Industries Assistance Commission to which one turns for advice in the ordinary dimensions of economic activity, as distinct from the so-called adjustment situation. I suggest to the Minister that in his own interest he should try to get out from under the pressures to which he would become subjected under this legislation to guarantee this loan or that loan. In other cases he will make decisions that are fair and just, but will they be seen to be so? It is important that loan guarantees given under this legislation be seen to be fair. I put this to the Minister:  His  capacity is above question but, as we have seen, on that side of the House Ministers can swap jobs and the discretion under this legislation could be operated by lesser hands than those of the Minister. 
That is as may be. However, I am raising the question of the capacity of the gentlemen elected to the Cabinet. Once they are elected that is it; the Prime Minister is stuck with them, as all honourable members know. If there is to be a change of one Minister there has to be a clean swap with another. This is the issue to which I am referring. In the Minister's own interest, that is to take some of the weight of lobbyist pressure off his back- off his broad shoulders; in the interests of the importance of the treatment of applications not only being fair but being seen to be so; and, thirdly- I do not want to stress this too hard but one has to be realistic- to forestall the use of the powers under this Act in what could amount to political patronage, it is essential that as soon as possible the task of making recommendations in respect of government guarantees to loans for structural adjustments be vested in an appropriate board or advisory committee. Surely this is the normal procedure. There is a Rural Assistance Board in respect of the rural reconstruction program; the Export Development Grants Board is about to be established under legislation which was before this House an hour or so ago; and the Minister has foreshadowed a Structural Adjustment Board. 
The Minister said that legislation to establish the structural adjustment board will take some time to prepare. I address a question to the Minister to which I would very much like an answer Why will the legislation to establish a structural adjustment board take such time? The Opposition is most firmly of the opinion that such a board should be established without delay. I ask honourable members to consider what is already happening under the so-called selective subsidy scheme. I wonder how many members of the House have heard of this scheme. The Minister stated to the House the other day that under the selective subsidy scheme a firm in Wangaratta, Victoria, will receive $400,000; the Wangaratta Woollen Mills Ltd, $150,000; Kelsall &amp; Kemp (Tasmania) Ltd of Launceston, $100,000; and so on. I mention in particular Kelsall &amp; Kemp because not long ago I visited that area. I have no doubt at all that the making of these grants to these companies in the situation in which they find themselves is fully justified, but my point is that these matters should come before an impartial committee. 
The Government has adopted the principle, and much has been made of it in this House in relation to the Industries Assistance Commission, that in granting assistance to industry there must be public investigation, inquiry and report so that justice is done and seen to be done in the public arena. The public has a great interest in payments made under this selective subsidy scheme and it will have a great interest in the loan guarantees that will be made under this legislation. Accordingly, the Opposition urges the Government to get on with the establishment of the board without delay and to include, among its other responsibilities, the making of recommendations in respect of these loan guarantees. For that reason it is proposed- I am sure the Minister will concede I propose it very reasonably- that the present legislation be regarded as an enabling but interim measure. To underline my point- I am sure the Minister will agree- and to safeguard the public interest in this matter at the Committee stage of this Bill I propose to move the amendment standing in my name. 
I understand it is available. The amendment is designed to encourage the setting up of the structural adjustment board, to which the Minister referred and to which I have been making reference, before 30 June 1975. I am sure the Government and the Minister will see fit to accept this amendment because I understand it is the Minister's intention to press ahead with the establishment of the board and that the board should adopt advisory and administrative responsibility in respect of these guarantees. Therefore, in the confidence that the amendment will be acceptable to the Government, the Opposition supports the Bill. 
-The tariff proposals before the House shed light, firstly, on what the Government's tariff policy is or is supposed to be- so far as it has one independently of its own creation and until recently its master, the Industries Assistance Commission; and secondly, what its tariff policy is not, or rather the tatters into which its policy has or is falling. What the policy set out to be- under the single minded espousal by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  of so-called tariff reform that is, when he was a strong Rattigan man- was this: That as quickly as possible as many tariff rates as possible should be brought to one level of the order of 25 per cent or thereabouts. As practical industrialists would put it, 'what cannot survive at 25 per cent is dispensable'. Thus we find when we look at the proposals being validated by this Bill that in the case of fibre board containers, paper and textile bags, the tariff is to be 25 per cent, and for photographic and cinematographic apparatus it is to be 20 per cent. But that 20 per cent was reduced. Perhaps nothing could better illustrate some of the doctrinaire stupidity or folly of what has been done than the fact that the rate was reduced from 20 per cent- recommended by the tariff board after a long and protracted inquiry- to 15 per cent simply because that report was brought in just a little before the 25 per cent tariff cut last year- and despite the fact that at that time a significant revaluation of currency had also been effected, the rate was set at that level. 
If we look at the other rates we see the same pattern emerging. But as I have said on a number of occasions, that approach to tariff and industry policy is not a valid nor, in the long run, a feasible approach. That the Government has changed its own view is clear from the last of the proposals which I wish to mention- the proposal of 13 November 1974 which had the effect of increasing the motor vehicle rate by 10 percentage points to 45 per cent. That contrasts with this pattern of rates that we have seen, together with the proposed rates for the electrical industry, the domestic appliances industry and indeed initially for the motor car industry, all were at the rate of 25 per cent. So I repeat that the proposals before the House, taken together with those rates, indicate what the policy was or was supposed to be. The divergent proposal in relation to the motor industry- which I might inform the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  I entirely support- is an indication of the state of confusion into which the policy has fallen. 
I conclude on this note: All this is not to suggest, and the Opposition would not suggest, that changes in tariffs and some restructuring of industry should not be made. I stress as I have done on other occasions that the previous Government did not rest content with the level of tariffs. It was the previous Government which instituted the systematic review of the tariff and enlarged the resources of the Tariff Board to do so. The burden of the criticism in my remarks is that, what changes would result in an improvement in the use of the nation's resources in accordance with our national objectives is a very complex issue and not one to be determined by reference to a theoretical uniform standard rate of the order of 25 per cent. In particular Australians are committed, and the Government is learning this, to a big Australia, a diversified Australia with a broadly based and dynamic manufacturing sector. I say as categorically as I can that the Liberal and Country Parties in this Parliament are unequivocally so committed, to adequate and consistent protection to industries that warrant it. The alternative to which I suspect the Industries Assistance Commission would direct us is an Australia with perhaps a somewhat higher income per head but less industrialised, more heavily dependent on its rural and mining export industries and on imports for much of its manufactures. I repeat that is not the sort of Australia that Australians have traditionally opted for and not what the majority of Australians want today. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Urban and Regional Development. Has the Minister's attention been drawn to the fact that the abandoning of the Budget capital gains tax, promptly followed by the UrenCairns capital gains tax, has led to widespread uncertainty? The Government says that it now believes in a strong private sector, but with this sort of contortioning- the reversing of a reversewill the Minister explain how the private sector can believe in the Government's purported change of heart? 
-I wish to point out, with your indulgence,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that members on this side of the House are totally opposed to the National Health Bill 1974 (No. 2). A few moments ago when the motion for the third reading of this Bill was proposed - 
-The second reading, and then followed the third reading. At that time the honourable member for Calare  (Mr England)  and I called for a division. I think that your attention was temporarily diverted,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  because the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  who was at the table was seeking to make a personal explanation and in those circumstances you did not hear our call for a division. The honourable member for Calare and I did so call and I seek the indulgence of the Chair to have the matter recommitted. 
-Unlike the honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi),  who has just resumed his seat, I want to concentrate on the Bill before the House and not enter into a long argument about minerals. I will come back later to his reference to the so-called buy-back' objective. In making these remarks I do not intend to denigrate Hamersley Holdings Ltd. If the Australian Industry Development Corporation legislation was not on the statute book at the time of the birth of that company, at least subsequently it was put on the book by a Liberal-Country Party government. That is my starting point. On the last occasion on which we debated this matter- it was in July last yearhonourable members on this side of the House expressed broad support for the measure. How could we do otherwise? The Australian Industry Development Corporation was established by a Liberal-Country Party government. The purpose of this Bill is to remove from its operations irritating restrictions which experience has shown are hampering its operations. I will discuss those aspects in a moment. 
I preface that discussion by saying that that is not the whole purpose of the Bill, although I hope I am right in my judgment that it is the main purpose of the Bill. As the Treasurer  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  said in his second reading speech, the Australian Industry Development Corporation Bill and the National Investment Fund Bill are designed 'to remove certain unnecessary restrictions on AIDC's operations contained in existing legislation'. I have just mentioned that. He went on to say that they were designed 'to increase the ability of the AIDC to assist investment and employment in the private sector, and to facilitate ownership and control by Australians of our industries'. That is quite a canny reference to the private sector because the one aspect of the Bill under this present head to which I want to refer at this stage- not removing limitations, but promoting, fostering the development of the Corporationis the very important clause 6 amending sections 8 and 9 of the principal Act. I refer in particular to proposed new section 8a with all its sub-sections ( 1 ) to ( 1 5 ). They extend over fully 3 pages of the Bill under the title 'Enterprises of projects in the national interest'.. I do not for one moment think that the Government has come clean about all its intentions in respect of that section of the legislation. My original understanding was that the reference was to projects which would be excluded for the AIDC because of the requirement of existing section 8 (3) of the principal Act, namely, that the corporation 'shall act in accordance with sound business principles'. I had taken it that the main reference would be to potential loss situations but nevertheless situations, or projects, judged to be in the national interest- for example, a new decentralised regional development which inevitably requires an initial big push and an initial period of unprofitability. But in his second reading speech the Minister said: 
There is no intention of changing the basic principle in the concept of  aidc  that it should operate as a business. But in this day and age it is not difficult to envisage that there will certainly be potential developments, within  aidc's  functions, and having obvious long-term economic or social benefits to the nation, but which  aidc  on a business judgment could not afford to help. For example, the investment of  aidc  funds required may simply be too big for  aidc. 
I emphasise that last point. This is something of a new line. I am concerned at that and I register my concern. My concern is that this national interest division provided for in the 3 pages of the Bill to which I have referred may become the vehicle for massive public ownership, involvement, in the economy- to infiltrate the 'system'. The general thrust of the AIDC debate is about fostering Australian ownership and control, over and against foreign ownership. That is the issue about which I, the Australian people and many' members of this Parliament, feel strongly. 
What may be at issue here is not Australian versus foreign ownership but public versus private ownership, and that is a quite different and very significant issue. So I stress on behalf of the Opposition that it is with great reservations in this area that this BUI will be passed- if it is- by the Parliament. My reservations are that the socalled national interest division hereby created wil need to be watched closely. As I said, I do not think that the Government has really come clean and told us the whole story. In not opposing the AIDC legislation one is relying on subsections (6) and (7) of section 8 A which provide that such AIDC national interest cases would require specific legislation passed by both Houses of the Parliament, either to effect a Government guarantee or to authorise the appropriation of Government money. In that event the Parliament can look carefully at each proposal in this context, and undoubtedly it will do so. 
Apart from introducing this national interest division, the main thrust of the AIDC BUI is to remove from the operation of the Corporation limitations which experience since the enactment of the original legislation in 1970 have shown to be extremely restricting to the Corporation in the carrying out of its functions. I support those extensions. As I said in my speech last July on this subject, I believe that there is an important role for an enlarged AIDC in fostering the exploitation by Australian initiatives of Australia 's vast potential for development and for doing that with a maximum of Australian management, ownership and control. In this key field of development financing I see an enlarged AIDC serving, so to speak, at the 'TAA' of the show with the Australian Resources Development Bank and other like institutions as the Ansett' of the show. The analogy is not a completely good one because the AIDC is itself, in concept, to further private industrial developmentit comes into play as the situation demands, and when there is a going concern it divests. 
I am not arguing that particular point. I am stressing- I should think the Minister would consider this appropriate- that in this situation having performed its development functions and having achieved a going concern, it then divests in terms of the Act. 
At this point it is perhaps reasonable to recall what is new in this BUI. Firstly, of course, it adds to the objectives, the objectives of maximum Australian ownership and control as a sort of coequal objective. Of course we do not oppose that. The exploitation, as I said, by Australian initiative of Australia's vast potential for development with the maximum of Australian ownership and control is held every bit as strongly on this side of the House as on the other side of the House. I would be prepared to concede that by and large the Australian Labor Party has perhaps done a better job of convincing the electorate of its concern about these matters than honourable members on this side of the House. With good nationalistic rhetoric it attacks the hated multinational companies and thereby adds an extra dimension of fervour to its story. But the sentiment on this side is every bit as strong. There is no opposition to the writing in of this objective. Next, it extends the scope of operations of the Corporation from manufacturing and the processing of minerals to other fields, and properly so. 
Again, as things stand now the AIDC is required to source its funds mainly overseas. It is provided in this Bill that it should have access to Australian funds. This, of course, is proper. If the stance of monetary policy is such as to restrict or forbid overseas borrowing the AIDC would be bound by that, and were it not for this extension it could practically shut its doors. 
Another point was made by the Minister in his second reading speech when he said: 
The AIDC, which was set up for the declared intention of promoting Australian ownership and control - 
I am glad he recognises that. It was not too explicit in the objectives of the original Bill but is now being written in. It was certainly always implicitly there. He continued:  is not allowed to use its project funds to buy back existing foreign owned shares in enterprises in Australia. 
Here we come to this question of the buy-back program. I go along with this provision of the Bill. But it could be that it would not matter too much. Sure enough, this so-called buy-back program using the AIDC as a vehicle to 'buy back the farm', getting back into Australian hands the mines and factories now held by overseas interests, is good stuff. It appeals to me and it is bound to appeal to every red-blooded Austraiian. 
But I think it is very important to understand just what is and what is not sensible policy in this area. The fact is that a lot of nonsense is talked in the name of buying back the farm. The first point to make clear is to ask: 'Will the operations of even an enlarged AIDC encourage additional domestic saving?' It is difficult to see any reason why it should and that, I believe, was  Sir Alan  Westerman 's view as expressed to the Senate Select Committee on Foreign Ownership and Control. Will it encourage Australians who have hitherto made a few investments here and there to say: 'I will take up some of these AIDC investment bonds instead of spending', and thereby lead to increased saving? That is not very likely especially with the accelerating inflation we have had under this Government. One would want a return in capital gain or dividend that would outstrip that inflation rate. I do not see that happening with the way the AIDC has been run in recent years. There is not any way, at least within the power of the AIDC, to increase saving. If we want to do this- and by and large I believe we ought to- it is a matter of overall general economic policy. 
So far as the AIDC is concerned what is involved in the domestic scene is a diversion of savings and investible funds from existing channels. That needs to be clearly recognised. That matter has a number of aspects. Firstly, the use of the funds so diverted for the purchase from overseas interests of existing enterprises in Australia- this buy-back program we have heard about- is more likely to disadvantage than to advantage this country when examined in the cold light of reason as distinct from the euphoria of the buyback rhetoric. Some months ago the report of the Industries Assistance Commission on the car industry underlined that point. 'Buy back' cannot mean the expropriation of assets; it means acquiring the business of an overseas owned company, a going concern, at its present value. That means the capitalised value of its future profit stream, and that valuation for a successful enterprise can be a lot different from, indeed vastly greater than, the ground floor outlays that established the business. 
The effect would be that in this way you would buy back something that might give joy to this genuine Australian sentiment of buying back the farm but in reality could have the reverse effect where what you are seeking is to cut back overseas ownership and control. What you could be doing by this process, by buying back these overseas holdings, would be to enable overseas interests to control a total quantity of Australian resources for less money, or more resources for a given amount of money as the funds realised by the Australian buy-back are re-invested elsewhere. 
The essence of bringing up the proportion of Australian ownership of our industries and resources, which we all want to achieve, is not an easy-quick, popular but largely phoney buy-back program. Rather it is, to begin with, the slower, more sound and sure process of enlarging the quantum of Australian savings and investment through appropriate overall economic policy and then, within that enlarged quantum of domestic investible resources, plus funds from overseas, to work to engage Australian initiative and enterprises in major developments at 'ground floor'. That is the guts of the matter- ground floor investment in new development. It is the ground floor investment that counts. Then Australia shares in the risks of the enterprise but also in the great potential rewards- as well, of course, as in the potential losses of the unsuccessful projects and there can be numbers of those. 
I turn, in conclusion, to the National Investment Fund BUI which is designed to back up the Australian Industry Development Corporation BUI (No. 2). As I said in the previous debate, I am idealistic enough to applaud the idea of, and to want to see, the small man getting a stake in the 'big time'. So, for my own part, I can see merit in the proposal for the proposed investment bond as a vehicle for ordinary Australians to invest and to share in the development of the country. But as I have said, nothing in the creation of the AIDC itself is going to increase the quantum of domestic investible resources. So inevitably what the AIDC captures is a diversion from other users of investible funds and other institutions. I could contemplate that with equanimity were I convinced that the Fund proposed in this legislation would not have, would not be given as it is given now and more at some time in the future, advantages over other operators- if it were constrained to compete with Uke institutions iii the private sector on equal terms. But this I find it difficult to be convinced of. 
If we do receive assurances on this matter, how can we rely on the good faith of the Government? Only yesterday we had reversed what was the reverse of an earlier reverse. Notwithstanding the spirit of constructive goodwill which pervaded the debate on this matter in this House in July, when this matter came up in the other place the simple request of the Opposition put down in this place that the Parliament should await the report of the Senate Select Committee before finally disposing of the Bills was contemptuously brushed aside. The view of the Government apparently had changed between this place and the other place. I believe today even more so the Government does not want an accommodation on that BUI. Accordingly, while not opposing the AIDC BUI the Opposition opposes the National Investment Fund BUI which in the short to medium term would have a very significant impact and a distorting effect on the Australian capital market. 
Debate interrupted. 
-To conclude my remarks which I commenced last night, the proposal for the enlarged Australian Industry Development Corporation is not opposed by the Opposition. The Liberal and Country Parties, as I stressed, are resolute that Australian initiatives should be in the forefront of the development of Australian industries and resources. There should be Australian management of projects and there should be a maximum of Australian ownership and control. An enlarged and, hopefully, more efficient Australian Industry Development Corporation can undoubtedly contribute importantly to this objective in level competition with other institutions. I point out that competition is not level under this legislation. 
With that and other reservations, notably in respect of the proposed national interest division, the Opposition does not oppose the Australian Industry Development Corporation Bill and all that it could mean in the right hands for Australian development and Australian ownership and control of its resources and its destiny. However, the companion National Investment Fund Bill which could lead to a significant distortion of the Australian capital market and which, to boot, is at this time unnecessary, is not acceptable. 
-As the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Kerin)  who preceded me in this debate said, the tone of the debate is in keeping with the gravity and importance of the subject matter. Few issues have come before this Parliament which have been of greater importance, on which honourable members have received so many representations and about which honourable members have had so carefully to search their hearts and their experience. But I am bound to say at the outset that the main burden of my remarks can be put very simply. It is that the equating of 12 months separation with the irretrievable breakdown of marriage is arbitrary and unreal; indeed, it is arbitrary and unreal to the point of being unjust. To be fair to the provisions of clause 48 of the Bill, I should say that what is equated is 12 months separation and the opinion of the court that there is no reasonable likelihood of cohabitation being resumed. I have quoted from clause 48 (3) of the Bill in that respect. But, with the emphasis in the Bill on eliminating the concept of fault in divorce- an objective which I would support if it were practicable- I do not think sub-clause (3) of clause 48 would ever really come into play. Really, the shorthand term '12 months separation' is adequate. I repeat: In my judgment- and this is a matter of judgmentthe equating of 12 months separation with the irretrievable breakdown of marriage is indeed arbitrary and unreal to the point of being unjust, in particular in depriving persons of rights now available to them. Nor in my opinion does the period of 12 months accord due respect to the institution of marriage, as we know it. 
Having said that, let me say that, with an appropriate amendment to clause 48, the Bill as it now comes before the House has many good features. Indeed, taken as a whole and with such amendment, it represents a comprehensive, forward looking and major piece of legislation. It is most important that the Australian people understand that there have been some very significant changes as compared with the Bill as originally introduced into the Senate. Even the number of clauses- there were 96 clauses in the original Bill and there are 123 clauses in the Bill now before us- bears that out. There has been a tendency, not entirely to the credit of some persons and organisations opposed to the Bill, to infer from the fact that the Bill has been subject to change, enlargement and amendment, that therefore the Bill is a hotch potch, that it is badly drafted, and so on. I believe that that is a wrong inference, and it is also a wrong inference that just because a clause is now in the Bill which was not in the original Bill, it will in some way be inoperative. If and when the Bill becomes an Act, that establishes the statute and the basis of the law, not what may be inferred to have been the intentions of the former  Senator Murphy  or anybody else. 
I refer to clause 43 which was not in the original Bill. If the Bill is enacted, clause 43 becomes the guiding principle of the legislation. Although the honourable member for Macarthur, who preceded me in this debate, summarised the clause, I propose to read it in full because I find, in a large sampling of persons speaking to me, who are greatly concerned about this Bill, that only a small proportion of them are aware of the clause. Clause 43 reads: 
The Family Court shall, in the exercise of its jurisdiction under this Act or any other Act, and any other court exercising jurisdiction under this Act shall, in the exercise of that jurisdiction, have regard to- 
the need to preserve and protect the institution of marriage as the union of a man and a woman to the exclusion of all others voluntarily entered into for life; 
the need to give the widest possible protection and assistance to the family as the natural and fundamental group unit of society, particularly while it is responsible for the care and education of dependent children; 
the need to protect the rights of children and to promote their welfare; and 
the means available for assisting parties to a mar- riage to consider reconciliation or the improvement of their relationship to each other and to the children of the marriage. 
In accordance with that objective the Bill puts great emphasis on counselling and reconciliation. If the spirit of Part II, Part III and Part IV of the Bill- the latter relating to the Family Court- is carried through, the proposed law will represent a major advance in this area over the existing Matrimonial Causes Act. There can be little doubt that the reconciliation provisions of the existing Act have had little or no practical effect. That has been because the provisions operate only when the parties have actually instituted proceedings. What is essential is that reconciliation and counselling facilities are available and are used before or at the early stages of litigation if they are to achieve effect. Provided that these provisions of the Bill are given administrative effect, that is the positive thrust of the counselling and reconciliation provisions of the Bill as it now comes before the House- not, it is true, of the original Bill. In that sense I commend clauses 15 and 16 to the House. 
The concept of a Family Court performing this positive service and, where reconciliation fails, playing a major role in reducing the area of disharmony and bitterness and facilitating the settlement of custody, access and property disputes, is a major feature of the Bill. Nevertheless, clause 48, which is at the heart of the legislation, remains unsatisfactory. Let us get it clear: It provides, firstly, that the sole ground for dissolution of marriage shall be' the irretrievable breakdown of a marriage. I believe that the vast majorityvirtually all- of ,the Australian people would accept that. They would accept that parties should not be obliged by law to remain together if the marriage has in fact irretrievably broken down. Certainly that is my view. But it is the next step that is questioned. In the very next subclause it is provided that irretrievable breakdown is established if, and only if, the parties have separated, and therefore live separately and apart, for a period of not less than 12 months. Whether there has been irretrievable breakdown in fact is not looked at. 
Why is there the arbitrary equating of irretrievable breakdown to 12 months separation? It has been done in an attempt to eliminate the issue of fault in the dissolution of marriage. That is an admirable and humane objective and, if I may say so, the Christian approach to the matter. It is entirely desirable, if it is possible, to eliminate the perjury, the exaggeration, the false attitudes, the dishonesty and indignity now so often a feature of divorce proceedings. I concede also that fault and the apportioning of blame are extremely difficult to determine, and all the more so in the adversary context of a courtroom. Even adultery can be the result rather than the cause of marriage breakdown. But unfortunately it is, I believe, an illusion that fault can be eliminated, admirable and humane as that objective is. Divorce is one thing; the settling of the surrounding issues is another. 
One can seek to outlaw the search after fault in divorce proceedings, as such, but there is no way in which one can avoid a hard look at the conduct of the parties in determining matters of custody, maintenance and property which all have to be settled. Even clause 48 (3), if it is other than window-dressing, and I for one want to take it at its face value, states: 
A decree of dissolution of marriage shall not be made if the court is satisfied that there is a reasonable likelihood of cohabitation being resumed. 
One could not possibly determine that without looking at the conduct of the parties. In the event, therefore, it is my view that the false equation of irretrievable breakdown, which is accepted by and large as the ground, to the exclusive unreal ground of 12 months' separation is again not worth a candle. As my colleague the honourable member for Bennelong  (Mr Howard)  put it, it is to sacrifice too much on the altar of no fault. I believe that we can go back and start from taws and, for my part, I would seek a new clause 48(2) along the lines suggested by my colleague the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott)  at page 329 of Hansard of 13 February 1975, to the effect that a decree of dissolution shall be granted if and only if: 
having regard to the behaviour of the parties the marriage has in fact broken down irretrievably; 
the parties separated and thereafter lived separately and apart for . . . not less than 24 months . . . 
As to the first part of such a provision, if it gets us back to fault then I submit that it is an illusion that one can avoid fault. That being so, that it would also serve justice in a goodly number of cases should prevail. As to the second part of such a proposed clause, I note- I stress this  again,  as other honourable members have done- that already we have as from 1959 no fault divorce but the period of separation is 5 years. I accept that it is now the community judgment that that is too long a period. But equally, I judge, a period of 12 months is too short to give respect to the institution of marriage and the family as the majority of the Australian people would require. But that is the period laid down in clause 43 of the Bill. 
That is- as I might put it- the gut feeling, the judgment of this member. I put it forward as a contribution to forming the collective judgment of this Parliament on this crucially important matter. I conclude by saying: Let that collective judgment be determined in the near future. As I see it, the view I have expressed constrains me to vote for the amendment now before the House. But as I believe it has now been ruled, were that amendment to be carried it must not kill the Bill as a whole. I am sure that the common sense of honourable members and of this House will enable this Bill to go to the Committee stage whatever happens. 
-The Opposition has not opposed the Australian Industry Development Corporation Bill. As I said when the measure was before the House, the Liberal and Country Parties are resolute in their view that Australian initiative should be at the forefront of the development of Australia's industries and resources, and we see an enlarged and hopefully more efficient AIDC as contributing to this end. 
The purpose of the amendment is to provide that if the Remuneration Tribunal has not made a determination in respect of the directors of the Corporation, the directors may continue to be paid at presently established rates. There is no objection to this. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Resolution reported; report adopted. 
-The purpose ofthe Sales Tax Bills (Nos 1 to 9) 1975 and the Sales Tax (Exemptions and Classifications) Bill 1975 is to give effect to the announcement on 28 January last that sales tax on passenger vehicles would be reduced from 27Vi per cent to 1 5 per cent and on vehicles ordinarily used for commercial purposes from 1 5 per cent to 5 per cent. That cut in the sales taxes was one measure of an emergency package of three. The other components of the package were that the Government determined to abandon the proposed tax on the private use of company cars- one of the Government's many somersaults at that timeand that import quotas on passenger and light commercial vehicles would be imposed during the next 12 months. 
The tax cut is to be temporary. It is to operate in full from 29 January to 1 May. Thereafter it will revert to the previous rate at  2Vi  per centage points a month beginning in May so that the full rate of  27Vi  per cent on passenger vehicles will apply again as from 1 September. These Bills are not opposed by the Opposition. Notwithstanding the current difficult world situation in international trade and one's own consciousness of our obligations as a major international trading nation, these measures became inevitable in order to restore a situation largely brought about by the Government's own policies- not by external factors- and made worse by the Government's delay in taking action when the need for urgent action had become manifestly necessary to keep the industry viable in the face of the Government's policies and, I concede, the emerging pressures of the world trade scene. They are, in fact, part and parcel of this Govern.ment's gyrations, somersaults, back flips, the lot which began with the hasty devaluation on 25 September, were in full flood with the Prime Minister's 12 November Budget mark III and climaxed with the compromise, accommodation and backdowns which occurred at Terrigal at the beginning of last month. It was a policy of 'full reverse as the best way forward'. At last we heard that profits are OK; the private sector is the greatest, the whole works. The only difficulty about it is, can anyone believe the Government? I doubt if the Australian people and the business sector in particular will believe it because the animal does not so easily change its spots. 
-That is true indeed. A major element in the whole reversal is the Prime Minister's recent stance in the matter. He has seen- I was going to say 'the'- some light. The Prime Minister has averred that he does not accept that the problems of the motor industry and other' industries, especially importing competing industries, are due to the cumulative effect of the Government's ill-advised policies- the whole gamut of them. He chooses to put the blame wholly, or if not wholly, largely, on wage increases. Not only inflation but now unemployment is the result of last year's wage increases. Tariff cuts? I refer to the 25 per cent across the board tariff cut in July 1973, the tariff cut in the electronic products industry in November 1973, the January-February 1974 cut in the tariff on white goods, the March 1 974 reversal of the textile quotas, and so on. They do not cause unemployment, according to the Prime Minister. To talk about these things as causing unemployment, is 'garbage' so the Prime Minister says. Wage increases, not tariff reform so-called, are the trouble. What a line from the professed champion of the ordinary men and women of Australia. I think it was  Mr Ross  of the Textile Workers Union, with so many members of his own union unemployed, who in Melbourne threw this back in the Prime Minister's face and said, as I recall: 'What Gough is saying is the garbage'. 
Unquestionably the thrust to inflation since about June last have been, and are, large wage and salary increases. It is of the utmost importance that the current prospective explosion of excessive claims be resisted and contained. The metal workers settlement in particular will be critical. Indeed, I shudder to think what it might be like for the industry before us 6 months hence when, with the tax moving back to its full rate, the industry simultaneously has to contend with the cost pressures stemming  frum  these pressures obviously and clearly in the pipeline. 
But in saying that let us have a bit of fair go as well as truth in this situation. This much needs to be said on the side of the unions- the Prime Minister will not say it so let me say it: It was the Government's policies in 1973, the massive expansion in Government spending plus the pace setting increases in salaries and conditions in the Public Service, and the open encouragement of large bargaining settlements and, I concede, seeing the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  sitting opposite me, some impact from high world commodity prices, that fuelled inflation in 1 973-74. Then in turn inflation, the increase in the cost of living, combined with the heavy bite of the personal income tax unchanged until recently, made the momentum of large wage and salary claims in 1 974 to that extent inevitable and inexorable. Let that be said in justice to the unions. Let the Government accept the blame. 
Apart from that, to offset that big spending in 1973-74 there was the credit squeeze of unparalleled severity from about March-April of last year until very recently. So, turning from the inflation problem to unemployment, the highest level of unemployment since the depression- in particular, unemployment in the motor industrythere is the first and major factor, the credit squeeze, the cut back in the availability of money and credit and the associated hike in interest rates to the highest levels in our history. That has affected most directly the building industry and, indirectly, just about every industry, not least the motor industry. 
What I would stress is that that stance in monetary policy was not a measure adopted to counter emerging inflation, which just dropped down from heaven or came in by ripples from another shore, as it was put by the honourable member for Hindmarsh, the delinquent but compliant Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Mr Clyde Cameron).  The credit squeeze was implemented as a deliberate act of Government policy. As my colleague the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  was saying a little while ago, it was a deliberate act of Government policy to cut back the private sector, including the motor industry, to make room for the doctrinaire socialist expansion of the government sector. That is what the credit squeeze was all about. It was not just to fight some inflation that had suddenly appeared as though it had come down from heaven or from another shore, but to make way for this massive expansion of the government sector. So the credit squeeze had its impact on the private sector. 
Then there were the tariff cuts and the revaluation. Both measures were part and parcel of the deliberate Whitlam policy of increasing imports, in part to meet the excess demand of 1973-74 created by the Government's excessive spending, superimposed on a resurgent private sector, and pardy in the pursuit of a misguided, back to front, cart before the horse policy of so called restructuring Australian industry. I say 'back to front' because the policy was to cut industry down, to cut out the alleged dead wood, before anything was thought out as to what should take its place. Does the Prime Minister suggest that the 25 per cent cut in the car tariff from 45 per cent, as it then was, to about 33.7 per cent- that is, to below the historic level of the mid-1960s when the Japanese first invaded this marketwas of no effect? Who is he kidding? 
There are some figures of his own that were reported briefly in the 'Australian Financial Review' recently. It was stated: 
The Prime Minister,  Mr Whitlam,  is being bolstered in his calls for wages restraint by work commissioned by him on the effects on profitability of the 25 per cent across-the-board tariff cut compared to effects from wage increases. 
According to this report, the study states that the tariff cut in the case ofthe motor industry expressed in terms of equivalent cost increase was 16 per cent on the higher estimate and just under 10 per cent on the lower. A cost increase of that sort, arbitrarily superimposed on cost increases stemming largely from wage claims made because of the impact of rising prices and the bite of the tax system, was a very large additional burden which contributed greatly to the difficulties of this industry. If the Prime Minister really believed that it was of no effect, why did his Government accede to the increase to 35 per cent and then by way of a primage duty surcharge of a further 10 per centage points to a duty of 45 per cent for this industry on 12 November last, thereby restoring precisely the status quo ante, that is, the situation prevailing before the original tariff cut? Of course the tariff cut was important, both in its immediate effect and in its effect of creating uncertainty in that industry and others. 
Do the Prime Minister and the Government suggest that the successive revaluations of the Australian dollar, partially reversed on 25 September last, were of no effect? Vis-a-vis the pound sterling and other European currencies, not to mention the United States dollar, those revaluations opened up a margin in favour of imports of the order of 30 per centage points. That is, a United Kingdom product landed at, say, $3,000 in 1972 could ceteris paribus, as the economist would say, be landed at about $2,100 in 1973-74. If anything, the revaluation, which was too large and unduly prolonged, was greater in its effect in encouraging imports than the tariff cut and could very largely undo the tariff entirely down to near zero protection. So with the Australian economy open as never before, no wonder car imports surged when markets elsewhere, not least the Japanese home market itself, began to contract in the latter half of last year. I concede that much to external influences. 
At this point let me sum up with respect to the causes ofthe high level of unemployment generally in this country and in the motor industry in particular. The growth in the level of unemployment has been more rapid than in nearly every other country, as analysed in detail in the 'Australian' newspaper today by  Dr Barry  Hughes. In respect of the emergence of this unemployment the situation has been that, to the unparalleled credit squeeze to which I referred and this pressure from import competition, were added the screwing down of prices and profits by the Prices Justification Tribunal, the 'halving'- the substantial reduction- of export incentives, very important for the motor industry, the limiting of research and development expenditures, the withdrawal of the investment allowance and, very importantly, the bite of company taxation in this context of rapid inflation. To those as the top half of the scissors, so to speak, have been added the soaring costs from increased wages and salaries- the Prime Minister's prime cause- as the bottom blade of the scissors. The inevitable outcome has been reduced business activity, low business confidence, investment stagnant and, unemployment which is already at 3 1 1 600 in total and, on a seasonally adjusted basis, still growing. 
All of the gyrations and somersaults of the Government recently, with the Government, to use a biblical allusion, acting like Gadarene swine but slamming on the brakes just before going over the cliff, unhappily will take a long while to turn the situation around and repair the damage, at least in terms of real development and real production. As I said earlier, how can the Australian people and the Australian business community believe in the intentions of the Government? So, a resurgence of private investment which is so critical to the sustained growth of the economy is unlikely. Without it, this ' allstopsout ' effort to combat unemployment undoubtedly will issue in a further acceleration of inflation in  1975-76.  I stress the word 'acceleration' because the underlying rate of inflation is clearly still very high indeed. It is in the region of 15 per cent to 20 per cent per annum. As I said, there has been this all-out effort. We have a situation of the Government's economic management being not just 'stop go' but 'super stop go'- 

 Dr EDWARDS The Mint, of course, is flat out. It is perhaps the only industry in the country that is working in that way. As I say, the Government's economic management is super stop go, with the 'go' mainly in the area of inflation rather than in the area of real production. 
I come back specifically to the motor industry. What added to the urgency of the problems in the motor industry- as I said, the Government should have acted more quickly- was a remarkable stability in the prices of imports of the Japanese products in particular. I gather that the increase in the prices of those products was in the region of barely 5 per cent during a year when inflation in Japan was of the order of 25 per cent and cost increases were even higher. I think that those Japanese car manufacturers must have something of the secret of combating inflation. Perhaps a member of the Government should go there and get the good oil on the subject. Hence the urgent need for action to be taken on this matter. The picture for the industry is all too clear in the statistics. They show that total demand, as evidenced by new registrations, is on a clear down-trend due to the credit squeeze and rising general unemployment. They show that imports were up strongly from May and July in particular onwards. The 17 600 units imported in December accounted for more than 50 per cent of the total registrations of new cars and station wagons in that month. There we have this picture of the weakness in total demand and the upward surge of imports. Accordingly, home production and hence employment took a catastrophic dive in December- January, and the situation was almost bound to have got worse. 
So we have before the House this package of measures embodied in these Sales Tax Bills. They are designed, I repeat, as an emergency measure to retrieve the situation created as the cumulative outcome of the Government's ill advised economic policies. The inventory of the industry was clearly out of control. Hopefully the tax cut which we are validating, with its short term duration, will see that excess stock of vehicles eliminated and the block it was te continuing normal production removed. Hopefully this move will not amount merely to transferring demand forward to this first half of the year from the second half, thereby creating a worse problem at the end of the year. Hopefully this tax reduction, plus the other major element in the package- I refer to the quota restraint on imports- will provide a bridge over the bottom, so to speak, and a stimulus to resume more or less normal levels of production as the year progresses. There are bound to be problems and possible inequities in the imposition of quotas. The quotas and the tariff imposts are bound to impact somewhat inequitably on some low volume European models, but hopefully these difficulties can be ironed out. 
Beyond the problems in the immediate period is the continuing issue of the long term position of the industry. There is still a great deal of uncertainty in the industry. I have stressed frequently, and I take this opportunity to do so again, that the Liberal and Country Parties are committed to an efficient, growing and diversified manufacturing industry. That is the way Australians have chosen to go and that is the course on which we embarked at least as long as 45 years ago when the Bridgen Committee reported on tariffs in 1929. In fact, this course goes back even further than that. In this situation of fostering a growing, broadly based, diversified manufacturing industry- I concede that theoretically that is not a so-called optimum situation but it is the one Australians chose and still want, in my view- a flourishing motor car industry has a key role both as a major employer of labour and as a key supporting or user industry for other Australian industries, for example, the steel industry and essential technologies such as founding and engineering. In contrast to the austere unrealism of the Industries Assistance Commission's proposals for the motor industry, I venture the view that the Government's proposals for the industry on a longer term basis, as announced on 12 November last, are in the right direction. 
-My colleague, the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly),  sometimes has divergent views from mine on this matter and no doubt he will take an opportunity to express them. I put the view that these measures are in the right direction and, for my own part, I have not the slightest doubt that, if we are to retain a broad based Australian manufacturing industry with an appropriate range of technologies, skills and know-how, the sort of government intervention, or the degree of 'planning', to call a spade a spade, involved in the proposed Australian content plan- I say in parenthesis that that plan is one which seeks to achieve an average 85 per cent Australian content, following the phasing out of the existing plans- not only has to be accepted but also has to be encouraged. Indeed I suspect it should go further, involving perhaps specific direction within the overall 85 per cent as to some thing, or some things, that should be included in order that key technological know-how and skills are nurtured and developed. 
In these matters I am touching on some large issues, as witnessed by the comment from my colleague. I leave them for debate at another time. In the meantime, part and parcel as the present measures are, as embodied in these sales tax Bills and the related elements of the package, of the Government's ad hoc piecemeal and often instant' economic management, or rather mismanagement, of the Australian economy, the Opposition does not oppose the Bills before the House. 
-The Opposition supports the amendments at present before the Committee. When this Bill was previously before the House it was not opposed by the Opposition but severe reservations were expressed about the possible effects of this measure. The purpose of the Bill was, as the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  has just said, to provide a bounty of $5 per compressor manufactured in Australia, but as the BUI was previously drawn it was in rather exclusive terms and would have had the effect of excluding from this bounty certain other firms. That was proposed in the interests of rationalisation of the industry, but the support of the measure by the Opposition was on the understanding that the matter had been negotiated with the industry. In fact that was not the case, as the Minister has said. Further representations have been made. These were important representations and it became quite clear that the procedure as proposed in the original BUI was quite unacceptable to the industry. The effect of the proposed amendment then is to provide' that the bounty is payable in respect of all firms in the industry, and of course the increase in the amount appropriated is to ensure for the most part that funds are available for this purpose. Therefore the Opposition supports the amendments now brought forward by the Government. 
-As the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  has just pointed out, this legislation has worn something of a beaten track between this House and the other place. As was pointed out, when it first came before this chamber it was not opposed by the Opposition although the Opposition entered some significant caveats in relation to it. Subsequently there were representations, as referred to by the Minister, which made it clear that the Bill was unsatisfactory in its present form. In particular, the purpose of these amendments is to extend, the provisions of the Bill to all the firms in the industry, whereas previously in the interests of proposed rationalisation they were confined to only one. This has become necessary for various reasons, including of course the employment situation. The effect of proceeding as originally proposed would have led to significant unemployment in certain areas, particularly country areas of New South Wales. In the present situation of more than 250 000 unemployed in this country this was quite an unacceptable position. 
The essence of the matter is that as it came before this chamber on 6 March it was a request and a recommendation. The request for additional funds was attended to on that occasion. The amendments which had been agreed to by the Senate on the previous day now come to us for formal acceptance. These amendments are in line with the views of the Opposition. They are supported by this side. So this should be the last episode in the saga. The amendments are agreed to. The Opposition supports them as they have come from the Senate. 
My question is addressed to the Treasurer. I refer to the quarterly estimates of national product recently released which show for the quarter a growth in total Australian production, for non-farm of 1.6 per cent, which would be of the order of 6.4 per cent on an annual basis, or of a growth in total national product of 2.8 per cent, which would be of the order of 1 1.2 per cent on an annual basis. I ask the Treasurer, how is this so when the figures also show that real spending on private consumption fell 0.9 per cent- that may be changing a little at the moment- real expenditure on fixed plant and equipment, the key component for economic growth, fell 12.1 per cent, and total investment 7.7 per cent, and the only component to show an increase is public capital expenditure of 7.8 per cent? 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes. It was not clear whether the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  was referring to me in particular or the Opposition in general when he said: 'You never said this'. I would like to point out that leading up to the time of the last Budget, I myself said on a number of occasions, and the Opposition took this position, that there ought to be a $ 1,000m cut in taxation. That would have reduced the prospective increase from 32 per cent to 25 per cent, which is almost precisely what would have happened under indexation. It was, in effect, an indexation proposal. 

 Mr KEATING (Blaxland)-Mr  Deputy Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
-During the second reading debate I referred to one apparent point of difference between the present Act and this Bill. As I pointed out, the Bill requires that injury shall be 'material' before action is taken, whereas the present Act speaks, in effect, of the injury being 'not insubstantial'. The interdepartmental committee was of the view that these qualifications or terms are synonomous and that no change in the present attitude or administration would be required. I am asking, as I asked during the second reading debate, that the Minister confirm this to the Committee on behalf of the Government. 
-As my colleague the honourable member for Fisher  (Mr Adermann)  has said, the Customs Tariff (Anti-Dumping) Bill arises from the decision of the Government to adopt the anti-dumping code drawn up under the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade. The decision was announced by the Government in 1973. Because the existing anti-dumping legislation is out of line in some respects with the requirements of the GATT code, this Bill is intended to rectify the position and establish legislation which conforms to the GATT code and also embrace elements in the existing Australian law, such as provisions for freight dumping and countervailing duties not inconsistent with practices permitted under the GATT code. 
The Government's decision to adopt the code followed a review of the question by an interdepartmental committee. The knowledge that this committee was at work was brought to light to some extent, I think, by questioning by my colleague in the other place,  Senator Margaret  Guilfoyle. It did cause considerable concern to persons in industry at that time, as well it might. It was at the time that this Government was hell bent on opening up the Australian economy to competition from imports as never before. There was the July 1973 across-the-board tariff cut, an arbitrary ill advised move flying in the face of long established tariff- making procedure in Australia. Apart from its adverse direct effect on a wide range of Australian industries it dealt a lasting blow to business confidence and the long term forward planning on which the thrust of economic growth so much depends. 
Again in 1973, at the time this legislation was contemplated, there was- in 3 large doses- the unduly prolonged revaluation of the Australian dollar which opened up a price differential in favour of competitive imports from some countries of as much as 30 per cent. That meant that a $10 import was reduced to $7. Now we have a situation- the Minister for Police and Customs  (Mr Enderby)  having discovered more than that 'imports traditionally come from overseas'- in which all of these policies are in full reverse, and more. There are indeed direct import restraints on a wide range of goods, from sunglasses to steel sheets. The Minister and his Government are undoubtedly a chastened and wiser lot today. 
I take this opportunity to stress that these restrictions now being imposed seem to be running into considerable administrative difficulties. Inequities, delays, uncertainties and unnecessary disruption seem to be the order of the day. In a great variety of industries, from sunglasses to shoes and steel sheets, the whole gamut of industry subject to these restrictions and being referred to the Temporary Assistance Authority, if there is not soon some easing of the administrative hold-ups there will be a considerable slowing down in the channels of trade. Also questions arise here of the time being made available to industries to put their case to the Temporary Assistance Authority. That is perhaps somewhat incidental to the present Bill. 
I think what I have said well explains the concern, at the time this legislation was first mooted, on the part of industry. However, the report of the interdepartmental committee in recommending the adoption of the GATT code undoubtedly sought to meet the concerns expressed by the industry. The general theme of the report, having examined the changes to be made, was that these changes need not prevent the Government from taking effective anti-dumping action, thus avoiding damage to Australian industry. The Bill before the House appears to have been drafted to achieve this purpose. It is a proper purpose. Dumping is universally regarded as an improper, unacceptable practice, and proper powers are essential to combat it. But there are some questions that need to be asked and answered in addition to those raised by my colleagues. 
There is the question of flexibility of interpretation which the interdepartmental committee suggested is available to such a degree that the Government's ability effectively to counter dumping would not be impaired despite differences between the long standing Australian legislation- the existing Act- and the GATT code. I think that finding by the committee is an accurate statement if the will is there to make it such. The direction taken in the flexibility of interpretation is, in dealing with dumping, probably more important in many ways than the actual terms of the legislation. There is great administrative scope in this area. The plain truth is that it is possible for a Customs department effectively to counter dumping even though the legislation is weak. Conversely, an administrative attitude tending towards undue leniency for dumped imports can render strong legislation quite ineffective. There is a widespread view in industry which has some merit, that dumping administration is something of a pendulum which periodically swings too far, say, in favour of the importer and then is brought back into the other course by the protests of local industry. That is not how it should be. The responsibility of government is to ensure that Australian industry is not damaged by dumping. As I have said, dumping is universally recognised as an unacceptable practice. The Government's responsibility in this matter is to the producers in Australia and to the people they employ. I stress that point. I hope that the Minister will assure the House that the appropriate administrative intent will be there in relation to this legislation. 
There is one apparent point of difference between the existing legislation and the present Bill to which I invite a response from the Minister. In clause 8 and in other corresponding clauses the Bill requires that injury shall be 'material ' before action is taken, whereas the existing legislation speaks of it as being 'not insubstantial'. Thus, section 11 of the existing Act states that a reference in the relevant sections of the existing Act to 'injury' does not 'include a reference to an insubstantial injury'. Will the Minister assure the House in this respect that, in the terms of the Bill, the reference to 'material injury' is not different in import from the provision in the existing Act which, as I said, refers to 'injury' and in a subsequent clause says that the reference to an injury does not 'include a reference to an insubstantial injury'. 
Let me deal with another point. As my colleague has noted, the Bill renders a significant change in the present system in that it empowers the Minister to take anti-dumping action without the prior requirement of a reference to the Industries Assistance Commission and a recommendation from the IAC that dumping and injury are occurring. This, as my colleague has suggested, is a sensible improvement. As I think he also said, the Tariff Board in its 1964-65 report recommended that this change be made. It has taken this time, the timing difficulties which the GATT code otherwise would have created, a report from  Sir John  Crawford and the  Chairman  of the IAC to bring it about. 
What the Tariff Board said in effect in 1 964-65 was that its inquiries produced little or nothing additional to the information already on Department of Customs and Excise files and that the matters could therefore as well be determined by the Minister. It did recommend that there be appeal provisions and such are now included, properly, in the Bill. As I suggested, this change is, I believe, a sensible move and an improvement. I only express the hope that departmental zeal will not spoil the effect. The statement by the Tariff Board clearly implied that the information asked for by the Board in connection with its dumping inquiries, to the extent that they exceeded that which was gathered in by the Department of Customs and Excise, was in fact unnecessary, though the rigidity of the system has naturally meant that, even so, the Tariff Board and its successor, the LAC have gone on asking for this considerable mass of information even up to this day. 
What one would hope is that the change incorporated in the Bill, that such a reference to the LAC is no longer necessary, might remove from industry the burden of furnishing all the information asked for by the LAC, formerly by the Tariff Board. If the Department of Customs and Excise could do the job in 1964 and subsequently with considerably less information than the Tariff Board and subsequently the LAC have asked for, it could be expected that the present Department could operate under the proposed new legislation with the same amount of information. But that does not seem to be the case. The Department is now issuing a questionnaire on dumping cases which asks for about the same mass of information as the LAC did until recently. 
The earlier Customs Department questionnaire was a comparatively thin document which contained 15 questions under headings such as description of goods, price information, information on injury, details of Australian consumption, some brief details on capacity, production and sales. It was not a greatly complicated questionnaire and completing it was not an unreasonable burden to place on the applicant. But the new questionnaire asks for that information and also looks for an enormous amount of additional information including a statement on manufacturing, trading and profit and loss over a 4-year period, return on total assets employed, and detailed statements of funds employed. I have copies of the questionnaires here, I was going to suggest that they be incorporated in Hansard but together as they are rather long I will table them for the information of honourable members who may be interested in this matter. 
I seriously ask the Attorney-General to look into this question and I urge him to take action to ease yet another burden in time and cost which otherwise will be imposed on industry for no good reason. I repeat that if the Department of Customs could do such a job with the information it required previously from industry and the Tariff Board itself declared its inquiry to be unnecessary, the Department should be able to go on doing the same job with the same information. 
There is one other aspect in regard to the questionnaire that I would like to mention. It has always been accepted in these matters that the threat of injury from dumping justifies antidumping action as much as if injury has actually taken place. I believe that common sense would seem to suggest that the Government should discharge its responsibilities to local industry if possible before, to use a term currently popular among departmental people, 'the blood is flowing strongly'. The second paragraph in the foreword to this new questionnaire states: 
It will be appreciated that there can be no imposition of dumping duty unless the facts show that: there is dumping; there is injury; the injury is caused by the dumping. 
I raise the question of a threat of injury. Admittedly one of the questions in the questionnaire refers to the threat of injury, but the foreword does seem to require, to use the phrase that is current today, that the blood should be actually flowing? 
As my colleague the honourable member for Fisher, has said, the Opposition does not oppose this legislation. It supports it essentially on the basis of the views of the interdepartmental committee stated in the section of its report entitled  'Major differences  between the GATT Code and the Dumping and Subsidies Act'. This part of the report refers to the Committee's examination of other signatories' national legislation and observation at first hand of 'the practical operation of the Code'. The Committee's formed view is that overseas experience suggests that: within limits, flexibility of practice is acceptable under the Code and the salient and desirable features of Australia's present anti-dumping system would be permissible under the Code. 
The Committee goes on to state in paragraph 14: 
The Committee noted that the Code attempts to spell out in some detail (more so than the Dumping and Subsidies Act) the conditions necessary before anti-dumping action should be taken. This specification was mentioned tn some representations to the Committee as limiting, to the detriment of Australian industry, the application of dumping duties. In the Committee's view, these specifications should be regarded as endeavouring to ensure that the interests of all parties including importers and consumers of imports are recognised, and that official action is only taken when material injury (or the threat thereof) due to dumped imports is clearly and reasonably demonstrated. 
I trust that the Government confirms these views and that it intends that the new legislation will be administered in comformity with these views. 
I thank the House. I add only that the threat of severe market disruption hangs heavily over the mushroom industry. Does the blood actually have to flow before the Government will move? 
-I wish to make a personal explanation. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
-I support the amendment of the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott).  I do so because, like my friend the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron),  who has just resumed his seat, and like 95 per cent of Australians- that is the figure which he gave, but I would say the figure is higher than that- I would like to see the concept of fault in divorce proceedings eliminated. I stressed that in my speech during the second reading debate. I said that is an admirable and humane objective and is greatly to be desired. I urge members to accept the viewpoint that the amendment of the honourable member for Wentworth seeks to do that so far as it can be done consistent with the requirements of justice. 
Other honourable members have instanced cases in which there are grounds for immediate relief. Also there are cases in which it is not feasible or practicable to separate. I refer, as one instance, to the circumstance raised by the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman).  So in this legislation there must a ground for divorce other than separation; hence proposed sub-clause (c) in the amendment of the honourable member for Wentworth. 
It is in any case concerned with behaviour, as the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  pointed out, and not with apportioning fault. In this connection I would add that it is not justice that the position of a woman who is, say, being subjected to constant beating and who has come to the point of seeking relief, can be 'settled' by an injunction under clause 114 of the Bill, and yet not by the granting of a dissolution of marriage. It is not justice to assert that an appeal to section 114 will satisfy this matter. Given proposed new paragraphs (a) and (b) of the amendment, the seeking of divorce under proposed new paragraph (c) would be resorted to much less than is now the case. I am sure that the incidence of undesirable fraudulent practice in divorce proceedings would be reduced, hopefully to a negligible level. 
I commend the 3-part amendment. The first part relates to the 24 months separation where divorce is sought on a unilateral basis. I commend it because in the absence of consent by both parties there is that much extra time, you might say in some cases incentive, to achieve reconciliation and sustain the marriage. The 2 year period, as a matter of judgment, gives proper respect to the institution of marriage, as I believe the majority of Australian people would require and as clause 43 of the Bill requires. The amendment also provides in paragraph (b) for divorce after one year if there is mutual consent. That is obviously something desired by a large number of members of this Parliament. I have already put the case for proposed new paragraph (c). I urge honourable members to accept this tripartite amendment, not as a compromise, but as a constructive approach to a very difficult problem. When the  Ml  is passed by this Parliament, as I hope it will be, I believe we will have the most advanced legislation in the world in the field of marriage and divorce. 
-I have not any particularly strong views one way or the other on this provision except that it is one further element in the additional costs that add to the high cost of the scheme. In fact the estimated capital cost of the provision is $338m. That is a very significant proposal. The whole thrust of the Opposition's approach to this Bill is that we support the move to change the method of payment, and other aspects for which the Bill provides. But that having been done, the scheme that would then prevail would be a fair one and indeed a generous one. Our basic view is that in the present difficult economic situation, this is not the time substantially to enlarge the benefits accruing to contributors and thereby to widen further the already large gap between superannuation benefits in the public sector and those in the private sector. For my own part, that is the basic reason for supporting the Opposition's view that this provision ought to be rejected. 
After all, there is widespread throughout the community a lack of provision for superannuation of any sort. In fact, it was only the other day in the Parliament that the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  stated that some seven out of ten of the 5.7 million people in the Australian work force are not yet covered by superannuation, and that this is true of four out of five manual workers. The priority in public expenditure in this area lies there- to get superannuation arrangements available for the mass of ordinary men and women, for whose interests the Government constantly professes its concern. That is basically our position- that priority should be given there rather than to any further upgrading in benefits, although, as I have said, we strongly support the provisions of this Bill to change the basis of contributions and other aspects. 
I rise to speak in the debate, stimulated in part by the remarks of the honourable member for Phillip  (Mr Riordan)  who referred to the earlier, 1973, Bill providing for cost of living adjustments of pensions paid under the Commonwealth Public Service scheme and the factor of 1.4 introduced in that Bill with a view, of course, to providing for the whole pension. But the Government portion, which was upgraded by the factor of 1.4, would also thereby provide for the cost of living adjustment for the remainder of the pension. I am stimulated by the honourable member's remark, that that was received with enthusiasm. It is true to say that honourable members on this side of the chamber welcomed that as a measure in its own right. Of course, we welcomed it. But at the same time we stressed the pace setting effects of the measure. I have before me the Hansard record of 15 May 1973 which contains my remarks on that Bill. I estimated the impact of that measure on the Australian Post Office. Using some figures of Professor Pollard and other data, I estimated that the effect of the Post Office reproducing the same benefits in its own superannuation scheme would be to increase the cost of the provision for superannuation from something like 10 per cent of the Post Office annual salary bill to 30 per cent of its annual salary bill. I went on to say:   30 per cent of the salary bill is no mean impost. It could be said that something of a rod is being created for everybody's back. 
I went on to stress that it was not right that pensioners in particular should bear the effects of inflation, and that therefore there was justice in the measure, but I pointed out also that there were many other matters to be attended to in the community. I said that the Government had programs of various sorts and it had to decide things on the basis of priority. That is what we are doing tonight. We are raising the question of priorities. We have said that we agree with the change in the method of payment to 5 per cent of salary plus anything elected above that by the contributor. We agree to the option for a contributor to opt for a lump sum payment. That having been done, the scheme as it stands is a good and generous one. But in the present difficult economic situation this is not a time to enlarge substantially benefits accruing to contributors to this scheme and to further widen the gap between the Public Service and the private sector. There are many other things to do in this very area. I earlier quoted the Minister for Social Security, the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  as saying in this Parliament only last week that seven out of every ten of the 5.7 million people in the Australian work force are not yet covered by superannuation. There is a lot to be done. I repeat that this is a question of priorities. 
That brings me to a point I would like to make in this respect. As I have said, the present scheme provides in intent for a government pension of 50 per cent and a contributory pension not greater than a further 20 per cent of final salary, with the whole pension updated in accordance with the consumer price index. At present that updating is being done indirectly by the 1 .4 times the consumer price index factor applied to the Government portion and it does involve the Government in some unintended extra cost because not everybody in fact has additional pension equal to 20 per cent of salary. So one can say that the 'true' cost of achieving the purpose of the existing scheme, plus the extra advantage of the option to take out part of the benefit as a lump sum, is put down in the Explanatory Memorandum as $6,553m for the existing contributors, less the $ 1,204m as one reduces the factor from 1 .4 to one, and then one adds on item (i) for the updating of pension purchased with accumulated contributions by those who wish to do so; and that is the $200m. 
So on that basis the true cost of providing the existing scheme is $5,549m. This is the figure on a capital cost basis. What the Government proposes is to add to that for the existing pension tributors, additional benefits contained in items (a) to (h) inclusive in the Memorandum totalling $1,3 16m. I invite the Committee to observe that the cost of these additional benefits amounts to 23.7 per cent of what I said is in fact the true cost of providing the existing scheme. The Treasurer said that the existing proposals will add only 4.8 per cent. However, as I have said, the Govern.metn is involved in an amount of some unintended extra cost. But if we take the true cost of the existing scheme according to these figures, the proposed additional benefits amount to something of the order of 23.7 per cent.  Mr Deputy Chairman,  I seek leave to have incorporated in Hansard a table setting out the rearrangement of figures from the Memorandum. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)-Is  leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows)- 

<graphic href="095131197505282_79_2.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="095131197505282_79_3.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="095131197505282_79_2.jpg"></graphic>

I believe that the estimate of the increase is a valid one. As my colleague, the honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland)  pointed out, the situation in which we find ourselves today is vastly changed from the situation when the calculations were made in relation to the increased rate of inflation and interest charges. The calculations presume a rate of interest and discount of 5 per cent and of inflation, as I recall, of 3.9 per cent. If we keep the group of assumptions together the substantial validity of the capital cost for relative purposes can, I think, be accepted. But I point out that inflation at the moment exceeds the rate of interest and that would have a startling effect on the calculations if taken into account. It would involve a vast increase in cost. Hopefully this position will not persist even under the present Government. At any rate, the Government will not be in office long enough to keep costs rising. But if this state of affairs did persist we would see the end of the capitalist system as we know it. 
My point is that the additional cost of the measures proposed is exceedingly large. While in many ways I would have suggested that it might have been better for the proposers of this Bill to have settled for the sort of situation that I set out- the change in payments and the consolidation of benefits provided by the existing scheme- what has been put up involves so large an increase that in the interests of our responsibility to the nation it has been necessary for the Opposition to choose to put forward amendments to the legislation so as to reduce the benefits within a reasonable compass. The amendment before us seeks to reduce one of them. 
I wish to come back to the point that the proposed enlargement of this scheme is a very significant factor at a time when there are many other urgent priorities and that the effect will be pace setting to a considerable extent. 
The Minister interjects that in 1 973 1 said it was admirable. I will quote from the speech that I made in May 1973. I asked: What about the cost of this proposal?' It is always important to look at the cost. This Government still does not stop very often to look at the costs and to weigh the priorities and balance matters. I referred to the one figure of $8.4m that we had at the time. Then I am reported at page 2118 of Hansard as saying: 
But that cost- the $8.4m- is by no means the whole story. Indeed, it will be the beginning and not the end of the impact. This measure, like the granting of 4 weeks annual leave, will become a pacesetter in the field. In this matter the Commonwealth is giving a significant, and in itself - 
The Minister for Tourism and Recreation quoted that- admirable and praisworthy, lead. In respect of the impact of this measure there will be immediately the impact on the socalled approved authorities under section 145 of the Superannuation Act which will be under pressure to provide the same sort of benefits. 
I then went on to estimate the direct impact on the Post Office. It is a significant estimate because I believe the figure is still not entirely irrelevant. 
-In this matter people come up with estimates from actuaries and other sources as to the impact on the private sector's costs of attempting to match those benefits. In my speech in 1973 1 went on to such an estimate. In this respect- I repeat myself- I arrived at a rough figure of 30 per cent. I still do not think this is too far out. 
I think it is, as my colleague the honourable member for Bennelong says. At that point I was working with some of Professor Pollard's figures which envisaged an inflation rate of- I ask honourable members to hold their breath- 3.5 per cent. In my speech I said the figure would be higher still if the rate were 5 per cent. I ask honourable members to imagine how much higher it will be with the current rate of 1 5 per cent edging up to 20 per cent. It is repetition to quote this again, but I went on to point out: 
It could be said that something of a rod is being created for everybody's back. 
That is exactly what is happening. The effect to which we are drawing attention is the effect of attempts within the private sector to match the benefits of the existing scheme, let alone the additional benefits provided for in the Bill. 
-That was said on 15 May 1973. 
I shall read some other parts for the benefit of the honourable member for Sydney. I then went on to state: 
Let me say that the community, conscious of its obligations to the aged, doubtless wants the very considerable net transfer, which is growing fast and will progressively grow, from current income earners to retired persons involved in this process. . . . Accordingly the Opposition supports the Bill. But I stress that the procedure of the Government in relation to this Bill is part of the comntinuing pattern of action by the Government that we have seen in this House. The Government wants to do this, that and the othereverything all at once. 
-Yes. I hope the House appreciates the point made by my colleague, the honourable member for Wakefield. I continued: 
Put before us one by one, the Opposition supports these measures - 
That is what, in effect, the Minister chose to quote- the proposals for 4 weeks annual leave, higher age and repatriation pensions, additional finance for housing and so on. But does the Government realise that these things must all fit together and that it will frustrate its own purpose if it does not think this thing through? 
-There was not a word. Have the Government's actions benefited at all from my rhetoric on that occasion? Unhappily they have not. The Government goes on in the same sort of way. I stressed this matter at the time when I stated: 
Take the Government's policy with respect to the ordinary age pension. If the rate of inflation accelerates further, the proposal for an increase of $1.50 each autumn and spring will not result in achieving the avowed policy objective of the Government of raising pensions to a level of 25 per cent of average earnings. 
I ask honourable members to remember that there was a proposed increase of $1.50. Naturally the amount has had to be increased just to keep pensioners up with the rate of inflation generated by this Government. I went on in this vein. I do not want to bore the House, but I continued: 
It is desirable, but so are many other objectives and if these are not carefully thought through, each and every one of them may be frustrated - 
As they tend continually to be- 
What I am trying to say is that it would be enlightening once in a while for the Government, and the Treasury in particular, to give us the picture whole- to give an account to the nation of its economic policies. I say to the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  - 
I venture to say this to the present Treasurer  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  - 
-And to the honourable member for Oxley and to the Minister for Tourism and Recreation, who is at the table and who assists the Treasurer. I further stated: 
. that there is a lack of communication and a great deal of uncertainty on every side, contrary to the professed intentions of this Government to communicate and provide open government. 
-Modesty really inhibits me from answering that interjection from the Leader of the House, but just to give him the good oil I point out that it was myself. I finished that speech on this note: 
It is time that that lack was put right. 
It would be of great advantage in this debate if again that lack were put right and if some of the more urgent, social objectives of the Government were pursued. We have before us the proposals to enlarge the existing scheme. It is the order of the enlargement to which the Opposition basically objects. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Labor and Immigration. What would be the effect on unemployment if the private sector had to match the benefits of the Government's proposed Australian Government employees superannuation scheme? Did the Minister not clearly state in a number of letters some time ago that he considers that no government is justified in providing for its own employees benefits which it is beyond the capacity of the economy to provide for Australians generally? Is that not still the position? 
-The honourable member for Braddon  (Mr Davies),  as was to be expected, skirted around the real point at issue here, and that is that the necessity for this measure in the first place has been due to the inept and chaotic policies of this Australian Labor Party Government. As the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  said, the Opposition will not oppose this Bill. As a result of the policies of the Government this major Tasmanian company, Associated Pulp and Paper Mills Ltd- a major supplier to the printing and publishing industry, which is probably the fourth largest manufacturing industry in Australia- was brought to a point where it had virtually no commercial alternative but to close down or at least to shut down a major part of its operations. It was pressed not to do so, by a Government running as scared as a Government can run, in an attempt to maintain employment at all costs in this electorally sensitive Tasmanian area. So why should the company, its employees and their families bear the costs of continuing unwanted production- production that is not 'commercially prudent', as the company itself saidbecause of the disastrous economic situation brought about by the Government? 
Yet the cynical electoral expediency of the matter leaves one breathless. All over Australia there are upwards of 250 000 people unemployed; inflation is rife; there is no growth; and investment is stagnant. But while out there Rome burns, to speak metaphorically, the Government fiddles in this place with Bills to provide for a referendum on simultaneous elections, electoral Bills to provide for a great gerrymander of the electorate and anything that might assist the Government - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Armitage)Order! The Opposition speakers- that includes both the Leader of the Opposition and now the honourable member for Berowra- have strayed from the Bill. I ask the honourable member to keep his remarks relevant to the Bill. 
The matters I was mentioning receive priority, whereas the great issues facing the country and creating the circumstances that give rise to this measure- the high unemployment in Tasmania and elsewhere, the inflation, and no growth- are neglected. Of course, the cover-up for unemployment is not neglected. The Government attempts to cover up with the Regional Employment Development scheme, the unwarranted demands on the National Employment and Training scheme, the so-called SANMA program, which gives special assistance to non-metropolitan areas- 
-As I say, those matters received priority. As I said, the Opposition does not oppose the measure before the House, for the following reasons: Firstly, there would be a great deal of hardship and social dislocation in the area, with the dearth of alternative employment opportunities in the area. Secondly, a case can be made that the APPM company has been more clearly a victim of the Government's mishandling of the economy than most. Thirdly, this Government's policies are at fault. Last night on 'Monday Conference' the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  in referring to this measure, said: 'You cannot by any normal standards justify what we are doing in Tasmania on this issue , that is to say, in any normal situation of sound economic management or sound government economic policies. But, of course, we do not have that. We have a government which is unconcerned and complacent about the rampant inflation and widespread unemployment existing in Australia. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Armitage)Order! I have warned the honourable gentleman to keep his remarks relevant to the Bill. If he continues to flout the ruling of the Chair on this matter I will have to ask him to resume his seat. 
I am trying to be constructive in this matter by offering suggestions as to how it might be ultimately resolved. I put it to the House that the matter will not be resolved by the measure before the House. My first point in that respect, is that the Government has to put its mind to the overall issue of achieving a well ordered economy. The problems being experienced by APPM Ltd are shared by hundreds of other firms and in particular small businesses in Australia which have been brought to the brink of collapse by the soaring wage costs, the impossible taxation burden and the high interest rates that we have under this Government. If those problems could be solved then the problems being experienced by APPM Ltd and other businesses would largely look after themselves. 
As the Minister stated in his second reading speech and, as was pointed out by the honourable member for Braddon  (Mr Davies),  the problems of APPM Ltd were referred to the temporary Assistance Authority. The impact of the Government's ill conceived economic policies are shown clearly in the report of the Temporary Assistance Authority. I stress that it is the Government's policies which are to blame. Inflation is the first problem. Its impact, in terms of soaring wage costs, affect,  Mr Deputy Speaker  - 
-I am making a point in relation to the Authority's association - 
-The difficulty facing me is that I am trying to be constructive on this matter. I want to refer to the point mentioned by the honourable member for Braddon. He referred to the report of the Temporary Assistance Authority. As far as I can recall, the Minister in his second reading speech referred to the reference to the Temporary Assistance Authority and its outcome - 
-The Minister interjects that it had nothing to do with the state of the economy. That is typical of the Minister's understanding of these matters. As I have said on previous occasions, the Minister having discovered that imports traditionally come from overseas thinks he is a well qualified economic expert. 
I should like to inform the Minister that this has much to do with the case. The reference to the Temporary Assistance Authority has a lot to do with the general circumstances I have mentioned. The Bill before the House flows from the report of the Temporary Assistance Authority, as the honourable member for Braddon made quite clear. There is no way in which I can discuss this matter and offer some constructive advice to the Government without making reference to the report of the Temporary Assistance Authority. The difficulties APPM Ltd finds itself in are clearly examined in the report. 
-As my colleague, the honourable member for Wentworth says, the Government ought to welcome my advice, though modesty inhibits me from underlining that point. Nevertheless, the position is that it is clearly shown in the report that the company is in great difficulty. That is the essence of the point. On page 27 of this report it is stated: 
The Authority is fully aware that APPM faces a difficult period until the middle of 1975 . . . 
I will try to make clear to the House why that is so. 
-Indeed. If we do not get to the root of the matter we will get nowhere in this discussion. What is shown clearly in this report is that the company is in serious difficulties. One of its major difficulties is the high cost of financing stocks which the company has accumulated and, with the encouragement of the Government, it is to accumulate more. Indeed, the essence of this measure is to provide to the company interest on a loan necessary to finance those stocks. It is a very high interest rate. That is precisely the point to which I was leading amongst other points. In Australia, at the moment, we have a very high level of interest rates which have been brought about by policies of this Government. There is no question about that. The honourable member for 
Wakefield has stated that this imposes a very high cost, not only on this company but also on many others. Indeed, the whole purpose of this Bill is to authorise the payment by this Parliament to the Tasmanian Government of $650,000 for this purpose. 
However, the biggest difficulty is the position of the company vis-a-vis imports. As I have said, the competitiveness of the company is affected partly by soaring wage costs associated with inflation. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, I cannot help but make that point. In part, the company's adverse competitive position vis-a-vis imports resulted from the tariff decision early in 1973 in relation to this industry, the compounding of that by the 25 per cent tariff cut in 1973, and the very extensive revaluation of the currency. In these circumstances, there was a rapid build up in imported stocks of paper in Australia. It is true, as the honourable member for Braddon has said, that in the report of the Temporary Assistance Authority it is stated that, while imports have been at a very high level, they are low enough now. That was written in February-March 1975. Of course they were low at that point. Very large stocks had been built up and, naturally, the level of imports then had fallen away. The report goes on to state: ... so that any action to restrict the present low volume of imports would do little, if anything, to assist the local manufacturer. 
I suggest that that is an arguable conclusion and one which, while this Government meekly has accepted it, the Government could well have questioned in the interests of the industry in Tasmania. 
It can. It would be perfectly at liberty to send the report back, drawing attention to the argument that I am now going to put. One might have thought that if, as and when the high stocks referred to in the report were worked down, in the absence of restraints on imports, buyers who once had turned to imports would be likely to turn to them again. In that event the order books of Associated Pulp and Paper Mills may continue- even now they may be being affected in this way- to remain less than full. Therefore, in the proposals in this Bill, we are not getting to the heart of the matter. 
True, the situation in the industry is difficult. In recognition of the difficult period through which' the company is going, we have this measure to provide for the payment of interest on the money financing the considerable and not commerciallyjustified build up in stocks of APPM 's products resulting from continued production and employment. I suggest that it is greatly to be hoped that a long-term Industries Assistance Commission inquiry on this matter will be initiated in the interests of the people of Tasmania and that such inquiry will be conducted with expedition. I add the hope that the current production in excess of what would be commercially prudent-I quote APPM itself- does ultimately find a market. Otherwise, the last state of the company will be worse than the first. 
With that warning, the Opposition does not oppose this measure. As I have said, the Opposition recognises the potential hardship and social problems that a substantial cut-back in production of the Burnie plant would cause. There is the clear impact of the Government's illconceived economic policies on APPM. Those policies have brought the company to this condition and, in those circumstances, the Opposition can do no other than wish the Bill a speedy passage. 
-The purpose of the Customs Tariff Validation Bill is to validate until 3 1 December next the collection of customs duties in accordance with a variety of proposals for tariff changes introduced over the period since September 1974. last. Some 19 reports of the Industries Assistance Commission are involved as listed in the second reading speech of the Attorney-General and Minister for Police and Customs  (Mr Enderby)  and 6 reports of the Temporary Assistance Authority. One of the 19 reports- I concede it is an exceptional one- runs to over 400 pages. It is the report on the motor car industry. I have said that there are 6 reports of the Temporary Assistance Authority mentioned in the Minister's second reading speech but since late last year to date there have been a dozen inquiries by the Temporary Assistance Authority. Many have resulted in quota restrictions on imports, for example, footwear, steel sheets, sun glasses, refrigerators, washing machines, and steel ball bearings, not to mention the quotas applying to textiles. 
The issues are vast and the welfare and prosperity of most of the Australian people one way or another is involved. Yet very little time of the Parliament is assigned to debate these measures. I suspect my colleague, the honourable member  'or  Wakefield,  Mr Kelly,  may have something to say about this matter. But what is certain is the range of reports to which I have referred and the Government's response to them bring under scrutiny the whole course of the Government's tariff policy- or rather its lack of it- since it took office. 
The beginning of the Government's policy is clear enough. One may refer to it as the Whitlarn I AC 'cut-tariffs policy'. The thrust was to win votes by reducing tariffs, that is, import taxes, thus ensuring lower prices for Australians as consumersas buyers of goods. 
In seeking this easy road to lower prices what the Government failed to realise was that the consumers were also employees and were very concerned about their jobs. Late last yearrather too late- the Prime Minister talked of the need for a careful balance to ensure that employment opportunities were not disrupted. I suggest that he should have thought of that earlier. In 1973 and into 1974, to specific reductions in tariffs in the electronic, white goods, printing and other industries were added the ill-advised 25 per cent across the board tariff cut of July 1973. Also, and I want to stress this because it is of enormous importance, in respect of the protectionor rather non-protection of Australian industry- was the large and unduly prolonged revaluation of the Australian dollar. That revaluation exceeded 20 per cent for a considerable period. Indeed, it reached 30 per cent visavis some currencies such as sterling. It will be appreciated that that would completely negate a protective tariff of 30 per cent. The effect of such a revaluation would be that a product landed previously at $10 could be landed for $7. So I repeat, the effect of a 30 per cent tariff would be completely negated. 
This perhaps is not the time to debate the 25 per cent across the board tariff cut. I have stressed on a number of occasions that that is not the sort of treatment that a Liberal-National Country Party Government would mete out to industry. In saying that, I am also bound to add that the Opposition does not suggest that changes in tariffs and some restructuring of industry should not be made. In office, the Liberal-Country Party Government did not rest content at the level of tariffs and, indeed, that Government instituted the Systematic Review of the tariffs, which is still continuing. That is a very important procedure, to ensure that the interdependence between industries is taken into account. But the 25 per cent across-the-board cut was something different. It flew in the face of long established tariff making procedures in Australia, namely, the determination of tariff rates on a long-term basis after open public inquiry and report by the Tariff Board, now the Industries Assistance Commission. Of course, most important of all was the damaging effect of the cut on business confidence, and I suggest that the impact of that measure is still felt to some extent in the widespread lack of confidence in the business community at the present time. 
The position now is that the Minister for Manufacturing Industry  (Senator James McClelland)  in the other place has, on several occasions, conceded the lack of wisdom in that move- albeit that the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  judging by his performance on 'Monday Conference' the other night, does not. One might ask, how could he know? Of greater practical importance is the fact that in virtually all the areas where the measure hurt, the Government has now reversed it, and more. That would be reflected in some five of the measures with which we are concerned in this validation procedure tonight. As I recall, about  19  November last year the measures that the Government has taken were announced. Of course, the most notable case would be the motor industry, where the tariff before the  25  per cent tariff cut was about  45  per cent. The tariff cut reduced it to  33%  per cent, or something like that. It was then brought up to  35  per cent and a primage duty of  10  per cent was added. So it reverted to  45  per cent, together with import restrictions as well. 
Why was this the case? It was because, in combination with the other policies of the Government, that tariff cut and that revaluation have brought on the highest level of unemployment since the Depression, with upwards of  250 000  people unemployed, along with very high inflation and investment stagnant. Perhaps only now, a consumer-led upturn in the economy is beginning. 
If it is true that the Government would disown the  25  per cent tariff slash, has it backed off from the cut-tariff stance generally? If we look at the increased tariffs and the plethora of direct import restrictions in respect of textiles, footwear, sunglasses, steel sheeting, motor cars, and so on, we might well judge 'No'. However, if we had listened to the Minister for Manufacturing Industry in the other place- I am assuming he is still the Minister- speaking to the Harvard Club last Friday week, we would think otherwise. The report of the Minister's speech, as contained in the 'Australian', stated: 
The Government would continue to reduce tariffs. 
What is the Government's policy on tariffs? I would interpret it to mean a continuation, save where electoral considerations conflict, of what one may call the Whitlam-IAC approach. This amounts to an approach that, as quickly as possible the rate of protection for as many industries as possible should be brought to more or less one level, namely,  25  per cent or thereabouts. We have only to look at the reports before us in this debate. Remember that they were preceded by the electronics industry report in November  1973,  which recommended protection of  30  per cent for television sets and  25  per cent for components and other products, and the domestic appliances report recommending protection of  25  per cent. We have on this list, in the Minister's second reading speech, Fibreboard Containers, Paper and Textile Bags,  25  per cent, and Photographic and Cinematrographic Apparatus,  20  per cent, which subsequently was reduced to  15  per cent. This sort of rate did not apply in the case of Apparel or Textile Floorcoverings. But for Food Processing Machinery the figure was  1 5  per cent to  25  per cent. For Foundation Garments the figure was  25  percent. Subsequently, it was increased to  42V4  per cent, and  57Vi  per cent. The figure for Glass and Glassware is  15  per cent, and for Gloves, Mittens and Mits it is  25  per cent. For Mushrooms- and I see that my colleague the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Cadman)  will confirm this- the figure is  25  per cent. For Passenger Motor Vehicles, as I have said, the figure is  25  per cent. And so it goes on. The figure for Woven Man-made Fibre Fabrics is  22'A  per cent for polyolefin fabrics, which would be the largest volume now being produced. Therefore, I suggest that the thrust of this policy is, as I have said, that as quickly as possible the rate of protection for as many industries as possible should be reduced more or less to this one level, this magical  25  per cent. It even applies to mushrooms, and the mushroom industry is a small industry that the Government has thrown to the wolves. 
It was a very simplistic approach, particularly in that case, where the Commissioner and the Government would not recognise that imported canned mushrooms compete with Australian fresh mushrooms, the principal product of the Australian industry. As I have said several times, this is not a valid, feasible or realistic approach- it was described a moment ago by my colleague the honourable member for Mitchell as being simplistic- yet the adherence of the Industries Assistance Commission to this approach has created a quite basic communication barrier between the Commission and Aus.tralian industry, which simply does not accept the narrow Industries Assistance Commission approach. That narrow approach ignores the social and human problems of changing tariffs. The expedients and bandaids- Uke the payment made under the Associated Pulp and Paper Mills legislation that passed through this House yesterday, the Regional Employment Development scheme, the abuse, in effect, of the National Employment and Training scheme, the Special Assistance to Non-metropolitan Areas scheme, known as the SANMA scheme- all these are eloquent testimony to the fact that, if the Industries Assistance Commission can ignore these matters, governments cannot 
The LAC approach, in any case, is no substitute for a positive national industry policy, which is precisely what the Government lacks. The main justification that has been advanced for moving towards this more or less uniform tariff rate is that it will promote an 'optimum' allocation of the nation's resources. However, this theoretical argument is built upon sand since we have nothing like an optimum allocation of resources to begin with. The existing structure of Australian industry and the present pattern of tariff rates reflect, among other factors, the history of Australia's industrial development, national aspirations over the years, and in particular our situation as a 'small, rich country' remote from the main industrial centres of the world. There is no getting away from that history. It means that we do not start from the theoretical 'ideal' from which one would deduce the desirability of the approach to which I have referred. 
That approach almost automatically would rule out a significant textile industry in Australia. A textile industry could not survive in any advanced country in the world with the protection of a 25 per cent tariff rate. I believe that it was after the trauma of arriving at the decision in relation to the car industry that the Government faced up to the LAC report on Foundation Garments. I am sure there is no Freudian overtone in this! When the Government faced up to a 25 per cent tariff in that area the crunch was really on. That that sort of rate should apply to the clothing industry is totally unrealistic and perhaps contributed more than any other recommendation, except that on the car industry, towards the Commission's recommendations being discredited. I think one ought to recognise that in the United States- fundamentally the most productive country in the world- its textile industry could not survive at that sort of rate. In the United States there are import quotas or their equivalent. In fact the Unites States has the equivalent in terms of voluntary restraints, so called, in respect of about 70 different goods ranging from beef, steel and mushrooms to textiles and apparels. I suggest that this sort of practice should be borne in mind when it is taken for granted that the level of tariffs in Australia is exceptionally high. In the sphere of industry I referred to, some form of restriction, voluntary restraint or otherwise, is virtually inevitable. 
No one is suggesting that changes in tariffs and some restructuring of industries should not be made. But what changes would result in an improvement in the allocation of the nation's resources in accordance with our national objectives is a complex issue not to be determined by reference to a theoretical uniform standard. There is, for example, the question of the importance of supporting essential know-how and technology. The technical economist would refer to this as 'external effects'. I mean, for example, the importance of an industry for Australian research and development and Australian knowhow. Speaking to the previous custom tariff proposals I stressed that in this technological age the importance to the future of Australia of a viable electronics industry is strongly supported by the Opposition Parties. I raised the question- the Opposition would have few doubts as to the answer- of the viability of the electronics industry, including its capacity to maintain a nationally independent program of research and development, being dependent on an integrated operation combining a thriving consumer product division with production for the so-called professional market. So in looking to a balanced and sound industrial base, the electronics industry should have a key place in the Australian industrial structure. But that is just the sort of industry, especially at the consumer end, which is most vulnerable to overseas competition, and vulnerable in a way in which industries such as the brick, beer and bottle industries- which which are good candidates for absorbing resources, according to the Commission's latest report- are not. Those industries do not need to supplicate, to seek or to cry out for adequate protection. What has to be considered however is what is important for Australia's long-term future. 
But in any event 'economic efficiency', the socalled optimum allocation of resources, is not, never has been, or can be, the only goal of policy. There is, for example, defence. There is also, from many points of view, the overriding question of economic growth. The doctrinaire pursuit of the 'efficiency' criterion and of a changed industry structure will blunt, and already has done so, the growth performance of the economy. In particular, uncertainty as to future levels of protection has had a major inhibiting effect on new investment and capital expansion plans. It is one among a variety of factors contributing to the stagnation of private investment which is at the core of the present malaise of the Australian economy. Growth lost in this way and the dislocation of too rapid restructuring can very soon outweigh any potential gains, and keep them potential, from increased 'efficiency'. 
There can be no escaping the need for an explicit decision as to what sort of industrial structure we want for Australia and for the establishing of machinery for the Government to determine ongoing national industry policy- not for an independent advisory body to do the job, in effect, by default. That involves an effective, indeed a strong, Industries Assistance Commission. Let me make that clear. I am arguing against the policy and the mode of operation of the - 
The Minister interjected that he wishes I would make something clear. To whom does he want me to make it clear? I give up on the job of trying to make it clear to him. As I have previously said and I repeat, I am arguing against the policy and the mode of operation of the Industries Assistance Commission, as at present, not the institution of a strong, well informed advisory body as such. Indeed, the approach of the Commission at present in some respects alarms one. I would hesitate to generalise, but certainly in those cases among this mass of industries the duties in respect of which we are validating tonight, where I am close enough to have a good idea of the situation, the decisions and recommendations of the Commission often seem to have little relation to all the evidence and aU the talk that has taken place at public inquiries. 
It almost seems that the public inquiry is held, the evidence is gathered, but the decision is ordained beforehand. The concept of the Tariff Board, as it was, or the Commission as it now is, as I have always understood it should be, is that of a group of wise men of diverse backgrounds and experience, independent of the industry under examination and essentially independent of each other, achieving a meeting of minds as to the issue before it. 
There seems to be no such concept. So far as one can judge, one does not see that happening. Further, the issue before it should be a reference from the Government stemming from the Government's broad industrial development policy specifying various alternatives in respect of which the Commission would assess the arguments for and against. In the light of that and other considerations, the Government would make its decision. That is broadly the approach one would like to see. Perhaps to some extent and in some ways the Government came close to that sort of approach in the recent motor industry case, but the procedure at present still leaves a great deal to be desired. 
Tariffs are a complex and difficult issue. Many factors, including our responsibility as a major world trading nation, must be weighed. But, as an underlying philosophy, Australians are committed to a big Australia a diversified Australia, with a broadly based dynamic manufacturing sector, complementary to our great rural and mining industries. As categorically as I can, I aver that the Liberal Party and the National Country Party in this Parliament are unequivocally so committed. That commitment requires that adequate and consistent protection be afforded those Australian industries which the Government decides should be supported. The alternative, to which I suspect the Industries Assistance Commission would direct us, is an Australia with perhaps a somewhat higher income per head but less industrialised, and more heavily dependent on its rural and mining export industries and on imports for most of its manufactures. I repeat that that is not the sort of Australia that Australians have traditionally opted for, and is not what the majority of Australians want today. 
The issue, and the issue of a national industrial policy which is bound up with it, is a key one for Australia's development. As I have said on previous occasions in considering this matter, the Government has put the cart before the horse. It has proceeded to knock down Australian industry without any clear view of what Will take its place. As I said on a previous occasion, we witness the Exodus before the Genesis, that is, widespread and increasing unemployment with no clear view of where the unemployed are to go. Hopefully, the Government assisted by the deliberations of the Jackson Committee, which I trust is soon to report, will shortly begin to determine a clearer course. 
asked the Minister representing the Special Minister of State, upon notice: 
With reference to the statement issued jointly with the Minister for Overseas Trade on 30 May 1975 announcing a reference to the Industries Assistance Commission requesting it to report on the scope for Australia entering into reciprocal multilateral trade negotiations, in which the Commission is instructed to have regard to established guidelines for the development of Australian industry and to consider concessions compatible with Australia's long term industry development policies. 
What are these established guidelines for the development of Australian industry, and 
What are Australia's long term industry development policies. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Labor and Immigration. As the Treasurer indicated that he does not expect an early upturn in business activity, how will the 32 000 people at present employed under the Regional Employment Development scheme find jobs when that scheme is phased out in the next few months? 
-We resume the debate on the Appropriation Bill (No. 1) 1975-76 from last night, the last  speaker  then being the honourable member for Cook  (Mr Thorburn).  Among other matters, he had something to say about natural gas. I can say in passing that from his subsequent performance there is no shortage of natural gas in this chamber, especially on the Government side. 
-That is right. He argued that the proposed 5 per cent cut overall in Government spending which is proposed from this side of the House would affect the money supply. In fact, the Opposition last night made proposals that accept the size of the deficit proposed by the Government, as just noted in the previous debate. So the problems of financing the deficit and the associated money supply remain much the same. However, our proposals and in particular the implementation of the Mathews Committee recommendation would greatly alleviate the associated problem of the potential 'crowding out' of the private sector from the capital market. That is very important. Incidentally, one might note in passing that the Press statement of the Treasurer  (Mr Hayden)  released this morning and the comments of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  during question time on the Opposition's proposals were totally inaccurate. In fact, they were a load of rubbish. I will mention just on point. The Mathews stock valuation allowance proposal is put in that statement at costing $900m. That is quite wrong. It would be less than half that amount. To be precise, it would be about $3 80m in the manner it is proposed to be implemented and when account is taken of maintaining the company tax rate at 45 per cent. I add in that respect that it is the intention or the guarantee of what we would do which is virtually as important as the actual size of the immediate benefit of the proposal. 
But when this and much more has been said about this Budget there remains one central issue to be considered: Will it restore- I make it a little easier for the Government- will it contribute to restoring the capacity and the incentive of the private sector to move forward again? When I say 'the private sector  I refer to the nongovernment sector of the economy, Australian businesses small and large throughout this land. Will it enable or induce the private sector to turn its attention once again to growth, development and new horizons, with all that that means in terms of providing jobs for Australians and a higher standard of living and the very capacity the better to meet those aspirations in the education, health, welfare, defence and other fields where community demands have outrun the ability to provide? Is it to do that- or do we stay within the present situation of grim preoccupation of businesses large and small with mere survival? It is the tragedy of this Budget that it fails in this central strategic requirement of moving to restore the capacity and incentive of the private sector, as the next six or nine months will surely show. Because the Budget fails in that, whatever else can be said for and against this Hayden Budget, it will be of no avail. 
I have heard it said that the Budget is a workmanlike job. In anything the Treasury does the workmanship is bound to be good. But the broad thrust and content of the Budget is the Government's. It is not the Treasury's but the Treasurer's, and the Government of which he is a part. As I have said, the Budget is lacking and it is inadequate. Whatever the ingenuity and capacity of the Treasury, the Treasurer and the Government are locked in by past mistakes, by their existing and new spending commitments and by Labor ideology which gives priority to this and that- to just about everything- ahead of halting the bleeding of Australian business, albeit to halt that by implementing the Mathews Committee recommendations- that is the Government's Committee; it set it up- is a major condition for restoring Australian jobs on a lasting basis. So the Budget misses out on that crucial requirement of policy, the restoring of the private sector's incentive and capacity to take up the 'room ' which, according to the Treasurer, the restraint on public sector activity will provide. 
Let me fasten on the point that the Government has, it says, been very restrained with a view to making 'room'- that is a quote from the Treasurer- for the private sector to resume growth. Government speakers claim that therefore the Budget is not only workmanlike but is responsible. Total outlays are to increase by only 23 per cent, they say. I repeat that they they say that total outlays will increase by only 23 per cent- by only $4,084m. It is a massive increase in spending to be financed by a massive increase in taxes. Apparently, that is what the Government means by 'consolidation and restraint'. That is a good phrase and it is found here near the beginning of the Treasurer's speech. 
-They are the Treasurer's very words in his speech. How about that? The Government has vastly expanded the government sector by dint of a 46 per cent increase in public spending last year while at the same time cutting back the private sector through a variety of policies squeezing on profits and thus on jobs. We have government employment up 93 000 and non-government employment down 150 000 over this past 12 months. That is socialism in practice. Ever since Federation federal Government spending has built up gradually but then in one year it increased by 46 per cent. Having done this, the new relative sharing of the total of production activity is now to be consolidated. The Government has built it up by this vast expansion of the government sector and by this cutting down of the private sector, and now this new division of the total activity is to be consolidated, we are told. Honourable members might ask how it is to be consolidated. The answer is by spending up to ensure that the Government shares proportionately in the projected 5 per cent increase in real activity- and more than proportionately, of course, if that estimate proves optimistic as, unhappily, likely it will. 
That is the whole problem and the tragedy of the present situation. The increase in spending is to be financed by a massive increase in taxes and by the deficit we have been discussing. People are running around with the idea that somehow personal income tax has been greatly cut. For some people there have been cuts but overall that just is not so to any significant extent. The Treasurer states explicitly in the Budget Speech that the change in net PAYE receipts, other than a reduction due to the more accurate PAYE reductions which will be matched by a lower refund cheque later, is a mere $30m. We are told that for a full year the estimated reduction is about $205m- but then, of course, anything can happen in some future full year. The fact is that in 1975-76 net PAYE receipts are to go up by $2,6 12m or 43 per cent. The figure is explicitly stated in the Budget papers. That is by far and away the biggest increase of all time. Increase? I think 'rip-off' would be a better word. 
The total of taxation on individuals in 1 975-76 is estimated at $ 10,340m. To get some perspective on that item we need to recall that in 1972-73, the year which saw the change in government, the total of taxation on individuals was $4,000m. Thus that over the 3 years to 1975-76 there will be a 2^-fold increase. Of course people's incomes have risen, but only half as fast as taxes. With a continuation of these trends the average tax rates in 1975-76 are up. In point of fact, if we look at 1972-73 and take PA YE payments as a proportion of wages and salaries- I am looking at a table which was prepared in the first instance by my colleague, the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)-  we find that the PA YE take as a percentage of wages and salaries was 14.1 per cent. In 1975-76, depending on which estimate of increase in employment we take, the proportion is approximately 20 per cent so the tax take as a percentage of wages and salaries is up from 14 per cent in 1972-73 to 20 per cent in 1975-76. The increase to 20 per cent is from 17.3 per cent last year. That is the biggest increase in the average weight of taxation in wages and salaries in any one year.  Mr Speaker,  I seek permission to nave this table incorporated in Hansard. 
-The honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi)  devoted his speech to the defence of the coal export tax. I propose to leave the debate on that subject to my colleagues who are to follow. But, believe me, there is no way that that measure will not be reviewed by this Opposition when in government. Notwithstanding all the statistics and the spleen of the honourable member for Hawker, what a measure to introduce at this time when the private sector- Australian business large and small- that employs 75 per cent of Australian wage and salary earners is in such deep trouble. 
-Indeed it will. That is the sort of effect that will flow from this measure. This is not a moment for levity but I cannot resist referring to the suggestion that those who have been advising this Labor Government on economic matters since it came to office should be put in a submarine and taken down to a great depth in the ocean, the idea being to find out whether deep down they are as stupid as they appear on the surface. 
Here is the economy with the private sector sapped of the initiative, the incentive, the very capacity to invest and develop. One of the few bright spots we have is in coal exporting, a sector moving forward. So what does the Government do? In this sector where, according to one of the favourite slogans of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  resources are being allocated to good advantage, the Government moves in to inhibit that development. The Government pays out in other cases, for instance to Associated Pulp and Paper Mills Ltd in Tasmania to continue to produce not of its own choice unwanted stocks of paper, but on the other side it seeks to slug the coal exporters who are meeting an important and growing demand. However, the following speakers in this debate will take up that matter. 
In the time available to me I want to deal with the increases in excise being authorised by the Excise Tariff Bill now before the House. The Bill provides for a 6c increase in the price of a packet of cigarettes, a 4c increase in the price of a 10 oz glass of beer and a 6c to 10c increase- the precise figure we will know at the end of the week- on a gallon of petrol. We should also not forget the postal charge increases which are not opposed by this Government. The honourable member for Hawker is trying to shout me down with his conversation so that people cannot hear about the slugs that the Government is imposing on the average Australian. Even with a pretty moderate indulgence in these everyday pleasures it will cost Australians something upwards of $3 to $4 more a week. In total the take from these measures- these additional taxes on cigarettes, beer and petrol and postal charges- -will be upwards of $ 1 ,000m in this coming year. 
These increases have to be added to the increase in the personal income tax take. There seems to be an impression around that ordinary personal taxes will somehow be reduced. I stress that the total increase will be another $2,600m on top of the $ 1,000m to which I have just referred. That extra personal tax is an increase of 43 per cent. I remind people that average incomes are anticipated to increase by 22 per cent. Up go the charges, these indirect taxes now before the House, and up goes the direct tax in this massive amount of $2,600m. So the total of taxation paid by individuals will increase from the sum of $4,000m in 1972-73 to the order of the anticipated $ 10,300m in 1975-76-an increase of  Vh.  times. True, Incomes will have gone up but taxes will have risen twice as fast. 
Apart from the direct hurt to the typical Aus.tralian the tragedy of these tax increases is that they put the future of wage indexation in jeopardy. Inflation stems from a complex of causes. It comes from excessive government spending and the massive deficit of last year with its associated high rate of increase in the money supply. It stems too from excessive increases in wages and salaries. No one is opposed to adequate increases in wages and salaries, but excessive increases in wages and salaries have been a prime cause of our current inflationary difficulties. The main thrust against inflation stemming from those causes is wage indexation. That is the main thrust of POliCy in that area. The understanding with the Australian Council of Trade Unions- I trust that the Government did have some sort of understanding in this area for consultation and some meeting of minds between Government and the unions is essential for progress in this area- the understanding was that in return for the ACTU using its good offices to encourage compliance with the wage indexation guidelines, the Government would initiate tax indexation. 
The Opposition has undertaken to do that, but what has the Government done? Not only has it not proceeded to implement tax indexation but there is also this proposed fraud- it is nothing else- in the Budget Speech of the Treasurer  (Mr Hayden)  that the Government will take the Une that the price increases inevitably to flow from these indirect tax increases now before the Parliament should be netted out of the consumer price index when adjusting wages in the wage indexation context. Who does the Government think it is fooling in this manner? The objective of wage indexation is to preserve the real purchasing power of wages and thereby to take a major element of potential heat out of wage negotiations. A price increase is a price increase whatever the cause. There is no way in which the union movement will or should accept such a proposal. 
One is set to wondering: What is the Government's strategy in this context? One thing is toning down some excessive wage claims even now. I refer to unemployment which now involves half a million people and more, if one recognises the extent to which the unemployed are being temporarily mopped up by various schemes such as the Regional Employment Development scheme and so on. So we have nearer to 5 per cent or 6 per cent unemployment. Is that the strategy? I do not think there is any real doubt that this Budget will lead, as argued this morning, to higher unemployment. Is that the strategy? The Government may thumb its nose at wage indexation which is the rational way of attempting to combat cost inflation while minimising unemployment, and rely on increasing unemployment. If that is not the conscious approach it is the effective approach which the Government is adopting by these measures. 
The truth is that the Government is locked in. It is locked in by its past mistakes, by its existing and new spending commitments and by its Labor ideology. That is the essence of the answer to the taunts directed at this side of the House as to why we have not categorically rejected these indirect tax increases. The Government is locked in by its past and new spending commitments. The Government's spending had a fantastic head of steam last year. Last year Government spending increased 46 per cent. It is so easy to say 'forty-six per cent'. But we have to get a picture of how spending has increased gradually over the period from Federation until the present time. By 30 June 1974 total Government spending had arrived at a certain level- total Government spending built up gradually from Federation to 30 June 1974. Then in one year, on top of that total development, the Government increased spending by 46 per cent- nearly half as much again. That is a fantastic increase. That relates to the Government's existing commitments. In addition, of course, there are new ones, Medibank in particular. Notwithstanding the efforts over the weekend to distort the views of my colleague the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp),  Medibank is a fact of life and the Opposition accepts that. 
I want to direct attention to the Department of the Special Minister of State and in particular to the Industries Assistance Commission. Earlier tonight my colleague the honourable member for Canning  (Mr Bungey)  pointed out how the Government has used the Industries Assistance Commission as a 'too-hard basket' in the area of rural problems. The performance there is a pretty dismal one. The whole thrust of setting up the Industries Assistance Commission, as compared with its predecessor, the Tariff Board, was to extend to rural and tertiary industry the principle of public investigation and report in the granting of assistance to industry. That presumably is the justification for the continuing expansion of the staff, already pretty large, of the Industries Assistance 
Commission as indicated in the Budget documents. But as my colleague pointed out, issues such as the superphosphate bounty are referred to the Commission only under pressure and then, having been referred, no action is taken. 
In contrast, at least until 9 months ago, the Government was prone to accept all too readily the recommendations of the IAC in respect to the manufacturing sector where the IAC and thence the Government, lacking a policy or competence of its own, pursued a line which may reasonably be described as doctrinaire, impracticable and out of touch with the realities of manufacturing. 
-Indeed, it has been very damaging to much of Australian manufacturing industry, as my colleague points out. It has tended to set up a virtual communications barrier between the Industries Assistance Commission and industry. It is an unhappy situation. The line to which I referred can be identified from the recommendations of the Commission in a succession of major and minor reports, particularly those in relation to electronics, domestic appliances, motor cars, also foundation garments, mushrooms and other reports. That thrust can be summed up in this way: As quickly as possible the nominal rate of protection for as many industries as possible should be brought to a more or less uniform level, namely, 25 per cent or thereabouts. It is not possible to discuss this fully in the circumstances of tonight. I would contend that this is not a valid or in practice a feasible basis for policy and, as suggested earlier, if carried through would put in jeopardy a large part of Australian manufacturing industry. Indeed, it would put in jeopardy about half of Australian manufacturing industry, if the estimates for 1969 of the degree of protection afforded Australian industries, as shown in table 3.4.1 of the Commission's 1973-74 annual report, are still applicable. I suspect that they are, given the wide application of import restrictions and some tariff increases we have had, as against the 25 per cent tariff cut which was made earlier. 
I think that it could be said that both aspects of the policy- first, the apparent emphasis on uniformity; and second the sort of tariff level that the IAC keeps coming up with, namely, the 15 to 25 per cent level- are open to. question. In respect of that latter point the actual level of protection, one assumption that the IAC is prone to make is that if you grasp the nettle and significantly cut down the level of protection afforded to an industry it will rapidly become more 'efficient' in some sense, and accept a lower level of profit and the general level of activity and employment in the industry will continue on at about much the same level as before. 
My colleague, the honourable member for Boothby, asks, 'Is that likely?' I would say that it is just not borne out by experience. Manufacturing companies under this sort of pressure simply change to importing. Employment opportunities in Australia and diversity in the industrial structure are lost with very problematical advantage to Australians as consumers. I want to refer at this stage, as the time is limited, to a topical example of this on which I have received representations, namely, the Australian cosmetics industry. This is not exactly what could be called a basic industry. Still - 
-Indeed, it adds diversity to the Australian industrial structure and it is employing approximately 4800 people ranging all the way from highly qualified chemists to operatives, in particular, female labour. Most of the goods in question are at present dutiable at 34 per cent general rate of tariff. It was 45 per cent before the 25 per cent tariff cut. But the LAC has recommended a cut to 15 per cent tariff rate, with a further review due in about 2 years, with the clear implication that all tariff assistance will then be eliminated. The report goes on to make the statement: 
The Commission does not expect any significant changes to result from implementation of its recommendations. 
That, to me, is the worrying statement, whatever may be your attitude to the basic character or otherwise of the cosmetics industry. As I think a look at the circumstances of this industry will show, that is about the most unrealistic forecast that could possibly be made. In this instance, the signals for the elimination of the industry are so prominent and clear that the recommendation handed down can only be described as foolish. The cosmetics and toilet preparations industry is largely in the hands of overseas companies. At least that is the case in regard to the manufacturing of the final finished products. The products are marketed under world-wide brand names. These are the products that the consumer wants to buy. If they were not made in Australia, the demand for them is such that they would simply have to be imported. They would not be made here if the tariff did not make it more profitable for the overseas companies to manufacture them here rather than import them. The recommendation of the IAC, if adopted, would reverse that situation. 
The IAC commented on the relatively high level of profitability of the industry. But then we come to the sort of assumption to which I have referred, that is, that if the tariff is halved and later removed altogether the overseas owned manufacturers would simply take a cut in profit and go on manufacturing in Australia. That is the unrealistic position. The IAC, in arriving at this conclusion, commented on the fact that many of the local manufacturers did not appear at the inquiry. This was taken as some sort of indication that the industry believed that, whatever the Commission's recommendation, it generally would have little effect on the operations of the local industry. But that is a complete misreading of the situation. The largest manufacturer, Avon Cosmetics Australia Pty Ltd, whose representatives did appear, pointed out - 
I will come to that in a moment. The representatives of the manufacturers who did appear pointed out that if the tariff were cut out there would be a winding down of the operations of this industry in Australia. I suspect that the answer to my good colleague, the honourable member for Wakefield, is that there was a certain degree of disinterest on the part of the other manufacturers because they would not be too detrimentally affected by the outcome of the inquiry, whatever the decision. They would simply turn to equally or more-profitable importing. So it would not be them but their employees and the Australian proprietors and employees in the supplying industries- the suppliers of chemicals, metal containers, packaging, labelling and so on- who would be affected. There are some 4800 such employees in the industry. All this detriment is proposed in the interests of a problematical gain for the Australian consumer. 
I conclude my remarks by stating that not only should the Government take a pretty close look at that report in the light of what I have suggested but also that the Government and the Industries Assistance Commission, at the Government's direction, should rethink carefully its whole approach in the area of the development of manufacturing industry in Australia. The Government is perhaps more seized now than it was with the need for gradualism, adequate adjustment mechanisms and so on. But it is the fundamental approach that needs to be evaluated and justified. Hopefully, the forthcoming report of the Jackson Committee will provide the necessary guidance. 
-The Budget documents show a small increase in the number of staff employed by the Department of Manufacturing Industry for 1975-76, but well they might, given the many and complex problems confronting the manufacturing sector today. It is important, I believe, in initiating consideration of the estimates for the Department of Manufacturing Industry that those estimates be seen against the Government's overall policy towards the non-government sector of the economy and the manufacturing sector in particular. The Government's approach has been and remains, despite some more recent lip service to the contrary, that the government sector comes first and the private sector has to make way. One can go right back over the history of this Labor Government, with its hallmark of incompetence, to the big government 'spend-up'of 1973 which was the major- I do not say it was the only- cause of the inflation which currently besets us. If that is a matter of dispute, I refer to an article written by the economist Kenneth Davidson in the  Age  only today. 
Much of our present problem stems from the inflationary Budget brought down by the Whitlam Government in 1973. 
And so on. But along with that was the parallel credit squeeze implemented by the Government and the associated record high interest rates which were introduced for the purpose of cutting back the private sector of the economy. The credit squeeze is sometimes spoken of as though it came down from heaven, but in fact that credit squeeze was a matter of deliberate policy designed to cut back private activity in order to make way for the great expansion of the government sector which has occurred. There we have the main genesis of the continuing and accelerating inflation which we have experienced since that time and the rapid build-up in unemployment which has occurred in the past 12 months. That inflation is the worst enemy of the private sector and the manufacturing sector in particular. 
I could refer to other adverse factors, such as the perverse operation of the Prices Justification Tribunal, the tariff cuts and an unsympathetic and I believe misguided tariff policy pursued by the Government, the unduly prolonged revaluation of the currency, the withdrawal of the investment allowances, and so on. However, the adverse impact of the Government 's policies on the private sector is focussed in two statistics. First, as was revealed in the Employment and Unemployment Bulletin statistics for the most recent 12 months we have, to June last, there was an increase in employment in the government sector of 93 000 persons, while employment in the nongovernment sector- that is, employment in Australian business, large and small- decreased by 150 000. Employment in the manufacturing sector was the lowest since 1968. 
The second statistic to which I would refer is concerned with company profits as shown in the National Income estimates. As a proportion of total incomes- that is, all incomes, wages, salaries, profits interest and rents in the economy- or, strictly speaking, as a percentage of non-farm GDP at factor prices, company profits, which have normally stood at a level of 15 per cent of these total incomes, were during 1974-75 as low as 9 per cent in some quarters and for the year as a whole they were at the level of 10.8 per cent. Those two statistics- the change in the employment figures to which I have referred and this low level of profits- sum up the impact of the Government's policies in relation to the private sector and the manufacturing sector in particular. Perhaps they best sum up the effects of socialism in practice. This is at the core of the malaise of the economy. 
We hear a good deal about the lack of confidence and the lack of incentive in the economy. I stress particularly the impact on private investment and the thrust to new development. We hear of the question mark over the Broken Hill Pty Company Ltd steel expansion program and the new exploration and development, private investment generally which sustains and creates for the future the capacity for the greater production of goods and services to meet all our national goals in the social welfare and other fields that we wish to pursue. But the very capacity to invest is being undermined. Confidence and incentive are important, but there is also this question of the very capacity to pursue these things, and that question stems in particular from those figures on company profits to which I have referred. I take this opportunity to stress that when one talks about company profits, it is not just a matter of pandering to big business, of which I am likely to be accused by honourable members opposite. It is a question of the very jobs of a large number of Australians. 
As my colleague says, honourable members opposite have a one-track mind- they should understand the situation which one can sum up in the dictum that today's profits are tomorrow's investments and the day after tomorrow's jobs and increased individual and community incomes. What is important, especially as far as manufacturing is concerned, is that even this low level of profits to which I have referred is over-stated. A major element is what some refer to as phantom or fictitious profits- profits which arise on paper but in fact are not realisable. They are associated with 2 elements. The first arises in the process of investing and re-investing over a period in stocks of materials and finished goods at higher prices due to the inflationary process. So even though a person may begin a year with a given level of operations and end the year with the same level of operations and the same volume of stocks of materials and finished goods, the difference in the value of the stocks at the end of the year compared with the value at the beginning of the year is counted as profit. It is a totally unrealisable 'profit' unless the firm concerned terminated the business and realised on the asset. It is a totally unrealisable profit and yet it is subject to company taxation at the going rate. So company profits at the very low level I have referred to are over-stated for that reason and the other reason of the inadequate allowances for depreciation. They are over-stated and then they are taxed. In this way companies are bled and their capacity to invest and to provide employment is seriously diminished. 
These matters were brought to the attention of the Parliament by the Mathews Committee. I would like to stress to the Parliament that the Mathews Committee was appointed following the statement made by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  on 12 November last year. The Committee was chaired by Professor Mathews of the Australian National University and its membership included  Mr R.  A. Jolly of the Australian Council of Trade Unions and other worthy citizens. The report of the Committee was endorsed by the ACTU. Yet in its economic policy and in the drawing up of this Budget which we are debating and which is the major instrument of the government's economic policy, the Government has turned its back on the imperative recommendations of the Mathews Committee. That will be the Government's undoing. Who can have confidence in a Government with priorities so illjudged that the health of the private sector and therefore the jobs and the gainful, meaningful employment of thousands of ordinary Australians are put in jeopardy? On that ground alone, apart from any other, this Government and this Budget stand condemned. 
-This is a most important - 
-The purpose of this Bill is to pass into true law, so to speak, and thus establish a consolidated new schedule of tariff rates, the tariff changes which the Government introduced since September last as well as the increases in customs duty which formed part of the present Budget- those higher prices for cigarettes, beer and petrol which were such a blow to the ordinary Australian and which he will remember very well when they are reflected in the December quarter consumer price index. In addition to those changes in duties specifically listed in the second reading speech by the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby),  and in a number of cases as part of them, the Government has implemented a variety of more direct controls on imports. What a catalogue it is. It includes import restraints on products ranging all the way from various clothing items to motor vehicles, steel sheets, ball bearings and sunglasses. You name it and it is on the list. 
The illegality, the impropriety, the dishonesty of the loans affair, and the misleading of the Parliament and the people in the subsequent cover up of Watergate dimensions by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and this Government, which continues to this day, have rightly held the centre of the stage during the past few weeks. While that is the ultimate measure of the Government's unfitness to govern, of basic importance is the incompetence and ineptitude of this Government in the management of Australia's economic affairs which has brought the Australian economy to the brink of economic disaster. Nowhere is this better illustrated than in the sphere of tariff policy, or rather the lack of it. This Bill sets out and enacts the tariff changes the Government has made since last September. In addition, as I said, there is this long list of more direct measures to retrict imports. What a catalogue of stop-gap, band aid actions, of backing and filling, by this Government it presents. 
The previous Customs Tariff Bill that we debated embodied the 25 per cent tariff cut of July 1973. What an ill-judged and ill-advised measure that was, as much in its adverse impact on business confidence in sowing utter bewilderment among businessmen as in its direct effect. However, we have gone over that ground before. Those silent textile mills in Launceston last June were testimony enough to the damage done by that measure. It was part of a headlong rush by the Government to cut tariffs in a bid to lower prices at a stroke and thereby win easy votes. It was part also of the attempt to accommodate a rapid enlargement of the public sector upon which this socialist Government was so hell bent. Its view was: 'To heck with the private sector, cut it back and let it shed resources to feed a ballooning government'. That was the approach at that time,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  and you should note its importance. It is the ideology, the centralist socialist ideology of this Government that causes the trouble all along the line. 
After that headlong rush to cut tariffs the Government over the past 12 months has just as rapidly backed off, at least in a wide variety of industries, and has reinstated many tariffs to their former level. That is the purpose of quite a number of the measures listed in the Minister's speech. I refer to the decision relating to Foundation Garments, for instance, or Woven Manmade Fibre Fabrics, or perhaps most importantly the 10 percentage points increase in primage in respect of motor vehicles introduced on 13 November last year. The Government not only restored the rate in that way but also has added the even stronger protection of direct import control. What I am saying is that the duty on motor vehicles has been restored to 45 per cent, the level prevailing before the tariff slash, and in addition there have been direct import restrictions. 
This backing off has been an interesting spectacle. When the Prime Minister was warned of the effects of his Government's tariff slashing in about September of last year what was his response? He called those who dared to raise their voices 'nervous Nellies', or, even worse, 'pedlars of lies'. 
-Yes, as my colleague the honourable member for Lyne interjects, he ought to know all about that. Is there a better case of the pot calling the kettle black than that statement? A good question to ask is: Who was right? Unemployment then was less than 100 000 but today it is 300 000. Somebody had good cause to be nervous! Uncertainty in industry has been generated by the wholehearted move, firstly, to slash tariffs and then this situation of a considerable reversal, along with an intermixture of hard line decisions- my colleague the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Cadman)  will recall the decision relating to mushrooms. All this backing and filling, this unpredictability, has been a major cause of the lack of confidence, the frustration and uncertainty in industry that currently afflicts us. Note that I do not begrudge industry the tariff and other protection to which I have referred. But let us be quite clear that this has been panic action by an inept Government designed to minimise the adverse effects of its own previous ill-judged, ill-advised unilateral actions. Which way it would be likely to go from here in the unlikely event that it should retain office no one knows, and that is the problem of business. 

 Sitting suspended from I to 2 p.m. 

-Before the suspension of the sitting I was saying that this Bill seeks to enact a series of tariff changes and associated measures, many of which represent panic measures designed to mitigate the adverse effects of the Government's own previous ill-advised unilateral actions. Properly to assess their importance it is necessary to see these changes in the context of the whole range of ill-advised wrong-headed measures that have been taken by this Government and which have brought about the disastrous economic situation- of record unemployment, inflation, no growth and the end of many small businesses- that now afflicts the country. 
First and foremost the tariff changes are intimately related in their effect to currency changes. One of the very first actions of the Government was to up-value the currency by the order of 7 per cent. While that one move was not without some justification the Government did it again in effect several months later and again in September 1973 to the point where, on average, the currency was up-valued in excess of 20 per cent and 30 per cent  vis-a-vis  some currencies such as sterling. In combination with the tariff changes the position of many import competing industries and other Australian industries seeking to export was rendered untenable and many thousands of Australians employed in those industries were thrown out of jobs. There were other things. The Government abolished investment allowances. It halved export incentives which has had such a major effect in cutting down the export of motor vehicles. 
But going back to the central difficulty, almost as soon as the Government attained office it embarked on the biggest spend-up in the history of this nation thereby initiating the inflation from which we still suffer. At least that was the major cause of the inflation from which we still suffer. This was a spend-up which culminated in the increase in Government spending of 46 per cent in the last financial year. Just imagine that- there was a gradual increase in government spending from Federation up to 30 June 1974 and then last financial year this amount was increased in one year by nearly half as much again. No economy, not even the resilient Australian economy, could stand the impact of that sort of change. 
With one foot thus on the fiscal accelerator, as one might put it, the Government was obliged to slam the other foot on the brake, and that is why the credit squeeze of September 1973 was implemented. So many times Government speakers have spoken of the credit squeeze as though it had just come down from heaven, so to speak. In fact, the restriction of the money supply and the associated increase of interest rates to record levels was imposed as a matter of deliberate policy by this Government. The Government's centralist, socialist purpose was, by the combination of tariff cuts, the up-valuation of the Australian dollar and the other measures to which I have referred, to cut back the private sector to make way for the massive expansion of the public sector which it wanted to achieve. Just how 'successful' has been that policy is indicated by 2 main statistics. In the most recent 12 months for which we have statistics employment in the private sector fell by 150 000 persons while employment in the government sector increased by 93 000 persons. Unemployment, wholly due to the weakness of the private sector, is of the order of 300 000 persons and according to the Government's own forecasts, is increasing. In the manufacturing sector- that sector which is most vulnerable to the tariff changes that are the subject of this debate- there has been a shedding of employment of some 134 300 persons in the last 12 months. I seek leave to have a table showing that incorporated in  Hansard. 
-The motion moved by the Opposition makes the specious, hypocritical charge that this Government has broken an election promise. It has not. My colleagues, the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  and the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  have made that clear. While asserting that, one might also make the observation that in certain circumstances, a variation from a particular undertaking can be the path to a greater good. I well recall in 1973 the pig headed attachment of the then Government to a commitment not to increase taxation and yet it pushed ahead with this promise and that promise to the electorate. This sowed the seed of the inflation- which has afflicted this economy ever since, from which our major present problems stem, from which resulted the major broken promises of the former Government to provide a stable economy and, in particular, full employment. 
So we have this situation today- a situation we have inherited- of a continuing high level of unemployment, stagnation in business investment, a massive build-up of government spending with a corresponding huge deficit and the impact on the money supply, and of course a continuing high rate of inflation. This is the situation that this Government inherited. It is a grim and a serious economic situation and it calls for strong, if unpopular, measures. This Government has taken an array of such measures. In the short period since it took office it has implemented measures to reduce the momentum of growth of government spending. It has implemented measures to attempt to restore not only the confidence but the very capacity of business to invest. Honourable members opposite should not try to tell me that that is pandering to the business community. The recovery of investment is a key to the restored prosperity and forward movement of the economy. Today's profitability, which has been so undermined and so needs to be restored, is tomorrow's investment and the next day's jobs- the meaningful, gainful jobs for Australians. We have introduced a monetary package designed to soak up excess liquidity in the economy. Let me stress that it is designed to soak up an excess of liquidity, not to squeeze the economy from the monetary side as was said by an honourable member who spoke earlier. Then there was the intervention before the Arbitration Commission. 
Let me stress, as my colleagues have stressed, that the Government was not asking the Commission to abandon the indexation package. It is a package; it is a set of principles. It was always a conditional thing, not an automatic adjustment. It is a set of 8 principles set out specifically in the course of the 1975 judgment. Nowhere in the statements that the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  attributed to the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  was there a reference to the phrase that the honourable member for Gellibrand kept using- 'full indexation'. There is a package, and that package is before the House. Under the terms of the first principle of that package which is well known, the Government sought that the adjustment to the CPI increase be a reduced one, firstly because inflation is not abating, unemployment is still high and the overwhelming priority of this Government is jobs- the restoration of full employment in Australia. Secondly, in this particular instance the Government was asking the Commission to take action because the change in the index, by which it was sought to adjust wages and salaries, was a figure significantly influenced by indirect tax measures introduced by the previous Government. 
I am prepared to concede that additional charges on cigarettes, liquor and petrol have often been utilised by governments, but at the time these charges were introduced the then Opposition- now this Government- made it clear that that would create grave difficulties for the wage indexation package. The honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson),  who preceded me, said that this Government, relying on 'nebulous' evidence, was attributing a certain view to the present Opposition, the former Government. What is nebulous about the Budget Speech of 1 9 August last year? I quote the then Treasurer, the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden),  whom, I notice, is not present in the House for this debate. 
-Well, he may be a backbencher, but he is not present in the House for this debate. 
-No, but I am referring in particular to the honourable member for Oxley whom I am going to quote. He said: 
In drawing attention to these price effects, I add that it is the Government's firm view- 
I emphasise the word 'Government' in relation to the earlier remarks in this debate of the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)-  . . . it is the Government's firm view that, for the purposes of wage indexation, increases in prices resulting from tax measures of the sort that I have announced should be discounted. It would be self-defeating if the system of wage indexation were to attempt to insulate the community from tax measures . . . 
-That is what the then Treasurer said and that is an important matter at issue in this situation. I recognise that the Opposition makes an important point when it talks of the granting of what it refers to as full indexationa complete adjustment- which, in fact, has of course now occurred. It says that its chief advantage is its contribution to industrial peace. Against that stands jobs for Australians. Peace and joy amongst those in employment is one thing, but as a government we have to be concerned about not only those in employment but also the 300 000 Australians not in employment. Hence the attempt in appearing before the Commission to achieve a moderation for this purpose. The Commission has made its finding. So be it. But honourable members must remember that there are 8 principles within the terms of which we, the Government, acted. I ask the Opposition whether it is committed to those principles. What was the honourable member for Burke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  hinting at when he was talking previously of industrial action in one form or another? 
-Threats, as my colleague puts it. Is the Opposition going to assist in the implementation of this total package? There are great problems and difficulties ahead for the restoration of health in the Australian economy. 
-We have just heard a load of rubbish from the Opposition spokesman on economic matters. If ever there was an Opposition ill-advised to make the sort of statements that he made, there could not be one more so than the present Opposition. I mention some of the remarks he attributed to the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch).  He referred to this Loan 
Bill having been introduced last year and not passed, to a glorious understatement made by the then Treasurer and to the disgraceful conduct of the then Opposition. However, I point to the disgraceful mismanagement of the Australian economy by the then Labor Government which led to the highest inflation and the highest unemployment ever and to a stagnation of business investment which is at the core of the malaise of the economy. In those circumstances we, who were then in Opposition, make no apology for doing everything we could to question the objectives and economic strategy of the then Government and we did so in the context of the Loan Bill 1975 and in other contexts. To the then Government, what did a deficit matter? That was the sort of attitude it adopted. Money! What was money? If it was short of money it just printed more and pumped it into the economy to the disadvantage of Australia. So, of course we questioned and held up so far as that was in our power the Loan Bill 1975 because of the totally irresponsible economic management of the Australian economy by the then Government. 
The honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  said that the present Treasurer as Opposition spokesman had referred to the Bill as a device to avoid Loan Council approval. Let me stress that there is no way in which we are seeking to do that. The Treasurer stressed in his speech on the Loan Bill (No. 2) that the borrowings proposed under that Bill required the approval of" the Loan Council and that preliminary negotiations in relation to approval had already taken place. What hypocrisy by the Opposition! Who is the honourable member, coming from that side of the House, to talk about trying to go around Loan Council approval? What about the infamous proposal of 13 December 1974 to raise $4,000m for 'temporary purposes', the using of that phrase to avoid having to seek Loan Council approval and the proposed raising of those funds against a promissory note that would 'lave put the Australian people into hock to the tune of $ 19,899m? How can the Opposition talk about not seeking Loan Council approval? The honourable member leading in this debate for the Opposition also referred to a request by the then shadow Treasurer for a statement by the Labor Government on its views on the increase in the money supply. He said that that statement had not been forthcoming from this Government. In fact there have been indications in respect of that matter, and the proposed increase in the money supply, I can assure him, is of the order of 16 per cent for this financial year. These are some of the specious points that have been made by the honourable member leading for the Opposition in this debate. 
It is important to impress on the Parliament that the basic need for these Bills springs from an all-time record deficit in the Government accounts which is now running at the rate of $4,500m, plus or minus. How did that deficit come about? It came about because of the massive build-up of government expenditure under the previous Labor Administration. Perhaps the best way that I can illustrate the magnitude of that build-up is by saying that in 1972-73, which overlapped the change of government in 1972, total expenditure was of the order of $ 10,000m, or $ 10 billion as the Americans would say. There had been a gradual build-up in Commonwealth Government spending over the 72 years since Federation to $ 10,000m. Then after 3 years of Labor rule, the proposed Budget expenditure for this 1 975-76 financial year was $22,000m, or $22 billion as the Americans would say, and the expenditure is still running at that level despite our best efforts to date to restrain it. I repeat we had a gradual build up to $ 10,000m from Federation to 1972-73. Then in 3 years we had an acceleration, more than a doubling of that figure, to $22,000m. The financing of this of course was basically from the increase in taxation including an increase in personal taxation from $4,000m in 1972-73 to over $ 10,000m. That was a 2^-fold increase in that short period. Because government spending ran even beyond that, the deficit which is our present concern was $2, 800m in 1 974-75 and this year is currently $4,500m. 
It is easy to attract a charge from the members of the Opposition- perhaps not only from members of the Opposition- of too great a preoccupation with the deficit as such. Let me make it clear that that preoccupation springs from our overall economic strategy which is to reduce inflation, to get the Australian economy moving again, and to provide meaningful, gainful employment for all Australians- to restore full employment. Our concern with the size and the financing of the deficit, which are currently before the House, is part and parcel of our economic strategy to achieve those objectives. 
The need to restrain the deficit and properly to fund the deficit comes from 2 considerations. Firstly it comes from the developing situation in which there was a rapid, massive build up in government expenditure. For the benefit of the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden),  I am not talking about the actual level of expenditure but the massive, rapid build up in expenditure, which has created a counter-productive effect on employment. We had a growing momentum of spending financed by the harvest of taxation from both individuals and companies. This was increasingly at the expense of productive activity in the non-government sector of the economy- the private sector comprising Australian business, large and small. To put it in its simplest terms, honourable members need to appreciate that while one can perhaps see a direct effect of additional government spending in stimulating activity, there is an indirect effect in the opposite direction. The honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  referred to simple Keynesian economics. There is always a tendency for the followers of great thinkers and writers to become more committed to certain views than the original thinkers or writers. 
You of course were never one of them but I could nominate quite a few others who are in critical positions in the running and management of this country. We have to recognise that this momentum of expenditure, financed by taxation and this deficit spending, has its impact on the non-government sector. It was recognised by Keynes himself and there have been significant studies to attempt to quantify this impact. I could refer for instance to a study, a model, of the economy which was made by the Wharton school. It indicated that a process could be generated in which $ 1 of government spending for goods and services 'crowded out', as the phrase goes, $3 of private spending. The most direct way perhaps in which this process can be seen is in the impact of the taxation system, which feeds on the business sector. The impact is reflected in individuals' wage claims and inflation generally but it also falls on the business sector in terms of the high taxation of profits, which could be referred to as phantom profits, those simply arising out of the phenomenon of inflation itself and its effect on the valuation of stocks. Companies get involved in the payment of taxes on what is, in effect, nonexistent profits. The impact of this process is to bleed- there is no other word for it- the business sector and undermine its very capacity, let alone its confidence, to invest, develop and expand in order to provide meaningful and gainful employment for Australians. It is a true dictum that today's profits are tomorrow's investments and jobs of the day after tomorrow. We have to restrain the momentum of the process I have described. 
The particular impact on business firms was one of the subjects of inquiry by the Mathews 
Committee. That Committee was set up by the previous Government in 1974. It was headed by Professor Mathews, and included  Mr Jolly  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions, and other worthy citizens. It reported in May 1975 but its recommendations were set aside by the then Treasurer, the honourable member for Oxley, in the 1975 Budget. It is often said that because of the way the economy went wrong the previous Government must have got some very bad economic advice and, indeed, that those who advised the Government ought to be put in a submarine and taken down to great depth in the ocean, the object being to see whether deep down they were as stupid as they appeared on the surface! In my opinion, it was not a matter of the quality of the advice the then Government received- the Mathews Committee advice would be a case in point- but of the Government's willingness to accept that advice. The advice of the Mathews Committee was clearly contrary, especially in relation to companies, to the ideological thrust of the then Government's thinking, and the Government would not accept it. It was not just a question of wilful disregard for the advice. The thrust of the then Government's ideology was that the Government is paramount, that it should do all, and if the private sector gets in the way it is dispensable. So I stress that the objectives of this part of our policy are to restrain the momentum of this process of government spending financed by ever higher levels of taxation with its debilitating effect on the private sector. This is a critical and central part of our overall strategy to curb inflation, to get Australia moving again and to provide the meaningful, gainful employment of Australians. 
The other aspect involved is the method of funding the deficit which is specifically the matter before the House. In this respect the Treasurer in his second reading speech said: 
In line with the Government's overall economic objectives, we will, in undertaking the borrowings required, continue to seek to achieve further sales of securities to the public, especially the non-bank public, to the extent that this can be done without impairing sound recovery of activity in the private sector. 
That is the action which these measures seek to legalise. The Government has already been active in this field. It has made loan issues, the best known component being the issue of Australian Savings Bonds which were a great success and succeeded in raising a very substantial amount of money. Let me just say that it is sometimes said that these measures mopped up funds. It is more correct to say that the effect is to slow down the growth in the money supply. After all the money, having been raised, is used to finance the Government deficit. Therefore, the money is re-injected into the economy. The impact, therefore, is to slow what would be an otherwise more rapid growth of the money supply. This measure and the accompanying measures were pitched in such a way as to achieve our target growth in the money supply in accordance with our objective of containing the inflationary potential from the buildup of the money supply. The above are the purposes which these Bills among others serve. 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-Has the Treasurer's notice been drawn to reports in this morning's Press that consumer confidence, according to a recent independent survey, has substantially increased? Is this significant, and does it indicate a growing degree of certainty by the public in the Government 's economic policies? 
-Once again we have heard this load of rubbish from the Opposition spokesman on economic matters, the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford).  It takes us no further and repeats over and over again a single theme, the Government's socalled ideological preoccupation. 
It rants and raves about the Government's so-called ideological straitjacket. It ill becomes the honourable member to speak of an ideological straitjacket. It is the ideological straitjacket of the honourable members opposite that has got them where they are today. The honourable member talked of the 1975-76 Hayden Budget as the potential saviour of the nation. It was the third of a series of disastrous Budgets which brought this country to a position of the highest inflation, the highest unemployment for many years , and to a stagnation in production. The actual production last year and the year before was lower than for the year before that. That is the position which emerged from the policies of those honourable members who now sit opposite. There is a difference between their ideological straitjacket and our ideological position. We are proud of our ideological position. Our objective is to achieve a genuine and effective partnership between government and industry, the private sector comprised of Australian business large and small, with free enterprise and initiative making the running in that sector. Our objective is to get this partnership working to get Australia moving again and in this way to achieve an enlarging of the whole national cake so that there is the genuine possibility of more for everyone; more for our national and social purposes and more for individuals. As against that, the ideology that you practise is the socialist purpose, that the government is paramount, that the government should do all, that the government can do it best and if the private sector- its prosperity and its jobs get in the way it is expendable. That is your approach. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Dr Jenkins)Order! The honourable member for Berowra knows that he should address the Chair. 
I am not addressing my remarks to the honourable member for Adelaide but to the Oppostion 
-There are so few of them present that I tend to focus on the honourable member for Adelaide. The honourable member said repeatedly that the Government's objective is to damage the public sector. That is not its objective. Its objective as I have said, is to foster an effective partnership between the public sector and a prosperous, thriving non-government sector. What the Opposition cannot and will not see is the destructive impact of the course on which the economy was set during the years in office of the Australian Labor Party Government, a course which brought low the whole economy and gave the public sector a larger share but of a diminished cake. 
It brought the economy to its knees, with 250 000 people unemployed and rampant inflation. Honourable members opposite talk about the impact of the Government's policies on the disadvantaged. They have no monopoly of concern for the under-privileged and for the poor. As my collegue the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  says it is correct that they always attempt to convey this impression. What about the 250 000 unemployed that emerged from their administration? What about the suffering and difficulty caused by the most rapid inflation that the economy has suffered? 
-Yes, they ought to be ashamed of themselves. The mechanism that honourable members opposite cannot or will not perceive is that they had the economy caught up in a rapid momentum of growth of government spending, financed by the rich harvest of personal and company taxation, which resulted to a considerable extent from the inflation it thus generated. The spending was financed not only by that but also by the ever growing Budget deficit with, left to itself, horrendous implications for creating a mountain of money and thereby further inflation. What the Opposition will not recognise is that this spending, far from having the old style pump priming effect on employment and activity, has a long term adverse effect on the non-government sector, on Australian business large and small, on Australian jobs. 
I have stressed previously the magnitude of what was involved- that in 1972-73 the total of government spending was $ 10,000m and it had built up to that level gradually from Federation over a period of 72 years. Then in 3 years- to the current 1975-76 year- after that gradual buildup the level more than doubled and reached $22,000m. Even more graphically, in 1974-75 the level of spending increased by 46 per centand increase of nearly 50 per cent in one year on the level which, I repeat, had gradually been built up over 74 years since Federation. 
In one year there was nearly a 50 per cent increase. This momentum of rising spending, rising inflation and inflationary expectations and rising unemployment has to be curbed. Inevitably it creates an adverse impact on activity in the non-government sector. It affects the attitudes of consumers through the uncertainties generated by unemployment and inflation. 
-One has only to go back to the socialist ideology to which I have referred to appreciate its significance and its origins. Inflation induced rises in costs, plus efforts to limit price increases associated with excessive rises in costs, including the opening up of the floodgates to imports, undermined profitability. Honourable members opposite may not like profits but the fact is that today's profits are tomorrow's investments and the jobs of the day after that; meaningful, gainful employment for Australians, not the ad hockery of regional employment development schemes and other such projects. 
Especially important in this process is the effect of inflation in creating fictitious profits and the taxation of such 'profits'- a process which bleeds the business sector, as the Mathews Committee stressed. So in this way you shrink the incentive to invest and set us on the path to the British disease of a shrinking productive sector. It is this fundamental process, this momentum of spending finance financed by taxation with its long term adverse effect on the non-government sector, that we have to break. Let me however stress this and recognise an element of truth in the rantings of the honourable member for Adelaide. Under the previous Administration it was as though the economy was hooked on the drug of this ever-increasing process of spending with its adverse effect and, as with a drug, the withdrawal process is an extremely difficult and complex one. We know we will not win any short term bouquets in pursuing the process of bringing the economy back to heel. 
I hope the analogy does assist in trying to get over to people the thrust of our strategy, and at the same time its complexity and its difficulties. The days of the free ride are over. There has to be more self-help, initiative and self-reliance. In child care, for instance, which is a subject of great concern to me, the Government will give reasonable assistance but there has to be initiative from people, from local bodies, and a rationalisation of facilities. Maybe the users will have to pay more, but it is part and parcel of the process of getting off this interaction. 
It is part of the process of getting off this drug, this momentum of government spending financed by the harvest of taxation and the deficit to boot, with its adverse long term effect on the non-government sector. Especially, I would stress, the Government is concerned in this difficult transition period about lessened expenditure which may impact directly on the private sector, and in general the pace of the process of restraining the growth of spending depends critically on the rate of pick-up in the private sector. The home building area is a case in point and the Government is carefully monitoring the situation, as witnessed by the States Grants (Housing Assistance) Bill which was brought in a little while ago by my colleague the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar).  In the context of the rate at which the private sector is brought back a critical element of the strategy is the 40 per cent investment allowance. The honourable member for Adelaide made disparaging remarks about this allowance. 
As my colleague says, he would not understand it for one thing, but it is a key element in our strategy of encouraging a revival of business investment. As I have said previously, the process to which I have referred impacts critically there. That is at the centre of the malaise of the economy which developed under the previous Administration and it is of the utmost importance that our policy be directed there. I commend that allowance to businessmen outside. They should appreciate the importance of the advantage it confers. 
There were many other aspects which the honourable member for Adelaide covered in the much longer time at his disposal, but let me conclude by stressing that in respect of the monetary package there is no credit squeeze. We have taken measures directed to eliminating an excess of money, not squeezing the money. We are bringing the money supply, as far as we can, to a reasonable level. We are trying to bring in control instead of having irresponsibility in the way it was just printed, as the honourable member for Wakefield will recall. It is not a credit squeeze but is a slowing down of the rate of the increase of the money supply to a reasonable level. In all these ways the policies of the Government form a complex designed to get inflation under control, to get Australia moving again and to restore full employment, meaningful and gainful employment, to all Australians. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Dr Jenkins)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
My question is directed to the Treasurer. Is the Government concerned at the results of the latest survey of consumer attitudes conducted by the Institute of Applied Economic and Social Research at the University of Melbourne? In particular, has the Treasurer taken account of the view that comments about firm action to restrain the growth of government spending may have had an adverse effect on consumer confidence? 
-Has the attention of the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations been drawn to reports that Colgate-Palmolive Pry Ltd intends to grant major wage increases and shorter hours of work to its employees? Can the Minister clarify the position? 
-As the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  said, this debate is concerned with a Bill that writes into the consolidated schedule of tariff rates the changes in tariffs in recent years, thus giving us an opportunity to stand back and take a general overview of the tariff as a major policy area. What we have just heard from the honourable member pursuant to that is a long exposition of what should be done in this area. What a difference there is between the sensible and high sounding proposals that he was just putting forward and the actual performance of his Party when in office. There can be absolutely no doubt that the ill-advised, unpredictable tariff changes of the Labor Government were a major contributing factor to the economic malaise, the deep recession and the high unemployment which this Government has inherited from the preceding Administration. The famous, or rather infamous, 25 per cent across the board tariff slash to which he referred was perhaps the ultimate contributing factor. I believe that it contributed to the uncertainty and lack of confidence in manufacturing industry more than did any other single action. Its direct effects contributed to the flood of imports that later in 1974 engulfed wide sections of Australian manufacturing and led subsequently to a very severe decline in manufacturing employment in Australia. In fact, between mid- 1974 and the latter part of last year Australian manufacturing shed of the order of 135 000 employees to fall to the lowest level of employment in that sector since 1968. 
The honourable member for Port Adelaide said that we accept what the Labor Government did if we enact this measure. That is an incorrect view because the former Government, having taken certain measures, then set about nearly as rapidly to reverse them all. 
They have now been saved in the last second by the honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes),  who has just entered the chamber. This is a subject of vital interest to the whole Parliament and there is only one member of the Labor Opposition in the House. Members of the Opposition obviously do not want to be here to hear of the damage that was inflicted by their policies on Australian manufacturing industry. The honourable member for Port Adelaide has now returned to the chamber. I am glad he has. I want him to hear that it is not correct to say, as he said earlier, that to enact this measure would be forever to close the debate on what impact the tariff policies of the former Government had on Australian manufacturing industry, because the measures we are debating include a significant reversal of the measures which initially brought manufacturing industry so low. 
The 25 per cent across the board tariff cut meant for instance, a reduction from 45 per cent to 3316 per cent in the tariff on imported motor vehicles. That tariff was returned some time ago to 45 per cent. The schedule deals with many other measures that were taken in the latter stages of the preceding Administration which will require continuing review. For instance, we have had to arrive at a definitive position in relation to the motor industry, which was still left up in the air. Other industries which were supported temporarily by band aid, stop-gap measures introduced in a panic last year will have to be looked at on a long term basis. It is no use trying to talk to the Opposition on this matter, but there is not a single member of the Labor Party Opposition in the chamber. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Dr Jenkins)Order! The Chair can ignore only so many references to the state of the House. 
-We have to restore confidence, purpose and forward thrust, particularly in the manufacturing sector of the economy as an important component in our program for economic recovery and for restoring health to the Australian economy. Nevertheless I am glad to note a reasonable concern on the part of the honourable member for Port Adelaide, speaking for the Opposition, for a proper development of manufacturing industry in Australia. On behalf of the Government let me aver that it is a basic and continuing objective to sustain and develop an efficient, thriving and diversified manufacturing industry, to realise the overall national objectives of full employment and achieving the maximum capacity to meet individual and national goals- in. short, the optimum use of all our resources, as the honourable member for Port Adelaide said. An efficient, thriving manufacturing sector is essential to the realisation of these objectives. 
In some quarters there is a tendency to downgrade manufacturing as an important source of employment in Australia. It is said that manufacturing directly provides 'only' about 25 per cent to 27 per cent of employment. Of course, indirectly it results in a further large quantum of employment, perhaps as much again as that base 25 per cent. The point I would like to stress here is that 25 per cent or 27 per cent is the figure for Australia as a whole. It needs to be recognised that manufacturing is a much more important part of the economies of the larger States which after all, by their size and financial capacity, support the Federation in a very real sense. Manufacturing accounts for nearly 40 per cent of employment in New South Wales and upwards of 35 per cent in Victoria. It is interesting that in West Germany, to refer to perhaps the most dynamic comparable economy in the world, the proportion of employment in manufacturing is 40.5 per cent. So let there be no misunderstanding as to this Government's commitment to fostering a flourishing, efficient, diversified manufacturing sector in Australia. 
The view that manufacturing is a declining activity has reference perhaps to the United Kingdom. That is hardly the most appropriate example to set as a standard of comparison! The shrinking, shrunken, productive sector, industrial base, in the United Kingdom is well known and so are its consequences- a static or barely rising standard of living, chronic high inflation, a chronic balance of payments deficit. That shrinking industrial base in the United Kingdom is a very real thing and a warning to others. It is not, as is often alleged or implied, that productivity in Britain does not rise. On the contrary, the rate of increase in productivity in Britain stands reasonably high in the international league table. But in all the circumstances of policy in that unhappy country increasing productivity is utilised to shed labour rather than to produce more goods. The shed labour goes into less productive tertiary industries and especially into the ever growing machinery of government plus, of course, into unemployment. That is not the path we would want Australia to take. 
As the honourable member for Port Adelaide said, we are not arguing here that there should be protection of anything that moves or exists, or on the other hand that there should be no tariffs- even my colleague here, the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  does not say anything like that. Our concern is the level of tariffs and other policies for the development of industry- what industries should be protected, how much protection should be given and in what form. We must always recognise that we start with what we have now and can change that only very gradually. The issue of the level of protection immediately involves the costs of tariff protection because it is right that tariffs do have costs. The real issue then is the magnitude of those costs and who bears them. I think it is worth remarking in passing- the honourable member for Port Adelaide touched on this matterthat in that respect there is really a great deal of muddled and misleading thinking. For example, the latest issue of  Muster,  the journal of the Graziers Association of New South Wales, refers among other figures to an enormous figure of some billions of dollars a year as the so-called 'gross subsidy equivalent' of our tariffs- that is, the equivalent of all our tariffs if the same degree of assistance were provided as a subsidy straight from the Treasury, handed over in hard cash. That sort of figure sounds horrific. Comparisons are made with the direct subsidies to rural industries of $100m or more a year. But the idea of an aggregate subsidy equivalent such as that referred to in that journal is a totally invalid one. It misses the point that whilst one can equate a particular tariff to the equivalent subsidy, they cannot be added up to obtain a meaningful figure. I shall not elaborate fully on that at this point because time does not permit, but I think perhaps the best way to see it is this: If we were suddenly to take away all tariffs, which would be quite different from taking away just one tariff, the only conceivable theoretical alternative- I stress theoretical- would be a very large devaluation of the Australian dollar. I stress that is a theoretical alternative; we are not talking in practical terms, at the moment, of doing anything like that. The effect of that large devaluation would be like the effect of tariffs - the price of imports would be higher and thus a large sector of manufacturing industry would be protected as it is now, but by the 'natural' means of the lower exchange rate. The substance of things would be much the same but the emotive reference to a massive subsidy would be gone. 
If tariffs do have costs, albeit vastly exaggerated by that sort of horrific but invalid figure, the positive side of the matter which far outweighs the cost is that the tariff system has been and remains the principal instrument of industrialisation in Australia and of supporting an enlarged population. Unequivocally, therefore, this Government is committed to the adequate protection of appropriate industries to foster an efficient, growing and diversified manufacturing sector complementary to our great rural and mining industries. 
I have no doubt that the majority of the electorate supports that objective. But to achieve it requires a pretty positive approach. For instance, does anyone believe that the multinational car manufacturers, American or Japanese, would manufacture here unless we took the necessary steps in the form, not only of tariffs, but also of local content requirements to force them to manufacture here? When we take those and like steps continuity and predictability are the essence of the matter. I might add that even under the new motor vehicle proposals recently debated in this Parliament there are some problems, especially for the manufacturers of components. The Government will be monitoring the situation closely. Meanwhile, the Government's positive long term approach will be spelled out in detail in the proposed White Paper on manufacturing industries. The White Paper will provide a forward view- a policy commitment against which long term business investment decisions can be made. We have to be thinking of the pattern and the volume of industry and its employment capacity, not to mention national security and other considerations, 5 or 10 years hence. I urge those with vital interests in this issue- individual firms and industry associations- who have not already done so to submit their views to the Government as a matter of urgency. 
In saying that we are committed to the adequate protection of industry in this way, I stress at the same time that we do not rest content with the level of tariffs. In particular, the Government is committed to the continuing systematic review of the tariff structure which indeed was instituted by the previous Liberal-National Country Party government. We are committed to that on the basis that the higher the level of assistance the more frequent should be the review and, of course, as emphasised by the honourable member for Port Adelaide, with appropriate structural adjustment. We are not, however, committed to the proposition that assistance would not be justified simply because the required tariff duty would exceed some arithmetical percentage. The whole context of these matters has to be looked at, not just the degree of protection. For instance, as the honourable member for Port Adelaide stressed, the degree of 'essentiality' of the industry has to be assessed. We cannot get away from the necessity to make that sort of judgment. It was made, for example, in respect of the motor industry. There are other factors to be considered, such as the prospect of growth and improved productivity through economies of scale and the industry's export potential. All these and other factors have to be considered. Nevertheless, we do aver that higher duties require greater justification due to the larger costs carried by the community and require more frequent review. That is where the main thrust of tariff change and bringing tariffs down needs to be directed. Then what is important is that change should be gradual and that there should be consultation between the Government and industry- the employers and employeesconcerned. 
What I am saying here and what the honourable member for Port Adelaide stressed is that of course it is the Government that makes tariffs: But that obvious axiomatic statement can be obscured by divergent or apparently divergent views as to the role of the Government's indispensable advisory body in these mattersthe Industries Assistance Commission, formerly the Tariff Board. A lot is said about the independence of this body. Various things are mentioned, but in particular it is said that the Commission should be independent in that it should make its findings without regard to the thrust of government policy. When that is said, I believe, the argument is more semantic than real. What is critical is that the Government, in its tariffmaking, should have available to it the fullest, most complete advice to enable it to arrive at wise decisions. That is what the whole thing is about- arriving at wise as against unwise decisions about protection. 
I take this opportunity to underline the recent statement of the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Howard)  who is at the table, that it is this Government's firm view that it requires that the LAC should take account of all pertinent facts including:  the method and level of tariff and other assistance necessary adequately to protect the industry against import competition; whether the industry could be more efficient, the basis for judging efficiency, the possible improvement in efficiency and the level of tariff or assistance then required; whether the industry desirably should be re-structured and if so how this should be done and the consequences thereof; whether the industry is less efficient than it could be due to fragmentation, insufficient specialisation or some other restriction; and the probable consequences, social and otherwise of changing existing levels of tariffs or assistance. 
The purpose is that the Government may be able to assess and decide whether to adopt a particular recommendation of the IAC or, alternatively, what level of tariff or other assistance should be provided to the industry. That, I repeat, is vital. I submit that in no way is it an impairment of the independence of the LAC. 
In conclusion I take this opportunity to aver that the tariff has been and remains the principal instrument of industrialisation in Australia. There are costs, but what we have to achieve is a proper balance; and an efficient, growing and diversified manufacturing sector fostered by wise tariff policies and other measures, and complementary to our great rural and mining industries has a major- nay, an indispensable- place in that scheme of things. 
It gives me a great deal of satisfaction to support these Bills and in particular the Income Tax Assessment Amendment Bill, and totally to reject the amendment proposed by the Opposition. The main purpose of the Income Tax Assessment Amendment Bill, though one would never guess it from the fulminations of the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford),  is to legislate for a number of the major initiatives which this Government has taken to restore the confidence, the incentive and the capacity of industry to invest and thus to provide jobs for all Australians. Undoubtedly the centrepiece is the 40 per cent investment allowance provided for in clause 10 of that Bill and I shall mainly direct my remarks to that. 
I note that the first part of the amendment moved by the Opposition refers to this Government allegedly breaking an election promise in relation to home mortgage interest deduction. That measure has not been removed. In fact what has happened is that this Government has better tailored the scheme to the real needs of first home buyers and supplemented it by a home savings grant which goes to the real problem in that context, namely, the deposit gap. Having said that, I shall leave that aspect of the matter to subsequent speakers. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, I trust that you will vacate your position to speak later in this debate to deal with the remarks that the honourable member for Adelaide made about wine makers. So I go back to the investment allowance. I say first and foremost that the 40 per cent investment allowance proposed in this legislation is a bold, imaginative and indeed extremely generous measure and I commend it strongly to Australian industry. The honourable member for Adelaide alleges in his amendment that it has created a chaotic situation. Who is the honourable member, or any member from that side of the House, to talk of creating chaos? That is precisely what was created over the previous 3 years and precisely why a measure such as this, bold and imaginative, is necessary to cope with the very adverse situation bequeathed to the present Government by the previous administration. 
At the core of the malaise afflicting the Australian economy has been the severe depression of private business investment. By an array of measures the previous administration brought the profitability of industry low. There was the massive and rapid build-up of government spending which contributed significantly to rapid inflation. A tough credit squeeze with high interest rates was imposed to offset that. There were the ill-judged operations of the Prices Justification Tribunal, at least until early 1975. There was the impact of tariff cuts and the revaluation of the Australian dollar and the flood of imports which resulted, reducing demand for Australian production, and added to that the fact that the level of costs in Australia got out of line with those overseas. There was the bleeding of companies by the tax impact on the phantom profits arising from inflation. All these and other factors cut down the profitability of Australian industry and hence the incentive, the confidence and the very capacity of industry to invest. 
The evidence is in the National Accounts figures for all to see. Whereas company profits as a percentage of all incomes- wages and salaries, interest, rents and profits or of the equivalent Gross Domestic Product- are normally of the order of 15 to 16 per cent, in 1974-75 as a result of the measures to which I have referred they were reduced to the order of 10 to 11 per cent. For the first half of this financial year, the latest statistics available, the figure still stands at only 12 per cent, and that includes a considerable component of the phantom profits arising from inflation. That is the situation we have to rectify. 
Let me refer to the Government's strategy in this respect and the role of the investment allowance. The essential overall economic objectives of the Government are: to reduce Australia's high and stubborn inflation rate which is second only to the United Kingdom on an international comparison of 10 comparable industrial countries and, by that and other means to foster sound and lasting economic recovery and to restore full employment and economic growth. I put things this way because the cutting down of the inflation rate is itself a, if not the, main precondition of a lasting recovery in economic activity and hence in the expansion of job opportunities and the restoration of full employment. 
The main thrust of the policy against inflation is of course in the area of incomes policy. I stress in passing in this context our unconditional commitment to implementing personal tax indexation. The substantial benefit of this will accrue to the ordinary wage and salary earner from 1 July. Of course the other main thrust of anti-inflation policy is to gain control of government spending and properly to fund the deficit to contain its potential for monetary inflation. We are doing that. The Australian Labor Party when in government never did so. So the strategy for stimulating the recovery in economic activity and employment is to reduce inflation and to build on a gradual recovery in real private consumption spending by stimulating real private investment spending, notably by this measure, the 40 per cent investment allowance now before the House. We have heard repeated tonight the phoney issue that the Opposition continually attempts to generate- whether we are aiming at a consumption led or an investment led recovery. It is a phoney issue. We, like the previous Administration, have been relying on a revival in real private consumption spending. We have been unhappy as the Opposition is over the socalled squirrelling of consumers. There now is evidence that this is ending and consumers are beginning to gain confidence. I stress that point. I stress that we on the Government side rely on a gradual recovery in private consumption spending because, to hear members of the Opposition speak, one would think it was no part of our strategy. 
I say, however, that we are not looking for a consumer boom. It would be totally unwelcome in this situation and, to my mind, it would be somewhat unseemly. Members of the Labor Opposition are always mouthing platitudes about social priorities in welfare, education, urban renewal and so on, but from the way they talk one would think that they want to dissipate the recovery in a consumer boom. There is much more to our national purpose than the froth and bubble of a consumer boom. 
What we do emphasise- and this has been a key thrust of our policy last year when we were in Opposition and it is being implemented by us this year now that we are in government- is that a key component in recovery must also be a recovery in investment spending. The thrust of our policy, particularly the 40 per cent investment allowance, is to shift the reliance for recovery from private consumption spending alone, which was the emphasis of the previous administration, to total spending in the private sector. The purpose of the investment stimulus from the 40 per cent investment allowance, combined with the continuance of the double depreciation concession to 30 June and the other measures, is to foster the recovery by bringing forward investment spending in addition to and in part related to- we recognise that point-a resurgence in real consumption spending. 
However the honourable member for Adelaide then says to us that this measure constitutes a false hope- with widespread underutilisation of capacity what businesses are going to invest? To that I would answer that even where under-utilisation is the case the enterprising businessman might well take into his costprofit calculations- I believe from the latest surveys of business intentions he is doing this- that there are benefits to be gained by proceeding now while supplies, equipment and labour are more readily available as compared with what is likely to be the case when the recovery has progressed, as surely it will, to the point where everybody wants to invest at once. So there is advantage in moving now and taking advantage of the allowance and the double depreciation provision as well, up to 30 June. 
Of course, in addition to that there are also major areas of investment in basic or heavy industry, or, for example, major ore projects, where the lead times in investment are so long that the investment process proceeds pretty well independently of the ups and downs of consumer demand. In those sorts of areas where the lead times are very long we can look, and are looking, to the investment allowance to have a major impact. But I stress again that the investment allowance measure is only one part of a total policy package. Of course, there will be instances where it will still not be effective because the inflation cost factor that has to be written into the profitability estimate of a project- into the discounted cash flow calculation, to use a technical term- will rule out the project. This is particularly true in import competing industries and even more so in export oriented industries where prices and markets are governed by external conditions and particularly in countries- most of our major markets- where inflation rates are now below ours, for instance Japan where it is 7.5 per cent and the United States where it is 7 per cent, to cite 2 major markets. 
Of course, there are a variety of other difficulties. While the investment allowance can contribute and is contributing in a major way to the profitability sums coming out right and hence to the adoption of new projects and the creation of new jobs- I stress our aim is to get the economy moving again in order to expand job opportunities, to restore full employment and growth in this country- we come back, as I began, to beating inflation which is the No. 1 objective. That remains our principal objective. 
I draw the attention of the House to the fact that a major advance in this legislation is the extension of the benefit not only to a much wider range of industry than that to which such an allowance previously applied but also to situations where plant is leased rather than purchased outright. This provision is important because as the legacy of the policies of the previous Governmentinflation, the squeeze on profits to which I referred, the bleeding of companies by the t?.x impact on the phantom profits of inflationmany firms find themselves in a position of acute shortage of working capital, and access to leasing is of great assistance to them. The Bill therefore provides a major advance over previous legislation in this area in that it makes the benefit of the allowance available to firms acquiring plant and equipment by leasing. In this respect it provides that the benefit should accrue in the first instance to the lessor. I will touch on the reasons for this if there is time. I want to quote the following passage from the statement of the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  on 1 April:  ... it was the Government's expectation and wish that the benefit of the allowance be passed on to the lesseeuser. 
That statement refers to the user of the equipment. 
As my colleague the honourable member for Diamond Valley says, it is a very important point and I want to make it clear. I want to underline the Treasurer's words in that respect. Later on in that statement he stressed how the legislation had been drawn up, 'so as to facilitate and encourage the flow-on of the tax benefit' to the lessee user. My own view is that there is much to be said for making the benefit accrue direct to the lessee user. There are, however, reasons why in some circumstances it may be preferable for the allowance to remain with the lessor. For instance, there are circumstances where the lessee user cannot make proper benefit of the concession. I refer to newly established companies with profit generating potential but without sufficient profits in the first years of operation to benefit from the allowance, or companies currently in a tax loss position, and many small businesses generally. In these cases it is preferable that the benefit accrue to the lessor, and the lessor pass on the benefit by means of lower lease rentals. There is no reason to doubt that competition in these contexts will by and large ensure that the benefit will be passed on. 
I conclude on this note: A measure such as this which confers such a major incentive in the interest of fostering business investment- and that is the key to lasting recovery, restored growth and full employment in Australia- inevitably has many and varied impacts on the whole 
Australian economy. The truth is that not all these can be clearly identified or foreseen. I wish therefore to assure those interested parties that have made and are making representations to the Government on this matter- I trust that the Ministers in charge of the Bill will reinforce this assurance- that the Government will keep the operation of the legislation continually under review to ensure that it operates efficiently and equitably to achieve its stated purpose. For example, at the present time the Government Parties Treasury Committee, of which I am the  Chairman,  is looking closely at the operation of the legislation in relation to hiring as distinct from leasing firms and will be making recommendations to the Government on this matter. 
It is a very important matter. In the meantime, I commend the legislation to the House and Australian industry and I say again to Australian industry: Get up and take advantage of a bold and generous measure and thereby play your part in getting Australia moving again and in restoring prosperity to and full employment for all Australians. 
-Has the Treasurer's attention been drawn to conflicting reports about the amount of money to be made available to local government next year? Will he give the House an indication of the actual position? 
-My question is directed to the Treasurer. I refer to the stock valuation adjustment proposal for companies as announced last night by the Treasurer. Will he explain to the House in what ways the proposal differs from the recommendations of the Mathews Committee on this subject? 
-As the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  said, this Bill is essentially a very straightforward measure. I will return in a moment to his plaintive cries about our opposition to the corresponding measure last year. As he said, the purpose of the Bill is to authorise borrowings for defence so that a part of the projected 1976-77 defence expenditure, which would normally be met from the Consolidated Revenue Fund, may instead be met from the Loan Fund. Clause 3 proposes a limit for this purpose of $ 1,600m, about which the honourable member made some play but not to much effect. To the extent that defence spending is financed to that amount from the Loan Fund, it reduces the call on the Consolidated Revenue Fund which otherwise would have had insufficient funds. All this is one part of the necessary borrowing to finance the projected deficit in this Budget of $2,608m. In other words, that is the estimated borrowing requirement of the Government. That term is now prevalent overseas. I expect it is more acceptable to my friend the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  who is not at all keen on the word 'deficit', as the House may know. The phrase used overseas is the 'public sector borrowing requirement'- the PSBR. If we were to use that term I suppose we would have to include the proposed public borrowings of the Australian Telecommunications Commission referred to by the honourable member for Adelaide. They add a further $200m to the effective financing operation. The honourable member referred to that as something of a fiddle. I would say that it is a quite legitimate procedure, with the changed status of the Telecommunications Commission. 
I put to the House that a deficit or a borrowing requirement of this order is pushing towards the limits of what is practicable in a context of responsible, counter-inflationary monetary management. There is no net of propaganda or whatever else the honourable member suggested, just the realities of economic life. Last night we were urged by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  and other Opposition members to provide increased spending in this, that or other directions- that is, to increase total expenditure more than we have done- or to cut taxes even more than we have done. I take this opportunity of reminding honourable members that personal income tax has been effectively cut by no less than $ 1,000m in this Budget. We have been urged to do many things, all of which would have meant increasing expenditure and/or cutting taxes by more than we have. I will not be so dogmatic as to say that there is not room for differences of judgment as to the precise level of total spending in relation to the anticipated receipts as affected by the tax changes which we have made, hence differences of judgment as to the precise size of deficit which would be consistent with a responsible monetary policy. But I repeat- a deficit of the order which we propose is pushing towards the limits of a feasible financing operation. 
There are people, apart from members of the Opposition, who would suggest otherwise.  Mr P.  P. McGuinness is a case in point. In the  National Times  last Sunday he went so far as to suggest that we might have gone as much as $900m further. This just will not stand up. 
It is interesting that  Mr McGuinness,  endorsed the target, or at least its upper limit, for the growth of money supply proposed by the Government in this Budget, namely, 12 per cent. As Budget Statement No. 2 puts it, in the context of the forecast growth of money gross domestic product of somewhat less than 16 per cent growth in the money supply of 10 to 12 per cent should be- and I quote- 'consistent with the objectives of policy namely, to provide sufficient funds to foster sustainable recovery in private sector activity and employment, while exerting some downward pressure on inflation'.  Mr McGuinness  endorses that. He says: 
But, considering the problems of inflation and the need to hold back excessive growth in money supply, 12 per cent seems a reasonable figure. 
With the money supply now of the order of $33, 500m, that 12 per cent would mean about $4,000m.  Mr McGuinness  goes on for his part to project the formation of additional money supply totalling only $3, 100m, and hence his conclusion that the deficit might well have been considerably greater. 
Without boring the House with detail, and conscious of the time limit imposed by my Whip, 
I would query at least three of the components of  Mr McGuinness's  estimates, including his view that there will be an overall balance of payments deficit of $500m in 1976-77. I notice that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Uren)  is in the chamber. I recall a question he asked this morning. He certainly did not contemplate any such deficit. I do not think it is a very appropriate assumption. There are other inappropriate assertions in  Mr McGuinness's  article. So, with this, I believe his confident assertion that there is all this additional leeway, disappears. 
In my turn, I do not want to be dogmatic, but what is clear, as I said before, is that the Government has pushed pretty close to the limits of what is responsible monetary management. What this contrasts with is the clear situation of pushing beyond those limits as the previous Administration did- way beyond them, utterly irresponsibly beyond them- in 1975. That is why this corresponding Bill last year was given such a stormy passage. We were determined to oblige the then Government to examine its soul, to appreciate just what it was about and what potential damage it was storing up for the economy. 
I conclude by saying that what our approach means is that in approaching the limit, not going far in excess of it as the previous Administration did, there is perhaps some scope for flexibility as the precise position becomes clear as events unfold. Of course, that would be within the context of our unchanging strategy to beat inflation, to provide meaningful, gainful employment for all Australians, and to get the Australian economy moving strongly forward again. I support the Bill. 
-The speech of the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  was such a collection of incorrect and misleading statements that one hardly knows where to begin to answer it. It was a speech perhaps well designed to appeal to the unthinking, but it will not be bought by the majority of responsible Australians. Its centrepiece was a complaint that there has not been full indexation of wages and bigger and better wage increases. Perhaps that has a superficial appeal to wage and salary earners in a secure job, but there is another group to which the honourable member for Gellibrand scarcely referred, and that is the million and more Australians who are unemployed. I ask this Parliament and the Australian people listening to this debate to think hard on that group of people. They have no union to represent them. They are not represented before the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, nor do they have a great deal at stake in the business of preserving industrial peace and harmonious industrial relations to which the honourable member referred. 
I stress 2 points. First, the Labor Party when in government created the unemployment which we have inherited, and that is the main reason why the substantial reduction in the increase in wages was achieved last year. The honourable member for Gellibrand attributed this reduction wholly to the introduction of wage indexation. The level of unemployment was less than 100 000 in 1973 and early 1974. By the middle to end of 1975 it was up to around 300 000. That was the end point of the policies of the former Government, and it achieved perhaps in one sense some result, but it is the present Government's policies which will reduce that unemployment. I say to the honourable member that if the Government's strategy does not on the face of it promise an early pick-up in employment what needs to be said is that any alternative approach would promise less by way of establishing a lasting increase in employment. 
Let me approach my reply to the honourable member by stating positively the Government's approach. It is first and foremost to put to the Australian people- I have in mind in particular the rank and file of Australian unions, if not their leaders- this fundamental truth: It is the big wage rise of the employed man that costs the unemployed man his job. This is absolutely central. It is the wage rise of the employed man that costs the unemployed man his job. This is not worker bashing in an attempt to contain the increases in wages and salaries. This is not a reversion to a crude wage fund theory. It is a truth which stems from the reality of the distortions of the Australian economy brought about by the previous Government, the essence of which was inflation. In particular, costs are way out of line with those of our overseas trading partners. They are too high and rising. So we have a situation in which the most expensive thing an employer can do is employ an Australian. The employer would be doing everything he can to minimise his labour requirements. That is the first of these distortions which underline the fundamental truth that the wage rise of the employed man is what costs the unemployed man his job. 
Another is the level of profits. The honourable member for Gellibrand made a great deal of the fact that the profit share has shown some signs of recovery. Indeed it must. It was reduced as a result of the policies of the previous Government to a level which could not sustain continuing economic activity and continuing investment. Let me stress this: It is from today's profits that stem tomorrow's investments and new jobs of the day after tomorrow. That is what the importance of restoring reasonable profitability is all about. It is all about the incentive and the capacity, as the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  stated in his ministerial statement earlier today, to undertake new investment. It is today's new investment which provides tomorrow's new jobs. Under the previous administration the share of profits was squeezed to a point where there could not be new development. 
I underline again the truth, one which was propounded in this chamber by the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  when Treasurer, that the undue wage rise of the employed man is what in these circumstances costs the unemployed man his job. We put this to the Australian people. We put it to the Arbitration Commission. The thrust, the major component, of our wages policy is to put this view to the Commission with the object of slowing the increase in award wages. We have sought to do this in a way which minimises its impact on the low income groups. Our objective is to attempt to slow the increase in award wages in a way which minimises its impact on low income groups. So we have proposed and argued for, and the Commission has acceded to it in its last 2 national wage judgments, a system of so-called tapered or plateau wage indexation. I ask the House to recall that the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations in his statement quoted chapter and verse to show that this is precisely the position that the now Opposition when in government itself embraced and argued for. In 1974 it submitted that a system of wage indexation should be introduced which would provide indexation as a flat amount across the board derived by application of the movement in the consumer price index to the minimum wage. A similar proposal was put in 1 975. 
What we seek to achieve in the face of say, a 3 per cent increase in the consumer price index, is the full 3 per cent increase, about $3 a week, for the low income earner, but we ask the man on, say, $30,000 a year to forgo for a period, to give us a breathing space to beat inflation, part of the nearly $20 a week increase that a 3 per cent rise would give him. That is what is involved in plateau indexation which we have proposed. In proposing that we are acting fully in accordance with the wage indexation principles laid down by the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. During the election campaign this Government committed itself to the support of wage indexation and the wage indexation principles of the Commission. In putting forward that sort of submission, the Government is acting in accordance with those principles, particularly principle 1 and principle 4, which latter states that the Commission will determine from time to time what the form of indexation will be. The Government has sought to slow the increase in award wage rates by this form of adjustment to price increases. 
Let me say in passing that the slowing of award wage increases is an integral part of the Government's program, but the Government does not expect that real earnings overall will do other than hold steady. While award rates will be slowed in this way, with the recovery of the economy there will be increased overtime and other receipts. Overtime hours worked have increased already. In addition, there will be the effect of the system of family allowances, to which 1 will refer in a moment. As a result of those factors, we will have a position which is as set out on page 26 of the Budget Speech: 
Real average earnings per employed person would remain approximately unchanged . . . 
The statement adds:  . . . due to employment growth, aggregate real earnings would increase moderately. 
Together with the unlocking of accumulated savings, that is the basis for an increase in real consumption which the Government and the Opposition, as well as the unions, recognise as an essential component in economic recovery. 
The Government has taken 2 major initiatives to back its stand in the wages context- to confer authority on it, so to speak, for restraining increases in wages and salaries. I refer to the system of family allowances which has been introduced and to the introduction of personal tax indexation as from 1 July. So far as the system of family allowances is concerned, what is important is that in low income groups- income groups where insufficient tax is paid to take advantage of rebates for children- the substantially increased family allowances are a net addition to incomes. Those increases are very substantial. For 5 children, the new system of family allowances represents something like $27.50 a week or a cheque for $330 for a 12-week period. 
-That is right, and Australians will be receiving those cheques this week. Through the payment of that allowance the Government has introduced a measure which substantially advantages low income groups. Again, as I said before, that confers authority on the Government to pursue its policy of wage restraint in the interests of restoring economic health and providing rewarding effective jobs for all Australians. In addition, tax indexation has been implemented from 1 July. The Mathews Committee, which the Opposition set up when it was in government, recommended this step. Its recommendation was supported by the Australian Council of Trade Unions, but the previous Government did not see fit to implement the measure. The Government stated in its policy speech that it would seek to implement tax indexation over 3 years; it has been implemented in its entirety as from 1 July. Indexation involves an effective reduction in taxation compared with what it would otherwise be and, as the Minister said, will amount to over $ 1 ,000m in a year and of the order of 2.6 per cent to 3.9 per cent of income in the relevant tax range. So in that way also the Government has sought to moderate pressure for wage claims. It has acted in that way in the interests of all Australians and in such a way that the impact of its policy on low income groups is substantially moderated. 
-It would be pointless of me to pursue all the unwarranted and misleading statements by the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden),  the previous Treasurer. At this stage I shall refer to only 2 points. I shall come back to another, the aggregate of personal taxation, later. The first point to which I would refer is the basis for increased consumption expenditure. We all agree- the Government, the Opposition and the unionsthat increased real consumption expenditure is an important factor for economic recovery. But the Government does not leave it there, as the Budget strategy presented by the honourable member for Oxley last year did, in relying almost wholly on an increase in consumption expenditure. Accordingly we implemented the investment allowance and other measures to stimulate investment expenditure so that that would complement the increase in consumption expenditure. 
Thus, we do not deny that an important component of economic recovery is increased real consumption expenditure. In this respect it is correct, as I shall argue again later, that it is an integral part of the Government's policy to slow the growth of award wage increases. I believe that the average, thinking, responsible Australian accepts that. He recognises, as a predecessor as Treasurer of the honourable member for Oxley said, that the big pay rise of the employed man is what costs the unemployed man his job. I stressed this point this afternoon. The big pay rises by those in employment, by raising the cost of employing Australians to a point where the most expensive thing an employer can do is employ an Australian, lead to increased unemployment. People recognise that. So wage and salary increases have to be contained. I want to stress, however, that with the best efforts the Government can bring to bear in this respect the anticipation is that we will achieve no more than holding real earnings steady. I quote, as I did this afternoon, from page 26 of the Budget Papers where, referring to the projections of the Government, it is stated: 
Real average earnings per employed person would remain approximately unchanged . . . 
It is then added: . . . due to employment growth, aggregate real earnings would increase moderately. 
That, together with the unlocking of accumulated savings by consumers, is the basis we look to for increased real consumption. 
Perhaps the honourable member for Oxley could not understand it but what also should be said is that the constant harping on unemployment by the honourable member for Oxley will not facilitate this process of the unlocking of accumulated savings by consumers. People should take confidence that this Budget is designed to cut back the high and stubborn rate of inflation and the associated high level of unemployment- that it is designed to reduce inflation and to restore full employment and a climate of expansion and prosperity in the country and in these circumstances proceed to increase their consumption expenditure as they would ordinarily do. The other point I wish to raise in relation to the honourable member for Oxley is his references to integrity. 
How would he know?' asks my colleague. What more needs to be said than that such a charge is levelled by the previous Treasurer who projected a deficit of the order of $2,600m for 1975-76 and it ended up at $3,585m? Integrity? I rest my case there. The central purpose of this Budget is to combat the high rate of inflation and to restore full employment and economic activity, and that in itself is the greatest social benefit this Government can, and will, confer on the Australian people. But the Government is determined both to achieve these objectives and at the same time to press ahead with its program of social reform. This is a Budget of reform as well as a Budget for restoring the bruised and battered Australian economy. This aspect is perhaps best illustrated by what we have done in relation to family allowances. That is the first of 2 principal matters that I want to touch on tonight. In doing so I want to stress that there is a tendency for the Budget to be regarded as the once and for all, the be all and end all of economic policy, with Budget day the one day of the year for laying it all down. That is an inadequate and out of date view. The fact of the matter is that the Budget is one episode in the continuing process of economic policy making. That was never truer than in this case when the process began on 14 December last. In particular this Budget contains and embraces as integral to it in the fullest sense the measures announced in this House on 20 May last. There has been a continuous and predictable- I stress that; it is very important; that is in great contrast to the previous administration- process of economic and social policy making by this Government. 

 I want to focus on two of the major elements in this total Budget process. Both of them were announced on 20 May. They are the new system of family allowances and the implementing of tax indexation. Both of these measures have been operative from 1 July. That was possible because of the pre-announcement on 20 May and the passage of legislation last session. I want to give a few details of the Budget's new system of family allowances because I know that many Australians listening to this broadcast perhaps even now are not fully aware of the details of the total shape of the system. 
Members of the Opposition clearly are not so I shall endeavour to instruct them also. Of the greatest importance about the system is that it channels greatly increased assistance to where it is most needed. That is true of all the significant social reforms in this Budget. It gives the lie to the false and spurious claim by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  in his speech on the Budget when he said that with this Government:  . . . those most in need will get least and the wealthy will get most. 
That is utterly and demonstrably false. If the honourable member has any feeling for principlehe was in the chamber a moment ago- he will withdraw that allegation. The main features of the system are these: The former child endowment payments will be replaced by a new system of family allowances under which the family with one child will receive $3.50 a week from the Government. The amount was formerly 50c. The family with 2 children will receive $8.50 which was formerly $1.50. The family with 3 children will receive $14.50 a week; that was formerly $3.50. The family with 4 children will receive $20.50 a week and the family with 5 children will receive $27.50 a week. That amounts to $330 per 12-week period. An additional $7 a week is paid for each additional child. These payments are large. I hope the Australian public will recognise that. But, of course, the payments are made without means test in every case and the Government might have attracted great criticism had it rested there. But the other key aspect of the system is that at the same time the tax rebates for children have been abolished. The effect of that is that for the higher income groups the gains from the new family allowances offset by the loss of tax rebates and consequent higher tax payments- it is more or less a line ball position. But low income earners paying little or no tax and therefore not in a position to benefit from the tax rebates will receive a significant net increase in their incomes. 
As my colleague says, in this way poorer families including, as the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  stressed recently, Aboriginal families, receive a significant net addition to their incomes. Indeed, about 300 000 low income families and their 800 000 dependent children are benefiting in this way. 
Some 300 000 low income families with some 800 000 dependent children. I suggest to this Parliament that the help thus given is more meaningful than any single social welfare measure introduced by the Labor Government notwithstanding its claim- its usual hollow claim- to have a monopoly of concern in this area. I stress that measure, first, because it highlights the concern of the Government in this its first Budget to push ahead with its social welfare program notwithstanding the difficult economic climate and, secondly, because it links up with the second major initiative I referred to, the indexing of personal taxation. This is both a major thrust in the direction of containing the burden of taxation on Australians, which is a fundamental objective of this Government, and also of our anti-inflation policy. Both of these measures- the indexing of taxes and the system of family allowances which gives special help to low income groups- are measures which, so to speak, confer authority on this Government to carry through its policy of containing the increase in wages and salaries. That increase in wages and salaries is the main current and prospective cause of inflation and thus the important thing is to contain such increases. As I stressed earlier, I believe that the majority of thinking responsible Australians recognise that. They can see that the big increases sought and obtained by persons in employment is the major factor which costs the unemployed their jobs. As I have said, we must therefore move in this direction in the interests of all Australians, the unemployed as well as those in employment. 
What I would like to do in the time left to me in this debate is to try to convey to the Australian people just what this obscure phrase 'the indexing of taxes' means. Essentially it means that when a person's money income goes up in line with inflation- if say, prices go up 10 per cent and a person's wage or salary goes up 10 per cent, whereas previously, and especially under the last 3 years of Labor rule, tax would have gone up more like by 20 per cent or twice the increase in income- under this indexing process the tax goes up by only 10 per cent. So tax stays at the same proportion of a person's income as applied before the increase. This is done by indexing, increasing the limits of the tax scale so that as a person's income increases he does not move into a higher rate of marginal taxation. In addition, the general rebate has been indexed. It has been increased from $540 to $610. That is a tax saving of $70 straight away. The rebate for a spouse has been increased from $400 to $500. That is more than an indexing of this amount; it has been done in the interests of assisting single income families. The rebate for a spouse thus increased from $400 to $500 means an actual tax reduction of an additional $100. In those 2 measures alone there is a tax saving of $ 1 70. 
What I would stress is that this indexing of the tax system will save Australians in 1976-77 something of the order of $ 1,000m in taxes which they would otherwise have had to pay. In that sense it has been done at that sort of cost- $ 1,000m- to the Government. That is what we meant during the election campaign by our undertaking to put a stop to the personal income tax rip off. That is what is meant by this technical phrase 'the indexing of taxes'. And, more than that, the legislation applies not just to this year but for all years to come. Thus next fiscal year, 1977-78, the personal tax scale will under our legislation be automatically indexed and the rip off less because we will have inflation under control. I commend these massive, novel, farreaching initiatives to the Australian people. I add that we have managed to implement them without resort to those perennial sources of increased revenue such as extra tax on drinks, cigarettes and petrol. 
Yes, such as those the honourable member for Oxley imposed in his Budget last year. We have managed to avoid those. It is true that the change to Medibank will be an off-set to these measures but only a short term one. By getting the massive escalation in the cost of Medibank under control and ensuring greater competition and choice in health insurance there will be less cost, less taxation, than there would otherwise have been. The health insurance charge has to be seen as a feeforservice, not a tax. 
Therefore I would like in conclusion- I said I would come back to this question of the total of personal taxation- to explain a point about the Budget figuring which Opposition speakers have misrepresented. They look in the Budget papers and they see that the total of personal income taxes will, on the face of it, increase from $9,200m in 1 975-76 to $ 1 1 ,307m this year and it is being said: 'Is that not just the same rip off as under the Whitlam Labor Government?' To that I answer 'No, it is not'. I seek leave at this point to incorporate in  Hansard  a table illustrating my point in this respect. 
My question is addressed to the Prime Minister. What steps will the Government take to publicise the Government's important proposal for a significant subsidy to employers to take on and train unemployed school leavers as part of the National Employment and Training scheme and thus encourage employers to avail themselves of it? 
I rise to reject the amendment proposed by the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford),  to support the proposed expenditure for the Treasury and to outline the policy that the Government is pursuing. The honourable member for Adelaide said that the Government is doing things to depress the Australian economy. That is a real joke. It was 3 years of Labor misrule that depressed the economy. It is not my purpose to spend the short time available to me to go over that ground, but let me make the point that in 1973 unemployment in this country was less than 100 000. It continued that way for a little time, but by the latter part of 1974 and during 1975 the level of unemployment increased to some 300 000 Australians. That is the situation which it took the Australian Labor Party some time to bring about- it will take us some time to cure it. The policy proposed by the Government is not designed to effect an instant cure. There is no way that the deeply damaged economy that we took over can be restored quickly. It will be a long haul, and the Australian people realise that. 
The honourable member for Adelaide made play with certain recent statistics. I should think he waits with bated breath for the appearance of every statistic in the hope that it will provide a stick with which to beat the Government. He will win some; he will lose others. We do not question the fact that at this stage the indicators can be equivocal. That is inevitable at this stage of the recovery, but the recovery is under way. Of course, what is of genuine concern is the continuing high level of unemployment. I would like in the short time available to me to review our strategy in our approach to that problem. 
Sitting suspended from 12.59 to 2.15 p.m. 
-Before the luncheon adjournment reference had been made to the continuing high level of unemployment. Opposition members sometimes speak as though that was of no concern to the Government. It is of very real concern- nay, of paramount concernto the Government. 
It did, as I pointed out before the adjournment. But the essence of the Government's economic strategy is this: Firstly, the number one priority, to reduce inflation by means of incomes restraint and by taking hold of the public spending deficit situation; secondly, through reducing inflation and by other means, notably the investment allowance and other incentives, to foster sound economic recovery and restore full employment and a climate of expansion. Full employment is the objective of the whole exercise. The principal point now is that inflation, which is the prime target because it is inflation which is the main cause of unemployment, is coming down. In the March quarter of this year the CPI index increase was 3 per cent, compared with 3.5 per cent in the corresponding quarter in 1975. The latest figure for the June quarter is 2.5 per cent, compared with 3.5 per cent in the corresponding quarter last year. 
I want to stress to the Australian people that the key factor in getting this result has been the moderation achieved in the wages-prices merrygoround, the futile process of wages up and then prices up, prices up and then wages up, in a futile attempt to get ahead, and in the process weakening the economy and creating- or, as things are now, maintaining- the high and totally unacceptable level of unemployment. I suggest that the majority of the Australian people support the Government in its view of the futility of pushing for big wage and salary increases which result only in higher prices. The majority of the Australian people, along with a former Treasurer in this place, perceive this truth that the big wage increases for people in employment are what cost the unemployed jobs. What the Government and the majority of the Australian people can see, but not the Opposition and some union leaders, as distinct from rank and file unionists, is that we need a breathing space, a brake to the futile wage- price spiral in order to set the stage for renewed growth. 
This Government has pursued an active policy to achieve that aim. It has sought, in lieu of too large wage increases, to assist employees by introducing tax indexation, a measure which has had the effect initially of reducing taxes and which will prevent an undue rise in taxes during the course of this year. In fact, as a result of this measure, during 1976-77 taxpayers will not pay $ 1060m in taxes which they would otherwise have paid. The Government has introduced a system of family allowances which gives the greatest assistance to people on low incomes. It has sought to persuade the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, in the face of opposition from the Australian Council of Trade Unions and Opposition spokesmen, that the adjustment of wages and salaries ought to be in a form which assists the low income earner. For instance, if prices rise by 3 per cent then there should be an increase of the order of $3 for the low income earner, but the increase should taper so that a person with an income as high as $30,000 per annum, for whom a 3 per cent increase represents nearly $20 a week, should receive a much lower increase than that in the national interest and in the interest of containing inflation and getting the economy moving again. So the Government has argued, and the Commission has made a judgment in that sort of form. That has been the Government's policy. 
I conclude by saying that yesterday  Mr Justice  Moore of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission met with representatives of employers and employees and the Government to consider the future of the income fixing procedures to which I have just referred. It is a matter of the gravest import that there should be a continuation of the moderation of money income rises and hence costs that has been achieved so far. A big bump in the price index is coming up in December and all 3 parties involved- the Government, employees and employers- will have to play their part and, in a spirit of give and take and genuine national concern, arrive at a solution, an arrangement which is equitable and also sets the stage for the strengthening of economic recovery, for the resurgence of employment and economic growth that we all want. 
-The honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  and the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)-  as my colleague said, those 2 great rivals for the mantle of Opposition Treasury spokesman- feel obliged to say their own thing notwithstanding that that gets them involved in contradicting each other, and indeed in contradicting themselves. Nothing that they have said in support of this matter of public importance changes my original rejoinder when I saw the terms of it. My rejoinder is: It is the Opposition that would postpone recovery not just for a quarter- we heard a lot about the September quarter from the honourable member for Oxley just a moment ago, he had a selective look at statistics relating to that quarter- the Opposition would postpone economic recovery not just for a quarter or for 6 months, but for years. That is the point that I should like to get over in the short time at my disposal. 
It is true we are going through a difficult transition period, a tough period the Opposition chooses to call it. But that is necessary to set the foundation for lasting recovery. The honourable member for Adelaide had a good deal to say about the control of inflation versus reducing unemployment as priorities. That entirely misses the point. We focus on inflation because inflation is the principal cause of unemployment and is the whole drag on economic recovery. So to restore full employment and growth in the economy, which it our overriding aim, we have to get inflation under control. That is the setting against which we have to look at what the Opposition has put forward. It has been put forward by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  last week, with the honourable member for Adelaide agreeing at least to this extent, that there has to be a sizeable increase in public spending. 
I shall come back to what my colleague the honourable member for Wakefield said about printing notes. There can be a difference of opinion as to whether the total of Government spending should be precisely at the level set in the Budget or, say, of the order of $100m to $200m more. There is a flexibility inevitably in our program. We recently announced additional spending in relation to Aborigines and increases in the Tertiary Education Allowances Scheme. With that flexibility there needs to be scope for additional spending of the order to which I referred. But beyond that, higher Government spending is not on, if resolutely we are to get on top of inflation. And this Government intends to do that. 
The overall deficit now, through its impact on money supply, is pushing towards the limit of what is practicable in the context of a responsible counter-inflationary monetary management. Push it any further, with the resultant deficit, and the easing of interest rates- the honourable member for Adelaide pressed for this in a different context, contradicting himself, as I said- - would be impossible. I want to underline that conflict not just as a debating point  vis-a-vis  the honourable member for Adelaide. It is quite fundamental. The truth has to dawn on the Opposition that while it is easy to print money- this is my reference to the comment of my colleagueone cannot print jobs. That is the essence of it. We have to balance what can be done in the fiscal area- Government spending and taxation- - with what can be done in the monetary area. If we push ahead with $500m or more of extra Government spending and on top of that cut sales tax, reduce company tax and personal tax, as was suggested by the Leader of the Opposition the other day and again by speakers here today, we are talking of such an increase in the deficit and potentially the money supply that an upward hike in interest rates in order to try to limit its inflationary effects would be unavoidable. As a recent issue of the  Economist  has put it, if one goes for fiscal ease- that is the big spendup and an excessive deficit- the monetary squeeze has to be all that much bigger and tougher. True, many countries are running some son of a deficit at the moment. But referring to a survey of 7 major countries of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development the  Economist  notes: 
The two with the biggest deficits as a percentage of gnpItaly 10 percent, Britain 5% percent - 
-How are they getting on? I return to the quotation. The  Economist  report continues:   are experiencing the biggest inflations, and so are having to impose the biggest degrees of monetary stringency . . . and therefore face the biggest eventual recessions. 
That is the point. Who is postponing economic recovery? The program that the Australian 
Labor Party is proposing is precisely the program that the  Economist  says causes countries to face the biggest eventual recessions. 
-Indeed, and this Government is not going to let that happen. The article in the  Economist  concludes with words to the effect that a country that wants to control inflation while limiting unemployment, which is what we want to do, would do better balancing its Budget with conservative fiscal policies while making money cheaper for investment, rather than the other way round. That is what we are doing. It is inevitable that inflation must be decisively beaten and be seen to be beaten before interest rates can be significantly reduced and thus speed up the investment revival, among other things, which is the essential basis for sustained recovery and economic growth. We are moving in that direction. Let me take this opportunity to stress to the Australian people that the recent change in the interest rate on Australian savings bonds from 9.2 per cent to 9.5 per cent was not a general increase in interest rates but an adjustment of that rate back to the situation which prevailed before the period of monetary tightness. Up to April the rate was 9.5 per cent; in April it was reduced to 9.2 per cent to avoid taking in too much money during the period of financial stringency. It has now reverted to that level of 9.5 per cent. It is the Government's objective, as and when inflation is beaten, to get it down below that figure. 
The other major point which has been put forward by the Opposition and on which I will conclude is that there should be 'full' wage indexation, so-called. Of course, it is difficult to disagree with the proposition that employees ought to be able to hold on to what they have. But I ask: What about the unemployed? 
Who speaks for them? In 1974-75 there was an increase in real wages of the order of 12 per cent- two or three year's progress rolled into one, as  Mr Bob  Hawke himself put it. But the cost has been 300 000 unemployed. The Government therefore argues that we have to take hold of this process of wages chasing prices and get inflation under control with a view to getting unemployment down and fostering economic recovery. I believe that the vast majority of the Australian people recognise the futility of that process of wages chasing prices and support us in our endeavour. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. The discussion is concluded. 
APPROPRIATION BILL (No.  1) 1976-77  In Committee 
Consideration resumed from 14 October. 
I rise to support strongly the Government's decision embodied in this measure, the Customs Tariff (Coal Export Duty) Amendment Bill, to phase out this iniquitous- perhaps a less emotive term would be 'inefficient'- and discriminatory tax. I do not intend to answer the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  in detail. But I noticed that the honourable member could not resist engaging in a bit of Treasury bashing. Of course, that has been the form all through. The problems of the Labor Government were said to be due to the former Liberal-National Country Party Government, due to conditions overseas, due to successive Treasurers or, as a last resort, due to the Treasury. They were never due to the Government itself. I hope that, after reflecting at greater length on their mistakes, honourable members opposite will come to recognise the true situation and to accept their responsibility. 
This Bill deals with a tax on exports. To my knowledge, it is the only specific tax on exports. It could be asked: Why is not a tax imposed on the export of wool, iron ore, beef or any other of our major exports? Why this discrimination? The answer comes through clearly enough. The honourable member for Blaxland said, as Opposition members when in government said last year, that the coal export trade is a very profitable one, and it can stand the duty. I can remember the honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr Connor),  as Minister for Minerals and Energy, with his obsession with some of the big open-cut coal mines in Queensland, enlarging on the size of profits from export coal and arguing that this duty would net only a small fraction  of the total coal mining profits and therefore was perfectly justified. The answer to that is precisely the basic objection to the duty that I have mentioned, namely that it is 'inefficient'. I use that word in the technical economic sense. It works against the economic maxim that we should encourage those activities that we can do best. That the industry is profitable is the best indication that our resource endowment, and other circumstances favour development of the industry. To foster it is the path to greater prosperity and higher living standards for all Australians. 
The industry is not uniformly profitable. That is a major objection to the duty, as it falls haphazardly on the profitable, the barely profitable and the unprofitable mines alike. Its incidence is most uneven and unjust. Undoubtedly it has had an adverse effect on employment in particular areas. So the Government has moved to phase out this iniquitous and discriminatory duty. This Bill is the first move in that direction. 
I want to make some general points in this connection which further underline the case against the tax. The first is that an export duty of any shape or form is particularly inappropriate in the Austraiian situation. This is because paradoxically the very success, historically, taking the long sweep of Australian development, of our rural and mining export industries, coupled with our tariff policy to foster the development of manufacturing, has meant that our international payments and receipts have balanced at a higher value of the Australian dollar than would otherwise have been the case. Thus the very pattern of our development has imposed its own long-term counterweight, penalty if you like, on the profitable export industries. One of the effects is to make the lot of import competing manufacturing that much harder because the relatively high value of the Australian dollar makes imports cheap. That gives us, in my view, an almost unique position among small manufacturing countries. It is one of the reasons why, on the face of it, our nominal tariff rates, on which we normally rely pretty exclusively rather than on quotas or other non-tariff barriers, often appear high. However, that is by way of digression. My point at this juncture is precisely that in all the circumstances of Australian development export subsidies, not export duties, are what the situation really demands. 
There is another point in that connection. The capital account of the Australian balance of payments has played a major role in these trends. The typical large annual import of capital into Australia has added to the receipts side of our balance of payments, strengthening it and the value of the dollar. What is important in this respect, in my opinion, is that in addition to continuing as a large importer of capital- the sheer size and lumpiness of investments such as those on the north west shelf, and the need for the technology and the know-how that goes with the import of capital, will require that we remain a large importer of capital- increasingly as well Australia, Australians and Australian companies should, will become capital exporters. The process is already under way. The takeover bid by the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd for Peabody Coal Pty Ltd, the Australian subsidiary of the Peabody Company of the United States, which in turn is owned by the Kennecott Copper Co. in the United States, is one manifestation of this. The takeover of that large coalmining interest by BHP amounts in effect to a capital export by this country. This is also true of the acquisition by BHP of the 40-odd per cent shareholding of the Burmah Oil Co. in Woodside Burmah NL. Also in this category are the activities of Australian companies in establishing factories off-shore in neighbouring developing countries of the region. So we build up control of our assets in Australia and acquire assets abroad, as did Britain more than a century ago and as did the United States during and after World War I. 
My point is that as a capital exporter as well as a capital importer- I stress that I am not talking about the present currency situation- eventually there would not be the same net inflow holding up the Australian dollar, so the long term tendency for an otherwise high Australian dollar would, in the nature of things, be contained. I believe that is a very important factor to bear in mind. We should increasingly fashion our policies to encourage this. 
In that I am looking at the broad sweep of development over the years. But coming to more recent years, the drag on our export industriesthe rural industries most noticeably, but also the mining industry with which we are concerned tonight- and correspondingly the considerable pressure on our import competing industries, principally the manufacturing industries, has been very greatly exacerbated by the inept economic policies of the previous Labor Government. The pernicious tax that we are now moving to phase out was one element in that. But the main components, of course, were the great boost given to inflation, the very rapid build-up of inflation in this country, the specific upvaluations of the Australia dollar and, in the context of import competing manufacturing to which I referred a moment ago, the reduction in tariffs, notably the 25 per cent across-the-board tariff cut. And one can add to these things the significant reduction in export incentives- not just this tax, a positive disincentive to export, but a reduction in those positive incentives to export, much below the levels that prevailed under the previous Liberal-Country Party Government. The effects of all these measures are well summed up in a report which appeared in the  Sydney Morning Herald  only last Tuesday which is headed: 'Wages, taxes hit collier'. The report deplores the $2 a tonne export duty that we are beginning to phase out by this Bill and goes on to quote the directors as saying: 
The cost burdens borne by the industry . . . are such that at the present time our coals have been priced out of many overseas markets. 
More generally, looking at the whole range of export and import competing industries, we see that the deterioration in our international competitiveness over the past few years, largely due to inflation, and the adverse effect that this is having on activity, investment plans and new employment opportunities in Australian industry, is an adverse factor of quite major and fundamental significance in the current economic situation. In the latest report of the Industries Assistance Commission there is a calculation which shows that the general deterioration in the international competitiveness, in particular of import competing industries, over the last four or five years has been of the order of 17 per cent. It is of the order of 30 per cent vis-a-vis the United States of America. 
In particular areas there are more graphic illustrations such as the situation relating to steel plate. In 1972 Australian steel plate was priced fractionally less than the Japanese product and was significantly cheaper than in West Germany, France, the United Kingdom and the United States, whereas in March of this year Australian steel plate was some 40 per cent more expensive than the Japanese product and also ahead of those countries which I mentioned. What all this underlines is that to restore real and sustained economic health and full employment in this country we have to beat inflation. We have to get our inflation rate down and hold it down relative to our trading partners. We have to give encouragement, not disincentive, to those industries for which we are best suited. 
The facile conclusion that some draw in the current situation from these sorts of facts is that we should devalue the Australian dollar. I stress that that is not and cannot be on while the current economic instability in the Australian economy persists. There is still a momentum to inflation, and in the quarterly wage indexation hearings there is an all too efficient mechanism for the transmission of cost and price rises throughout the economy. In these circumstances, if we devalued today the short term benefits would be dissipated in additional inflation before very long. So the first and dominating requirement is to get hold of the price-wage process. Indeed, there are no soft options for getting the Australian economy back on the rails. But what is certain is that we can do without this iniquitous and discriminatory export duty. I support this Bill, which begins the process of phasing out the duty. 
-The Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  said that there was irony in this matter proposed by the Opposition. I would stress the Opposition's gall for it was the Labor Party when in government which created the mess of historic proportions from which we are extricating the economy- the high and stubborn inflation rate, the more than a quarter of a million unemployed, the serious deterioration in our competitive position in the world economy and the massive deficit in the public accounts. We have the task of extricating the economy from this mess. The Government is getting the situation under control. Its economic management is paying off. Inflation is coming down. The figure of 2.2 per cent for the September quarter, even if enlarged for the factor referred to by my colleague at question time, is still below the level of the September quarter last year not including the Medibank change. The comparisons just made by the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  lean heavily on the fact that in the September quarter last year there was an artificially low figure- 0.8 per cent- recorded for the increase in prices, the underlying rate with the Medibank factor excluded being 2.9 per cent. 
Albeit the growth in the September quarter slowed, as the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  stated, the important point is that growth is continuing. Albeit the indicators are somewhat equivocal the economy is on a path of moderate sustained growth. Real consumption in the June quarter was 3 per cent up on a year earlier. Perhaps the retail figures have not been too strong since then; however I note that the sales of new motor vehicles, seasonally adjusted, increased 10 per cent in September to stand 12 per cent above a year earlier. It is the year earlier comparisons that I stress. I take dwellings. In the June quarter fixed capital expenditure in constant prices of dwellings was 34 per cent up on the year earlier. There is still momentum as private dwelling approvals in the September quarter were 12 per cent up on a year earlier. 
Unemployment, unhappily, is still high though not higher than a year earlier if allowance is made for short-term palliatives such as the Regional Employment Development scheme by which the previous Government attempted to mop up unemployment but only got the situation further into difficulty. As against that, employment is edging up and overtime is increasing. 
Exports in the September quarter increased 12 per cent to stand 29 per cent higher than a year earlier. And all these factors to which I point are taking place against the background of broadly favourable factors. The overseas recovery, though perhaps not as fast as earlier anticipated, is proceeding in the world's major economies, the shake out in stocks which depressed product during 1975 appears to have run its course, and other factors. 
It is against that background that I affirm that the mix of policy we are pursuing is the only way to restore economic health to this country. A recent issue of  Business Week  referred to the considerable consensus among economists 'as different as Britain's left wing Joan Robinson and the U.S.'s conservative Henry C. Wallich, member of the Federal Reserve Board '. There is an approach and a broadly agreed one. It is along these lines: First and foremost, it is to counter inflation. We put the emphasis there because inflation itself is a main, if not the principal, cause of unemployment. Only the other day the British Prime Minister,  Mr Callaghan,  stated that nobody seriously disputed that inflation is the number one enemy of employment. So we put emphasis on inflation. To beat that there has to be fiscal restraint, that is, restraint in government spending and tax raising and, in particular, in getting hold of deficits. There has to be monetary restraint. The fact is that over a time the inflation rate runs at just a few points below the increase in the money supply. There are all sorts of mechanisms in that upon which I cannot elaborate. However, I will mention this one: Local, and also importantly, overseas investors confidence is significantly influenced by what is happening to the money supply as an earnest of the Government's determination to beat inflation. Also there must be incomes restraint, notably the increases in wages and salaries. In these ways, policy moves to counter inflation. Then, in a context of declining inflation, the stage is set for restored thrust in the economy, for investment, growth and increased employment, given appropriate consumer and business confidence. 
There are currently 2 major areas of difficulty for policy against that background. The first is monetary policy, the context in which this motion is put forward, including the weekend moves on the monetary front. That well illustrates the delicacy of striking a right balance between the instruments of economic policymonetary in this instance- on the one hand and the important requirement of moves to engender confidence on the other hand- the confidence to which the honourable member for Adelaide made repeated reference. With the recent growth in liquidity, new lending and the money supply, the Reserve Bank of Australia's action affecting the short end of the interest rate structure was essential. I stress that the Australian Saving Bond rate is a short term rate in this context. The very process of properly managing and financing the deficit makes this essential. The honourable member for Gellibrand had a lot to say about the size of the deficit. But what is important is not just the size of the deficit but also how it is financed. We take this latter aspect seriously. The condemnation of the Australian Labor Party when in government was not only on the basis of the size of deficit, although that was important, but also that it made no serious effort properly to finance and manage it. 
These measures were essential. But against that, there is the confidence area. Let me state categorically to the Australian community what the Treasurer has said. He said that this is not- I repeat the word 'not'- a credit squeeze. It is not a cutting down in the availability of finance for legitimate private productive activities, which is what a squeeze implies. It is not a cutting of the reasonable requirements of economic activity. Rather, it is a matter of mopping up of an excess of liquidity. The Government has been obliged to keep on with its expenditure, but receipts at this time of the year lag behind. It is true to a significant extent in this case that this has been due to the changes in relation to company taxation. But that again was a measure important for the confidence and the capacity of industry to invest. So the aim of this Government is not in any way to deprive any legitimate borrower for a genuine productive purpose of the necessary finance. What these measures will do is to forestall a real credit squeeze, the sort of thing that the Australian business and private community experienced under the previous Government in mid 1974, a squeeze which would otherwise occur in the latter stages of the financial year if this excess money or liquidity is not mopped up now. So I put it to the Australian community: Ignore the posturings of Opposition members on this matter and get on with the business of your normal economic activities. 
The other major area of difficulty is in respect of incomes growth. This Government has not flinched from the task of endeavouring to slow the growth of money wages and salaries. I say that the great majority of Australians recognise the correctness of this action. They recognise that in the interests of the unemployed, and in the interests of effectively protecting and in the end advancing the standard of living of all Australians the growth of money wages and hence of costs must be slowed. 
My question is addressed to the Attorney-General and is further to a question asked some weeks ago. Has the AttorneyGeneral received reports as to the activities of a number of religious sects involving allegations of brainwashing and indoctrination of persons joining them and alienation of children from their parents? 
-One might well ask what the Opposition is about in this motion. What it is about is this: It wants a return to so-called 'free' medical care. Does it really think that medical care and medical insurance can really be free? There is no such thing as a free meal and it is high time that the Opposition woke up to it. When in fact we assumed office, it was clear that the costs of Medibank without a change in arrangements during 1976-77 would soar to $2,000m of taxpayers' money. That is the situation which confronted this Government and I will return to it in a moment. 
Before I do so, I want to take up one of the last points that the former Treasurer, the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  was making. He tries to have it both ways. Earlier in his speech he castigated the Government for what he alleged is a record increase in income tax. He referred to the figure of 25 per cent. There is a figure in the Budget papers which shows an increase of 22.6 per cent. Let me make it clear that in point of fact even that lower percentage gives a wrong impression of the increase m direct taxes this year. There is an apparent increase of about $2,000m but $540m of that or about 6 percentage points of the increase on the previous year represents the loss of rebates to taxpayers for children. However, at the same time, those taxpayers have received the equivalent sum- all but a few dollars either way- in additional, family allowances as a straight transfer from tax to family allowances. So in any reasonable assessment of what has happened to direct taxes this year, that has to be allowed for that $540m which is a straight transfer from tax to child family allowances. That is at least 6 percentage points of the increase about which the honourable member for Oxley spoke. 
Then indeed, there is the Medibank levy. It is estimated in the 9 months of this financial year to be about $250m or another 3 percentage points of the increase. There we have 9 percentage points of this alleged 22.6 per cent increase, leaving an effective increase of 14 per cent in direct taxes. That, of course, reflects the Government's move to index taxes. With earnings anticipated to go up about 12 per cent and an increase of 2 per cent in employment we expect tax receipts to go up 14 per cent and that is the result. If it had not been for the Government's indexing of taxes, that increase would have been much larger. In fact, it would have been of the order of $ 1,000m larger. The taxpayers of Australia need to appreciate that this Government by indexing taxes, in other words by adjusting tax scales to take account of the impact of continuing inflation, has reduced its take of taxation by in excess of $ 1,000m. The honourable member, having criticised the Government for this increase in taxation, then went ahead and castigated, presumably, the Commonwealth Statistician- it is not this Government's task to construct the consumer price index- for the intention, which he alleges, of treating the levy as taxation- something which he himself was doing 5 minutes ago. 
But I lose time on the substantive issue, which is the allegation by the Opposition that there are undesirable economic and, in particular, inflationary consequences in the changes that we have made to medical insurance. I remind the House that this Government has a strategy which is to ensure lasting economic recovery, a resumption of growth and thrust in the economy, and full employment. The major prong of that strategy is to combat inflation. 
I take this opportunity to reassert that. Because inflation itself is a main if not the principal cause of unemployment, therefore, if we want to combat unemployment and restore thrust and growth to the economy we have to beat inflation, ur policy against inflation has several major prongs. One of them, of course, is to get hold of public spending and the deficit in the public accounts which had soared out of all proportion under the previous Government. Accordingly it is a major part of our policy to get hold of public spending. Along with that of course goes our objective of minimising taxation. Far from being a government that is a high taxer, as the honourable member for Oxley suggested, this Government has, as I have said, implemented legislation to index taxes which means keeping them down in an inflationary context. We want to go further than that. We do not want to stop just at indexing, which limits the increase; we want to achieve actual reductions in the total of taxation and accordingly in the total of public revenue available. 
In these circumstances the whole thrust and principle of our approach in the health insurance field can be set out. It is this: Where we have this thrust to contain rising taxation and indeed to reduce it so that there is limited public revenue, it is important that that limited revenue be used to the maximum advantage. So the thrust of our health care proposals has been that those who can afford to pay for their health insurance should do so. After all health care is as fundamental as food, clothing, motor cars or anything else. So those who can alford to pay for their health insurance should do so thereby making available the maximum of the limited public funds that are available- we are trying to cut down on the total of taxation- to help those who cannot afford their own insurance, to help those in need. Consequently we designed these arrangements to ensure that those who can afford to do so pay the full cost or near the full cost of their health insurance. 
Who can afford to pay is a question that is open to judgment. But we found on looking at the matter that the full cost of this health insurance was of the order of $300 a year. We judged that that is something that a person on $12,000 a year ought to be able to afford-$300 of $ 12,000 is 2 te per cent. So we said: 'OK. Those people on incomes of $12,000 a year and upwards will pay the full or substantially the full cost of their health care'. They were offered a family Medibank package of $300. Those who receive incomes below $12,000 pay  2Vi  per cent, that is, less than $300. Those on very low incomes pay nothing at all. That was the thinking. The effect of course is that those Australians receiving $12,000 a year and upwards in effect pay substantially the full cost of their health care. Below that level the Government picks up a substantial share of the tab. In fact over much of that range the position is that the income earner is paying about 20 per cent of the cost of his health care; in the upper income levels the figure is in excess of 80 per cent. That is how we believe it should be. In this way it is possible to minimise the cost of this on the public funds. So as a result of these proposals that we have implemented the cost to the taxpayer of the general scheme has been reduced by something in excess of $800m. 
Let me stress that from general tax revenue something of the order of $ 1,000m is still contributed to the cost of health insurance. But the cost to the general revenue is reduced by in excess of $800m. I draw attention to the fact that even with this arrangement the deficit that we have budgeted for is of the order of $2,600m. There are continuous difficulties in effectively financing that in a non-inflationary way, and it is a very significant result that the cost in this regard could be reduced by the order I have suggested. I repeat that the arrangements as we have drawn them up result in the fact that those in need and those who cannot afford to pay are substantially assisted from the public purse. Meanwhile it is worth noting that albeit there is this payment from private income- it was expressed in various emotive ways by the honourable member for Oxley as being equivalent to this or equivalent to that- it is not a significant amount in the total of private personal consumption spending which is in excess of $40,000m. It is not the payment for health care, but the lack of confidence as a result of the inflation and unemployment that were bequeathed to this Government from the previous administra.tion that has held back consumption expenditure. As this Government succeeds in getting the situation under control consumption spending will go ahead. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-The insincerity and opportunism of the Labor Opposition in bringing forward this matter are beyond belief. For months honourable members opposite have brought forward economic matters as matters of public importance for discussion in this House. They have cried that the mix of policy which we then had meant that the economy was on a disaster course. I know because I responded for the Government in these debates on a number of occasions. Now that there has been a change in the mix they tell us we are still on a disaster course and the Government's economic policies are in disarray. I say that is opportunism and is insincere. The matter of public importance proposed for discussion refers to the policies of the Prime Minister and the Treasurer, but the policies are the policies of the Government. They are said to be  ad hoc.  The Government's strategy is said to be in disarray. This is not so. I will not waste my time attempting to answer Opposition speakers point by point. Rather I will set out systematically the Government's economic policy. 
That policy is to achieve for this country lasting-I stress 'lasting'- economic recovery, restored growth and thrust, and full employment. That is and always has been the overriding and dominant aim of the Government. To achieve this we have focused on the importance of beating inflation because inflation is a principal, if not the main cause, of unemployment. We have done this by attempting to rein in government spending, to get the deficit in the public accounts under control and also to implement an incomes policy. 
But that has not been the only thrust of our policy. We sought by containing inflation indirectly- I stress, indirectly- to promote recovery and greater employment. But we also had measures designed directly- I stress, directly- to encourage thrust and investment which are at the centre of restoring employment. Let us remember that it is today's investment that creates the permanent jobs of tomorrow. Consequently, far from doing things to discourage investment, as the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  said a moment ago, we implemented the 40 per cent investment allowance and other measures. So there was a mix of policy to combat inflation, and thereby indirectly to promote recovery and employment, and to foster investment and increased employment directly by the 40 per cent investment allowance and other measures. 
There has been a change in that mix but not the overall strategy because of changing circumstances. The principal circumstance to which I want to draw attention is the increasing perception both at home and abroad of the very serious deterioration in this country's international competitiveness. The most insidious and potentially destructive legacy that this Government inherited from the previous Government was this significant deterioration in our economic competitiveness. This has proved a very great drag on the capacity of export and import competing industries to invest and to increase their activities and employment opportunities. As we know there has been an increasing movement of manufacturing activities offshore because of their lack of international competitiveness. Also manufacturing firms have increasingly become importers, and all at the cost of jobs in Australia. As I have said, there has been an increasing perception of this trend not only here but also overseas. 
A report in the  Australian Financial Review  of 30 November referred to the calculations that had been carried out in a company in Americathis was done in many companies in America- in an attempt to quantify the deterioration in competitiveness. The report stated that the company's calculations put the decline in Australian competitiveness over the past 3 years at between 12 and 14 per cent. In these circumstances not only was a change in the mix of policy all but inevitable but also it was a proper adaptation to that changing circumstance. The benefit to Australians will be increased investment and increased employment opportunities. 
With the devaluation of the Australian dollar the competitiveness of export and import competing industries is restored. It is not denied that devaluation means that inflation will not get down as quickly as it would otherwise. Nevertheless, our resolve to beat inflation is as strong as ever. Our efforts to do this will involve, among other things, selective tariff changes, and renewed efforts in the area of prices and incomes. That means resolute action by this Government to prevent undue price rises and profiteering and an effort to restrain the futile process of price increases following wage increases and wage increases chasing prices. 
The honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  a moment ago said that what will happen is that there will be an onslaught against the unions, that we will resort to bashing the unions. It has always been an essential part of our total inflation policy to rein in this futile process to which I have referred. I believe that a majority of the Australian people recognise and support that view. In 1974-75 real wages- not money wagesincreased by the order of 12 per cent. As Bob Hawke himself put it, that meant three or four years of normal growth in wages rolled into one year. That was the biggest factor contributing to the deterioration in the competitive situation which has brought on this change; it was the biggest factor contributing to an increase of 200 000 people unemployed. Now there has to be a breathing space. I believe that the majority of the Australian people recognise that. In pursuing this objective we have done various things to cushion the impact on the lower income groups. I am sure that other Australians will recognise the need for restraint. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. The discussion is concluded. 
-As usual, the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  has put a facile and superficial case. In fact he has misled this Parliament and the Australian people and he has distorted the true position. Under the Fraser Government the living standards of the Australian people are now on the path to sustained increase. It was under the Whitlam Government that they fell. The Australian people will not be fooled. They were not fooled when they felt the impact of the Whitlam Government, and on 13 December last year they registered their view of the situation in no uncertain terms. The Leader of the Opposition alleges that standards of living this year, under the Fraser Government, have fallen. He referred to a table from the University of Melbourne Institute of Applied Economic and Social Research. I have nothing other than the figures before me and I point out that this table shows, after an initial small decline in total personal income in the first half of this year- that is, real disposable income- an increase in this second half of the year. Only in forecasts- I stress, forecasts- into 1977 do we get the decrease that the Leader of the Opposition alleges. I will comment on that further later. 
In the face of that, the latest statistics for average weekly earnings- hard statistics- for the 12 months ended September show an increase of 16.4 per cent. The increase in the consumer price index over the period was 13.9 per cent. So we have a situation of earnings considerably in advance of the increase in prices, indicating an increase in the standards of living of Australians. Since 1 July the Government has limited the impact of taxation in effecting the after-tax position. As from 1 July personal tax indexation has been introduced- that is, the indexing of the tax scales to limit the impact of taxes on wages and salary- at a total cost in revenue foregone in excess of $ 1,000m. 
Also we introduced a new system of family allowances to take effect from 1 July. This system greatly increases the amount that was previously paid in child endowment. In fact, under this system the mother in a family with 5 children receives a cheque for an amount of the order of $330 every quarter. It is true that at the same time as this system was introduced the tax rebates for children were abolished. But for the higher income group of people it is practically a line-ball situation; what is received in additional family allowances matches what is lost through the abolition of tax rebates for children. But for people in the lower income group, where incomes are not high enough and insufficient tax is paid to take advantage of the child rebates, the amount received under the family allowance scheme represents a net gain. In that way this Government has been able to assist some 300 000 low income families and 800 000 children of those families. Is this indicative of the living standards of Australians being reduced? 
Again we introduced legislation to adjust pensions automatically twice yearly in line with changes in the cost of living. Further let me stress to the Australian people what we have provided even in respect of Medibank. We believe that those people who can afford to pay for their health care should do so and should pay the full cost. We decided that those people on incomes of $12,000 and over-that is of the order of $240 a week or more- should pay the full cost of thenhealth care, but for those people on incomes below that figure the Government would pick up a large part of the tab. Indeed, on average for people on incomes below $240 a week the Government pays something like 80 per cent of the cost of health care. Again, the help is given where it is needed in order to raise the standard of living of all Australians. 
What of the standard of living under the previous Government- the Government of the honourable member for Werriwa  (Mr Whitlam)  who has just resumed his seat? I ask, firstly: Whose standard of living? What about the unemployed? What about the future standards of living of Australians which will be affected significantly by the dearth of investment and development which took place under the Whitlam Government? Let me look firstly at some firm figures, not, as did the Leader of the Opposition, at projections which may or may not turn out to be correct. Let us look at the gross non-farm domestic product. In 1974-75 it fell by 1.2 per cent. 
I do not need any assistance from the one-eyed member of the Party of blind men opposite. I can do this quite well without his encouragement. In 1974-75 the gross non-farm product fell by 1.2 per cent, edging up by 0.8 per cent in 1975-76. Most of that recovery took place this year, in 1976, under the Fraser Government. The Gross Domestic Product measures the total of real goods and services available to all Australians during the period 1974-75 to 1975-76. It fell and it did not recover to the same level. So how, in a situation where the total of production was stagnant in that way, could there be any increase in living standards? In fact, of course, no overall increase in standards did take place in those circumstances. 
I asked a moment ago whose standards of living we are discussing. I asked about the unemployed. I do not deny that within those figures for Gross Domestic Product which I just mentioned there was a significant increase during 1974 and into 1975 in the real incomes of those Australians who were employed- those with a job. Indeed, over that period there was an increase in thenreal incomes of the order of 12 per cent. As Bob Hawke said, there were three or four years of normal growth in wages rolled into one and it could not be sustained. But I stress- and I think the common sense of the Australian people makes them understand only too well- that, as a direct consequence of this, unemployment shot up. I quote from a paper I received on my desk only this morning from the Library. It states that the figure for registered unemployed in December 1973 was 103 000 people, in December 1974 it was 267 000 people and in December 1975 it was 329 000 people. So from December 1973 to December 1975 there was an increase in the number of Australians unemployed of over 200 000 people, bringing the total to over 300 000 people. Although the real wages of those people with a job increased, what about the additional 200 000 Australians- bringing the total to 300 000 Australians-without a job? 
At the same time, of course, the impact on the profits of industry, which fell over that period from a normal 15 per cent of gross domestic product to 10 per cent of gross domestic product, was a major factor in that fall-off of investment and development to which I referred previously. This represents a permanent loss- the loss of investment in new factories and new equipment. The lack of exploration for oil has set back the exploration program for years, so that the 70 per cent self-sufficiency in oil that the Australian people have enjoyed in recent years and which was so significant a factor in cushioning the impact of the world-wide increase in oil prices was endangered. 
It takes some gall for the honourable member to come into this place and raise this matter of public importance about living standards in the face of the Government's achievements this year, to which I have referred, and in the light of what happened during the years of the Whitlam Government. I repeat: Over the period of 12 months to September this year there was an increase in average earnings of 16.4 per cent, against a consumer price index increase of 13.9 per cent. I repeat the Fraser Government's achievements through implementing tax indexation and reducing the burden of taxation on all Australians. I mention again our implementation of the system of family allowances, which is of such great benefit to low income families. These are the significant factors in the standard of living of Australians. 
I want to end on this note: Last December we won from the Australian people, and we accept, the responsibility to put right the mess that the economy was then in, to create lasting economic recovery, and to restore growth and thrust and full employment in Australia. What is particularly relevant in the context of this discussion is that the most insidious and potentially destructive legacy that the Government took over from the previous Labor Government was the serious deterioration in the international competitiveness of this country. This was associated with the very great increase in costs to which I have referred. That decline in competitiveness has been measured in various ways; over a period of the last 5 years the Industries Assistance Commission has put it as of the order of 17 per cent for import competing industry. In other words, prices and costs in Australia over that period have risen by 17 per cent more than in other countries, taking an average of their figures. 
That is enough to cream off all the potential profitability of much of our export industries and of our import competing industries, particularly manufacturing industries. In the context of the increasing perception, both here and abroad, of this deterioration in position, the Government, as a matter all but of necessity but also, positively, to restore this competitive position, moved recently to devalue the Australian currency. That has created the context in which new investment, new activity and new employment, in the manufacturing industries in particular, in this country can be undertaken. It has created the context in which this country, with the appropriate supportive policies, can begin to move strongly forward again. As it does so, the real incomes and the living standards of the Australian people will grow. 
-I rise to support the economic statement of the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  and to reject the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam).  The speeches we have heard from members of the Opposition in this debate have been, first, wrong in the gloomy picture they have painted of the state of the economy. They have been scurrilous in the accusations that have been made that statistics, for example, the December quarter price index figure, have somehow been delayed or influenced by the Government. It is a statistic which is the responsibility of the Australian Bureau of Statistics whose capacity and integrity are above question. They have been wrong headed in the proposals they have made for changes in policy. They have urged on us the same old policies that wreaked such havoc and brought the economy to its knees in the Whitlam years. 
-Yes, they are saboteurs. Further they have been misleading in a critical area, namely, the true alternatives facing the Arbitration Commission and the Australian people in the crucial area of the indexation of incomes. 
As to the state of the economy, the economy is on the move. The recovery is uneven but there can be no doubt that the recovery we are now experiencing will spread and will be consolidated. I repeat that the statistic cited by the Treasurer and the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  as to the latest figures for the total Australian national production in the September quarter shows a very significant increase. That figure needs to be compared with those of previous years. I have done so in a table which I have shown to the shadow Treasurer. I seek leave to have the table incorporated in  Hansard. 
I ask the Treasurer: What do the figures released today for the consumer price index show to be the underlying trend in inflation? 
I do not propose to engage in a slanging match with the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Antony Whitlam)  but what a gall to speak of lack of openness, to accuse this Government of conspiracy and to talk about this Government's loan raising activities which have been carried out correctly, publicly and from impeccable sources. How can the honourable member have the gall, speaking from that side of the House, to conveniently forget that infamous occasion on the 1 3 
December 1974 when there was a conspiracy, a real conspiracy to bypass the law, allegedly to raise money for temporary purposes. It was a conspiracy to raise for temporary purposes a loan of the order of $4,000m from dubious sources, and through the most dubious intermediaries and in return for that to put this country in hock to the order of$ 19,000m. 
I want to address my remarks in the short time available to me in this debate on the Queen's Speech to the priority of this Government to restore the economy, to bring about lasting recovery and to restore impetus to economic growth and full employment. Of course that is not the only aim of the Government. The Government has pursued and will continue to pursue its program of major social reform. But a healthy and growing economy is a necessary condition for an effective social welfare program. Indeed, reduced inflation and increased employment are part and parcel of such a program. So to restore the economy is the all important aim. 
-I will not respond to that sort of interjection or the negativism and the gloomy prognostications that we have had from the Labor Opposition in the course of this debate today. I refer to the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  and the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young).  Rather I intend to set out positively what the Government has done and is doing. First and foremost, I stress again that a significant measure of economic recovery has taken place. I do not claim that the economy is booming. The recovery is uneven and there are uncertainties. 
Debate interrupted. 
-When this debate was interrupted last night, I was emphasising, in the course of setting out positively what the Government has done in restoring the economy, that a significant measure of economic recovery has taken place. As I said, the economy is not booming and the measure of recovery is uneven. Nevertheless, it is real. The December quarter national production figures have been referred to in this Parliament. They show a level of non-farm national production for the December quarter fully 5.2 per cent higher than for the December quarter a year earlier, and that increase was pretty broadly based. That increase is in the real level of national production, not a money illusion from inflation. Of key significance as an indicator of the long-term outlook and the direction in which industry is going are the figures for investment for the December quarter last. While again the picture is a mixed one, new capital expenditure by private enterprises in manufacturing was up 33 per cent in money terms and in wholesale and retail trade by 29 per cent. That would represent an increase of the order of 18 per cent to 20 per cent in real terms- a very significant advance. On the other side, investment in mining was significantly down, but the manufacturing sector in this context is quantitatively the more important. I make only one other point. During the course of 1976 some 95 per cent of the previous year's school leavers were absorbed into employment, and I think that it is worth stressing. 
To sum up, it is, as I said, recovery we are talking about, not a booming economy. What it needs to be contrasted with is the situation prevailing under the previous administration. We now have a significant improvement on the utter stagnation of production and investment and the massive increase in unemployment which occurred during the last 18 months or so of the term of the Labor Government. In that period there was no increase at all in non-farm national production, which in December 1975 stood fractionally lower than it was in December 1973, 2 years previously, and more than 200 000 Australians were added to the ranks of the unemployed, to give an unemployment total in excess of 300 000 Australians. 
The key issue is that the recovery should spread and consolidate. That depends on a variety of factors, including the strength of renewed growth overseas, but above all it depends on the factor we have always pointed to and stressed, namely, containing inflation and the increase in costs. Beating inflation remains, as it has always been, a prime objective of policy. Indeed, if it is possible, it is even more so because the key feature of the Government's policy mix as from November last has been the devaluation of the Australian dollar. There have been calls- they are still being made- for a stimulus to the economy. The honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  was doing so yesterday. I stress that effective- I underline 'effective'- devaluation of the Australian dollar is in itself a very sizable stimulus. What thus is of critical importance is that inflation and the increase in costs be contained to make the devaluation effective. 
While the recovery of production is under way unemployment nevertheless remains highunacceptably high, in the Government's view. It is said that this Government is not concerned about unemployment. That is untrue. Indeed, it is a slanderous statement. It is concerned. There is no greater affront to a man's dignity or a woman's dignity and to their confidence and sense of purpose, quite apart from the financial strains involved, than unemployment. The Government and, I venture to say, all members of this Parliament are very conscious of that. And of course, to revert to the Queen's Speech, it is stated there that it is the essence of the Government's economic program 'to overcome unemployment'. 
Nevertheless, it has to be recognised and said plainly that unemployment is not going to be overcome as quickly as we would like. For a start, the reduction in unemployment will inevitably lag behind increasing output. But what needs to be stressed is the complexity of policy to achieve our overall objectives of lasting recovery with reasonable price stability, renewed growth and full employment. We are not dealing with a straight forward, traditional cyclical downturn in the economy but rather with unemployment, and inflation, significantly associated with major elements of imbalance in the economy, with structural and other factors which are difficult to remove, offset or change quickly. Foremost among these is the so-called high level of real wages, which translates, to put it more straightforwardly, into the very high, the too high Australian cost structure. That is a prime legacy of the previous Administration, the Labor Government. 
To put the point bluntly, the position is one where about the most expensive thing you can do is to employ an Australian. So everywhere in enterprises large and small labour is shed and employment is reduced, by every means possible. That in these circumstances the trend in unemployment has not worsened significantly over the period of this Liberal-National Country Party Government is a more considerable achievement than otherwise it might appear. I remind the House that it was under Labor that unemployment got up from the 2.4 per cent prevailing at the end of the previous LiberalCountry Party Government period of government to over 5 per cent of the work force. It was not under this Government. 
After the high level of costs, perhaps the next most difficult factor is the high interest rate structure which has become built into the economy since the Whitlam Government first substantially upped interest rates in September 1973. That was designed as a brake on private- consumer and investment- spending in the attempt to make room for the destructive acceleration of the Labor Government's spending programs. Even higher interest rates, to the detriment of the more rapid recovery of private investment spending, are now tied in with the requirement to finance appropriately the still large and stubborn Budget deficit. One can assert that this Government is determined to contain and as soon as practicable to reduce interest rates. 
There are other factors of a more strictly structural nature. For instance, there is the pace of international industrial technological progress and the issue of what is, and what has been, practicable in this respect in Australia as compared with industry in the major industrial economies overseas. Witness the difficulties in this respect of even Broken Hill Pty Co Ltd. Again there is the threat to large sections of labour intensive Australian manufacturing industry, large employers of labour, from low cost imports, particularly from Asian countries. Again, important for its impact on manufacturing industry, there is the long term effect of expanding primary and especially mineral exports, which in the absence of enlarged Australian capital exports would result in the long term strengthening of the Australian dollar and even greater competition from imports for Australian industry, also difficulties for traditional exporters. I note in that connection that it is very important that Australian exports of capital should grow. But this is to move altogether too far afield. 
I return to the dominating issue of costs. When the Government seeks to limit the increase in money wages and thus attempts to keep an already too high cost structure from getting higher still, with more jobs lost, it is accused of cutting real wages. The facts of this matter are that in the 12 months to December 1974 there was an unprecedented wage scramble encouraged by the Whitlam Government and real wages, that is money wages adjusted for price increases, or at least the real wages of those who kept their jobs, rose by 10 per cent in that one year. That, as Bob Hawke himself has said- I quote from the  Australian  of 6 October 1976- has 'incapsulated into one year' more than 3 years normal growth in real wages. Thus in holding the line on the growth of real wages in 1976- that broadly is all that this Government has done- and again in 1977, and hopefully we will succeed in the interests of all Australians and in particular the unemployed, the end point would still represent the normal growth of real wages anyhow. As I or as Bob Hawke, as I have just quoted him, say, in 1974 there was more than 3 years normal growth- up- and then substantially held, so by 1977, 3 years on, the level is what would have prevailed anyhow. 
No one will have been done in. In fact wage and salary earners in a job had higher living standards in advance, so to speak. No one has been done in except those who have lost their jobs- because the cost of the massive wage hike of 1974 and some further rise in 1975 was significantly to reduce the profitability of industry and to swell unemployment, as I said previously, from the order of 100 000 at end 1973 to more than 300 000 at end 1975. Viewed in this way I am confident that all fair-minded Australians will support the Government in its policy to correct this fundamental imbalance and thus establish a basic necessary condition for renewed strong growth and investment and full employment in Australia. But, and this is the point I started from, the achievement of this is, in the nature of the case, a long haul as business investmentwitness the figures I referred to earlierand the general level of productivity rise to accommodate the presently too high level of costs. 
So it is a long haul and will take some time yet, but the nub of the matter is that there is no other way. The prescription of the Opposition, the big spenders, more Keynesian than Keynes himself- - witness the honourable member for Oxley yesterday, irresponsible pretender to the leadership of the Opposition- is to spend up to create employment. Spend up; do not worry about added inflation or ever higher interest rates. That prescription is self-defeating- I stress 'selfdefeating' because for every job created directly today, inflation and higher interest rates cause the loss of another job, or worse, tomorrow. Meanwhile, recognising the time factor, the Government has introduced a number of measures to assist the unemployment problem directly. The National Employment and Training scheme has been revised and extended. The Special Youth Employment Training scheme has been implemented, providing a subsidy of more than $60 a week to encourage in-plant training of the youth unemployed. There is the Commonwealth Rebate for Apprenticeships Full-time Training scheme and additional funds have been provided for pre-apprentice and accelerated training. In the longer term, an inquiry is under way as to how and which priorities should prevail in education, with special reference to technical education. In due course and as appropriate, there will be other measures. 
Thus far I have stressed the significant recovery which has been achieved under the Fraser Government but also the very great complexity of policy to ensure that the recovery broadens and consolidates, with a restored impetus to growth and full employment for all Australians. An important component of that total policy is industry policy. It is important as a guide to the shape and size of industry in the future and hence of viable avenues of new investment. Of key importance in this respect is the White Paper on manufacturing which, notwithstanding the blusterings of the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  yesterday, will soon be introduced. 
Industry policy thus complements the central anti-inflation policy. Of the first broad thrust of the anti-inflation policy, namely, the taut fiscal and monetary policies which the Government has implemented since it attained office, which the honourable member for Oxley declared yesterday to be unnecessarily tough, I will say no more than that I know of no instance in any country where inflation has been reduced from the high rate reached in Australia without such a taut monetary and fiscal policy. 
The other main thrust of anti-inflation policy is in the area of so-called incomes policy, that is, the more direct- than monetary and fiscal policy- restraint on prices and incomes. I deliberately use the term incomes policy because this is an area in which it is important to be evenhanded. I take this opportunity to stress that the Government has retained the Prices Justification Tribunal and the PJT is not a body lacking in clout. I need only cite the order of the week before last to Seatainers Terminals Ltd to make a general 10 per cent cut in its charges, which will considerably assist importers and exporters and thence the Australian public generally. What I would also stress is that on the other side- the key area of the containing of the increase in money wages and salaries where the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission exercises the major influencethe Government has played and is playing its part also. 
There was a lot of fuss in the Press recently about calls for tax reductions and the apparent refusal of the Government to entertain such proposals. That is a travesty of the true position. Of all things this Government is, it has been from the beginning a tax reforming cum tax reducing government. Among other measures of personal and company tax relief I want to stress once again that as from 1 July 1976-that is, last year- this Government indexed personal taxes. That meant, in a word, that the tax scales were adjusted so as to counteract the effect of inflation on the amount of tax paid. As a result taxpayers have been saved over $ 1,000m tax that would otherwise have had to be paid. So when people say to me, 'Let us cut taxes in a deal with the Commission and the unions', that is a proposal not without great merit. I say that very deliberately. But as of now I say that we have already cut taxes very considerably, certainly compared with what they would have been under the alternative government. Therefore, let what we have done be taken into consideration right now in wage deliberations, along with the new system of family allowances, which has also operated since 1 July last year and which is of very great net benefit to some 300 000 low income Australian families. 
These are  quid pro quo  already implemented for wage-salary restraint now, along with the other benefits that will flow from restraint, namely, the more rapid return to a normal economic situation of rising living standards, also full employment for all Australians. If there is a significant moderation in the increase in money wages and salaries then that will be an important pre-condition for further revisions in taxation within the very difficult budgetary constraints facing us, in exchange for continuing wagesalary moderation. 
In conclusion I repeat that this Government is of all things a tax reforming cum tax reducing government. That is important not only in this context of current economic policy, but for the pursuit of our basic Liberal objectives of enlarging the freedom of individuals and of increasing the incentives to them, and their very capacity, to build a fuller life for themselves and a greater Australia. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
My question is addressed to the Prime Minister. Are there any other steps the Government can take in pursuit of the agreement between the governments? 
-The tax Bills we are discussing legislate for a number of important measures. In the short time at my disposal I want to concentrate on clause 8 of the Income Tax Assessment Amendment Bill which introduces the trading stock valuation adjustment. The honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford),  who has just resumed his seat, devoted much of his time to this clause. It is not surprising that the honourable member, who is the Opposition's spokesman on Treasury matters, is not, as he put it, enthusiastic about the trading stock valuation adjustment proposal. The previous Labor Government was not enthusiastic about it during its term in office. I will touch on that later. 
Although the honourable member otherwise took a reasonable line on this trading stock valuation adjustment proposal he called for a more detailed justification of the proposal. Let me attempt to do that. I would submit that it is a significant measure of company tax reform- a major measure, introduced in accordance with the Government's election undertaking to offset the impact of inflation on the taxation of company profits. This proposal will make a major contribution to business liquidity, and- of key importance- it will make a major contribution to the capacity of business to retain profits and thus to finance new investment and new employment opportunities. It is a true statement that today's profits are tomorrow's investments and the day after tomorrow's permanent and lasting jobs. The honourable member for Adelaide talked disapprovingly about diverting resources to the corporate sector. It is important that we do do this and to a significant extent that is what this measure is all about. By diverting resources to the corporate sector we increase the incentive and the very capacity of business to invest and to provide lasting jobs, employment for all Australians. 
This Government continues to grapple with the inflation and the high unemployment which are the manifestations, readily seen and measured, of the major imbalances and distortions of the economic system which were brought about under the previous administration. We continue to grapple with these problems and we do so with some success. On the inflation front, one cannot over emphasise the importance of the 2.3 per cent increase in the March quarter consumer price index, which is the lowest increase since 1973. It is clearly indicative of an inflation rate of the order of, say 10 per cent. While it is true that an inflation rate of this size is too high, it is a vast improvement on the inflation rate of 17 per cent that prevailed when we took over from the previous administration. The inflation rate today is on the verge of a single digit percentage. 
As to unemployment, it continues to be too high; it is unacceptably high. But unhappily the restoration of the massive imbalances in the economy that occurred, as I have said, under the previous administration cannot be done quickly. While much has been achieved, there is still some way to go. Perhaps the most significant of the imbalances is the imbalance associated with the massive increase in wages and salaries, especially during 1974-75 when in one year there was an increase in real wages of the order of 10 per cent- three of four years' increase rolled into one. Associated with that were the significant revaluation of the Australian dollar that took place at that time, tariff cuts, the anti-profit stance of the Prices Justification Tribunal at least until the end of 1974, the abolition of the investment allowance and the halving of export incentives. 
The massive increase in wages and salaries together with those other factors had a significant adverse impact on the profitability of business, and thence on unemployment. The effect was such as to reduce company profitability, expressed as a proportion of total income in the community- taking company profits as a proportion of the total incomes in the community or, strictly, of non-farm gross product- from a norm of the order of 15 per cent to 1 1 per cent in some quarters of 1975. The effect of this on unemployment was catastrophic. The number of people unemployed rose from 100 000 in early 1974 to more than 300 000 by the end of 1975. 
Even the fall in reported profits was not the end of the story. This brings me to the specific subject matter of the Income Tax Assessment Amendment Bill. Although reported profits fell in the way that I have described, even the level of those profits represented an over statement of the true position. There are 2 main elements in this. Firstly, there is the cumulative effect of past inflation resulting in an allowance for the depreciation of capital equipment in company accounts which is less than it should be if we had regard to the current or replacement value of that equipment. One estimate of the size of this effect for the 1975-76 income year was as follows: Whereas depreciation based on historical costs for trading companies was $2, 150m, a truer figure based on current replacement values would be $3,822m, which is one and threequarter times the historical cost figure. 
The second factor which brings us directly to the legislation before the House is the effect of inflation in increasing the value of trading stock, materials and finished products, over the income year. Even if a business had not increased its actual real level of operations so that it ended the income period with the same level of physical stocks at which it began, with the process of replacing trading stocks over the period the value at the end of the income period would be higher-in a period of high inflation significantly higher-than at the beginning. By the very process of drawing up business accounts the difference between the closing and the opening value of the stock, even if, as I said, it is physically at the same level, is included as operating profit. It is subject to profit tax although that profit is unreal, illusory and phantomas some people call it-in that it is not a realisable profit. At least, there is no way of realising it save winding up the business and selling the stock. But what happens to employment then? Inevitably, in a situation of continuing inflation, there is this element of fictitious profit, but the tax payable on it is by no means fictitious. I referred a moment ago to one estimate of depreciation at replacement cost. That was an estimate provided by the Melbourne Institute of Applied Economic and Social Research. According to that same source the element of which I am speaking, this element that comes into profit through the growth in the value of stocks, although there has been no change in the physical level of operation - 
-Yes, just the money value. It is the sheer effect of inflation producing an unrealizable profit, a profit which nevertheless is subject to taxation. According to the Melbourne Institute this element, in a total gross operating profit of $8,267m in 1974-75, was $l,810m of 

<graphic href="105131197705041_31_0.jpg"></graphic>

the profit, or about 22 per cent. This was subject to a tax of about $769m. This was a very real payment which business had to make although, as I have said, the profit is illusory. In 1 975-76 of a total gross operating profit of $9,439m, the stock element, including increases in the value of stock, was $l,927m-not far short of $2,000m. That is an approximation, not strictly accurate, of the order of magnitude of this effect. In 1975-76, out of a total gross operating profit of $9,439m, the stock component was an amount of $ 1,927m. Again, this represented about 20 per cent of the total and would be subject to taxation of the order of $800m. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  the tables from the Melbourne Institute 's publication  The Australian Economic Review  setting out those figures. They also include an estimate by the Institute of the situation in the current year 1976-77. 
-Could the Prime Minister advise the House of the status of the prices and incomes pause in the light of today's decision by the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission? 
-I say only that despite the tone of personal disappointment and disillusion in the approach of the Opposition spokesman on this subject, I gather that the Opposition supports the Bills. 
Yes, I am going to do that, but I want to say that these Bills should command the enthusiastic support of this House and all Australians. 
-Has the Prime Minister seen statements that following the release of the Budget the prospects of achieving the Government's objective' of reducing interest rates have receded? 
When I rose to speak to these measures yesterday I referred to the personal disappointment and disillusion in the remarks of the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  who had just spoken. The Bills we are now discussing are important measures in the context of assistance to the developing countries, the poor countries of the world. We can all be overwhelmed by the immensity of the problem, but there is no future in doing that. We have to keep on pressing the matter as hard and as effectively as we can. These Bills should command the enthusiastic support of this House and I believe of all Australians. 
We sometimes encounter a questioning in this country as to why we should get involved in diverting resources to overseas countries when there is so much needing to be done in this country- for our own poor, education, health, and so on. The truth of the matter is that it is very much in all our interests. The matter of assistance to developing countries is an area of massive long term concern to Australia as a member of the international community of nations.  President  Carter recently put the situation this way: 'A peaceful world cannot exist one-third rich and two-thirds hungry'. That, I believe, is the essence of the situation. We have to contribute to the assistance of developing countries, yes, on humanitarian grounds- there is the obligation of those to whom much has been given to help those with so much less- but also on the grounds of straight, long term economic and political self interest, the interest of all of us in a stable, workable, peaceful world system. The  President  is right. We cannot have stability or, ultimately, peace with onethird rich and two-thirds hungry. The  President  called for a new, wider international system to tackle global problems. The reality, of course, is that we are not likely to see that situation this side of the millenium. Nevertheless we must all be in the business of assisting the development of poor countries, and to an increasing degree. 
There can be assistance in a variety of forms. There can be development aid which is assistance given to countries to help them to enlarge their capacity to produce goods and services both in industry and agriculture. That, in fact, is the context of the Bills before the House. There is also the trade context. In that respect the developing countries themselves most prize the establishing of world commodity stabilisation schemes and a common fund to finance them for their commodity exports, which are by far the major source of their export income. As a result of the 18 months north-south dialogue at the Conference of International Economic Cooperation (CIEC) which recently wound up in Paris, some progress has been made in this direction with a commitment by the rich industrial countries to a common fund for raw materials, albeit that no price tag was put on that commitment. The Australian Government is firmly in support of this measure. I stress that because the spokesman on these matters for the Opposition seemed to indicate to the contrary yesterday. 
-Perhaps he would not. My colleague the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Kelly)  in this context would put most of the emphasis on tariff reductions in the industrial developed countries to foster the sales of manufactured goods from less developed countries. This is an area in which the political realities of high unemployment which exists in most developed countries at the present time cannot be left out of account. But even so, it is important to recognise that much progress has already taken place in that respect. There has already been a steady and large, relative decline in the labour intensive industries in the Western countries, with increasing reliance on imports from developing countries. I doubt whether this process can or should be pushed any faster. 
Another area of assistance to the developing countries is with the currently crushing burden of their debt financing, that is, interest and capital repayment. For practical purposes, that merges with the general issue of development aid. The International Development Association (Further 
Payment) Bill authorises Australia's contribution of $ 133.76m to the fifth replenishment of the International Development Association. One reason why this is so important is that the International Development Association is the World Bank's so called 'soft loan' agency. It makes long term interest free credits available to the poorest of the developing countries. Of course, it does so for soundly based development projects which are assessed by the same standards as ordinary World Bank projects-but it provides credits interest free. That is of great significance to developing countries, as I have said, because of the crushing debt burdens. I shall return to that again in a moment. 
The activity of the International Development Association is a part of the development aid program as we have known it since World War II. Aid on a comparatively large scale was forthcoming, albeit often politically motivated, in the first decade or two following World War II. In recent years however the quantum of development aid has fallen significantly in real terms, that is, allowing for inflation. Indeed it is now proportionately less than it was in the1950s and 1960s. That is a most unhappy situation not just on humanitarian grounds, as I said before, but also on grounds of straight, long term political and economic self interest. However, from 1973 there has been a major new factor in the whole situation. From late 1973 the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries proceeded to hoist the price of oil some four or five fold. That was a development of quite massive indeed historic proportions. It amounted to a forced transfer of resources to the less developed countries, or at all events to one group of them, namely, the oil rich among the developing countries. In effect this has meant an appropriation of funds by those oil rich countries enabling them to command real resources on a very large scale. It far exceeds the dimensions of the voluntary aid program to which I have been referring. The impact, in fact, is perhaps best summed up in a small table from a recent issue of the  Economist.  I ask for that table to be incorporated in  Hansard.  I have spoken to the Opposition spokesman on this matter, the honourable member for Oxley (MrHayden). 
-I support the Government's decision that the mining and export of uranium should proceed. It is right that the Australian people should be concerned about this important issue- the mining and export of Australian uranium. On the one hand, great benefits are to be gained by the world community of nations and by Australia. These must be balanced against the risks and problemsforemost among them is the problem of containing the spread of nuclear weapons- on the other hand. The Opposition does the Australian people less than a service by its insincerity, its unreality, its inconsistency and, I would say, its manipulation of people's fears arising from the widespread lack of knowledge about this matter. As I said; it is right for Australians to be concerned about this great issue, but it is important that they form their opinions on a true knowledge of the facts. 
At the risk of being trite, I want to repeat a few basics of the matter. We are talking about the nuclear power industry. The point I stress is that this industry has been for many years an integral part of the everday scene in America, the United Kingdom and Europe. The nuclear power industry is about nuclear power stations for the generation of electric energy, to light and power homes and to provide power for industry. Nuclear power stations differ from conventional power stations only in this respect: The uranium reaction generates the heat which boils the water which provides the steam which drives the turbines which create the electricity. In so-called conventional power stations the burning of fossil fuels such as coal or oil provide this heat, otherwise things are the same. The nuclear power industry is part of the stuff of everyday life in the United States, the United Kingdom and Europe. As other speakers have pointed out, about 10 per cent of America's electric power is produced this way from 59 commercial nuclear power stations scattered around the country. It is anticipated that the amount of electric power produced by nuclear power stations in the United States will increase to about 20 per cent in 1985 and will reach as high as 50 per cent by the year 2000. 
The proportion of Switzerland 's electric power which is generated by nuclear power stations is about 1 8 per cent. In a sense, that makes Switzerland the proportionate leader in this matter. In Sweden, it is about 13 per cent. In the United Kingdom, it is 10 per cent, from 11 power stations and in Japan, it is 8 per cent from 12 power stations. In the developing world, it is 5 per cent in Pakistan and in India it is 3 per cent from three power stations. What I am underlining- I hope it will not be thought that 1 am labouring the obvious- is that this debate is not about a new thing that may or may not come to be but is about an already important, growing and, indeed, essential source for meeting the world's ever-increasing requirements of energy; in the industrial West, in Japan where nuclear power is especially important because of the minimal power resources of that country and, as I stress again, to meet the energy requirements of the developing countries and especially the non-oil producing developing countries. 
It is worth noting that the latter- the developing countries- will be advantaged in two ways: Firstly, the impact of the five-fold increase in oil prices since 1973-74 on the non-oil producing developing countries has been quite catastrophic. The world development of nuclear power as an alternative energy source acts as a restraint on the further increase of oil prices. In this way the developing countries benefit whether or not they themselves enter into nuclear power for electricity generation. Secondly, of course, they have established and are establishing nuclear plants in those countries themselves. 
What I want to make clear to the Australian people is that the compelling and overriding argument for the development of Australia's uranium resources is to contribute to meeting the expanding energy needs of the whole world, and not least of the developing countries, in the context of the increasingly rapid depletion of finite fossil resources, especially oil. There is no other way these energy needs can be met in the next 25 to 50 years. Of course, research and development for increasing the use of coal will go on. Equally, in the long term, new energy sources, particularly fusion and solar power, will emerge. However, these are still only 'promised' at this time, whereas nuclear power is a proven and viable energy source. 
Members of the Opposition seek to claim a monopoly of concern for the morality of this matter. I put this to the House and to the Australian people: Where would be the morality if Australia, with 0.04 per cent of the world 's population, refused to make available to an increasingly energy hungry world the 20 per cent of the world 's high grade uranium which we possess? I put it to the House that that is not morally justified and, indeed, as a practical matter, would not, in the long run, be a tenable position. That, as I have said, is the essence of the case for mining and exporting our uranium. 
But it will, of course, be of great economic benefit to the nation. What our opponents tend to make of this is that it is all being done for the purpose of giving large profits to a few mining companies. What a travesty of the true situation! Australia and all Australians will benefit. 
One dimension of this economic benefit- to his credit, the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  stressed this- is the potential for increased exports. At about $50,000 a ton, with an export of between 10,000 and 20,000 tons we are looking at additional export receipts in the region of $500m to $ 1 ,000m. It used to be said that Australia rode on the sheep's back. At this time, wool, wheat, coal and iron ore all contribute in the range of $800m to $ 1,000m per annum to export earnings. Now uranium should prove to contribute to the same, or even to a larger, order. Thus, it will prove of inestimable value in strengthening Australia's balance of payments and to financing the purchase of essential imports- machinery, aircraft, vehicles and, increasingly, petrol. This is of benefit to all Australians. In addition there will be widespread employment and income effects throughout this country. 
Of course, the companies directly concerned will make profits of which a due proportion will accrue to the Government and the Aboriginals of the area. Profits are also made by the coal and iron companies, the wheat growers and hopefully the wool growers. That is how the system works, but all Australians benefit. It should be noted in passing that the Ranger Uranium Mines Pty Ltd, jointly owned by Peko-Wallsend Ltd and the Electrolytic Zinc Company of Australasia Ltd, is 100 per cent Australian owned. 
Of course, these essentially economic advantages for the world community of nations as well as Australia have to be balanced against the noneconomic problems and risks associated with the nuclear power industry. As I have said, it is right for Australians to be concerned about the issue. It is for this reason that the decisions we are debating today have been taken only after long and exhaustive examination of all aspects of the matter and with a high sense of moral responsibility to Australia and to the whole world community of nations. 
Of the problems and risks associated with the nuclear power industry, the most serious, the dominant, is the problem of containing the proliferation of nuclear weapons and thus the horrific threat of nuclear war. Honourable members on this side of the House do not seek to minimise this prospect, as Opposition speakers would suggest. What is submitted is that Australia's ability to contribute to a minimising of proliferation risks and the devising and implementing of effective international safeguards will be enhanced and strengthened by our undertaking to export uranium. The essential point, as I have stressed previously, is that the nuclear power industry is already established throughout the world on a very large scale and is here to stay. As previous speakers have pointed out, there are at this present time 184 nuclear power stations in operation in 20 countries. There are 214 power units under construction and a further 102 on order. That makes a total of 500 nuclear power units in operation, under construction or on order in 34 countries around the world, including, as I said previously, developing countries. In the context of this established global nuclear power industry Australia, as the possessor of 20 per cent of the world's low grade uranium, has a manifest responsibility to contribute to the very substantial quantities of uranium needed to fuel the industry. As a major exporter, and standing with the United States of America and Canada in the stringent implementing of safeguards, Australia can contribute to the application of effective nuclear safeguards and to the avoidance of the misuse of nuclear materials and thus the containment of nuclear proliferation. In that way we can contribute to a safer world. There is no other realistic course for us to follow. 
If the containment of the proliferation of nuclear weapons is the overriding concern to be balanced against the advantages of the development of the nuclear power industry, perhaps the second major difficulty is the issue of the safe disposal of radioactive waste. Speaking as a layman, I can assert only my own conviction and that of the Government on the balance of the evidence of scientific experts that the technology for the safe handling, converting into solid form and permanent terminal storage of high level waste does exist and is being developed to commercial scale as required. 
We also hear reference to the alleged threat to health of radiation. Such fears are without foundation. I combine that point with the point I have been making about the importance of this matter for developing countries in putting before the House a letter from some correspondents from Kensington, Sydney, which appeared recently in the  Sydney Morning Herald.  The letter reads as follows: 
We sit here with too much to eat, wear and drive. We sit on literally tonnes of energy. 
Not too far away the countries of the Third World struggle to provide a modicum of better living. They desperately need energy. 
Yet because we want to keep an area unspoilt, because some people, some day, might suffer something from uranium mining, we are prepared to line the wharves and stop energy 's export. 
Never mind the fact that many more people have been choked and poisoned by the effluents of affluence than will be harmed by uranium. 
Never mind the desperate energy needs of Pakistan, India, Indonesia. We are scared of radiation, so let them eat the cake of nuclear-free poverty. 
I can add nothing further to that eloquent plea. Debate interrupted. 
-I address my question to the Prime Minister. I refer to the success of the Government in sharply reducing the deficit in two successive Budgets and to the reductions in Public Service staff ceilings currently in force to bring back Public Service numbers to realistic levels. In view of indications that inflation has been further reduced, will the Government need to make further across-the-board restraints in government expenditure and reductions in Public Service staff ceilings to maintain the fight against inflation? 
I second my colleague's motion. I reserve my right to speak. 
I second my colleague's motion of censure of the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  for his irresponsible, not to say, subversive comments directed at undermining the strength of the Australian dollar. A leading article in the  Australian  recently stated that the honourable member for Oxley, as I must call him in this place -  . . seems to find it hard to learn the difference between valid political statements on the conduct of the Australian economy and the kind of misstated exaggeration which may be common currency in some areas of politics- 
We all have to admit to such exaggeration - but which is suicidal when applied to the economic area. It is the difference between fair comment and the scare tactic, and political scare tactics- 
The honourable member for Oxley is becoming a past master in indulging in such tactics- have no place in discussion of the national economy . . . 
His performance today shows that since that leader was written he has learned nothing. He talks of the Australian dollar being weak. It is not. That leading article concluded: 

 Mr Hayden threatens once again to help create the doom he effects to deplore. 
There is some truth in that statement- though it is difficult to know why someone with the qualifications and experience of the honourable member for Oxley, who is not even the official spokesman for the Opposition on these matters but who is a Blind Bill to accompany his Blind Freddy who has so much to say, should attract this sort of attention. He said that the Australian dollar is weak. 
My colleague said that the honourable member is weak.  His  reading is weak. Whilst I have not access to the leaked document of the Reserve Bank of Australia, I have the version printed in the  National Times.  Under Balance of Payments' it states: 
The trade account is forecast to strengthen during 1977-78 - 
I will read that again- 
The trade account is forecast to strengthen during 1 977-78 and give a surplus for the year of the order of $ 1 ,500m. 
The statement outlines the anticipated rise in exports and the decline in imports which would account for this strengthening. It refers to the increased imbalance on invisible account but then states: 
Private capital outflow is the area of largest uncertainty in the external accounts. 
-As my colleague says, the honourable member for Oxley is bitting at that. If there is a weakness in the accounts it would be because of this area of capital inflow. That is the area which the statements of the honourable member for Oxley were affecting. 
-They were subversive of the economic strategy of this Government. That is why he is making those statements. His purpose is to undermine the economic strategy and the economic policies of this Government. Never mind that that undermines the whole economic position and the whole economic future of 
Australia. Anything will do for political advantage. The honourable member for Oxley pursues it as far as he possibly can. 
It is of interest that in the same issue of the  National Times  which carried this report concerning the Reserve Bank's forecast of economic prospects,  Mr P.  P. McGuinness, who is a significant commentator on economic affairs and, incidentally, a one-time speech writer for the honourable member for Oxley- the honourable member for Oxley is not so keen on him nowwrote that if there was any uncertainty about the balance of payments this would require significant borrowings by the Government but stated that 'there was no real reason why this should be so'. He went on to point out that there are movements in the balance of payments at the moment. He wrote: 
The September quarter is always one of seasonal pressure on the balance of payments, partly on current account as export receipts drop off in their rate of growth, and partly because, after the end of the financial year in June, it is the time when foreign companies repatriate their profits. 
These are things of which over the years any knowledgeable observer- of course, not Blind Freddy or Blind Bill- would be aware and for which he would make allowance. Of all countries in the world Australia's currency and the balance of payments, founded as it is on our strong export position, our traditional exports of wool and wheat and also our massive exports of minerals, iron, coal and future exports of uranium. Based on all these things the strength of our balance of payments and thus of the Australian dollar is assured. 
Indeed, the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren),  has a constant theme the so called Gregory thesisthat the growing exports of our minerals are going to cause all sorts of trouble- that we are going to be embarrassed by our wealth.  His  worry is that we will have so many exports that we will be embarrassed by them. 

 -The Deputy Leader of the Opposition says that. The whole thrust of the circumstances is that the balance of payments and the Australian dollar are strong. This is recognised throughout the world. 
To counter this sort of current speculation the Government has given notice of its determination to ensure that the Australian dollar will pursue its strong course and will not be subjected to any devaluation and that the Government will do this by way of significant borrowings from overseas. 
If people overseas really thought that the Australian dollar was weak, would they lend on the scale that has been announced to the Australian people and to this Parliament? An amount of $850m will become available within the next few weeks. This is the result of measures which were announced on 25 August by the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  and set in train a long while before that. Now we have had the announcement of a further $850m being made available, making a total of $ 1,700m. The honourable member for Oxley, with his continuing irresponsibility, said: 'I will stand here and make another prediction'. I am not sure of the details but at one stage he suggested that we would be borrowing $4 billion. We would do that if it were necessary, but it will not be necessary. The underlying strength of the Australian dollar is apparent to all. 
This applies also to the economy. I shall come to that in a moment. If the honourable member for Oxley tries to scare anybody by mentioning $4 billion, most likely it will be people on his side of the chamber who will be scared. They will have recollections of the $4 billion which was to have been obtained from questionable sources and through sleazy intermediaries and by illegal means. I do not know why they were prepared to go to that trouble because at the time the public accounts were running at a deficit and they were busy printing an amount of money of the order of $4 billion in the bowels of Parliament House, as a colleague would say. 
I think I have said enough to underline the point that the Austraiian dollar is not weak and that any temporary speculation will be resisted by this Government. I repeat that the purpose of the statements made by the honourable member for Oxley is to undermine this Government's economic strategy for a return to economic growth and stability and full employment. We shall continue to pursue our policies to contain inflation and to get interest rates down and in this way to stimulate the Australian economy and restore full employment. I stress that much progress has been made in these matters. The rate of inflation is running at 10 per cent per annum or less, compared with 17 per cent per annum and above when we took office. Who caused it? It was caused by the previous Administration and its Labor Treasurers, who included the honourable member for Oxley, the subject of this censure. 
The rate of inflation is down and is running at the order of 10 per cent per annum. If any honourable member questions this, let him think back over the past two quarters and the wage cases associated with them. In the March quarter the inflation rate was 2.3 per cent; in the June quarter it was 2.2 per cent. One could add these figures together and multiply by two, or could multiply either figure by four, or make other calculations to get an idea of the annual rate; but a direct arithmetical calculation by multiplying the figure for the June quarter by four produces an annual rate of 8.8 per cent. I will not press my case that far but shall simply state that the annual rate is of the order of 10 per cent and is falling. Let no honourable member dispute that fact. 
As to production, it is not currently expanding in the way in which we would like, but it is at a significantly higher level than it was under the stewardship of the honourable member for Oxley and the Government with which he was associated. It is running at a rate which is fully 416 per cent higher than it was under the previous Government. When the honourable member for Oxley was the Treasurer the level of production had been unchanged for nearly two years. So production has been expanded and, as a result of two years of fiscal restraint, the settings are there for a reduction in interest rates. That is not going to happen in one fell swoop, but conditions do lend themselves to a gradual reduction in interest rates- and an increase in the ease with which finance is made available. That has been our task, namely, to restore the settings for a healthy Austraiian economy. It is not going to be undermined by the operations of the honourable member for Oxley. 
-The honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  has done so much recently by irresponsible, not to say subversive, statements to undermine the Australian dollar. He is at it again today in the guise of making a suggestion about a forward exchange market. I will not raise again the issue of whether I might call him an economic traitor but the sort of talk we have heard comes close to it. I will come back to the honourable member for Oxley but in the few minutes available to me I would like to underline in the context of the estimates of the Department of the Treasury and the Department of Finance that the overall increase in government spending in 1977-78 shown in the Budget has been contained to 10.5 per cent. This is virtually the same as it was last year; so that for the second year in succession this Government has effected stringent restraint of its spending. Of course, in areas of greatest need the increase in spending has been higher than that. For instance, the provision for assistance to the handicapped is increased by 33 per cent on the figure for last year. The provision of funds for aged persons homes and hostels is up nearly 18 per cent. The provisions for overseas aid is up by 12 per cent. But overall the increase has been held to 10.5 per cent giving the second successive year of stringent, more stringent perhaps than anywhere else in the world, expenditure restraint. This has restored the position after the Labor years of unexampled profligacy, abandon in government spending. In 1974-75 we saw the level of government spending increase by 46 per cent. Let me draw this picture for honourable members. In the 74 yean from Federation to 1974 government spending built up to a certain level; then in one year it was increased nearly 50 per cent on top of that. Now this Government, as the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  recently stressed, has re-established a sound fiscal base. What that will enable is a sustainable reduction in interest rates and progressively greater financial ease and that is the stimulus, above all other sorts of stimulus, which this economy needs. 
I think it needs to be very clearly understood that reduced interest rates will be of very great benefit to just about every section of the economy. For instance, take house mortgage interest rates. Every one per cent of interest rate charged for a housing loan adds $4 to $5 a week to the repayment of that loan. So getting interest rates down will help more than anything else to bring home buying back within the capacity of the average wage earner. It will do more than anything else to stimulate home building and all the industries dependent on it. I stress that point because the honourable member for Oxley- that prophet of gloom and despair, that false prophet- came here yesterday and again today and spread talk of a credit squeeze and higher interest rates. That is simply not correct. There will not be a credit squeeze- interest rates are to be reduced- not, of course - 
-They have started to fall already. But they will not be reduced in one fell swoop. That, of course, cannot responsibly be done but they will gradually be worked down. 
The honourable member for Oxley disclaims that the gloom he spreads stems not from him but from a Reserve Bank prediction. Again, characteristically he misquotes or selectively quotes. The now famous leaked Reserve Bank report published in the  National Times,  when it turned to what it termed 'financial forecasts' states:  the development of a set of financial forecasts for 1 977-78 tends towards a leap into a void. 
In short, the Reserve Bank felt at that time it was impossible to say anything very specific. If only the honourable member for Oxley would leap into the void and take his whining voice with him, then the future of this country can be what sound policy and confident achieving as Australians make it. That can be a pretty healthy Australian economy indeed. It is worth stressing that in the same issue of the  National Times  which reprinted the report of the Reserve Bank the noted economic commentator  Mr P.  P. McGuinness stated: 
In the longer term- that is, for the remainder of this financial year and for next financial year- the prospects indicated by the Reserve Bank document are if anything relatively optimistic. 
That was written by  Mr P.  P. McGuinness, a one time speech writer for the honourable member for Oxley. 
I think it is worth reflecting for a moment on how interest rates first got to their present high levels. Of course the initial upward boost came in September 1973 with the Labor Government's rapid acceleration of spending, when it hoisted interest rates and squeezed credit to pull back private sector activity to make room for bigger and fatter government. When the spending went to the extent of a massive deficit in the context of higher and higher inflation, interest rates got a further shove upwards as the Government came into competition to borrow funds. Now just as interest rates were hoisted because of excessive government spending and inflation, so the restraint of spending by this Government over two successive years and the lowering of inflation has set the stage for lower interest rates. The honourable member for Oxley had something to say a while ago about the level of inflation. But I point out that the consumer price index for the March quarter was 2.3 per cent and for the June quarter it was 2.4 per cent. In either case this meant an annual inflation rate of the order of 10 per cent whereas the inflation rate under the honourable member's Administration was 1 7 per cent. 
As I have said, the spending restraint of this Government over two years and the lowering of the rate of inflation to its present level have set the stage for reducing interest rates to sensible levels. Again I say that that cannot be done in one fell swoop. The workdown must necessarily be gradual. Of course it must dovetail with other features of the economic scene. In particular, the balance of payments and the Australian dollar must be sound; and the wages-prices merrygoround must be contained. All these features of economic policy fit together. When one appreciates that, one can see why the deliberate undermining of one area of policy- the exchange rate- by the honourable member for Oxley could prejudice all the others. 
The honourable member understands that. That is why I said on Tuesday-I repeat it today-that what he is doing is deliberately subversive of the Government's economic strategy and to the extent that he should succeed-he will not- of the whole Australian economy. If confidence in the exchange rate is undermined, the technical job of reducing interest rates is made so much harder. That is a process I should like to explain but time does not permit. All the undermining by the honourable member for Oxley will not succeed. The Government has made it clear that it will defend the Australian dollar which is not weak. Until that sinks in, the first steps in the reduction in interest rates can be small only. Nevertheless they will be real. 
The other important factor is to contain wageprice inflation. What the Budget contributes here is the tax cuts it provides for. Two tax cuts are provided this financial year. The indexation cut from 1 July was equivalent to an increase in gross pay of 2.7 per cent. A further tax cut will take place on 1 February next with the introduction of the new standard rate scale. It is imperative that in the context of the wage indexation policy implemented by the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission those cuts be taken into account as representing increases in actual incomes. In that way we will get on top of the futility of the wage-price merry-go-round and set Australia back on the road to prosperity, renewed growth and full employment. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. I want to make my position quite plain. I am not vastly interested in what other  deputy  chairmen or  deputy  speakers have done. I do not intend to allow in future references to demographic traitors, economic traitors or any other such remarks. With regard to the lesser remarks which are made from time to time, I think it is fair that the Chair can expect some appeal for help if an honourable member takes exception to any such lesser remark. On two occasions I can think of that has not transpired. 
-My question is addressed to the Prime Minister. How have the policies of this Federal Government assisted State governments -and in particular the New South Wales Government- to bring down Budgets which provide for a significant expansion of services, according to Press reports on the New South Wales Budget, without increasing State tax rates and charges? 
-My question is addressed to the Prime Minister. Did the Government complete its negotiations with the British Minister for Energy,  Dr Mabon,  before he returned home? 
What a doleful recital of events we have just heard from the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis),  the Opposition spokesman on economic affairs. He can play with words- but I do not intend entering into a contest in semantics with the Opposition spokesman. I submit that albeit there is some slack in the economy- I do not deny that- there has been a significant increase in activity in the economy overall during the two years of the Fraser Government. 
We have been getting the settings right for the renewed growth and recovery of the economy. 'What evidence', the honourable member for Adelaide asks. I would refer to the broadest indicator that is available in this matter- the gross national product, nonfarm product- which stands some five per cent and more above the level when this Government assumed office in December 1975. That followed two years of stagnation and standstill under the Government which the honourable member supported. The situation is vastly superior to thatand even to the froth and bubble of late 1973 and 1974 which set the conditions for the disastrous wage explosion of 1974 to which I will return. I submit that this Government is getting the settings right for the economy and the economy is on track towards sustained economic recovery and renewed growth with stability. 
As would be expected, the Opposition has dwelt on certain statistics selectively chosen. I suggest that the Opposition should stand back and take a wider look at the situation and at the broad streams of total demand. As to consumption, I quote an independent commentator, W. D. Scott and Co., which says: 
The rate of retail sales of goods (excluding motor vehicles), in the December quarter of 1977 was quite satisfactory. The increase over the September quarter was about 0.8 per cent after approximate adjustment for price increases. 
It goes on to say that this is in line with expectations. I do not blink the fact that a difficulty exists in the motor vehicle industry. The Government is looking at that. The other mainstream of demand is investment expenditure, and in that area, despite the comments of the honourable member for Gellibrand, the figures speak for themselves. There can be no doubt as to how investment expenditure built up strongly in the September quarter last year and again in the December quarter. Particularly significant is the emerging strength of investment in building and construction other than housing, which was up 28 per cent in the recent December quarter on 12 months earlier. When we talk about investment spending in New South Wales, we have to realise that investment planning there has to cope with the dead hand of the Wran Labor Government. Its attitude, epitomised by the proposal to revoke the mining rights of Coal and Allied Industries at the Warkworth coal deposit, is a factor that this Government has to cope with in trying to set its overall economic policy for Australia. 
-Indeed. But that investment spending is strong cannot be gainsaid by the honourable member for Gellibrand. I particularly point to the veritable surge of investment in the mining sector. In the December quarter last the total of investment spending stood some 97 per cent above what it was in the same quarter a year earlier. 
Above all, inflation has been brought down. The 2.3 per cent CPI increase in the December quarter last gave a 9.3 per cent inflation rate for the calendar year 1977, the first calendar year increase below 10 per cent since 1972. It is there now on the board. During the recent election campaign the Opposition, and particularly its now Leader, the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden),  knowing it to be wrong, constantly asserted that the rate of inflation was greater than 13 per cent. There it is on the board- a 9.3 inflation rate for the calendar year 1977. Getting inflation down is the prime requisite for a strengthening of the momentum of the recovery later this calendar year. 
The Opposition continually calls for some form of artificial stimulus. What we have been doing in effect is stimulus. We have been setting the stage for the greatest, the most pervasive stimulus of all, namely, the reduction of interest rates. That is a stimulus to consumer spending, especially on durables, and that will have important implications for the motor vehicle industry. It is a stimulus to housing. The honourable member for Gellibrand correctly referred to statistics of commencements and approvals. But the important factor there is the strong rise in housing finance in the September quarter which was maintained into the December quarter. That will very soon be carried through into increased activity in that sector. Again the reduction in interest rates is a stimulus to investment as indeed is reflected in the statistics I have already cited. It is reflected, for instance, in a statement by  Mr Zeidler,  the  Chairman  of ICI Australia Ltd. He recently wrote to members and, among other things, drew attention to his address to the shareholders of ICI. He wrote: 
You will note from my address that we are stepping up our rate of investment in new plants and feel encouraged by Government policies and improving economic conditions to plan for steady growth ahead. 
Such views are very widespread throughout Australia, but the Opposition would do its best to undermine this growing confidence of Australians both as consumers and investors. I repeat that reduced interest rates are an important stimulus for new investment now and for development in the years ahead. We will carry that matter through. The honourable member for Gellibrand also cast gloom on the balance of payments position. A strong balance of payments is a condition for achieving this stimulus, and the fact is that the current account has strengthened quite markedly. In the three months to January, the current account deficit totalled $425m after a deficit of $591m in the preceding months. Underpinning that outcome exports have increased and imports have declined reinforcing the increase in domestic demand and production. 
It is true that unemployment, particularly youth unemployment, remains high. We are as concerned about that as the Opposition. But the position has had to get somewhat worse in order to get better. I want to stress that the present condition of slack in the Australian economy has not been due to an ordinary cyclical downturn in economic activity but rather to a situation of relatively high unemployment and inflation, the two factors significantly associated with major elements of imbalance in the economy which were largely the legacy of the Whitlam Government. 
They are imbalances which the policies of this Government have been directed towards containing and removing. 
Chief among those imbalances is the high Australian cost structure which is contributing particularly to the difficulties in manufacturing to which the honourable member referred. That high Australian cost structure stems primarily from the wage explosion of 1974, aided and abetted by the then Government. Real wages in that year rose 10 per cent- four to five years' normal growth rolled into one year. I may be accused of harking back a long way when I refer to what happened in 1 974 but the increase in real wages, as conceded by Bob Hawke, amongst others, was the equivalent to four to five years' normal growth rolled into one year. So we are still now in 1978- that is three years plus after that time- operating within the reach, the impact of that distortion. Of course, the consequence has been that industry has had to adopt every method possible- by additional investment and the re-organisation of production activities- to shed labour. To employ an Australian became about the most expensive thing business can do. So business has adopted every means possible, including reinvestment and re-organisation, as I said, in order to shed labour. 
In the medium and long term that will be to the benefit of all Australians because the additional machinery and the new methods will mean higher productivity, increased production per person and increased consumption for everybody. But in the short term it has meant that unemployment, which increased under the previous Government from a figure less than 100,000 people to over 300,000 people, has continued to increase, though much more slowly, than during the period of the previous Labor Government. But as the policies of this Government begin to bite further, the unemployment, which, as I have said, concerns us every bit as much as it concerns honourable members opposite, will decline. 
Finally, I refer to those policies not only in the budgetary and monetary areas, but also in what might be referred to as 'industry policy'. Today the Parliament will be dealing with an important Bill to amend the charter of the Industries Assistance Commission to encourage it to contribute more constructively to the difficulties in the manufacturing area. A new export incentives scheme has been foreshadowed by the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Mr Lynch).  Industrial reseach and development grants are to be upgraded and a totally new look is to be taken at them. I refer also to the activities of the Crawford 
Study Group. In these ways the difficulties in the manufacturing area are being met by this Government. 
The Opposition no doubt will continue to do its best to pour cold water on the economic situation and to undermine that confidence among Australians, as consumers and investors, which is so vital to strengthening the recovery and putting this country back on the path of strong growth with stability and higher levels of employment for all our people, especially the young. There is no worry about the economic future of Australia. Prosperity, higher standards of living and the achievement of our social purposes are there for us to grasp. 
-The Opposition affects to criticise this measure and has moved a lengthy amendment to the motion for the second reading of the Bill, but it does not formally oppose its second reading. The honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  treated the House to a rambling discourse of high purpose but little practical effect. It is particularly disappointing that the Opposition, in its amendment, and sections of the Press have tried to represent the Bill as one which is designed to undermine, to hobble, the Industries Assistance Commission, and to threaten its independence. That is simply not the case. That is a total misrepresentation of the Bill, as I shall make clear. 
The Bill is, I submit, a very important measure. It forms part of the Government's program to  improve that very process of industry policy which the Opposition affects to criticise the Government about in its amendment. We hear a good deal about the so-called four arms of economic policy- fiscal, monetary, incomes, or more narrowly wages, and external, policy. The Government fully recognises that a positive policy towards industry, and in particular manufacturing industry, is a fifth arm, so to speak, of policy of great importance. The current unhappy situation of too high a rate of unemployment is very much a matter of difficulties in the manufacturing sector. The Government then sees this Bill as being one measure- among a number of measures, I will come back to that- giving effect to its firm commitment to a diversified but strong and efficient manufacturing sector in Australia, complementary to our great rural and mining industries. 
Of course, the rural, mining and indeed tertiary industries all come within the purview of the Commission. But manufacturing in Australia- this 'small, rich, remote industrial country', as Professor Arndt once put it- is peculiarly vulnerable to competition from imports. That vulnerability was greatly increased by the Whitlam wage explosion of 1 974. 
It is a central task of the Government, therefore, to afford Australian industry appropriate protection if we are to maintain high and growing levels of employment in Australia. I use the word 'appropriate' advisedly. This is not the context in which to start an argument of the old 'free trade versus protection' issue. As I have said, the very nature of the Australian economy, will demand levels of protection for as long as one can see ahead, but the important point is that the protection should be provided sensibly, appropriately and judiciously. As we all know, the granting of protection, assistance, to industries has very important effects on different sectors of the community and it bears on the situation of Australia as a major trading nation. Because of the magnitude and importance of these effects, it has long been accepted that such protection should be afforded industry only after public inquiry, investigation and, in a sense, justification. The importance of having an expert independent advisory body, the IAC, formerly the Tariff Board, to undertake this public inquiry and report is not in dispute. Nothing in this Bill affects or changes that, the Opposition's amendment notwithstanding. 
But in the end, of course, only the Government makes tariffs or affords assistance to industry in other ways. What then is of key importance is, firstly, that the IAC, the Government's advisory body, should provide the Government with the most comprehensive, pertinent and constructive advice possible to assist it in this extraordinarily complex task and, secondly, that the whole process should be carried out in a way that has a positive, not a deterring and adverse, impact on business confidence. The latter is assuredly, justifiably or otherwise, what has happened in recent years. This Bill then amends the Industries Assistance Commission Act with a view to ensuring, so far as it can be done by statute, that the advice given in this centrally important area is as relevant, comprehensive and, constructive as possible, to make the decision process as effective as possible. 
The first part of the Bill to which I direct attention relates to the policy guidelines given to the Commission in section 22 of the present Act. In this context I think it is correct to say that the IAC has by and large pursued a very particular approach in its recommendations. Its critics describe it as ' narrow ', ' simplistic ', '  doctrinnaire  ' and lacking in relevance to the real situation and aspirations of Australian industry. Its proponents see it as the course of economic rectitude. This IAC approach focuses on promoting an 'optimum allocation of resources'. The criterion is socalled 'economic efficiency', which means in plain terms the capacity of an industry to operate profitably in competition with imports with only low tariffs- to put a figure on it, say in the order of 15 to 25 per cent. Industries requiring much more protection that that are apt to be said to be 'inefficient', with the possible implication that they ought to be scaled down if not phased out of the Australian scene. Against that approach, it can be contended that the single-minded- in recent years, some would say obsessive- pursuit of economic efficiency prejudices other objectives, in particular economic growth and employment opportunities, regional development, the nurture and development of key technologies and other matters. 
This is a large subject and I will not go into it further here. But the issue is a real one, a  major  one, not to be simply resolved. Accordingly, to return to the Bill, a major provision, clause 8, referred to by the Opposition, amends that section of the present Act, section 22, which may be interpreted as it stands as giving statutory priority to 'economic efficiency' as against other objectives, in particular employment opportunities and growth. Thus section 22 of the present Act enjoins the IAC in the performance of its functions to have regard to the desire of the Government to 'improve the efficiency with which the community's productive resources are  used', and then it lists other matters to be taken into account. Clause 8 of this Bill amends this, requiring the Commission to have regard to the Government's desire to 'achieve sustained growth in the Australian economy- I note that economic growth is not mentioned in the policy guidelines as they stand in section 22- 'through balanced development of Australian industries with a view to providing increased opportunities for employment and investment'. Then follows proposed new section 22 (aa):  'improve the efficiency with which the community's productive resources are used . . . 
That provision is the same as the old clause, but then there is a rider about the capacity of the economy to sustain change is now added. 
I submit that that is a very reasonable change to the law. It can be said- doubtless the Commission would so contend- that increased economic efficiency will itself ensure more rapid growth and expanded employment opportunities. But that is the very proposition which is arguable, especially so if the objective of economic efficiency is pursued too fiercely by way of reducing tariffs without adequate consultation and communication with industry- I mean both sides, unions as well as employers- and without appropriate adjustment and retaining facilities and programs and, very importantly, without appropriate incentives for expansion in other ways and in other areas, that is, without the 'positives' for encouraging expansion in other markets or in other lines of activity in order to take up resources, expecially labour, that may become surplus. 
A recent article in the  Sydney Morning Herald  by  Mr John  Uhrig, Managing Director of Simpson Pope Ltd, is of interest in this respect. Australian manufacturing has to get much more conscious of export possibilities, he argued. There can be no doubt about that and this Government recognises that and is about to introduce an expanded export incentives scheme. He goes on to argue that of course it is desirable to scale down high tariffs but things need to be done in due order.  Mr Uhrig  referred to change in industry. Of course, change is inevitable. We do not need to be lectured by the Opposition about it. It is necessary to be clear about it and not be afraid of it because it will go on and always has gone on, and to a much greater extent than is generally recognised. To return to  Mr Uhrig,  he states: 
If we attempt to bring about this change simply by scaling down tariffs, the people who depend on industry will feel threatened. They will respond negatively. Unemployment will worsen ... On the other hand it is desperately important that we get on with the job of bringing about change. The answer - 
That is, according to  Mr Uhrig.  Let us say, one answer-  lies in bringing about an increase in the emphasis on exporting before we reduce tariffs to any appreciable extent. 
As I say, the order of doing things is important. 
The next important matter in this Bill to which I refer is clause 10 which provides for a proposed new Section 23 (A) which lays down certain requirements as to the form of reports by the Commission. In effect it asks of the Commission that it should canvass the range of options open to the Government as to what form, and the extent, of assistance it should give, and the likely effects, in particular on employment, of the varying approaches. I stress particularly proposed new section 23a (c) on page 4 of the Bill. It requires the Commission to report whether the structure of the industry can be improved and, if so, in what ways and by what measures. Thus, far from suppressing attention to change, as has been charged of this measure, the Bill directs the Commission to look to change. This I stress has always been the Liberal Party's approach. Thus this clause of the Bill embodies effectively a key section of the Party's 1975 manufacturing and industrial development policy. I seek leave to incorporate the relevant section in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

INQUIRIES AND REPORTS BY THE INDUSTRIES ASSISTANCE COMMISSION (IAC) 
A Liberal and National Country Party government will require that the IAC shall include in its report on an industry all pertinent facts including: the method and level of tariff and other assistance necessary adequately to protect the industry against import competition; whether the industry could be more efficient, the basis for judging efficiency, the possible improvement in efficiency and the level of tariff or assistance then required; whether the industry desirably should be re-structure( and if so how this should be done and the consequences thereof; whether the industry is less efficient than it could be due to fragmentation, insufficient specialisation or some other restriction; the probable consequences, economic, social and otherwise of changing existing levels of tariffs or assistance; such other information as the Government may require in a general guide line statement or in a particular reference, and any information deemed relevant by the IAC: so that the Government will be able to assess and decide whether to adopt recommendation of the IAC or alternatively what level of tariff or other assistance should be provided to the industry. 
I would like to touch at the point on the issue of the right way to proceed in circumstances of high unemployment, referred to by the Opposition. The Government's White Paper on manufacturing industry makes it clear that it is the Government's policy to aim at- I quote from page 4 of the White Paper:  ensuring that in times of economic downturn manufacturing has adequate support so as to alleviate economic and social disruption, and minimise the erosion of employment opportunities. 
I suspect that the present IAC view would not be entirely in accord with this, but this is not the time to debate the matter. What I want to stress is that the present condition of slack in the economy, as I said this morning in another context, has not been an ordinary cyclical downturn in economic activity but rather a situation of relatively high unemployment, and inflation- the two factors significantly associated with major elements of imbalance in the economy which were the legacies of the Whitlam Government. Chief among them is the too-high Australian cost structure which stems primarily from the wages explosion of 1974 in which year real wages rose by some 10 per cent. That would be four or five years' normal growth rolled into one. Thus in 1978, only three plus years on, we are still operating within the impact of that distortion. As a holding operation while the Government works to restore a more normal situation, additional protection particularly in the form of quantitative restrictions has been afforded a number of Australian industries. 
In its draft report on textiles the IAC notes the 'high costs' of protecting these industries but then states as 'even more disturbing' the 'alarming rate at which these costs have escalated in recent years'. I stress that this is not to say that these industries over this period have just sat back on their bottoms and grown inefficient while inducing governments of either side to up tariffs and impose quotas to assist them, to the detriment of consumers and farmers. The Whitlam wage cost explosion was the crux of the problem; the higher protection has been, essentially, consequential- a matter of holding the line, so to speak, on activity and employment in industries threatened by imports while this Government gets the basic economic settings right and thus sets the stage for an orderly and sustainable adjustment of industries where necessary. 
Now we are getting the settings right, but there is some way to go yet. If in the meanwhile we were not to have these protective holding operations I referred to, too little of Australian industry would be left when, again, we restore stability. I certainly hope that Australians generally, but particularly those in rural areas who feel themselves most disadvantaged by higher protection to manufacturing, appreciate this. 
Yet significant change in the pattern and the structure of a variety of industries is part and parcel of this whole process of restoring a sound economy. That is what is so important about this Bill. As I suggested earlier, it is one part of a total industry policy the Government is hammering out. The Opposition spokesman, the honourable member for Adelaide, had some hard words to say about the Government's activities in this area, but 'hammering out' is the operative phrase. Believe me, Australia is not the only country with a problem.  Major manufacturing  industries are in trouble all over the world. The world's steel industry, electronics industry, ship building industry, and of course the textiles and clothing industry and even the car industry are all in trouble, with the great and continuing growth of capacity in Third World countries such as South Korea, Taiwan, Brazil, Mexico, a major cause of the difficulty. There are problems, as the author of a recent major article in the  Economist  on the subject put it, 'for which no one today has an answer'. We are all working towards an appropriate overall industry policy- and I am saying that the importance of this Bill is precisely that it is part of that process. 
There are other components. One is the new export incentive proposals as referred to by the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Mr Lynch)  the other day which I mentioned earlier. This Government wants to see Australian manufacturers back into the export business from which they were effectively squeezed out by the actions of the previous Government. Another component is that there is to be an upgrading of the existing incentives and a new look at industrial research and development. Third, as also referred to by the Minister, is that there is to be a new program of in-depth studies of minerals and other resource processing prospects. These are the positives- policies to foster new activities and new industry developments geared to world market opportunities which can impart new momentum to the growth of Australian manufacturing and take up slack as some existing activities are reduced. There is further the Crawford study group on long term policies to assist with adjustment problems particularly in highly protected industries. 
It needs to be appreciated that clear and operable policies in this context are a necessary complement to a program of reducing high levels of protection. It has to be recognised that when you advocate a big tariff cut you do so because you believe that the whole economy- the Australian community as a whole and other countries, our trading partners- will gain. It is a reasonable proposition that if the whole economy is to gain significantly in this way those most affected should be compensated out of those gains. That is what adjustment assistance is all about. It is not to be thought of as a handout or unwarranted government interference. Rather it is a necessary part of significant tariff change. I put it again: If there is a really powerful case for change and an unconscionable protection cost to stall change, orderly assisted adjustment is the sensible and logical course. 
I revert to the measure before the House. Its primary thrust, so far as can be done by statute, is to adjure the IAC to provide comprehensive advice- and to provide, as  Sir John  Crawford put it in a recent address, constructive advice to government. It is of interest to note that at the point where  Sir John  Crawford made that statement in his recent Stan Kelly Memorial Lecture, he went on: 
The position in sensitive industries should not be drastically changed for say a two-year period while inflation is reduced further, some economic recovery is achieved and, most important, while the measures for adjustment assistance to the affected industries are devised, or if existing now, overhauled and made more satisfactory than they are now. Policies for adjustment of industries have to be clear on the treatment of capital ... on manpower adjustment and on the period to be provided for phasing down overcostly protection. On all these matters the IAC should be the adviser in respect of particular industries - 
That is the constructive role-  in the light of its assessment of the magnitude and severity as well as the geographical incidence of the problem. This assessment should be made in the light of the adjustment assistance programs known to be available. A restructuring program has, therefore, several components and the administration of the program which requires effective coordination of the parts might well call for a Structural Adjustment Board. 
As to that last remark I say maybe, maybe not. It is a moot point how far the Government should get into the overall act either via such a formal body or in other ways. We await the Study Groups report with interest. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drummond)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I address a question to the Treasurer. He will recall the commitment in the Liberal Party's policy speech last November to introduce a scheme of deposits insurance for building societies. Will the Treasurer inform the House of the state of play with respect to the introduction of such a scheme? 
-My question, which is directed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, concerns the death sentence which has been imposed on the former Pakistan Prime Minister. Has the Government made representations to the Pakistan Government asking that the death sentence be commuted? If so, what was the reaction of the Pakistan Government? 
-Could the Treasurer inform the House of the current state of discussions between the Commonwealth and the States concerning the proposed new guidelines for infrastructure financing? 
I ask the Minister for Industry and Commerce: How does the Government view the present outlook for investment in manufacturing industry? Is the current rate of capital investment in manufacturing appropriate as the basis of an increasingly efficient and competitive industrial structure in Australia? 
-The purpose of Supply Bills (Nos 1 and 2) 1978-79 which are before the House is to authorise moneys for the Government for the period of the next financial year pending the passage of the 1978 Budget. The Opposition moved as an amendment to these Bills that the Government does not provide stimulus to the economy and it went on to charge that the Government has deliberately created unemployment in its fight against inflation. That is untrue; indeed, it is a slanderous statement. The true position is that the Government's policies are directed towards reducing unemployment and restoring growth with stability, to arresting, indeed, the great boost to unemployment which occurred under the previous Labor Administration. 
I will come back to that. But I turn to these Bills- as the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  pointed out, they do not in themselves give any indication as to the actual shape of the 1978-79 Budget. But what can be said, as was clear from the Appropriation Bills (Nos. 3 and 4) recently before the House, is that the Government has broadly adhered to the spending total proposed in last year's Budget, and that in the forthcoming 1 978-79 Budget it will stick firmly with the policy of containing government expenditure to a reasonable rate of growth as a central component of the Government's overall economic policy. This is perhaps a suitable time to review that policy because, as we heard before the suspension of the sitting, given any opportunity the Opposition criticises the policy although it does not come up with any specific, concrete or feasible suggestions as to how it might be changed. 
On this particular matter of public spending I think it is important to point out that the Opposition 's constant charge that public expenditure policy is too restrictive and, as it would have it, is bringing the economy to ruin is without foundation. At least as to total, the overall picture as shown in the most recent national product and income statistics is this: That during the half year to December last total public spending increased in real terms, that is, allowing for inflation, by some 2.3 per cent as compared with the preceding half year. Public current expenditure in the December quarter itself increased, again in real terms, by some 2.4 per cent to stand in the quarter nearly 5 per cent higher than it was in the December quarter 1976. Public capital spending increased by 2.2 per cent to stand some 4.8 per cent higher than in the December quarter twelve months previously. 
Of course these figures embrace spending by the States and local authorities as well as by the Commonwealth. The Labor Opposition always tries to make something of that, implying that the Commonwealth is the miserly villian and the figures to which I have referred are the result of a fortuitous, as it were, expansion of spending by the States. The truth of course is that it has been a specific objective of this Commonwealth Government to contain its expenditure- it will continue to do so- but to foster and to provide the resources to enable increased expenditure and activity by the States. Thus the figures for the various levels of government should be taken together and the almost 5 per cent increase in real terms from the December quarter 1976 to the following December quarter is very relevant. 
Thus while we certainly have reined in the mad spending spree of the previous administration which threatened to destroy the whole balance and viability of the Australian economy recall that increase of fully 46 per cent in the one year 1974-75 which, be it noted, was accompanied by the most rapid increase in unemployment ever recorded - 
-And taxes, nevertheless Government spending has been expanded reasonably in accordance with the national needs of Australia. That is important. This Government will not be sold short. Some people talk as if the Fraser Government is applying a straitjacket to the economy. What has to be understood is this: This Government's economic policy is tough on inflation- but it is good for Australia, with its whole objective being to restore growth with stability and high levels of employment- the sort of Australia we always knew. The idea that the Labor Opposition tries to project, that the Government's policy is restrictive to the point that it would put Australia and the Australian economy in a straitjacket is way off the mark. It would put inflation in a straitjacket beat inflation- and that is certainly what we are about. And we are winning; witness the 1.3 per cent increase in the consumer price index for the March quarter. But for Australia, renewed growth, prosperity and high levels of employment are the targets and objectives of the Government's policies. 
Yet taking the economy as of now one is bound to concede that the level of economic activity is more subdued, flat, than we would like. I believe that the majority of the Australian people recognise that what the Government is doing is what has to be done. Albeit we would all like to see conditions more buoyant, the fact is that matters are moving in the right direction. What I believe the Australian people do perceive- this needs to be stressed- is that the situation is an extraordinarily complex one. As I have said on a number of occasions in this Parliament, it has not been an ordinary cyclical variation in economic activity with which we are contending. Rather we are dealing with a situation of continuingalthough, happily, falling- inflation and unemployment, the two things resulting significantly from major elements of imbalance in the economy stemming in large measure from the Whitlam years, and also associated with structural and other factors which are very complex and difficult to remove, offset or change quickly. There are no slick, easy or neat solutions in this situation. The other day the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  said: 
Any government can bring down inflation quickly and by almost any amount it cares to name. 
That is where the sentence ends. What an absurd statement. Inflation can easily be increased- as the Government of which the Leader of the Opposition was a member did so successfully- but to reduce it and to restore full employment there are no slick, easy or neat solutions and the Australian people recognise that and will judge the Leader of the Opposition accordingly. 
Foremost among those elements of imbalance to which I referred is the so-called real wage overhang, that is, the fact that wages increased way ahead of productivity, which translates- to put it in more straightforward terms- into the very high, the too high, Australian cost structure. 
That goes back to the incomes explosion of 1974 when in one year real wages, as the honourable member points outmoney wages adjusted for prices- increased by more than 10 per cent. That was to roll into one year the sort of increase in real wages, and the standard of living, which would normally accrue only over three, four or more years. In short, wage earners generally from 1974 had three to four years' normal increase in advance. The impact was on business profitability and on its capacity to employ people. That impact was very great. It resulted in the massive increase in unemployment and the distortion of the Australian cost structure with which we are still wrestling. 
In addition to that and related factors there have been at work major structural changes in the economy. I refer, for example, to the slowing of the growth of population which has had important implications for the level of activity in housing and all that implies for other industries dependent on it. Again, in the manufacturing area, it has to be recognised that for most of the post-war period manufacturing grew and prospered on an import replacement basis. But in many areas the limits of development on that basis have been approached. We urgently need a greater export orientation. There can be no return to a buoyant full employment economy without a restoration of manufacturing- so policy has to recognise this fundamental structural aspect. These and other structural factors are very important. Some have put it- I think this overstates the case- that we have come to the end of an era, the post-war era of strong growth fuelled by high level immigration, import replacing manufacturing and the growth of the tertiary sector. That, as I said, overstates the case but it does underline that in all these circumstances policy is extraordinarily complex- much more so than in the past- so that past experience provides only a limited guide to how the Government should proceed. 
The last point is underlined in this way. The fact is- the Opposition view refuses to recognise this point- that since the trough of the 1974-75 recession, national output has been growing on average at 3 per cent per annum. The most recent figure for Australian non-farm domestic product puts it at some 7.5 per cent higher than the 1975 trough. I stress that Australian total national production, at the latest count, was some 7.5 per cent up on the 1975 low point to which it was reduced under the Labor Government. That performance is as good or better than the experience in previous downturns in the Australian economy. As another way of looking at it, it is a growth of output that is broadly similar to that which has occurred in other industrial countries during the last several years. But because of the deep seated imbalances in the economy, and the structural difficulties to which I have referred, other factors, especially unemployment, have not moved as we would wish. Unemployment, and especially youth unemployment, remains unacceptably high and the Government is every bit as concerned about that as the Opposition affects to be. 
Nevertheless the basic settings of the economy are, as I said, turning in the right direction. We simply have to persevere, there are no quick or easy ways out. The Leader of the Opposition in his speech to which I referred earlier, grievously mislead the Australian people in suggesting that there are easy and simple ways out. First and foremost, of course, inflation has been substantially reduced. The consumer price increase for the March quarter, as I have said, at 1.3 per cent is the lowest for some five years, and involves an inflation rate over the 12 months to that period of 8.2 per cent. That brings inflation down to the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development average and there can be little doubt that the underlying inflation rate in Australia is still falling. First and foremost therefore, as we look ahead on policy, the Government must and will maintain the fight against inflation. That is number one. In that fight the key element is to contain the increase in money wages and to achieve partial adjustments to the consumer price index for the time being, for a temporary period. The importance of that goes beyond limiting inflation, it goes to the key problem of correcting the real wage imbalance. The Opposition is vocal in arguing that the partial adjustment of wages to price increases, is a denial of justice. I ask, justice for whom? What about the unemployed? That is what we are doing something about. The key factor is to correct this too-high Australian cost structure. 
Next as to stimulus, to which the Opposition refers in its amendment. It moved an amendment saying that the Government policy does not provide stimulus. But it does; there is stimulus or stimuli- plural- built into what we are doing. Firstly, the tax cut which took effect on 1 February involves an increase of some $ 1,000m in disposable income over the next 12 months from that day. Yet the Opposition charges that the policies of the Government are restrictive. Does the Opposition forget what we have done, in the tax reduction and tax reform area, which is undoubtedly and inherently expansionary? Indeed, a tax cut of the same proportionate order proposed by President Carter has been called into question by the Federal Reserve Authority in that country as being too expansionary, perhaps inflationary. That is the first stimulus that is built into the policy. 
The second element of major stimulus is to carry through the interest rate reduction which is already under way. The reduction of interest rates is perhaps the most powerful and pervasive stimulus the economy can receive. It has implications, in particular, for the housing- and manufacturing and other industries dependent on that- and consumer durable sectors. I was delighted to see the headline in the business section of the  Australian Financial Review  the other day saying 'Optimism is in the air'. It continued: Hopes of cuts in interest'. Also, this headline appeared in  The Australian  last Friday: Another win in inflation fight- Share market peak shows new optimism. ' Optimism is indeed in the air. Truth will come through notwithstanding all the efforts of the Opposition to kill it stone dead. 
Next in our policy the Government continues to explore and will enlarge- I stress, is enlarging -as appropriate the various employment incentive schemes it has introduced. Honourable members may recall that apart from items to cover the increases in the award wages of Government employees the largest single item in Appropriation Bill (No. 3) and Appropriation Bill (No. 4) that we passed the other day was the additional $30. 7m to meet increases in payments to employers and employees under the Government 's enlarged National Employment and Training Scheme. That is action, not words the true earnest of the Government's purposes. Next, the implication of what I said earlier is that there are two broad areas of policy with which the Government is concerned in order to restore the type of economy we all were used to. Firstly, overall economic policy, so-called 'macro' policy, with the major thrust being to beat inflation and to reduce interest rates, and taxes, and, secondly, more specific policies to deal with structural problems. The macro policy alone is not sufficient. In this second respect. It is of critical importance to continue, and enlarge as appropriate, our export, investment, industrial research and development grants and other incentives. I refer, for example, to the important adjustment assistance area- the incentives to export, the incentives to create improved technology, the incentives to explore and develop new activities in terms of processing minerals and other resources geared to world market possibilities, which are major components of the Government 's industry policy. 
What this means is that there is a high priority on getting a shift in budget expenditure in the direction of increased industry assistance which has in fact declined very notably in recent years as a component of total budget outlays. That will mean that it will be difficult for the Government to contemplate a deficit in the forthcoming Budget significantly less than for the current financial year. I recognise that the size of the Budget deficit- keeping it down- is seen by investors both in Australia and, perhaps even more importantly overseas as an index of the Government 's determination to beat inflation. That determination cannot be questioned. I stress again that for the recent March quarter the consumer price index increased by only 1.3 per cent. That is evidence on the board of the Government's resolution. What has been important is the way a somewhat higher deficit than originally contemplated has been financed- specifically by the Government's success in making sales of its securities to the non-bank public- insurance companies, private individuals and so on- who have confidence in the Government's policies. The Government can confidently anticipate the continued effective financing of a deficit of this order- until in due time the deficit reduces itself, so to speak, as economic activity picks up to stronger growth in the latter part of this year and in 1979 and beyond. I support these Bills and reject the amendment moved by the Opposition. 
-by leave-I join with the  Chairman  of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Expenditure, the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns),  in commending to the House the work of the Committee. As he pointed out, the ultimate purpose is to establish the Committee as an effective instrument of parliamentary scrutiny, and I believe that the Committee is well on the way to being that. In the spirit of goodwill prevailing I support the two previous speakers in commending the atmosphere in which the Committee conducted its deliberations. As the  Chairman  said, it was an atmosphere of bipartisan cooperation. 
I take the opportunity also to stress the point that in the Committee 's report there is no suggestion of reducing the benefits available to exservicemen or to serving members of the forces. The Committee has looked closely at the existing arrangements and has come up with this suggestion that in lieu of a housing loan scheme which, in effect, gives a benefit in respect of interest rates- which of course will vary with fluctuations in general interest rates- an alternative might well be a cash grant. This would have a number of benefits, not the least being a significant saving in administrative costs which, as the  Chairman  rightly stressed, has the advantage that it provides the opportunity for converting significant administrative costs into benefits for recipients, with a saving to taxpayers. In order to keep these remarks very brief, I mention only that the proposal that the Committee has come up with should have the effect of enabling a larger number of ex-servicemen or serving personnel to benefit. I commend the Committee's report and its work to the House. 
-Can the Minister for Health give an indication of the likely considerable savings to families now covered by Medibank Standard consequent upon the announced changes in health insurance in the Budget? 
-The Opposition attack on the Budget has been entirely predictable, as is well evidenced by that speech from the honourable member for Batman  (Mr Howe).  By concentrating on particular aspects in a selective and misleading way it deliberately ignores and obscures the central thrust, the main purpose, the overriding, major objective of the Budget and of the Government's economic policies generally namely, to build on the foundations already set for the long-term stability and economic growth and prosperity of Australia. That is what this is all about. That is the way all Australians, in the fullness of time, will benefit from this Budget. 
It has been- and there is a long way to go yet- a long haul. The Government recognises that and I say that the Australian people recognise it. The great majority of Australians will disown the efforts of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  and other Labor members from this place, and Labor Party members and officials elsewhere, to whip up opposition to the Budget, as they tried to do in the rallies and the disorder and violence of yesterday. 
The Leader of the Opposition had much to say about unemployment, but as usual without indicating any proven way of reducing it in a lasting manner. Unemployment is high, too high, and may yet get rather worse before finally it gets better, depending to a considerable extent on the approach of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission to wage and salary adjustments. The Government is concerned about that, every bit as concerned as the Labor Opposition affects to be. Of course we are concerned about the high level of unemployment- as I have said, that is what the Budget and the Government's policy is all about: To restore fully stability, growth and prosperity, and high levels of employment on a long-term, sustainable basis. The Opposition may disagree as to how to bring that about. I will tell honourable members something on that: There is some disagreement among the professionals- professional economists, academics, in the Reserve Bank, in the banks, in industry- though I would judge that the weight of opinion is on our side. But as to the objectives, the stability and economic growth and prosperity of Australia, there is no dispute. 
It has also been easy for the Opposition, in respect of a Budget which is very complex, with many elements about which a dramatic story could be woven, to make great play about particular aspects of it. Yes, to take up the opening thrust of the Leader of the Opposition, taxes on beer, spirits, cigarettes and petrol are raised and the Australian people very reasonably will grouch about that. I point out, however, that the thrust of these measures, other than in respect of petrol, is broadly to raise the incidence of taxes on these commodities to the sorts of levels that prevailed the last time they were increased. When was that? It was in the Budget that was brought down by the very Leader of the Opposition who kicked off this debate tonight, the honourable member for Oxley, in 1975, when Treasurer of the Labor Government. He saw it then as the best, or least unacceptable, course, the lesser of evils, for responsible economic management. Similarly, with this Government today. Again, I have confidence that the Australian people will see it that way and recognise the need for these measures. 
That need, as I will go on to stress, is to keep the deficit in the public accounts under control and hence to continue to bear down on inflation and reduce interest rates. I stress the latter particularly. It is a key thrust of the Budget to get interest rates down. That means putting real money in the pockets of people, in the pockets of home owners, for instance, where a one percentage point reduction in the interest rate on a typical home loan would lead to reduced payments of the order of $18 a month, $4-plus a week, and a total of the order of $5,300 over the period of a loan. 
Moreover, as against the price rises for beer, cigarettes and petrol there is an important offset namely, the change that the Budget makes to health insurance. The Leader of the Opposition tried to disparage what the Government had done, but the fact is that the Government's measures will substantially reduce the cost of health insurance for the typical Australian family. The Government will provide free a refund of 40 per cent of the scheduled fee, with a maximum patient contribution of $20 per service- so, for a large operation costing, say, $200, the Government would provide $180- together with free public hospital treatment. To 'insure up', so to speak, to the benefits currently provided by Medibank Standard, at 75 per cent of the fee, with a maximum contribution of $10, whilst one cannot be certain, I have it on good authority is unlikely to cost more than $150 per annum, probably less. So for perhaps half or less than the current maximum health insurance levy of $300, on a family basis, Australian families will be able to receive the benefits that are currently provided by Medibank Standard. That is a very substantial saving. 
It is, of necessity, a complex Budget and time does not permit me to go over again all of its particular components. I would, however, reiterate the statement of the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  this afternoon that, in respect of the family allowance, it was never the intention of the Government that the part-time earnings of the newspaper boy- children generally showing a bit of 'get up and go' and earning something for themselves in part-time work- should be disadvantaged. The Government is reviewing the scope of that matter. 
What I come back to, in the time left to me, is that the central thrust, the main purpose, the overriding objective of the Budget and of the Government's economic policy, is to build on what we have already achieved, towards establishing the long-term stability and economic growth and prosperity of Australia. The Budget is a tough one, people say. Well, yes, it is tough on inflation- but not, except temporarily, on Australians and Australia. The central thing to be said about it is that it maintains the thrust of the Government's policies to correct the major elements of imbalance in the Australian economy, which were in the main a legacy of the Whitlam years: First, the so-called real wage productivity imbalance- to put it in plain words, the too-high cost of labour in Australia, so that everywhere business tries to shed labour, hence the continuing high level of unemployment. The second element of imbalance is the too-high level of inflation and interest rates. 
As to interest rates, if any further support for the correctness of the Government's approach were needed, the annual report of the Reserve Bank of Australia, tabled last Thursday evening, provides it. It comes through there that with a deficit in the public accounts much larger than the Government has provided for it would have been difficult, virtually impossible, to finance it and maintain the downthrust in interest rates. To finance means to borrow, and the bigger the deficit the more you have to borrow; the more you have to borrow, the more the upward pressure is on interest rates. The further reduction of interest rates, which this Budget is pitched to achieve, is the most pervasive and powerful stimulus to the economy you can get. Interest rates affect activity at every point. In the purchase you may want to make of consumer durables the level of the interest rate affects what you ultimately pay. It affects the purchase of, the very capacity to pay for, a house. As I have outlined, a one percentage point reduction in the interest rates means a reduction in repayments of the order of $ 1 8 a month. 
Yes indeed. It affects borrowing by industry for additional working capital and new investment. So, to carry through the reduction in interest rates, that is a key element in the Government's approach. The Leader of the Opposition wants to solve all of our problems by pumping in more demand quickly, via a higher deficit. 
By putting more poison into the system. I say, firstly, that particularly while the real wage productivity imbalance persistsexpressed in simple terms, while the very high cost of employing an Australian, in relation to what he can produce, remains- increased aggregate monetary demand directly will result more in increased inflation, in high cost output, than the expected expansion of employment. That is the first point to be made about the proposal of the Leader of the Opposition. Secondly, the higher deficit, by preventing the continued fall in interest rates, would inhibit longer-term increased demand and employment in the private sector. So the guts of the matter is that by following the path of the Leader of the Opposition, what we might gain temporarily in the one area we will lose on a long term basis in the other area, namely, the private area. There are simply no short cuts in the business of restoring stability and prosperity to the Australian economy. 
I think it is clear from what I have just been saying that of key importance is the growth of productivity, which takes time- and in the interim exacerbates the unemployment problem. A cut, even a temporary one, in real wages understandably is resisted. If real wages, representing the real cost of labour, are not to be reducedalbeit temporarily, which is all that is asked- the only way to correct the imbalance between real wages, the real cost of labour, and productivity, which is what labour will produce, is for productivity to grow. Of course, over the past couple of years productivity has grown, very significantly. That is why, notwithstanding increased output, the level of unemployment continues to be high. It is worth stressing that on the latest figures the level of total national output is over nine per cent higher than it was at its low point in 1975, but of course so is the level of productivity. 
Yes, that is how well the policy is working, but there is yet further to go. This point merges with the general point I would like to make; namely, that formulating policy for the economy is particulary complex and difficult because we are not dealing with an ordinary cyclical variation in the economy, but rather, we are dealing with inflation, and unemployment, stemming from the major elements of imbalance to which I have referred, but also from structural factors which to a significant degree are independent of those elements. For example, in the postWorld War II decades relatively rapid population growth was an important element which made for economic growth. But the rate of population growth has now slowed considerably, with important implications, for example, for demand, output and productivity in the building industry. 
It certainly was. A second point in this matter is that the post- War era of strong growth was fueled, among other things, by the development of manufacturing industry, largely on an import replacement basis. However, in many areas the limits of development on that basis have been approached. 
Improved productivity and competitiveness, as my colleague said, in particular a greater export orientation are critical to the restoration of a healthy manufacturing sector. Thus it is important that economic policy and the Budget be directed not only to the general objectives of beating inflation and reducing interest rates, but also towards specific measures aimed at alleviating structural problems. Accordingly, in respect of manufacturing this Budget makes the important provisions which were referred to by the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Mr Lynch)  who preceded me in this debate. 
Thus this Budget contains a greatly increased provision for export incentives. Industrial research and development activity promotes innovation and increased productivity and competitiveness in industry. In this Budget industrial research and development grants have been increased by some 75 per cent. The investment allowance, the trading stock valuation adjustment in the tax field and other assistance to industry is maintained. The Leader of the Opposition said that Labor would abolish the investment allowance and add a resources tax, a capital gains tax and other imposts. What a way to approach strengthening industry, encouraging growth and thrust in industry, and creating higher levels of employment! 
As my colleague said, it is a recipe for destroying industry and employment. Then, as I have stressed throughout my speech, a reduced rate of inflation and lower interest rates are of fundamental and major significance to the viability and health of Australian industry. But under the proposals of the Opposition those elements also would be undermined. 
As I have said, Australians are entitled to grouch about higher taxes on their drinks, cigarettes and petrol, though remembering that their medical insurance and, when they get around to buying it, that new car will cost less. But it says a great deal for the common sense, the native intelligence and fair mindedness of Australians that the great majority of people have accepted the need for the introduction of these measures and I believe, they reject the slant which the Opposition tries to put on what we have done. All Australians will benefit. I believe that they can see and understand this from the restoration of stability and growth in the 

<graphic href="110131197808225_57_6.jpg"></graphic>

economy- from reduced inflation, lower interest rates, more competitive and employment-giving Austraiian industry. This Government, and as a component of its continuing policies this Budget, will bring about these achievements. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. I note that the Government has joined with the Channel 9 network in the development of a daily job show to assist the unemployed. Can the Minister inform us whether the show is successful and whether there are any plans for this program to be shown in other States? 
It may be said that the resolution has something of a slant towards the aspirations and policies of the developing countries, but the problems and the economic and political implications for Australia and the developed world generally are nonetheless the real for that. Certainly the resolution underlines the political significance for the Third World of the issue of the Integrated Program for Commodities and the Common Fund. It is seen as a critical test of the political will to increase assistance to the Third World. If the Common Fund is a difficult area it can surely be said that it is only one among all the daunting and complex issues involved in this matter. 
My time has been shortened so I will round off my remarks. Crucial issues face the world in this general area. I would perhaps in concluding mention one of those and that is how to come to terms with the increasing levels of military spending and the international trade in arms which has grown so rapidly since about 1973. The facts of the matter are that in 1975 nonOPEC developing countries spent of the order of $24 billion on military expenditure and received $17 billion in official aid. The questions are: How  might arms manufacturers be discouraged from pursuing sales, how might the receipt of aid be made conditional in this respect so that countries with a high level of military spending would get less or no aid? One is perhaps entering a dream world in this area, but the issue is a very relevant one. In the interests of other honourable members who wish to speak to this measure I conclude my remarks on that note. The dangers, the problems and the challenges in this are are immense. Let us not be accused of evading our responsibilities in these great issues. 
-As the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  has said, the Asian Development Fund Bill is an important measure in the context of Australia's participation as a donor country in the continuing matter of international assistance by the relatively rich countries of the world, to foster the development and growth of the poor countries- the developing or less developed countries, or LDCs as they are referred to. The Bill is particularly important because it relates to the Asian and Pacific regions, the areas of most immediate concern to Australia. As the honourable member pointed out, the Bill authorises Australia 's contribution- Australia's full proportionate share as that has emerged over the years since the Asian Development Fund was established- to the second replenishment of the resources of the Fund. The Asian Development Fund is the 'soft', so-called, lending operation of the Asian Development Bank. The use of the word 'soft' should not be misunderstood. The position is analagous to that of the International Development Association which is the comparable affiliate of the World Bank. The World Bank, as is the case with the Asian Development Bank, is concerned to finance soundly based development projects as assessed by quite stringent standards. I stress that point in relation to the comments that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition has been making about the worth of* the Bank's activities. I suggest that he begin some initial consideration of that matter by checking out the annual reports of the Bank. 
The annual report of the Asian Development Bank for 1977 which I have in my hand gives a pretty detailed account of the work and the important projects which have been financed by the Bank and the Fund. The purpose of the Fund, as is the case in respect of the International Development Association on a global basis, is specifically to assist the poorest and least developed countries with long term credits for sound projects but to assist them on a concessional basis. That is the so-called soft aspect of the operation. It is of the greatest importance because of the massive and crushing burden of debt servicing and repayment which the poorer developing nations currently face. 
As I said, the Bill before us is an important measure in relation to which the Government welcomes the bipartisan support evidence in the speech of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition. He dwelt on the problems of land tenure and land reform in these countries. The point is an important one. But these problems of land tenure and land reform, I suggest, are hardly matters for the Asian Development Bank, let alone for this Government. The Second Asian Agricultural Survey to which the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition referred also stressed that development in these countries could be set back by weak world prices for primary export commodities. I want to stress that in this context this Government has taken a very positive and constructive role, and acting as a mediating influence between nations of the West on the one hand and the developing countries on the other in seeking to bring into existence the Integrated Program for Commodities and the common fund to finance them proposed by the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development. This is held to be particularly important by the developing countries. I will come back to that point later. But that is an area which is an appropriate sphere of action for this Government The Goverment has not been found wanting. 
The scale of operations of the Asian Development Fund is significant. The initial fund amounted to half a billion dollars in United States currency. The first replenishment of its resources for the period 1976 to 1978 was $US800m, and this, the second replenishment, will amount to SUS2.15 billion for the four-year period 1979 to 1982. That is a very significant expansion of the Fund. However, I want to stress that in the context of what needs to be done to assist the developing countries of the world even $2 billion- that is to say $2,000m- over a fouryear period is a relatively small amount. This Parliament and Australians generally need to understand that the magnitude of the necessary transfer of resources, for that is what it comes down to, from the rich countries to the poor countries must be massive if any real progress is to be made. Voluntary efforts like the Freedom From Hunger Campaign are of the utmost importance in getting people involved in the issue in a personal way, but only governments and large scale commercial activity can come up with the resources on the necessary scale. 
The further importance of voluntary organisations is then that they play a role in achieving the necessary political will for action at government level. We do encounter questioning as to why we should get involved in diverting resources to overseas countries when there is so much needed to be done in this country' in relation to the poor, education, health and so on. The answer to that is that it is very much in all our interests to be involved in assistance to the developing countries. In the ultimate that case is summed up in this way: A peaceful world cannot exist one-third rich and two-thirds hungry, as 
President Carter put it not so long ago. The developed, rich countries must contribute to the assistance of the less developed on humanitarian grounds- the obligation of those to whom much is given to help those with so much less- but also on the grounds of straight, long term economic and political self-interest, the interest of all of us in a more stable, workable and peaceful world system. 
There is a great deal of talk of a so-called 'new international economic order' dignified with the initials NIEO. Whilst it is unreal to look for radical change, much more can and must be done. Indeed, I note that in recent years the quantum of development aid has fallen significantly in real terms; it is now proportionately less than it was in the 1950s and 1960s- Though on the other side it has to be said that the increase by the Organisation for Petroleum Exporting Countries in oil prices from late 1973 has involved a massive transfer of command over resources to the oilrich among the developing countries. We need to recognise that developing countries covers a very diverse group. The oil-rich countries, as I have just said, must be distinguished from the non-oil developing countries, and the South Koreas, the Taiwans and the Brazils of the world must be distinguished from India, Bangladesh, Argentina and so on. 
What I would like to stress again is that the world has a considerable stake in the greater economic health of the developing countries. That was evidenced, among other things, by the place of the non-oil developing countries in particular in the recent period of massive imbalance in the international payments system. The cumulative balance of payments deficit of the non-oil less developed countries from 1973-74 until recently has been in excess of $100 billion financed by official development aid, by other international assistance and large scale commercial lending. I think what needs to be appreciated is that $100 billion plus of international deficitfinanced spending has made a not insignificant contribution to the underpinning of world demand and thus to holding up world economic activity during this period. At the same time this contributed to the workability of the world's international payments system by the LDCs, in effect, thus shouldering along with the United States the lion's share of other countries' surplus. The reality of this great increasing interdependence needs to be more widely recognised. 
To revert to the Asian Development Fund, its purpose is to finance projects within developing countries of the Asian and Pacific regions to increase the productive capacity of those economies and thereby raise current living standards and enhance the prospects of further growth. As I have said before, the report ofthe Bank indicates the sort of thing that has been done. But in the nature of things the principal source of the wherewithal for growth and development of countries remains their own resources. In this respect what the developing countries most prize and as was pointed out by the agricultural survey by the Asian Development Bank referred to is the establishment for their commodity exports, which are by far the major source of their export income, of international commodity stabilisation schemes and a common fund to finance them. 
One is bound to acknowledge that there is opposition with an admixture of scepticism to this proposal from some Western sources. This is based in part on ideological grounds, in part on the anticipated cost, and on scepticism as to the workability of individual international commodity schemes and the view that a package of such taken together is no more likely to be so. Australia has not been prepared to accept this attitude. That is not surprising in the light of our experience with, for example, sugar and the dizzy heights, over $1,000 per tonne, to which the price rose in 1974 and the abysmally low price now. Of course, some might say that the current International Sugar Agreement negotiated last year and in effect the first of the international agreements of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development program, does not give too much ground for optimism. The thorn in the flesh, of course, is the nonparticipation of the European Economic Community and its large scale subsidisation of exports being dumped in third markets. Must we accept that as permanent? That is the issue in that case. 
Without pursuing the argument more fully the fact is that Australia has given genuine and practical support to the Integrated Program for Commodities and the Common Fund on the basis of our general commitment to assistance to the developing countries and our own interests. We have been able to fulfil, as I said before, something of a mediating role between the position of the major Western countries on the one hand and the Group of 77 representing the developing countries on the other. This matter was much discussed at this year's conference of the InterParliamentary Union and I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  for the information of honourable members the resolution on this subject that was passed at the recent Bonn Conference of the Inter-Parliamentary Union. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

Will the Prime Minister inform the House whether overseas governments are adopting the same policies as Australia towards excessive wage and salary increases? 
I refer the Treasurer to the article appearing today on the front page of the  Australian Financial Review  suggesting that the call-up of statutory reserve deposits by the Reserve Bank of Australia, which was announced yesterday, will lead to new interest rate increases. I ask: Can the Treasurer give the House an indication of the extent to which this call-up of 1 per cent will affect interest rates and lending by the banks? 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker -  (Quorum formed). 
I have no intention of addressing myself point by point to the speech made by the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  who led for the Opposition. The whole thrust of my remarks will rebut the inadequate and largely negative remarks that he has made. The Government rejects the Opposition's amendment which, specifically, fails to offer any feasible alternative. I will come back to that. 
The key emphasis in the proposal is the setting up in Australia of a world scale engine plant by General Motors-Holden's Ltd, a plant of world scale meaning one with an annual volume of production sufficient to ensure a unit cost which is competitive with overseas manufacturers and which will put Australia in the same league as the major industrial countries. This is the way to achieve the very international competitiveness that the honourable member leading for the Opposition was talking about. I might say in passing that since this Government has come to power the index of our international competitiveness generally is up about 30 per cent on what it was when Labor left office. 
This proposal is a forward looking development, indeed breakthrough, a new dimension for this sector of Australian manufacturing. I do not blink the fact that there are problems; there are and they are serious. But I submit that they are of a lesser order than the eventual problems of not accommodating this General Motors-Holden's 
Ltd proposal; and that is the key point. What it is all about is the long term health and viability of the Australian motor industry and that industry, in all its ramifications, is the biggest single industry in manufacturing. It is all about the health and viability of this industry five and ten years hence. Health and viability mean capacity to employ and to provide meaningful jobs for Australians. That in a nutshell is what it is all aboutthe health and very capacity to provide large scale employment in this major industry, not just tomorrow or next year, but five or ten years on. 
There can be no real doubt that without significant change- change along lines that this engine development is a good first step towards, specifically, a more export oriented industry- the industry and its very capacity to employ would go steadily downhill. The root problem stems from the small size of the Australian market which is about 600,000 units per annum, much less for passenger cars, compared with 14 million units per annum in the United States of America or the European Economic Community and 6.5 million in Japan and the sheer inability because of fundamental technological factors for five major manufacturers to produce at low cost when operating within the limits of such a small market. Everybody recognises this. I suggest that the spokesman for the Opposition, the honourable member for Adelaide who has just resumed his seat knows this as well as I do. Yet the Parliament was treated to his long disquisition and to this amendment in his attempt to have a bit each way. He said in effect: 'Yes, the Australian market is too small. Something has to be done, but not this proposal; anything but this present proposal'. 
Let me spend a few moments going over just what is proposed. To put it as simply as possible, it is this: For a start there is the General Motors engine plant, a world scale plant, which is to produce 240,000 engines per annum with a capacity for 300,000 and at that volume, costs are minimised. Two-thirds of the output is to be exported to other countries manufacturing the proposed world car, the J car. The other side of the coin is that some other parts of the car, when it is produced and sold here, are to be imported with some duty concessions from other countries with world scale plants able to produce those parts- and, hence, low costs. As the car is assembled here from more parts produced at world scale and low cost, the finished car will be more competitive and available at a lower cost. In time finished cars, too, should be able to be exported. 
The spokesman for the Opposition will not have it this way. Yet recognising, as the Government does, the need for a new direction he says, as embraced in this amendment, that the answer is rationalisation. He says that we should get production down by having fewer manufacturers or at least fewer plants. He says that that is the answer. That would be great if the honourable member would give us any indication of how that could be brought about as a main thrust, short of a system of socialisation in which the Government directs which companies will produce, where they will produce, the lot. That is not on. So, while rationalisation sounds great and will undoubtedly take place in various ways and in varying degrees, in fact no workable alternative proposal is made. So much for number five of the Opposition amendment. Meanwhile the inexorable trends to declining competitiveness in the Australian industry with all its long term implications for a declining capacity of the Australian industry to employ people, would go on. 
In this context I make it clear that I am not averse to the reasonable protection of Australian manufacturing industry by the use of tariffs and other measures. But one must come to terms with the facts, and the facts are that in respect of this industry protection now has risen to a duty at the rate of 57.5 per cent, that is, the normal 45 per cent- if one can put it that way- plus the 12.5 per cent introduced in the last August Budget. Further there is a market sharing arrangement in force by quotas restricting imports- 80 per cent for Australian produced vehicles, and 20 per cent for imported- and there is an 85 per cent Australian content Plan further encouraging production in Australia. It is a formidable and growing structure of assistance and protection. I think that as one reflects on these trends the conclusion is inevitable. There has to be a change of direction and the present proposal is the only practicable one around- despite all the fulminations of the Opposition. It is the only route not only to lower car prices for consumers or at all events to containing further price rises, but also to enable the very survival of a viable industry and hence future employment levels at anything like the present scale. That is what this matter is all about. 
I have said that there are problems and we do not blink that fact. For one the proposal does involve a change to the motor car Plan which the Government has stated was to remain in place until 1984. 1 do not deny that. I do say, however, that the Government's commitment was made in the light of foreseeable circumstances and in the event those circumstances have changed. 
Specifically, trends in technology and production methods on the world scene, not only in Australia, have moved faster and somewhat differently from what could have been foreseen. It is agreed in all quarters- all sections of the industry as well as the Australian trade unions involved- that the world car concept is inevitable. The world is moving to it faster than could have been anticipated and it predicates action even faster because of the investment lead times involved. So I put it to the House that this Government would be remiss in its duty to the Austraiian people and especially to the workers in Australian industry if it did not modify the Plan. It is not remiss in bringing forward the change that is now before the House. 
As I have said it does create very serious problems for some manufacturers and employees. That is acknowledged. As the honourable member for Adelaide has said, it raises issues of adjustment assistance. The Crawford report on that very subject currently with the Government is therefore very topical. Indeed one might say that we have here a first class, concrete, practical case study for the Crawford group to get its teeth into. 
On this question of change to the plan, I draw particular attention to the point in the Minister's statement that the proposed export complementation facilitation arrangement will operate from 1 March 1982. Export complementation was bound to be introduced into the post- 1984 arrangements, that is, the arrangements for the industry to follow the expiry of the present Plan. They are to be negotiated anyhow. Since that is the case the present proposal thus is a change that anticipates an inevitable development by a year and a half or a year and three-quarters. This is coming into play in a limited way 20 months before time. That is what we are talking aboutand that change does not start to come into effect for three years. The start is three years away. I say that that is a much less significant change than would appear at first blush and that should be understood. With that change the plan stands in place. 
That having been said, however, the major difficulty that remains is the threat that stems from this proposal for export facilitation or complementation to the independent car component manufacturers. It means that as General Motors-Holden's exports engines from the new plant it is to be permitted to import duty-free other components to the value of the exports up to a limit of 5 per cent of its Australian content value. The issue then is the extent to which these additional duty free imports will displace production and employment in Australia by the independent components manufacturers. 
I want to make two comments. My first comment is that without doubt the potential impact is very large when it is recognised that the independent components manufacturers account for only about 25 to 30 per centage points of the 85 points of Australian content. However, as against the business that may be lost to imports under the complementation arrangements, it has to be recognised that, firstly, some engine components manufacturers will, hopefully, plug into the GMH engine operation and thereby benefit from the large scale, large volume operation that the Opposition was talking about; and, secondly, some part of the additional imports will displace in-house production by the car companies themesleves, and to that extent the impact will not be on the components manufacturers. 
The second comment I want to make is that the components manufacture itself must adapt and become export-oriented. In this respect I direct attention to another key point in the Minister's statement; namely, that among the matters to be resolved is 'whether both Plan participants'- that is to say, the car companiesand components manufacturers should participate in the scheme'. In a word, the door is open for the export complementation arrangements and import concessions to be extended to the components manufacturers themselves, which is a very important point. 
I conclude by saying that I do not blink the difficulties that face the industry in accommodating this proposal. For some firms it is indeed an issue of very survival. Therefore, the statement by the  president  of the Federation of Automotive Product Manufacturers last Thursday is all the more welcome. He said: 
The new scheme has good potential to bring new overall benefits to the local components industry, although we must face the fact that some manufacturers will experience difficulty. 
He went on: 
This process of change will not be easy. It calls for the fullest and most sympathetic understanding by governments when they are deciding policies for the motor industry affecting the components sector. 
The essential point is that it has, to quote again, good potential to bring new overall benefits to the local components industry'. That statement faces reality. I say that the only perspective that this Government can adopt with integrity and a proper sense of responsibility to Australia and the Australian people as a whole is that this development must be seen as a breakthrough for 
Australian manufacturing, a breakthrough towards manufacturing operations in Australia on a world scale, a forward looking proposal, which when taken along with other current industrial initiatives, notably plans for new, worldscale plants in the chemical industry, adds a new dimension to the structure and face of Australian industry, the start, indeed, of a new and exciting era for Australian manufacturing. 
I begin by reiterating the point which has become very confused in the public mind, namely, that the Lusher motion is not about the law relating to abortion. The law on abortion is a State matter and the right to a termination of pregnancy according to the law of each State and the Territories is not involved. Thus the passage of the motion would not mean that there could not be abortions where there is a serious threat to the physical and mental health of the mother, in accordance with the law in most of the States. I say this, looking towards my colleague the honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Simon).  What it is about is the payment of medical benefits in relation to abortion which is a Commonwealth matter. But when that has been said, there is a sense in which the law of abortion is involved, namely, the extent to which the law, in fact in practice is enforced. 
What clearly has brought the matter on is the large and increasing number of abortions financed in part by public funds, notwithstanding the law which provides that abortion is unlawful, except where the life or the physical and the mental health of the woman is seriously endangered. The thrust of the law, that abortion is unlawful, flows from the view, the conviction of conscience stemming in the ultimate from religious faith, but also reflecting, I believe the wisdom of the ages as to the sanctity and supreme importance of the individual life. Accepting the balance of expert opinion as to when life begins, the sanctity and the supreme importance of the individual life applies to the foetus and the unborn child as well as to any other group such as the aged, the incurably ill or whatever it may be. I also say most sincerely that I am deeply conscious of the anguish and hardship an unwanted pregnancy can sometimes cause- and I have in mind not only the mother but also the subsequent difficulties of what may turn out to be an unwanted or unloved child. I am deeply conscious of that. But while that is so, I do nevertheless support the thrust of the law, upholding the sanctity and infinite worth of the individual life. 
To come back to the matter in hand then, the first presumption on which I will base my voteand there are several such presumptions as I will indicate in my speech and which are largely issues of fact on which the evidence available to me is not always complete- is that the thrust of the law is being set aside. It may be retorted that that is entirely a matter for State governments. That is certainly the position in principle. But as a matter of practical fact the Commonwealth is involved to the extent that it cannot be reasonably denied that the availability of public funding has facilitated, has to a significant degree enabled, the considerable increase in abortions in recent years to a situation of virtual abortion on demand. 
If then this Parliament is of the view that first the laws of the States relating to abortion are reasonable, but secondly the law is in significant measure being set aside, then it has a means and a duty to use that means, weighing up any significant side or other effects of doing so such as an insupportable adverse impact on low income women, to redress the situation. I say that, fully recognising that the abortion law and its enforcement are matters for the States. We are a national Parliament and we can perhaps take a more detached and more truly national view. If we do uphold the view as to the sanctity and infinite worth of the individual, there is a duty on us as the national Government, embracing.but in a sense transcending the several States, to take action by the means available to us, if not to stop, at least not to facilitate, not to enable this practice. 
However, I am bound to say that the terms of the Lusher motion are very narrow. They provide for the payment of benefits only in the circumstances that life is endangered by a 'physical pathological condition'. That worries me a lot. I am bound to stress that what we are dealing with here is an expression of view, not a Bill for an actual Act of Parliament to change the present situation. That attracts me to the amendment tabled by my colleague the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Cadman).  Further, for my own part I would say that if and when amending legislation were to be brought before the Parliament I would be hard pressed to support a measure which did not provide, by way of stated exception to the criterion specified in the Lusher motion, for the payment of benefits for termination in the event of rape, incest and other like situations. The course of wisdom and true compassion could surely not be otherwise. Hence the amendment moved by my colleague the honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Sainsbury),  and seconded by me. Indeed, it could well be suggested- I believe the colleagues I have referred to will in fact do so- that as an alternative to the motion of the honourable member for 
Hume  (Mr Lusher),  one could combine the two amendments I have referred to, to form a motion to the effect that the House expresses its deep concern at the high level of abortions and is of the opinion that the Government should take whatever steps are necessary to ensure that medical benefits shall not be provided by the Commonwealth for the termination of pregnancies unless the termination is performed on proper medical grounds, and then go on to add the second amendment I referred to, which states: 
. or where either (a) the pregnancy was as a result of incest or rape or (b) the mother has been subject to disease or physical conditions which could reasonably be expected to result in serious deformity to or retardation of the child. 
A moment ago I referred to the unacceptable side, or other, effects of the motion. This links with the view of some that the purpose of this motion is to stop the public funding of other than medically necessary abortions. That must be an incorrect statement. The honourable member for Hume in response to the very important objection that low income women in particular will be disadvantaged by the passage of the motion, in a background paper he circulated to members states: 
The motion does not disadvantage lower income women. Any woman, insured or not, can have her pregnancy terminated in a public hospital according to the law operating in her State. 
Since the operation and any necessary hospitalisation would then be paid for from public funds under the Commonwealth-State Hospital cost sharing agreement, then the availability of abortions at public hospitals- and probably in the event of the carriage of this motion and subsequent Government legislation, considerably enlarged facilities as compared with nowmeans that public funds would still be financing abortions. If the purpose were to stop the public funding of abortions, the motion does not achieve that object. 
Be that as it may, there is here a second key question of fact which is materially significant for my own vote on this issue, and that is: Are facilities for abortion with reasonable access in fact available at public hospitals? A letter which has been circulated to members from the Royal Women's Hospital of Melbourne casts some doubt on the likely adequacy of facilities to the detriment of low income women. Others assure me that this is not generally the. position with most public hospitals. As an ordinary member I am not in a position definitively to determine that matter. I say only this: A vote for the motion in its original, or the amended form I have referred to, is for my part based on the presumption as to fact that adequate public hospital facilities are available. 
Where the motion will undoubtedly impinge most heavily is on the activities of the private abortion clinics. A third major issue of fact is then raised, namely, the adequacy of the medical and other standards of private abortion clinics. In the case of the Australian Capital Territory it was central to the Australian Capital Territory ordinance relating to abortion debated in the Senate in November last, that the standards of the private abortion clinics were not acceptable. The whole purpose of the ordinance was to ban them. My understanding is- and I am bound to say that I am not in the possession of hard evidence, it is another issue of fact- that the situation is not materially different in respect of many of the private abortion clinics in the States. Again that influences my vote. 
The final point I would make is this:  Mr B.  A. Santamaria wrote in the  Australian  last Friday: 
The (Lusher) resolution deals not with the principle of abortion, but with the principle of whether Commonwealth medical benefits, ultimately a charge on the taxpayer, should be spent for non-medical purposes. 
Abortion would thus be placed in the same category as the thousands of actions which individuals consider desirable for themselves, may legally choose, but for which public funding is not available. 
That gets to the heart of the matter. It raises the whole issue of elective surgery- although abortion is a special case because of the legal and moral issues involved- where under the present arrangements for health insurance the public purse via the Commonwealth Government is responsible for so large a part of the cost. 
Yes indeed. It is not just 40 per cent of the cost, of course. The general Commonwealth commitment is 40 per cent of the schedule fee or the schedule fee less $20, whichever is the greater; and it is the latter that applies to the procedures involved in the present matter. If the principles of the medical insurance arrangements of 1976 still applied, it would perhaps be less of an issue since the guiding principle then was that those who could afford to pay- defined as those on an income of $12,000 per annum and upwards- should pay the full cost of their health insurance without Commonwealth subsidy. That principle is not applied in the present arrangements. So the question whether elective operations should attract public funding is a real one. In fact, there are already some limitations in a number of areas. 
Emotive appeals such as that made by the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  to the effect that the health insurance scheme would no longer be comprehensive or universal are not very persuasive. Indeed, the principle that in the health and welfare area those who can afford to pay should do so, and that public funds should be reserved for those in need, and only those in need, I submit is a valid one. It is one to which the government with the increasing demands on public funds, will have to give more and more attention if tax levels are to be contained. 
I make this point in respect of breaching the comprehensive and universal character of the health scheme only because it has been given some prominence in the discussion on this matter. I stress that I do not suggest that the economic aspect is critical in this discussion. The issue is much larger than that. 
Yes, I do. 
My question is addressed to the Prime Minister. It is reported that agreement has been reached to establish the Common Fund at recent negotiations in Geneva. Will the Prime Minister inform the House of the latest development and indicate Australia's attitude to these developments? 

 -Yes, Mr Deputy Speaker. 

Leave granted. 
-by leave-I present the Report of the Australian delegation to the Inter-Parliamentary Union spring meeting in Lisbon in March-April 1978 and the 65th IPU conference held at Bonn in September 1978 and I move that the Report be printed. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
I seek leave to make a short statement in connection with the Report. 
Leave granted. 
-The Inter-Parliamentary Union is a significant and important body and its activities and deliberations, as set out in this Report, should command the interest and strong support of the Parliament and all honourable members and senators individually. The IPU dates back to 1889. Although two world wars and other events have caused temporary interruptions to its activities the continuity of the existence of the IPU has been maintained since then. The meeting held at Bonn in September of last year was the 65th Annual Conference of the Union. The IPU is a world-wide- indeed, the only world wide- organisation of parliaments. The membership currently stands at National Groups from 76 countries, as listed in the Report, of which 70 were represented at the Bonn conference. The United Nations, of course, is an organisation of governments and commands resources, clout and world attention accordingly. In this respect the IPU should be seen as one significant body complementing the work of the United Nations. In a message to the IPU at the opening of the Bonn conference  Mr Kurt 
Waldheim, the United Nations SecretaryGeneral, said that the IPU had not only consistently supported the work of the United Nations but also had faithfully transmitted its concerns to the national level and helped to implement the decisions taken by it. That role was vital and crucial to the success of the United Nations if it was to achieve the goals set forth in the Charter. 
In fact the IPU has been leader, initiator, as well as transmitter. Very early in its history it was the IPU which initiated the basic proposals for the Hague Conventions of 1899 and 1907, in which rules for the humanisation of war- if one can so speak- were set forth, and on the basis of which the International Permanent Court of Arbitration for the peaceful settlement of disputes was established. 
More recently the Union made a notable contribution- springing from a resolution of the 59th Conference at Paris in September 1971- to the formulation and acceptance by governments of the Helsinki Agreements to facilitate rapprochement and co-operation between European countries with different political and economic systems. Many of the IPU's suggestions were included in the Helsinki Final Act, adopted in 1975. 
I say this because it bears on a point that needs to be recognised, namely, that viewed through Western eyes there is inevitably some scepticism, and indeed perhaps an air of unreality about an organisation of parliaments from such a range of countries as the present membership of the IPU, including as it does most countries of the Eastern Bloc as well as other states with a dubious claim to the practice of parliamentary democracy as we know it. In fact, however, the approach of the Union in this matter, which has resulted in the present membership, is very much the strength of the organisation, as the contribution to the Helsinki Agreements bears witness. 
One does not have to participate in the IPU for very long to appreciate the great store which west European countries in particular set on the Union as a major forum for the exchange of views and a meeting of minds of West and East. When you are there on the spot you become very aware of how delicate, imminent and important to western Europe the maintenance of the strategic balance is. It is not seeing 'reds under beds' to report that it is said that political freedom in Europe is ' three days wide '-the time for a Soviet tank thrust to the Channel ports. Here in Australia we are very remote from the scene and the day to day consciousness of these great issues, but the political strength and integrity of western Europe is of key interest to all Australians. 
The state of things is epitomised by the Berlin Wall. Most members of this IPU delegation undertook the salutary experience of passing through the wall, that anachronistic but very real and elaborate structure put there not to keep anybody out, of course, but to prevent the East Germans and others escaping from paradise to the West. On that, it might be said on the one hand, and not without justification, that the wall underlines the incongruity of a regime that would perpetrate such a tiling participating in an inter-parliamentary union. On the other hand, the wide membership of the Union embracing the East German state- and other states of the Russian bloc- provides a base from which to work away, within the limits of the concerns and influence of the IPU, at breaking down or mediating between the differences in ideology and political system of which the wall is symptomatic. In all the circumstances, the importance in the councils of the IPU of issues of East- West relations is easily understood. 
The IPU is also an important forum for the furtherance of the so-called North-South dialogue, that is, Third World issues. The interrelationship of East-West and North-South issues is starkly brought out when the two are debated together, as was the case at the Bonn IPU Conference. In this respect I refer honourable members to the resolution on Arms Control and Disarmament to be found at page 99 of the report and that relating to the developing countries to be found at page 1 1 1. In urging increases in assistance to developing countries, as the latter resolution does, the dilemma of our times is pointed up by the fact that in 1975 the nonOPEC developing countries received some $17 billion in official aid and, at the same time, spent some $24 billion in the military area. One would like a formula which tied increased aid to reduced military expenditure, but that is in the realms of a dream world. In the real world there is no other course open than to push ahead in both areas simultaneously. 
In respect of Third World issues, much attention last year was focused on the establishment of the Common Fund. There can be no doubt that in Third World eyes the issue of the integrated program for commodities and the Common Fund is seen as the critical test of the political will to increase assistance to the Third World. The position is that among developed countries, notably West Germany, there has been a good deal of scepticism concerning the  proposal, not to say opposition. Australia, however, on the basis of our general commitment to assistance to the developing countries and our own self-interest in fair and stabilised prices for commodities, is committed to supporting the Common Fund. In these circumstances- this is noted in the Report- Australia at the IPU, as in other world forums, has been able to play something of a mediating role between the major Western countries on the one hand and the developing countries on the other. It is accordingly welcome news that only last week agreement was reached at Geneva to establish the Common Fund with an initial sum of $750m. 
I make two points briefly in passing. Firstly, the two resolutions to which I have referred and others which were passed at the Bonn Conference and which are set out in the report at Annexure C are necessarily compromise texts to a greater or lesser degree. This was particularly true of the resolution concerning colonialism in relation to which, as is noted at page 35 of the Report, the delegation associated itself with significant caveats entered by the United States and United Kingdom delegations. Secondly, in the Report we do not comment in any detail on the power groupings that were evident at the Conference. Of course, the crunch point is the roll call vote, and it may be of interest to the House if I were to table conference documents giving details of the voting patterns on particular issues from which power groupings, in votes taken at the Conference, may be discerned. 
I hope that what I have been saying conveys something of the flavour, the atmosphere and the concerns of the IPU conferences. One is bound to add that the conferences do not cover all the activities of the IPU. As well as its consideration of major world issues, the IPU makes a continuing contribution in more specific areas. In particular, there is its program of assistance to parliamentarians in prison or otherwise subject to persecution. The work of its Special Committee on Violations of the Human Rights of Parliamentarians is referred to at page 39 and in Annexure D of the report. An account of the day to day 'between conferences' so to speak, activities of the Union is given in the report of the Secretary-General. That is referred to at pages 17 and 37 of the Report which is before the House, but is not otherwise elaborated upon. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard,  as an appendix to my speech, the summary introduction to the section of the Secretary-General's report which deals with the activities of the Union. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

I draw attention to a number of recommendations which the delegation makes. They are set out on pages 5 1 to 52 of the report. The purpose of these recommendations is to assist in translating the resolutions agreed upon at IPU conferences into some action in this place and the country at large and to make Australian participation in the activities of the InterParliamentary Union more effective. I will not set out the recommendations in detail. I add only that they are primarily of an administrative nature and can be achieved at little cost. 
In conclusion, I pay tribute to the  deputy  leader of the delegation, the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones),  for his hard work and unfailing strong support. I extend my thanks to all members of the delegation, and to the secretary to the delegation,  Mr Arthur  Higgins, and the advisor to the delegation,  Dr Ron  Howard for the great assistance they gave us. We were a harmonious group. It is good to see that the common loyalty to Australia brings together delegation members of different political persuasions when overseas without restricting the scope for some mild playing of party politics as sometimes shows through in the speeches of delegates reproduced in the Report. 
-As a member of the Committee who participated in the preparation of this report I would like to join with the  Chairman,  the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns),  and the  deputy chairman,  the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Stewart),  in commending to the House the report on Parliament and Public Expenditure. The report may look a somewhat slender piece but, in fact, it is the closely reasoned and tightly argued outcome of many hours hard work and deliberation. The Committee is particularly indebted to  Mr Michael  Ives, who was responsible for a significant part of the drafting. The subject of the report is the participation of this Parliament in the public expenditure process. Other participants include the Executive- the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and Cabinet- the Public Service departments and the Auditor-General. 
As the  Chairman  said, the report advocates an enhanced role for the Parliament in this process. Its central message is then that increased participation requires new parliamentary procedures and better information. 
This report faces squarely the reality of the relationship between the Parliament and the Executive. I would like to stress that it is not an attempt to have a go at the Executive in any way. The reality is that the Parliament does not govern; the Executive governs, as the  Chairman  pointed out, but it does and should do so through the Parliament. There is then talk of parliamentary control of expenditure. The fact of that is that parliamentary control of expenditure is a myth and, to quote the  Chairman  again, attempts to revive it are attempts to 'resurrect a corpse that never lived'. Therefore, what the Committee seeks in this report is the form, the possible shape, of a greater role for the Parliament to influence expenditure decisions. To that end, we have made recommendations as to the information that Parliament needs to exercise that role. 
In concluding these remarks, I say only that the Committee is not at this stage making extravagant requests. For instance, a key recommendation of the Committee, recommendation No. 4, is that there be a major debate in the autumn sittings on expenditure patterns and priorities. The Committee goes on to indicate the sort of information that would need to be before the Parliament as the basis for a meaningful debate. Essentially, it would be information already prepared by the departments, a sub-set, so to speak, of the forward estimates prepared between October and March in one financial year and relating to the three following years, as described in Appendix 1 of the report, paragraphs 8 to 10 at page 28- the Committee's minimum request is for the next two years only. I observe that that is significantly less than the information that comes before the Government, before the Executive, at the time of the preparation of the Budget. This is an important report. We commend it to the close study of honourable members and the Government alike. 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Transport. I refer to representations to the Minister about the urgent need for a major bypass road around Hornsby, north of Sydney. The present Pacific Highway through Hornsby is absurdly inadequate to cope with all northbound traffic from Sydney which must be funnelled through it and in the event of a heavy traffic accident it could become the scene of a major catastrophe. As an earnest of his interest in the problem, will the Minister visit the area with a view to reaching a decision to extend the national highway, Brisbane to Sydney, which at present ends at Berowra about 10 kilometres north of Hornsby, to Pearce 's Corner south of Hornsby and thus pave the way for early Federal funding of the work? 
I direct my question to the Minister for Industry and Commerce. Will the Minister give details of changes in the level of motor vehicle registrations following the decision in the 1978-79 Budget to reduce sales tax on passenger cars? Is the Minister prepared to say whether the beneficial effects of the sales tax cuts for the motor vehicle industry will continue? 
-Bounty Bills are pretty mundane and unexciting measures. In this case they relate to bed sheeting, paper and dental alloys. Nevertheless, they are surely worthy of something less pedestrian than the dreary speech that we have just heard from the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford),  who is the spokesman for the Opposition on these matters. The Government is certainly pleased to have the support of the Opposition for these measures, but the honourable member does not seem to have done his homework on them any better than he did it on the 
Bounty (Rotary Cultivators) Bill which was before the House yesterday. 
We heard much said about industry requiring more than mere temporary assistance measures to be provided by these Bills. I assure the honourable member- I hope that he will do his homework- that these Bills, and certainly the major Bill, provide much more than temporary assistance. Indeed, they embody some pretty hard decisions by the Government and, all in all, represent sound and good administration, sound decisions on quite complex matters which do not, of course, attract much publicity but are the stuff and substance of good government, fostering a sound economy and the enhancement of employment opportunities for all Australians. 
Yes. I am pleased to see the family approval coming from that direction. The honourable member also sought to treat them as isolated measures and accused the Government of not putting them in the framework of a more comprehensive industry policy. Nothing could be further from the truth. He was speaking of a government that, in its last Budget, increased research and development grants by virtually 100 per cent and export incentives by the order of 80 per cent. He was speaking of a Government which, earlier this year, took the necessary action to encourage the General Motors- Holden's corporation to set up a world-scale plant for the production of engines, thus adding a whole new dimension to the motor industry and saving jobs therein not merely for next year but for five and 10 years hence. The very spokesman for the Opposition- he has now left the chamber- 
It is perhaps no commentary on my speech, but there is not a single Labor member in the House. I note that one has now arrived.  (Quorum formed).  I repeat: The very spokesman for the Opposition who accused this Government of bringing forward these measures in isolation was the member who led his colleagues in opposing what the Government had done to encourage the General Motors-Holden's corporation to establish in this country a worldscale engine plant- the only possible direction in which the industry can go if it wishes to survive and provide jobs five years and 10 years hence. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! I think the honourable member for Reid has made his point. 
-I rise to support the statement of the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  and to reject the amendment moved by the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Wills)  which shows that the Australian Labor Party is as irresponsible in Opposition as it was in government. It is trotting out exactly the same old formulas for expanding Government spending merrily- the expansion was 46 per cent in 1974-75- with all the consequences that has for inflation and undermining the foundations and stability of the Australian economy. This debate is all about responsibility in government. It has been said that the Liberal-National Country Party Government is dishonouring commitments and promises. I say to the Parliament and the Australian people that the central and overriding election promise and commitment of this Government is to restore the Australian economy- to beat inflation and to get the economy on the path of economic growth with stability. That is the overriding commitment- and at this time that overriding commitment commands the measures the Treasurer announced last Thursday evening. 
I have no doubt that the majority of Australian people recognise the central fact of life that, in the final analysis, all our national social and economic objectives are dependent on the achievement of a sound economy. Australia's social and economic objectives- rising living standards and adequate provision of proper welfare services for the disadvantaged and the poor- together with the acceptance of our responsibilities on the world scene, in terms of aid to developing countries and fair trade in their products, and in respect of defence- we have to pull our weight in these matters and not just look to our friends for help- require a sound economy with inflation under control. It is growth in production and higher levels of new investment- in our mines, factories and farms, on roads and in our schools that make these things possible. I stress to the Parliament and the people that that overriding objective, the restoration of the economy- which this Government has largely done- the consolidation of the gains made, and thus keeping the recovery on track, is what last Thursday's mini-Budget was all about. The majority of the Australian people, as indeed the thrust of most editorials in newspapers around the country, understand and appreciate that point. 
If the mini-Budget means that certain commitments cannot be complied with fully all fair minded people will accept that those are of a lesser order than the central objective of consolidating the gains that have been achieved and building a sound and growing economy which is the essential basis for achieving these national social and economic objectives. 
Because of what the honourable member for Gellibrand has just said it is important to stress that the gains that have been achieved are real. It is important to place some of these achievements on the record because in his speech and in the amendment he referred to the so-called recessed state of the Australian economy. Let me stress that the total volume of production- the real base for achieving the Government's objectives- is up more than 10 per cent on the stagnant level of 1975. From listening to the Opposition one would think that nothing had happened - 
-As the Treasurer has said, one would think that it was down 10 per cent. A more recent indicator, the Australia and New Zealand Bank index, shows that factory production is up 10 per cent and rising from the level of only  Vh  years ago, at the end of 1977. In the investment sphere, such as the building of new factories, far from there being a state of inactivity and stagnation there is a veritable ferment of activity. Investment spending in total last calendar year was up 23.5 per cent from 1977-15 per cent in real terms. Projects of massive and lasting structural significance are poised to go ahead, such as aluminium smelting and processing and the world scale plant of General MotorsHolden's Ltd. These projects are a tribute to the restoration of the international competitiveness of the Australian economy which this Government has achieved since 1975. The Government has done this by more than halving inflation over that period and making an effective change in our international exchange rate. It is those achievements which are currently at risk and in particular the current acceleration of real activity in the economy which alone holds out the prospect of making a real impact in reducing the admittedly too high level of unemployment, especially in the youth area. Those things are at a risk primarily because of a potential resurgence of inflation which stems from the difficult outlook on the cost front, on which I shall not elaborate at the moment, and from the too rapid increase in the money supply- which, if it is permitted to eventuate, would feed, promote and enable greater inflation and inflationary expectations. 
It is this Government's purpose to prevent that by curbing what it is doing in the spending area, and to do that in conjunction with maintaining the Government's means to finance its spending without having to print money. That is why it was proposed in the measures announced last Thursday night to maintain pay-as-you-earn tax deductions at the present level so far as the ordinary taxpayer is concerned. No one will pay more; no one will pay less. That needs to be clearly understood, because the Australian Labor Party has been busy creating the impression that on 1 July people will have to pay a lot more in PA YE tax deductions. That is the initial position. Thereafter, between now and the Budget of 2 1 August, when the Government will have the money in for 1978-79 and will know where it stands, specific decisions will be made about the two main features, that is, the 1.5 percentage points tax levy which, and I do not mince words, was to expire on 30 June and, secondly, the tax indexation changes- in effect, the reductions- for 1979-80. I stress again that the final decisions on these matters, are as of now, deferred. 
In the meantime, as the contribution so to speak of personal taxpayers to consolidating the economic upturn, PAYE deductions will continue as they are now. There will be no change. Further, some taxes in the corporate sector have been increased or retained in order to spread the burden. The coal export levy, which was scheduled to end, has been retained. Then of course, there are to be reductions in the Government's spending. The combined effect will be to prevent the Government contributing to the too rapid growth in the money supply and thus to inflation and the undermining of all that has been achieved since 1975. 
The Treasurer has said that, on present indications, it is not likely to be possible to concede both the reduction in the present level of taxation by ending the surcharge and the further reduction involved in indexing the tax scale. 
That has to be seen against the background of what the Fraser Government has been able to achieve by way of significantly reducing personal taxation. Tax indexation was introduced first in the 1976-77 financial year. The effect thenunfortunately many Australians did not realise it- was to reduce the total of tax paid below what it would have been by approximately $ 1 ,000m. In the 1977-78 financial year the effect of taxation indexation to 1 February 1978 plus the change in the rate scale which was then introduced, was to save taxpayers a further $ 1 ,300m. The cumulative effect was that the total tax was over $2,000m less than otherwise would have been the case. The continuation of indexation into 1978-79- as to half, because of course, the new rate scale had had only half a year to deteriorate so that so called 'half indexation' was not cheating anybody- together with the continuation of the new scale meant a further saving, despite the tax surcharge, of $700m in tax that otherwise would have been paid. Therefore, compared with what would have been paid, we have an accumulated reduction in taxation of over $3,000m. The effect of thus curbing the veritable tax harvest that used to take place when honourable members on the other side of this House were in government is brought out by this: The situation in 1978-79 is one in which total tax receipts, adjusting for the consumer price index, look like actually declining slightly, whereas in 1973-74 and 1974-75 tax receipts increased in real terms by about 20 per cent in each year. I seek permission to incorporate in  Hansard  a table showing particulars to that effect. 
I do not think anything can be gained by my talking to the speech made by the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  or by taking each misleading statement point by point. However, I cannot pass over his continuing references to tax indexation. It ill becomes the honourable member to criticise this Government on the matter of tax indexation. Tax indexation was introduced in accordance with a recommendation of the Mathews Committee to which the honourable member referred a moment ago. That Committee was commissioned by the then 
Labor Government to inquire into the matters of  inflation  and taxation. It reported in time for its recommendations to be reflected in the 1975 Budget. The Labor Government, of which the honourable member for Gellibrand was a supporter, explicitly rejected the Committee's recommendation in relation to tax indexation. 
In his policy speech in 1975 the present Prime Minister undertook to implement tax indexation. The Government proposed to introduce tax indexation over a three-year period but we implemented it in full as from June 1976. In the course of my remarks I will elaborate further on what has been involved in that. It ill becomes the honourable member also to make snide remarks about the Government's efforts in the field of preventing tax avoidance. I ask the honourable member what the Labor Government, of which he was a supporter, did from 1973 to 1975 in that area? 
-As the honourable member for Perth said, it did absolutely nothing. It is important to put this whole matter into some context. That context is the responsibility of this Government to preserve and consolidate the economic recovery of the Australian economy which this Government has brought about. This is necessary because the honourable member for Gellibrand who is leading for the Opposition continues to refer to the recessed state of the Australian economy. One would think that nothing had happened since this Government came to power at the end of 1975. In point of fact, the total output of the economy as measured by the gross domestic non-farm product on the latest figures, is some 10 per cent above the stagnant level that prevailed in 1974-75. When one takes into account the farm component, and the way it has grown recently, the figure for the increase in GDP would be higher than 10 per cent. 
The total of production is the base from which we seek to achieve our objectives of higher standards of living, of assistance to the disadvantaged and the poor, of contributing our share to the development of underdeveloped countries and all our other national and social economic objectives. 
In the investment field- the building of new factories, roads and schools, the things that make production possible- there has been a veritable ferment of activity with the level of spending in this area some 25 per cent higher than a year ago. 
These things are a tribute to the policies of this Government. In particular, they are a tribute to the restoration which has been achieved of this country's international competitiveness. The major factor there is the halving of inflation which has been brought about by this Government. These are real and important achievements, and in particular, the current acceleration in real activity in the economy. It is these things which are at risk if the Government does not undertake the measures that are now before the House. It is that current acceleration in real activity which holds out the prospect of making an impression in reducing the admittedly too high level of unemployment and especially of youth unemployment. 
These achievements and the significant recovery of the Australian economy are at risk because of potential resurgence of inflation, stemming from the difficult outlook on the cost front. That is one factor. The second factor is the too rapid increase in the money supply which, if it were permitted to eventuate, would feed, enable and promote greater inflation and inflationary expectations. It would undermine that solid achievement in the economic area to which I have just pointed. It is the Government's purpose to prevent this by, on the one hand, curbing its spending and, on the other hand, maintaining its means to finance its spending without having to print money. That latter point involves two things. It involves demonstrating that the Government is prepared to hold off the potential resurgence of inflation, thus strengthening investor confidence in the economy and fostering sales of Government bonds in order to finance the activities of the Government at reasonable interest rates. We want to contain interest rates. The other aspect, and the specific subject matter of this Bill, is to provide for a stay of proceedings in the Government's drive for lower taxation until it is in a position to proceed in the most advantageous way. 
I have outlined what has happened in the area of output growth, new investment and in curbing inflation. What I would like to point to now as a necessary background to this discussion is what the Government has achieved by way of lowering taxation. Just before I do that, let me say that this Bill provides that pay-as-you-earn deductions stay as they are. No one shall pay more and no one shall pay less for the period of months until the changes are announced in the August Budget. That situation needs to be clearly understood, because the Australian Labor Party has been assiduously cultivating the impression that as from 1 July there will be a significant increase in taxation actually paid. 
-We are indeed, as I am going to stress, as the honourable member for Perth has just stated. What I have said is the initial, holding position. Between now and the Budget on 2 1 August, when the Government will have the money in for 1978-79 and will know where it stands, specific decisions will be made about the two main features that is,  Hie  1.5 percentage points tax levy which- I do not mince words- was due to expire on 30 June, and, the tax indexation changes- in effect reductions- for 1978-79. The position is that decisions on those matters are, as of now, deferred. This action is being taken by the Government, as I say, against the background of its record in reducing taxation. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a table which points out the change in income tax collections over the last several years, adjusted by the price index so that, in effect, there is a measure of the real change in tax. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="114131197905303_23_1.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="114131197905303_24_2.jpg"></graphic>

-This table shows that in the year 1973-74, under the Labor Government, the total of personal taxes increased by such an amount that when it is adjusted for the effect of inflation, it still represents a 20 per cent increase in the total of taxes that people paid. In the year 1974-75 the total of personal taxes was 41 per cent higher in actual terms than in the previous year. When adjusted for the very rapid inflation rate under Labor, it was just short of 20 per cent up in real terms. That was the real impact on the Australian people of the swinging increase in taxation. The table shows that from 1972-73, when the total of personal taxation was $4,089m, by 1975-76 it had increased to $9,2 19m. It more than doubled over that period of the previous Administration. That was a veritable tax harvest. It was largely financed and brought about by the very impact of rapid inflation and rising incomes because nothing was done by way of tax indexation, which the honourable member leading the Opposition had so much to say about a moment ago. In contrast the table shows that in 1978-79 the total of taxation, adjusted for price increases, increased by only 0.5 per cent. For 1 978-79- the figures are not all in- it is likely that there will be an actual decrease in the real impact of taxation of 0.3 per cent. This is indicative, as I have said, of this Government's policy of lower taxation and tax indexation. 
The impact of the Government's tax indexation measures meant that in 1976-77 taxpayers paid nearly $ 1,000m less than they otherwise would have paid. In 1977-78, not only was there full indexing of the prevailing tax scales but also a new rate scale was introduced from 1 Februray which provided further advantages to taxpayers, in particular reduced marginal rates. There was a total saving to taxpayers of $ 1,370m. In 1978-79 the rate scale was indexed again. We hear a lot  from  members of the Opposition about so-called half indexation; but the new rate scale introduced in February had been affected by inflation for less than half a year so it had to be adjusted only as to half. The effect of this indexation and the new rate scale's making its impact in that year, even allowing for the  V/i  per cent tax surcharge, meant a further saving of the order of $700m. These tax reforms of the Fraser Government are cumulative. Thus tax indexation and the standard rate tax scale, even with the tax surcharge, have meant that taxpayers are paying over $3,000m less than they otherwise would. That is the record of the Government. By international standards Australia has remained in the low tax league. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a second table prepared by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development. It shows for 1977 the total tax revenue, including social security contributions, as a percentage of gross domestic product. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="114131197905303_24_3.jpg"></graphic>

-The table shows that for West Germany, for example, total tax revenue as a percentage of gross domestic product was 38.2 per cent. For Britain it was 36.6 per cent. For Australia it is 30 per cent, which is comparable with the United States of America. For Australia the figure is more than 8 percentage points below that for West Germany. In making this comparison I do not refer to the very high tax, high public sector countries such as Sweden and Norway. The percentage in the case of Sweden exceeds 50 per cent- 53.3 per cent. As I said, the percentage in Australia is 30 per cent. This Government has maintained the position through its low taxation policies. 
It is against that background that we are discussing these measures. The Bill before us provides for a standstill in pay-as-you-earn deductions until all the figures are available, the position is clear and the Government has concluded its examination of what is to be achieved in terms of expenditure. Final decisions can then be made in respect of the two matters principally at issue. It has been said that on present indications it is not likely to be possible for the Government to concede both a reduction in taxation by ending the surcharge and by indexing the tax scale. Perhaps that is to put the options confronting the Government too starkly. Tax indexation is designed not so much to reduce taxes as to maintain the status quo in terms of the proportion of income paid in tax in a context of inflation and rising incomes. Tax indexation was never meant to rule out a real increase in tax if national necessity demanded it to consolidate the economy and meet national needs in respect of defence, capital spending and so on. I assure the Australian people however that this Government will not lightly increase taxes in a real sense until all the possibilities for pruning unnecessary expenditure have been examined. 
To express a personal view: The Government has to look at the whole situation against the background of a full understanding of what would have been implied by indexation for 1978-79 and then make the appropriate decisions. It might well decide that in lieu of the tax surcharge, which is something of a blunt instrument impacting unevenly on different income groups, it will recast the tax system to spread the necessary burden of personal taxation as equitably as possible. As I said the other day in this House, there are many possibilities. I referred to the recently publicised proposals of the Government's health and welfare committee as one such possibility. The essential feature of that proposal is to give the option to families to be treated as a notional partnership for tax purposes, which would have the effect of greatly reducing the incidence of taxation in favour of Australian families. Such a new structure would be consistent with any change upwards or downwards in the aggregate of taxes as circumstances reveal the need. 
I predict that as a result of this total consideration of the whole situation, looking at what would have been implied by the indexation of scales and considering all the possibilities and options open to the Government, there will be an easing of the PA YE tax take after the Budget. In the upshot, the total of personal income tax collections for 1978-79 will not be much greater in real terms than they are this year, thus preserving the essential and overriding feature of the gains which the Government has achieved in reducing taxation in the interests of the Australian people. 
-Has the Treasurer's attention been drawn to a recent release by the Australian Bureau of Statistics called 'Price Indexes of Materials Used by Manufacturing Industry'? Can the Treasurer tell the House whether this gives an accurate reflection of the actual cost increases being faced by manufacturers? 
-This much can be said about the speech from the honourable member for Werriwa  (Mr Kerin):  It is as well that he has finished it and, although still misguided, it was better than the speech last night by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden).  That was the worst- let me put it quite plainly and unemotionally- the most inadequate speech that has ever been presented in this place by a Leader of the Opposition in response to the Budget. It was a speech that made no acknowledgement either of what has been achieved in restoring the fundamental health of the Australian economy or of the difficulties we are currently facing, particularly the upturn in inflation. The Leader of the Opposition barely mentioned the critical issue of inflation. It was a small minded speech, full of petty insults and abuse in place of reasoned argument. It was a knocker's speech. It presented a dismal and untrue account of the current economic situation in Australia, as has the honourable member for Werriwa, and also painted an equally depressing picture of prospects in the years to come, and he said nothing sensible and believable about what should be done, even if his picture had been a correct one. When the chips are down the Australian people will not have a bar of this man or the petty pessimistic nonsense which has become his stock in trade. 
The correct view of this Budget was expressed by the initial Budget editorial of the  Australian Financial Review  entitled 'A clean bill of health'. It stated:   the policies of the Budget provide the best possible environment for business . . . 
That means the best possible environment for economic activity and jobs for Australians. That view has been so widely endorsed by responsible business and financial comment that I refrain from further quotation, other than to note that  Mr P.  P. McGuinness, among the ablest of Press economic commentators, in the  National Times  last weekend pointed to lower interest rates eventually as a consequence of the Budget policies. He stressed the particularly beneficial effect of this on most of the business judgments which make the economy tick. In short, the Budget will build on the return to fundamental economic strength which has already been achieved. That is what it is all about. 
In the short time available to me I want to make four points. First, despite the knockersthe Leader of the Opposition is prince of knockers- the performance of the economy over the past 12 months has been pretty good, with comparatively strong growth of output and a broad fronted expansion of employment, including manufacturing. The second point I make is that, of course, the immediate outlook has its difficulties of which the upthrust in inflation is the principal one. But beyond the immediate outlook and despite the doomsayers, the long-term prospect for Australia is good, with our significant net energy advantage and great mineral reserves. If we add to this the capacity via this Budget and the Government's economic policies to limit the upturn in the inflation rate to less than the inflation rate in major countries overseas there is a sound basis for businesses adopting an expansionist stance. They are doing so. The headline which appeared in the  Age  yesterday is the sort of headline of which the Australian people take note. 
It said 'Australia to get $ 1,000m smelter.' It referred to the investment of Comalco Ltd in aluminium in Gladstone. That is no less than the tenth such project about to take place in Australia. That is the stuff of economic development and progress and the provision of jobs for the Australian people. The long term prospects for Australia are unsurpassedprovided that we do not blow things now. That is what the Budget is all about- not blowing all that we have achieved. That brings me to my third point which is this: The Budget policy is intertwined with the achievement of a workable package in the incomes area. This is a major challenge that confronts us, to dampen any wage price round which could serve only to ratchet the price cost structure upwards, as occurred- for those with long memories- in 1951, or for those with more recent memories, in 1969, and 1 973-74. Such a price-cost round would be not only self-defeating but nationally damaging. In that connection I would stress that the Government has proposed new procedures for wage fixing designed to make the best of the current difficult situation, whilst recognising the practical realities of industrial relations. These proposals involve the automatic indexation of wages every 6 months to the consumer price index, adjusted for price changes resulting from Commonwealth Government policies. These proposals are logical and fair. They do not seem to have been received too well by  Mr Hawke  and some of his friends. That is a pity, because not to accept them is to prefer higher unemployment and disputation, to more jobs and stronger economic recovery. 
Finally I want to stress that there are no short cuts to restoring sustainable economic growth and higher employment. 
-Indeed members of the Opposition delude themselves and they would seek to delude the Australian people that there is an alternative, a quick way via increased government spending. We heard a lot about it from the Leader of the Opposition last night but he gave no details and no indication of what the deficit would be. The Opposition is wrong in this regard. If you try to force the pace you will run into cost and price problems, and balance of payments problems, which will undo what you are trying to achieve. The only feasible way is to be content with a moderate pace of recovery and growth- which is what we have had- and to continue to work at establishing the pre-conditions for sustainable growth, just as the Government is doing. 
The reference to the growth that we have had is a point of departure. To return to my theme that the performance of the economy over the past 12 months has been pretty good. We have had a growth in output which is comparable to most of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development countries- about the same is the OECD average- and we have a level of national output and production at the moment which is running at a rate of some 12'/4 per cent up compared to the level in the trough of the recession in 1975. 1 stress that because there are so many knockers around who talk as if nothing had changed since 1975. In the investment field we have a veritable ferment of new investment. I have made reference to the new investment in aluminium, but that is just one of a host of projects, large and small investments, throughout the economy. Over the past 12 months, on the employment side, there has been a broad fronted expansion, including an upturn in employment in the manufacturing industry, the first since the downturn in 1974. 
-And what a dip it was, leading to the unemployment of a couple of hundred thousand over a period of not much more than 18 months. The Government is concerned- as is the Opposition, I recognise that- with the high social and economic cost of unemployment and especially the blight of the high level of youth unemployment. Yet in recent months the number of persons seeking full time work has been less than in the corresponding months a year ago, and in the 20s and over, significantly so, with unemployment for males in that group less than 4 per cent for the first time for some years. It is a complex and difficult issue, but at least there is that evidence of turnaround. 
What that and these other factors reflect is the considerable return to fundamental strength of the Australian economy. There are a number of dimensions to this. I mention first the overcoming, to a significant extent, of the high labour cost structure which was the legacy of the massive jump in money wages in 1974, which touched an annual rate in the latter part of that year of nearly 40 per cent. This was aided and abetted by the then Labor Government, and it led to a massive increase in labour costs which we have only now begun to offset. There has been this legacy; the procedures involved in that offsetting have resulted in a major distortion within those costs in that the wages for the unskilled and the young, relatively speaking, remain too high. That is the principal cause of the unemployment difficulties in that area, and it is a legacy of those Labor policies. Subject to that, this fundamental setting for the economy has been significantly restored. 
Next the international competitiveness of the Australian economy is now similar to what it was in the beginning of the decade, around 1972. International competitiveness means that Australian industry can produce in competition with imports, and can sell in overseas markets. As a result Australian manufactured exports have gone up in value by 30 per cent in the last year. This restoration of our international competitiveness is a critical consideration. It has meant a strengthened balance of payments. When that is combined with our net energy advantages and our mineral endowment we are a much more attractive location for foreign investment. As a result, last year the net capital inflow into this country of $3,025m was an all-time record which in turn means development and jobs for the Australian people. It is the potential resurgence of inflation which is the problem and the key to the Budget strategy. 
Sure, we actually are a touch below the OECD average, that is the major industrial countries. That is a considerable achievement. In some of these countries inflation is moving way out in front of Australia. This has occurred in the United Kingdom and even in the United States. We have got to keep it that way and that is the essence of what this Budget is all about; the key thrust is to bear down on inflation. I make no apology for stressing that. With a cynical disregard for the reality of what we are dealing with, the Leader of the Opposition barely mentioned it in his speech last night. 
He does not understand it; rather he does not want to. I think that is perhaps the most accurate representation. What this Budget sets out to do is to maintain a taut financial and monetary environment which includes the requirement that the deficit in the Budget should be of the order of about $2,200m. This is provided for by the Budget and it is provided for in an achievable and believable way. That is evident from the reception that the Budget has received in the financial community, and particularly the providing for a domestic deficit of only $875m. I stress that overall the Budget provides for an increase in expenditure of 9 per cent, that is, it roughly maintains expenditure in real terms; and along with States and local government spending, for the public sector as a whole there will be a real increase in spending of the order of two plus percentage points. I think that point is worthy of some emphasis. It means that the monetary and fiscal environment will be taut, bearing down on inflation, but not contractionary as alleged by the Leader of the Opposition. He said that it was the most contractionary budget in 1 8 years. 
-Balderdash! On the contrary, this Budget has set the stage and will provide the incentives for further private sector growth in the mining, manufacturing and service industries of this country, and hence provide more jobs - 
I will not take up that point. We are talking about activity and jobs in this country. I referred to the aluminium development which, in its construction phase, will provide approximately 5,000 jobs. Meanwhile, within the overall framework of the Budget, the Government has been able to restore important social welfare benefits. I stress the restoration of the twice-yearly adjustment of pensions; and has increased other benefits in the repatriation field in particular. In addition- this is a key thrust of the Budget- it has provided major incentives for Australian industry. That is the way to greater long term health for Australian manufacturing industry, through competitive, technology based, export oriented industry. 
On the Budget tax measures, about which so much has been said, the Government has at no stage hidden the necessity for a significant tax impact this year. The message of 24 May was crystal clear, with the resurgence of inflation, if we were not to blow all that had been achieved, there had to be a pretty tough line and a determination to keep the deficit down, and believably down. The Government gave notice of that intention in May. But in the context of the inevitable greater tax impact, relief has been given by abolishing the tax surcharge from 1 December. The idea has been spread that somehow that tax relief is not real. It is very real, believe me. It amounts to an extra $4.45 per week in take home pay for the average wage and salary earner. It means even more take home pay to the skilled shearer referred to last night by the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  and in the upshot it means that the level of taxation paid by the average taxpayer will be significantly lower than it would have been had the Hayden tax scales of 1975-76 still prevailed- indeed, some $ 1 6 a week lower. 
Finally as I said previously, the Budget policy is intertwined with the implementing of a workable package on incomes. The Government has proposed a package in that area. What has to be recognised in this context is that the oil price increases were essential so that Australia does not isolate itself from the world wide movement in petroleum prices. Those price increases have to be seen as a temporary drain on the real incomes of Australians. In due course, with the increase in productivity, that reduction will be overcome. However, if those price increases are not recognised as being necessary and full compensation for the price rises are sought by all, it will cause a self defeating and nationally damaging round of income increases to occur. I appeal to the Australian people to appreciate this point and to adopt the proposals the Government has suggested. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Jarman)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-The Minister for Transport will recall my representations to him earlier this year about the urgent need for a major by-pass road around Hornsby to relieve the dangerous congestion of both local and national highway traffic on the Pacific Highway through Hornsby. I was very pleased that, in response to my representations, the Minister visited the area to get first hand experience of the problems that result because all northbound traffic through Sydney, a large part of which is heavy commercial vehicles, has to pass through Hornsby. Will the Minister inform the House whether, as a result of his visit and the numerous representations made by myself and local councils and community organisations, and in the national interest, he has reached a decision on this important matter? 
I ask the Prime Minister: Does he recall comments made last June that States would have to increase taxes and cut public works? Do State Budgets support those claims? 
It is something of a joke for the honourable member for Werriwa  (Mr Kerin)  to criticise what this Government has done for primary industry after the way in which the previous Labor Government- the honourable member was then a member of this House- knocked the rural sector. However, I will leave that to my colleague the honourable member for Wakefield  (Mr Giles).  I would like to go back to what the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  said in this debate and the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  in the amendment he has circulated. They had much to say about unemployment. I want to say to the Australian people- I know that in their hearts, and voting intentions, they acknowledge it- that this Government is every bit as concerned about unemployment as the Opposition, and that to restore growth and to get unemployment down is the whole thrust and ultimate purpose of our policies- of our anti-inflation and cost containment policy and our industry policy. 
I want to take this opportunity, in speaking to the estimates for the Department of Industry and Commerce, to point to what the Government has done to foster the development of the manufacturing industry, which is a major creator of jobs in the Australian economy. Specifically, direct outlays related to manufacturing will more than double in 1979-80, compared with 1978-79. Export expansion grants will rise from $20m to $170m and, in addition, funds for export market development grants will increase by $7m to $45m. This represents an overall increase of 270 per cent for export incentives. This is firm evidence of the Government's policy commitment to the achievement of a more export oriented industry structure. 
In the Budget the Government has also recognised the need for industry to be highly innovative and technologically advanced if it is to compete effectively in the environment of the 1980s, hence funding for industral research and development assistance has been increased by 33 per cent, following a 75 per cent increase last year. Funding for productivity improvement programs is up 65 per cent on the expenditure last year. Direct funding of specific programs for small business has also been increased. 
The lift in assistance to industry, through the Budget, is not confined to increased outlays. A number of new taxation concessions involving substantial cost in terms of revenue forgone has also been implemented. These include special taxation allowances that have been introduced to encourage industry to convert from oil-fired industrial heating equipment to other fuels. The overall cost in revenue forgone of these and other existing measures, such as the investment allowance, is estimated at $267m for 1979-80 for the manufacturing sector. I should mention further that the retention allowance for private companies has been increased from 60 per cent to 70 per cent at a net estimated cost to revenue of $30m 
All this, despite the need for Budget restraint, is evidence of the Government's firm commitment to an industry policy aimed at providing a sound basis for industry growth and development, and thus the provision of expanding numbers of meaningful and soundly-based job opportunities for Australians in this great sector of the economy. As the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Mr Lynch)  pointed out recently in this House- and the Minister is to be congratulated for what he has achieved as evidenced in particular by these Budget provisions- the 1 970s have been a difficult period, and one which future historians will regard as- to quote him- a time of transition in Australia '. For two or more decades following World War II Australia's economic development followed a particularly stable path. Central to this was the development of our manufacturing sector, following a strategy of import replacement. A prolonged period of growth sustained a plentiful supply of jobs for a growing work force. The early 1970s, however, saw many changes to the circumstances which made our post-war development a reality. The mineral boom, a downturn in our population growth, the energy shortage, rapid inflation, and a wages explosion- which I might say was fostered by the previous Administration- import competition from newly industrialised countries, particularly in Asia, and the world recession altered the bases of past success. These changing circumstances have markedly affected the course of our development. We must learn to live with change- that is central- and seek to mould it to our national interest. This will require our industries to adopt new attitudes towards change and competition and in particular to look increasingly beyond the limited environment of the Australian market. 
Those principles just mentioned were fundamental to the Crawford Study Group report, and I will say more about that in a moment. I stress that, in broad thrust, the Government has accepted the package of measures proposed by the Crawford group, and, indeed, key elements, in whole or in part, were already in place when the group reported. It was in April 1978 that the Government introduced its package of export development measures. Above all, I stress what the Government has achieved in restoring Australia's international competitive position. This is the greatest single factor in the restoring of health to the manufacturing sector of Australia, which was brought low by the policies of the previous Administration over 1973-75-1 do not want to spend time going over that ground. The position today is that the competitiveness of the Australian economy has been restored to the level of 10 years ago or better. The Australian people must understand that because it is this that enables Australian industry to compete effectively with imports at low levels of assistance and to expand exports. This has been achieved by our policy of cost containment, increased productivity, and a more competitive exchange rate. Australia 's manufactured exports expanded by 30 per cent from 1977-78 to 1 978-79. The significance of that can be understood when it is appreciated that manufactured exports in total currently generate about 300,000 jobs. So the House can see that a doubling of such exports which is not an unrealistic goal, would go a long way towards relieving the unemployment problem. That means continuing with the policies we have pursued in recent years of containing inflation and costs and stimulating productivity. 
In concluding, I want to refer briefly to protection policy, where a good deal of rather artificial heat is still generated in the name of protection versus free trade- a polarisation of the position that went out with the ark! The Government's commitment to fostering a more specialised, technologically advanced, internationally competitive, export oriented manufacturing industry, less reliant on Government support, inevitably means a commitment to achieve a less complicated tariff structure based on gradual- I stress the word gradual- progress towards more stable, constant and lower tariff levels than in the past. Indeed, significant progress towards such a tariff structure has already been made through the tariff review program. I underline these two points: Firstly, the Crawford Study Group stressed, and the Government entirely accepts, that further significant steps in this direction are dependent on the positive of a comprehensive industrial development policy being in place and working. As I have said, significant initiatives in that respect have already been taken but there is some way to go. Secondly, reductions in protection associated with this policy thrust will be phased in gradually over time in accordance with the capacity of industry and the economy to adjust and to accommodate to the economic and social consequences. 
There is nothing to fear from change or the Government's commitment to the fostering of a more competitive manufacturing industry complementary to our great rural and mining industries. I have every confidence that Australian manufacturers will respond to the great challenge of these changing times- and to its great opportunities for growth and the provision of jobs for Australians. 
-Will the Minister for Industrial Relations explain to the House the position that the Commonwealth is adopting in respect of the demands and threats of refinery operators in New South Wales for their conditions of employment to be regulated under the State industrial system? 
If I were to deal point by point with the Opposition's exercise in economy walloping I would be here all night. I would have no time left to challenge, as I want to, the very word 'stagflation' as a description of the state of the Australian economy, let alone its 'intensification'. Something has been said in this debate as to the definition of stagflation. But it is clear from the Opposition speakers that what they want to convey is a heavy overtone of stagnation. The honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Dawkins)  just said that the economy is sick, he wants to convey that economic activity is at a low ebb; production and employment is stagnating and standing still at a low level and all this accompanied by high and rising inflation. If that is what 'stagflation' is supposed to convey then that does not describe the Australian economy today. It is a typical exercise in misrepresentation by the Labor Opposition. But it is symptomatic of a good deal of loose talk about recession and stagflation among media commentators for example, used almost as a throwaway line, but still serving to spread a false view of the Australian economy. For it is a false view. It is true that Australia, in company with most other advanced countries, has not achieved the robust economic growth of earlier decades. There are some fundamental causes for that, including slower population growth, the energy crisis and other factors. 
Nevertheless, I put it to the House and the Australian people that the Australian economy is performing pretty strongly. Production has been expanding at a significant rate- honourable members would have to call white black to deny that fact- and employment, including that in manufacturing industry, has increased. There has been a return to fundamental strength especially the international competitiveness of the Australian economy, which is now more than comparable to the position 10 years ago. There is a commitment to long term investment in this country on a scale which signals a new phase of industrial development in Australia. Finally it is true that inflation is up on the 8 per cent level that existed at the end of 1978. That is largely a reflection of returning prosperity via high commodity prices. However most informed commentators predict a peak in inflation in the current December quarter and thereafter renewed decline. My colleague discussed the matter of inflation so I will not spend further time on it. 
I referred just now to investment, the spending of money on new developments, new buildings and machines and new projects, which provide the means for expanded production, economic growth and new jobs for Australians. The investment initially will provide construction jobssuch as the more than 5,000 associated with the massive aluminium smelting plants- then permanent, meaningful, on-going jobs for Australians. Over recent years there has been a veritable ferment of investment in this allegedly stagnant economy. The most recent figures, which are for the last June quarter, show that spending on new capital investment was up by 1 9 per cent on that in the June quarter of the previous year, 1978, and that it was very widely spread, through mining, manufacturing, tourism, retailing, new shopping centres and so on. As referred to in Question Time today, the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Mr Lynch)  predicted recently, on the basis of a survey by his Department, that Australia is on the verge of a further unprecedented surge in mining and manufacturing investment. 
-That is right. Even the Leader of the Opposition recognised - 
-He endorses it. As the Minister reported, some $16.3 billion in investment projects is now at the 'committed' or 'final feasibility' stage. Investment nearly stopped under the Labor Government. That was the plain fact of the matter. 
-That is right; there was no point in it. To that Government 'profits' was a dirty word. But under this Government this level of intended investment signals a whole new phase in industrial development in Australia. 
Let me go on to deal with output, production. Is this stagnating? On the contrary, it has gone up very significantly- and employment with it- in all sectors of the economy, including manufacturing and other sectors, except perhaps the construction sector. A recent issue of the bulletin published by the management consultants W. D. Scott, includes its own index of industrial production. Under the heading: 'Strength in industrial production', the bulletin states: 
Industrial production in Australia has now been rising for seven successive quarters. This is an extraordinarily long run in the experience of the last 8 years. 
In the most recent issue of the  ANZ Bank Business Indicators - 
It is an entirely reliable source, as my colleague says. In that issue we read: 
The estimated value of the index - 
That is, the ANZ index of the quantity of factory production- 
Call groups) in August 1979 was 180, 10.4 per cent higher than a year ago. 
Is this a picture of a stagnating economy? The quotation continues: 
Most sub-groups recorded substantial increases over the year to August 1979. The most spectacular increase was shown by chemicals and allied industries which rose by 27 per cent. 
In this respect what needs to be underlined is what the Government has done to restore the international competitiveness of the Australian economy which was totally undermined by the former Government. The fact is that today the competitiveness of the Australian economy has been restored to a similar or better level than that of 10 years ago. The fundamental importance of this is that it enables Australian industry to compete effectively with imports at low levels of assistance and to make sales in overseas marketsexports. This has been achieved by this Government's policies of cost containment, increased productivity and a more competitive exchange rate. The best evidence of what has happened is that Australia's manufactured exports expanded by 30 per cent from 1977-78 to 1978-79. That expansion was broad-based. Exports of machinery and transport equipment increased by 32 per cent, while exports of furniture, including sales to Sweden, increased by 82 per cent, and so on. 
The Australian people need to understand this in order to realise that, as in the period from 1973 to 1975, all of this would be at risk if the Labor Party were ever to get back into power and to implement the economic policy which it agreed upon a few months ago in Adelaide. That policy was described by Bob Hawke, the future member for Wills, as 'gutless' and 'a sellout to the Left', which it was. It is indeed a recipe for disaster. It hardly mentions inflation and the need to control inflation in order to preserve the gains about which I have just been talking- to preserve and enhance still further this capacity of Australian industry to compete and thus to provide meaningful employment for Australians. 
In pointing to the fundamental strength and the high level of activity in the Australian economy, I do not want to be understood as saying that the Government is not faced with formidable problems in the economic policy area. The level of unemployment, especially youth unemployment, is still too high. The facts of the situation, as reported by the Australian Bureau of Statistics, do however point to an improvement in the trend. That was recently commented upon also by the Australian Industries Development Association. I assure the Australian people that the Government has this key, but very complex and difficult, problem under continuous study and review. 
The next difficulty I would mention is the international outlook, particularly the outlook in the world's most significant economy, the United States, where production is declining, where in the six months to September inflation was at the level of 14 per cent and where interest rates are currently 15 per cent and higher. These things mean that there are difficulties ahead for us all. But in the midst of these difficulties Australia, entirely contrary to the thrust of the matter of public importance brought forward by the Opposition, is well placed to move ahead with strength and confidence. I conclude that, with continuing restraint in the increase in incomes, with the Government's determination to maintain its taut but not contractionary Budget policy and, within this context, with the drive, capacity and skills of both management and employees in free enterprise in Australia, the prospects for this country are unsurpassed. The Government rejects this negative, obscurantist nonsense from the Labor Opposition. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Hon. J. D. M. Dobie)- The discussion is concluded. 
