I rise to support the amendment to the motion for the adoption of the Address-in-Reply moved by my leader, the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Withers),  so well earlier this afternoon. I would like to congratulate the honourable senators who moved and seconded the motion for the adoption of the AddressinReply, and to congratulate also the other speakers who have made their maiden speech. How relieved they must feel. That is how I hope I will feel soon. I take this opportunity to congratulate you,  Mr President,  on your election to office yesterday. I realise that my introduction to this chamber, and what I shall learn here, is done under your guidance. I look forward to a long association with you. I thank the  Clerk  of the Senate the officers and the officials, and particularly the Library staff who already have made me, an ex-academic, feel completely at home. 
At the election on 1 8 May we elected 60 senators and 127 members of the other House, a total of 187, and the last position to be filled, the 187th, is the one which I have the honour to hold. It took some weeks and not a little discomfort. I would like to say that although I am the last man in I do not intend, if I can help it, to be the first man out and I know that my vote will count in this place equally with that of anyone else. 
Turning to the debate, I would like to commence my remarks by quoting the first sentence of the Governor-General's Speech yesterday. The Governor-General said: 
In the elections Tor both Houses of Parliament on 18 May 1974. the people of Australia confirmed their decision of 2 December 1972. 
I would like to suggest that that statement has a number of meanings. One of them is that the Labor Party remains in the minority in this chamber. It is not permitted to govern this country unsupervised. It is equally true that we on this side remain in the minority. It follows that the Senate has retained its independence because it is a chamber where no single party has a majority. That independence has served this chamber well over the last few years. The election did more than that,  Mr President.  It resulted in this chamber having 25 per cent of its members as new members. Fifteen out of the 60 senators have not been here before. Perhaps I should except  Senator Scott  who has been here before, but briefly. In fact the Senate is a new Senate. It is a different Senate. It has a new  President.  There is no point in suggesting that this Senate is identical in any way with the Senate which ceased to exist before the last election. The point I am getting round to is that no one could or should assume that any measure previously introduced into the last parliament, and dealt with by the Senate as it was, has in any way been considered, or seen, or dealt with by this Senate. I take the view that I and other senators are entitled to look at all legislation that comes here and to examine and debate it fully. To do any less would be wrong and not in the best interests of this House. 
I am happy to support the amendment which my Leader has moved. I believe that the people of Australia today are troubled by the performance of the Labor Government. They are troubled because the promises made before the election in December 1 972 have not been translated into the kind of action which people expected. I would like to select just a few areas on which to comment. I will remind the Senate of what happened by going back to the 1 972 policy speech made by  Mr Whitlam.  When speaking about employment he said 'that Labor's first priority would be to restore genuine full employment, without qualification, without hedging'. That was what was said in 1972 but now, less than 2 years later, unemployment is increasing in this country. We have all the indications that in this country one of the freedoms which we are to be allowed to enjoy is the freedom not to have a job. 
In this country in June job vacancies had dropped by 1 5.8 per cent to a figure of 62, 1 80. Fewer jobs are available in Australia today. Philips Industries in South Australia is fearful that it will have to put off 1,850 men. The Leyland Motor Corporation of Australia has already put off 1,000 men in Sydney. None of these people thinks that there is full employment today. The textile industry is suffering the effects of policy initiatives, and unemployment is one of the things that has come to this industry. It has come from a Government, which is committed- I quote again from yesterday's Speech- 'to the principle of full employment'. I do not believe that its performance is good enough. I do not believe that it matches up to the promises made to us and to all the Australian people. I see nothing in the Speech made yesterday to suggest that things will get any better. I quote again from the policy speech made in April 1974.  Mr Whitlam  stated: 
The Australian economy is one of the most buoyant and vigorous in the world. 
If that statement is true, why are we in such economic trouble today? Labor has taken on inflation and clearly has failed to control it. Our amendment draws attention to this failure to deal adequately with inflation. Labor has produced a situation in which demand has increased because government spending has risen in an unrestrained fashion. There are shortages all over the country. When my wife and I go shopping for groceries, like every other husband who goes shopping, I find that the supermarket shelves are marked: 'Manufacturer unable to supply'. We cannot find nails, wire or the things we need to repair our homes. When I was campaigning in the country I found that countrymen were unable to buy the fencing wire they needed. There are shortages everywhere. 
Wages are increasing at an astronomical rate. Because of wage increases the pensions now represent an amount less than 20 per cent of average weekly earnings instead of a promised figure which was to be considerably higher than that figure. Inflation, as I see it today, is at a higher than any rate which people in my generation have known, and it has risen not under a Liberal government but under a Labor government which is supposedly committed to the care of the little man. I quote again from the election pamphlet which was put out by the Labor Party before 1972. The little pamphlet is called 'It's time'. I quote from the part marked 'Economies': 
We find people everywhere being hurt, having it really hard, without ever knowing why. Why, in the 'lucky country', are the sick, the old, the poor, the breadwinners on low incomes, the one-man farms and businesses being steadily driven to the wall? Why has our rate of inflation grown so fast that the interest rate on money we save no longer even covers the loss from inflation? Why is everyone on a fixed income feeling the pinch? 
That statement seems pretty familiar. It was stated by the Labor Party prior to December 1972, and it just about fits the bill for June 1974. I deal now with the housing situation in Australia. I think that one of the freedoms which we should have in this country is the freedom to have a home. I point out that our concern about housing is a genuine concern. Most of us have homes. If we have a concern about housing, it is about homes for other people. But what is happening in Australia today? I refer to the area of private homes. I quote again from the GovernorGeneral 's Speech yesterday. He said: 
The home-building industry remains over stretched despite efforts by my Government to bring about a moderate abatement in the level of activity. 
As I read that portion of the Speech, it seems to me that the Government is promising further reduction in the ability of Australians to build and to own their homes. I see no other way for the Government to say that the home building industry is over stretched and it wants to see the activity abate. If private housing is to be purposely and deliberately slowed, I cannot see much benefit to the people of Australia who lack homes, who want them and who hope to get them from this Party of reform. Home prices have risen. I take as an example the home prices in Sydney in December 1972. The average commencement value of a home was $16,170. In December 1973, one year later, it had risen to $19,744. 1 bought my home for $18,000 six years ago. If I had had to pay the prices being charged now for the same kind of home, I would not have been able to move in or find anywhere to live. 
Home finance is not available in Australia today. Many people have come to me simply to say: 'We cannot buy the home in which we wish to live. No one can lend us money'. It is the little Australian who is being hurt. He is being hurt not only because money is not available but because he has to pay so much interest if he finds a source of money. In 1972 a savings bank charged between 6'/4 and 6% per cent interest on money that it lent on a home. The rate is now 714 or 7% per cent. Interest rates have been raised by a Labor Government, and they are about to rise further. The average rate charged by a building society in 1972 was 8 per cent. It is now 1 134 per cent. In 1972 the rate at which an insurance company would lend money was  6V*  per cent. It is now 10½ per cent and is about to rise further. 
The imposition of those extra interest rates makes the average monthly repayments so much more expensive. If a person borrowed from a building society an average loan of $15,000 repayable over 25 years, bis repayments would have been increased over the period that I have mentioned by $49.50 a month. The Labor Party is asking the little men and women of Australia to find an extra $50 a month out of their pockets to finance the inflation which has been introduced and which is being fed by this Government. As honourable senators will have seen in the newspapers today, trading bank interest rates might go as high as 1 1 V4 per cent. It could mean that if a person who had borrowed $20,000 could not increase the amount which he paid each month his loan might never terminate. If he was borrowing over 20 years at 1 1.5 per cent and if he could not increase his repayments, he would never pay out the loan. If a person were borrowing over 15 years and if he elected not to increase his repayments, his loan would not be paid out for 2 1 years- an increase of 6 years. I point out that the number of housing commencements in New South Wales in the March quarter of 1974 was the lowest number since March 1972. 
I wish to mention briefly our defence capability and capacity. Our defence has been weakened under this Government. I believe that it is a very serious matter that our country is less able to defend itself today than it was 2 years ago. The manpower in the defence forces in June 1973 numbered 74,000. In June 1974 it numbered 68,000, a loss of 6,000 men or approximately 7 per cent if my arithmetic is correct. Let us look at the situation with respect to male Army officers. Thirty officers resigned from the Australian Army in the March quarter of 1973. In the same period a year later 157 officers resigned. Let us look at the loss of senior officers  from the  Australian Army. In May 1973, 5 men at or above the rank of lieutenant-colonel left the Services. A year later 39 men of that rank left. I wish to quote again from one of Labor's 'It's time' folders that dates back to 1972. Concerning defence it states: A Labor Government will transform Australia's defences'. I believe that this is one promise that the Labor Government has kept. The Army is less well equipped. The Air Force is less well equipped. We have a squadron less at Williamtown. We have less ships. We have less equipment. Our procurement programs are behind. The morale in the Services is down, the esprit de corps is disappearing and the professionalism is being seriously weakened. That is a poor record. It is not one to give us confidence for the future. I believe that the Labor Party cannot deliver on the promises it made in 1972. I see nothing 18 months later to indicate that it can deliver on them. 
I believe that the major areas in which Labor has made proposals are in the fields of social welfare. I would like to make it clear that social welfare initiatives do not come only from one side of the chamber. My Party has a proud record of initiating social welfare programs over the last 25 years. Most of the programs that Australians enjoy today were introduced by Liberal-Country Party governments and progressively improved by them. I would like to see equity in our social welfare programs. I reject the argument that efficiency for its own sake- an easier health insurance scheme to administer- is necessarily related to equity. I would attack many of Labor 's programs on the very ground that equity is lessened and denied. 
Finally, I would like to say how I consider I should work in and serve the Senate. I believe that it is a chamber that has very great power and responsibility. Before my election I was always impressed with the work that the Senate could and did do. The Senate has its own job to do. It is not subordinate to any other chamber or to any other body of legislators. I refuse to agree that its rights or powers are in any significant way circumscribed. While I am allowed to remain in the Senate I will fight for its preservation against any party whose platform is pledged to its abolition and I will fight for its effectiveness in terms of the Senate itself and for the continued functioning and effectiveness of its committee system, of which we are all so proud. I believe that the Senate has had an increasingly important role to play as its committee function had developed in the last 15 years. I hope that the Senate will continue to seek a consensus and calm view on great issues and that it will continue to take a long, careful look at important legislation. I see a great task for this powerful chamber and I intend to play my part. I am proud to support the amendment. I thank honourable senators for their courtesy. 
-I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Health whether  Dr David  Jarvis, an experienced general practitioner, was employed at the salaried health centre at Melba in the Austraiian Capital Territory from the beginning of September 1973? Has  Dr Jarvis  recently resigned from the salaried health centre at Melba to enter private practice at Latham? Has  Dr Jarvis  given reasons for his resignation? What are they? Do the reasons include lack of control over his own clerical and nursing staff in the Melba centre? 
I refer the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs to the Press release issued by his Department on 4 July concerning the meeting held recently with members of the National Aboriginal Congress. The release asserted that the Congress would continue to have mainly an advisory role but that it would also have some executive functions. I ask the Minister. What will these executive functions be that the Congress will exercise? Will they be of a token nature only? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Health aware of the existence of the Therapeutic Goods Advisory Committee which was set up in 1972 by the LiberalCountry Party Government? Can the Minister say why this potentially important committee has met only once- in February 1974- since its formation? Will he confirm that a second committee meeting was proposed for June 1974 and then postponed? Will he also confirm that the minutes of the first meeting have not yet been forwarded to members of the Committee? Will he assure the Senate that it is the intention of the Labor Government to see that this Committee will continue to function efficiently and effectively and, hopefully, more frequently? 
In this cognate debate we are debating the Health Insurance Bill and the Health Insurance Commission Bill together. I oppose the Bills and support the stand of  Senator Guilfoyle.  I say at the beginning of my speech that I reassert that this is a new Senate, that there are 15 people here who were not present in the last Parliament and who took no part in a health debate at parliamentary level at any time. We have our right by virtue of election to have our say and to be heard, and it would be quite improper for the Senate to demand that these Bills be put through- guillotined through as happened in another place- without new members democratically elected having their say, being heard, and expressing their points of view. 
I am willing to accept that there is an inevitable chain of events which may unfold. I was elected by people who support the point of view I adopt, people who believe it is right to oppose this bad legislation. They want this view put and put forcefully. I accept the right of the Parliament to hold a joint sitting and I will abide by the verdict that it reaches, but we will have our say and will vote as our consciences dictate in the meantime. 
In terms of health care by world standards Australia has been a high performance community. Although by world standards Australia is a high performance country there are pockets of unevenness. In some areas our health performance has been poor. For example, Aboriginal health care has been poor but it is an aberration within what is basically a high performance country. The health of our citizens is good, as is their longevity. Infant mortality is low, infectious diseases are controlled. By world health standards we have no malnutrition, with the exception of a few small well-defined areas. We are a high performance country and our health delivery system keeps us that way. 
What is being sought is a major alteration in the structure and delivery of health and we have to be certain that we are not going to end up with worse health care as a result. That is what we have to look at. What matters in the end is the health care we receive, the health care actually received by my wife and children as consumers of health care. In studying this legislation we should ask: What will it mean to us in terms of health care received, not just now but in 5 years' time? That is the essential question. If the health care is to be worse, or no better, the Bills have nothing to recommend them. If they are to produce a system the results of which are worse, the changes can be justified only on ideological grounds. We know that the Labor Party has planned this legislation on ideological grounds. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  in his Fabian lecture of 1971 said: 
The major act of socialisation in the traditional sense to be undertaken by a Labor Government in its first term of office is through the establishment of a single health insurance commission. 
He said that as a matter of ideology this scheme is to come in. Whether it is appropriate, whether it is right, whether it results in better or worse care we are to have it because it suits the ideological needs of his Party. We are being asked to accept a scheme which is a hybrid. In terms of primary care, that is to say, care in the community, we are adopting the Canadian model. In terms of hospital care we are seeking to adopt a model which is very close to the English model. But the legislation has been produced on certain premises and I believe these premises are false. 
The first premise is that a large number of people are not insured and therefore they are without medical care and without access to care. I believe that is nonsense, that it is not true and that we can show that it is not true. We are being asked to endorse a single government fund.  Senator Button,  who is now out of the chamber, pointed out that there was nothing magical about private health insurance funds. I ask him what is so magical about the concept of a government health insurance fund if it will not improve access to care for people presently without it. The second point is that the new scheme will overcome the deficiencies in health care. Again I say that is nonsense. This new scheme will do nothing to deliver any services to anyone who is not now able to get them. The third point is the assumption that governments are competent to deliver personal care to communities. Again I say this is an extremely doubtful view and one which we shall examine shortly. 
I turn to the question of how many Australians are at present covered by health insurance. This is a very important question. I believe the figure is well over 90 per cent. We have a situation in which most Australians have access to and cover for care. I submit that our job surely is to look at the remaining group. We should not make the whole 90 per cent alter their present cover. Let us see what we can do to improve the small group that is not now covered. We have a health scheme which was introduced by a LiberalCountry Party Government and one which has continuously been improved and upgraded.  Senator Button  said that every scheme has difficulties. Our scheme has evolved, it has improved and there has been continual improvement. The latest initiative was the subsidised health benefits scheme. Expenditure on that scheme has increased year by year. It reached $1 lm in the last year for which I have figures. 
I believe that our scheme is adequate for the needs of the Australian community. It is certainly adequate as a basis for improvement. For the Labor Party's approach we must prove that a large number of people are not covered, that they are in need and that they need extra help.  Mr Hayden  in another place has said that  Vh  million people are not covered. This is the figure which was included in the second reading speech in this place. We have seen other figures which attempt to show the number of people who are not covered. These figures were derived from figures compiled by the Bureau of Census and Statistics in 1973. They are incorrect. The figure which  Mr Hayden  produced on the sample survey excluded everyone under the age of 15 years. Those people were not included in the assessment.  Mr Hayden  's figure excluded Defence personnel who had separate cover for medical care; it excluded Queenslanders; and it excluded those with pension entitlements. The Government attempted to assess the number of people who had access to health insurance by excluding large numbers of people who should have been included. It was an improper way to assess health care cover. 
I seek to introduce other figures into the debate. The Right Honourable William McMahon published last year a letter which incorporated these figures. A copy of the letter appeared in the Sydney Morning Herald 'on 4 February 1974. 1 seek leave to incorporate in Hansard a table setting out the percentage and the number of people covered for hospital and medical care. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Wood)-  Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows)- 

<graphic href="060232197407185_37_2.jpg"></graphic>

I will give the original source of the figures. The table sets out population figures which were obtained from the Bureau of Census and Statistics 'Summary' issued on 30 November 1973. It includes figures derived from the first annual report of the Department of Social Security for the year 1972-73. It includes figures derived from the 1973 Defence report. The figures were obtained from Australian government documents. The table shows that the total number of people insuredincluding Queenslanders, because we were able to dissect the figures- for hospital benefits is 10,519,000. A total of 1,351,000 are covered under the pensioner medical service. There are 160,000 war pensioners and widows covered. There are 74,200 Service personnel covered. The balance of Queenslanders number 619,100. The total number of persons with hospital cover is 12,723,000 or 96.9 per cent of the population. That is another set of figures which bring some evidence to bear on the number of people covered for hospital benefits. In that same table which has been incorporated in Hansard the figures indicate that 95.9 per cent of the population is covered for medical benefits. 
Why has it been necessary to overstate the number of people who lack insurance cover? It has been necessary to overstate the number because the Government has a weak case which had to be bolstered up. It has been necessary to overstate it in order to sell a confidence trick to the people of this country to try to convince them that large numbers of people are without insurance cover or do not have access to care. Clearly that is not the case. The Government's figure of 1.5 million people not being covered shrinks to 450,000. Let me say immediately that I should like to see a situation in which no one is without access to insurance cover or health care. I suggest that the seeking out of 450,000 would be within the wit of government without the need to alter the scheme radically or to destroy it. 
The second question we have to ask is why it was necessary for  Senator Keeffe  to allege in his speech last night that the people not covered included pensioners and widows. Obviously that is nonsense. I draw  Senator Keeffe  's attention to what he said. He said: 
There are people dying in Australia because they are not able to afford health care under the system that the previous Government nurtured for so many years. This applies particularly to the fixed income groups, pensioners, widows . . . 
What nonsense! Pensioners are clearly covered. Widows are clearly covered. The existing scheme provides cover for people in need. Again, why is it necessary to overstate and exaggerate the extent of the problem? 
I want to go further into the kind of people who are not covered under the present scheme. I seek leave to incorporate in Hansard a table setting out the number of people who are not covered. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Wood)-  Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows)- 

<graphic href="060232197407185_37_3.jpg"></graphic>

-This table is a breakdown of the number of people who are not covered by health insurance. The figures were derived from information provided by the Bureau of Census and Statistics. The table shows that whereas almost 92 per cent of the Government's sample of people aged 15 years or more are covered for insurance, only 85 per cent of those born overseas are covered. In other words, 92 per cent of people born in Australia are covered but only 85 per cent of people born overseas are covered. It is clear from that summary that there is, as  Senator Button  has said, an excessive number of migrant people who are not covered by health insurance. If we look further at the statistics we will see, for example, that 62 per cent of Greeks are covered; 78.6 per cent of Yugoslavs; and 76 per cent of New Zealanders. We can go further than that. The Bureau of Census and Statistics also breaks down the figures into occupations. We find that workers in certain occupations- process workers and construction workers, for example- are the ones who are not covered. Do we suppose that the provision of this Government's scheme will necessarily help these people. The construction workers, the process workers and people in the low income groups will be automatically included in the subsidised health proposals put forward by my Party earlier this year. We put forward a very progressive policy on a sliding scale entitlement to subsidise health care. It is a better proposal than the one which the Government has put forward now. That scheme will have a fixed entry point. A person below that entry point will receive nothing and a person above the entry point will receive the benefits. But we have a sliding scale to bring in people as part of our proposition. It would include many of these people in the lower income groups. 
The Labor proposal contains nothing which will help these people in the Greek and Yugoslav communities to obtain better health care. As I hope to point out in a few minutes, their problem is not simply one of health insurance. Their problem is that frequently they live in health scarcity areas. They have cultural and language blocks and this insurance scheme will not help them one bit. I want to put this statement on the record now so that in 12 months' time we can face the Government with it and ask it: 'How much better off are the people in the Yugoslav community of Wollongong, for example?' How many more health workers will there be who can speak their language, understand their culture and give them the kind of care they desire? 
I want to move on to another point. The Labor scheme is said to be universal. The Labor scheme will not be universal. It is based on the payment of tax. There is a group in every society which will escape that net. We have the experience in other countries where this type of universal scheme was brought in. But these so-called universal schemes covered only 80 per cent or 85 per cent of the community, certainly in the first years of their operation.  Mr Acting Deputy President,  I put it to you that, if there are citizens of this country with children who for some reason best known to themselves are not paying taxation and if their children become sick, those people will feel a constraint or a reluctance to seek medical care. They will feel a reluctance because this would put them back into the system and put them in danger of being found out. 
I am not in favour of their tax evasion. What I am saying is that the sufferers might be the members of their families who need health care. Let me move on to deal with questions of health care delivery and what we are really seeking in the Australian community. The Labor Party's scheme will give insurance entitlement to no greater care than we have now. For example, it will have no effect on the number of doctors in the Mt Druitt area of Sydney. This insurance scheme contains nothing that will help the people in these health scarcity areas get to a doctor quicker for consultation because there is not the health personnel there to see them. We have to accept that the Labor Party has tried to sell this program on the basis that it is selling better health for Australians. What nonsense that is. It is selling a method of insurance and it will not provide the service which the people will want to use once they are insured. If there are not enough doctors in Mt Druitt now, there will still not be' enough doctors under the Labor scheme. The people in the State that I represent will still be faced with the fact that they cannot get health care even though they are paying their 1.35 per cent taxation levy and even though they have been promised all kinds of care by this Government of the little man. 
The ethnic communities in Wollongong will be no closer to breaking the barriers which now keep them away from the health delivery system. As I said, these barriers are cultural and language barriers. Until we get a kind of health program that is concerned with care itself, with attitudes, with personnel who understand what is required, until we have the kind of program that provides people who understand the 'evil eye' and the practices adopted in certain communitiesthe members of certain communities will not be treated by people who understand their cultural background which involves a belief in magic. There are communities in which we must understand the cultural background in order to understand certain emotional responses of people in certain areas- people will feel foreign in this country and they will not understand our health care delivery system. They will not feel comfortable with it, they will not use it and they will continue to receive second class care. 
Let us examine the entitlement to health care received by people in the Australian Capital Territory at the salaried community health centres. I believe that there is one at Narrabundah which opened not long ago. It closes at 5.30 in the evening. I interpolate here that the features of good health care are quality, accessibility, efficiency and continuity. They are the features we want. There has to be good quality, it has to be accessible, it has to be efficient and it has to be continuous. What do we find in the Australian Capital Territory? The health centre closes at 5.30 p.m. If a person wants health care after that time he has to go to the Woden Valley Hospital casualty section until 9.30 p.m. and after that time he has to go to the Canberra Hospital casualty section. That is the kind of continuous and accessible care that is likely to be offering under the salaried service which is foreseen as one result of this Labor plan.  Mr Acting Deputy President,  I can understand how this must grate on the socialists opposite who like to have it all their own way. 
I return now to the 'It's time' folders put out for our edification before the 1972 election in which all the promises were made. We find that Labor's concept of health care, as contained in this folder, is to do with hospitals. The folder contains nothing significant about primary care, the kind of primary care people receive in their communities. It is quite clear that the Labor Party does not understand what primary care is all about, except perhaps  Senator Grimes,  but I would say that he was trained at a good hospital by good teachers. 
I would now like to ask: Where are the doctors in Australia today? We have a situation in which there is a severe maldistribution of medical manpower. We know that in 1965 across the country we had one general practitioner to each 1,568 people. In 1972, the ratio had worsened and is now one general practitioner to every 1,843 people. We do not have enough doctors in private practice offering primary care. The number of doctors in Australia has increased. But they have been taken up by the hospital systems, I am not denying that these systems require extra manpower. The situation in primary care has worsened. The number of doctors in Australia has increased under initiatives introduced by Liberal-Country Party governments. There were 6,644 doctors in 1947 and in 1971 there were 16,000 doctors. But again, the picture for primary health care was not very good. Let me cite the position in Sydney, the city in which I live. In that city there is a gross maldistribution of medical manpower. In certain areas- for example, the Mosman district- there is one doctor for every 800 people. The people of Mosman get good health care because there are enough doctors. But in the rapidly growing areas of Sydney- the fringe areas- there is one doctor for every 3,000 people. Those people do not have the manpower available to get the care they need. The doctors do not have the chance to give the kind of care which they want to give. I wish to quote from page 70 of the Karmel report headed 'Expansion of Medical Education' produced in July 1973. It deals with conclusions on the present position relating to medical manpower, because this is one of the important points in any kind of scheme for health care in a society. I quote: 
Some of the outer suburban areas in Sydney have relatively few general practitioners in relation to population and the number of these areas has increased between 1968 and 1972. 
Next, I quote from page 71: 
The rapid growth in the number of doctors who are specialists ana of those who are salaried, especially those who are employed by hospitals, partly explains the paradox of the apparent scarcity of doctors in a time of almost unprecedented expansion in medical manpower, . . . 
The final quotation from this very important document is taken from the same page and is as follows: 
The average workload of general practitioners in terms of service appears to have increased in the last 10 years . . . 
The point I make is that we do not have the capacity in this country to offer a millennium of medical care to anyone. We do not have the doctors out there where the work has to be done. We do not have the other personnel either. It is a hoax to suggest to the Australian people that they are in for a new deal in health care. All that they are in for is a new tax. The Government has made it quite clear in the documents it produced that it wants to work towards a fully salaried system. The Government would immediately introduce sessional payments for those working in hospitals. 
I have worked in a public hospital. It may interest some of the honourable senators opposite who have poured a tirade of hate towards the great profession of which I am a member to know that for the past 8 years it has been my privilege to give to the society of which I am a member one day a week of my time free of charge as a community service; to give my time free for clinical work and the care of the sickand to do this because it is part of the duty which I as a doctor felt I should give and because the privilege was offered to me. In return for this I was allowed to work in this hospital, to be associated with the stimulus of professional contact and to admit patients to the hospital. Honourable senators opposite should not forget that I, like many other doctors, have given my time in the service of this community. The Government wants to pay us for it. Under the Government's scheme my salary and the salaries of all my colleagues would rise immediately and significantly. We would enjoy a marked increase in salary- yet the profession is implacably opposed to these proposals. It is not just a question of money- I would have earned more money. It is a bad scheme under present conditions, and it would be a bad scheme even if I were paid more, I remind honourable senators that in 1947  Mr Bevan  claimed that he stuffed the doctors' mouths with gold and that he did it for only one purpose: To try to get them to buy into what was a bad scheme in that country. 
If the Government introduces sessional payments, under the present provision this might cost $20m in one year, on the Government's own estimates. That is what the Government is willing to pay to recompense New South Wales doctors for time which they now give free- and they have been doing that for 50 years. Their cumulative investment in their community of New South Wales over past 50 years at today's prices amounts to $ 1,000m. This is the value of an investment by my profession in the welfare of society. Therefore I think that in the interests of fairness and fair play honourable senators opposite might have moderated some of the hatred that they have poured on our profession. 
I should like to move now to hospital care and the hospital system. Hospitals are increasing rapidly in number. The Labor Party's scheme is obviously built towards institutional care. It is a party that understands institution and it sees health care as being given by institutions. I would like to point out, firstly, that only a very small number of items of sickness in a society need to go to hospital. Most items of care are afforded to us as outpatients; we do not need to go into hospital. The hospitals of Australia are increasing in complexity and manpower and are producing less and less effect upon the health statistics of our country. Heart transplants are producing nothing in terms of care and community results. The big challenges in care are not in the hospital system but in the areas of primary care and of treating people in their communities where care now is lacking. 
We have been told, though that the hospital system is to feature largely in Labor's proposals. We are not told how it will cope with the Government's new legislation. We have had no detailed discussion with the State Governments or not with the Government in my State, anyway- as to what their role or commitments will be. This is to be discussed later when the amendments to the Health Insurance Bill will be possible. What are these changes going to mean in terms of hospital functioning? What about the financing of hospitals? Will the Australian Government call on the States to pay 50 per cent of hospital costs when the Australian Government will increase the case load to hospitals? Is this another way of milking the States of their finances? This is building up the hospital system that will follow and building up the outpatients services. This directs people from the community health services to the Woden Valley Hospital and the Canberra Community Hospital for night care and will build up the hospital system. It is contrary to the spirit of  Dr Sax  who has called for a reduction in hospital utilisation in the years to come. 
What will happen in terms of hospital care in our country is that people will be queueing. People who need hospital beds will not be able to find them and so they will have to queue for them. Only those whose condition is urgent will be admitted, or those who are private patients or those who are interesting. But if a person's condition can wait he will not be admitted. Let us recall the experience of people in England and in other countries such as New Zealand, as my colleague  Senator Townley  reminds me. Thank you,  Senator Townley.  There queueing has become the feature- and it is not the wealthy who miss out. I say this to the Labor Government which thinks it is going to give a new and a fair deal to the little man: It is we on the Opposition who care about the little man. It is the little man who will wait and join the queues when the Government ruins the Australian hospital system. He will not be able to get his tonsils taken out or a hernia repaired or be admitted to hospital. 
I would just like to get back to this question of the needs of migrants. Recently, with  Senator Mulvihill,.!  attended a seminar concerned with the welfare of children in hospital. I am sure that the honourable senator would agree with me, if he were in the chamber, that it was an excellent seminar. Speakers there made the point that we have a very great problem even understanding the needs of our migrant communities. I make this plea to the Government: Please look at the way it will utilise this insurance scheme to try to provide care, not just cover, for these communities. 
I would also like to return to the question of costs and amplify only one point that was made by both  Senator Guilfoyle  and  Senator Sheil.  I would just like to refer briefly to the fiction of  Mr Whitlam  's driver. We are all aware of the policy speech during which  Mr Whitlam  said it was inequitable that he should pay less for insurance than his driver.  Mr Acting Deputy President,  I have a third paper, copies of which I have presented to the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation  (Senator Wheeldon)  and to you, which I seek leave to have incorporated in Hansard. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Wood)-  Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows)- 
I thank the Senate. This table shows the tax payable by  Mr Whitlam.  We do not know the actual salary of a Commonwealth driver but we do know that it might be, without overtime, roughly $6,400. The table shows that  Mr Whitlam  pays income tax of $21,249 and a health insurance premium, after tax, of $43. A Commonwealth driver, without overtime, would pay income tax of $1,403 and health insurance premium, after tax, of $77. So that to save $30 premium the Prime Minister pays $ 19,800 more in income tax. Is he seriously suggesting that there is unfairness here?  Senator Button  pointed out the percentage of our gross domestic expenditure that goes on health. We can say that about $1,000 of the tax paid by the Prime Minister in income tax would be specifically ear-marked for health. The argument is a fraud and a hoax and we should have expected better. 
Let us look at what the Labor Party has done during its 18 months to try to improve health care in this country. What has it done to try to improve the lot of the average Australian? The Government wants to spend hundreds or thousands of millions of dollars now. But what has it done? In 1973-74 and 1974-75 it allotted $7.5m each year for research into mental health, alcoholism and drug dependence. In 1973-74 it allocated $10m for certain community health projects. Apart from that it has carried on certain other programs- the Meals on Wheels subsidy, the personal care subsidy for the aged in hostels and the grant for home care services for the aged. These were all programs which were introduced by the Liberal-Country Party government before it went out of office. The contribution of Labor to care has been minimal. 
I want to move on to the other question I want to ask, which is whether a Labor Government, or a central government, is competent to administer a scheme of this kind.  Senator Keeffe  has already assisted me on this point because in his speech last night he pointed out the things that can happen under government sponsored schemes. Honourable senators will see a reference to this point on page 245 of yesterday's Hansard. In his speech last night  Senator Keeffe  highlighted his own belief that the so-called free scheme in Queensland has diminished the standard of care. Of course we know that this will happen throughout the country. 
What do we already know of governments as employers? We have some little experience of governments as employers. We have some experience in South Australia where doctors went onto a part time sessional basis. Here we have a most interesting situation because the doctors obtained a contract with the South Australian Government which established an employeremployee relationship which entitled the doctors to seek the protection of industrial agreements and to take themselves to arbitration. The Labor Government in South Australia in conjunction with the Australian Government made an attempt to destroy that relationship and to have those doctors made casual employees to diminish the protection afforded to them under the various Acts. The matter had to be taken to private arbitration. It was recently taken to arbitration, the arbitrator deciding that the doctors had every right to maintain their employeremployee basis and their rights to go to arbitration to protect themselves. 
The issue in the Australian Capital Territory has to do with this very point. Doctors in the Aus.tralian Capital Territory are asking-and I say this to the good trade unionists sitting oppositefor the same right as any other workers entering into industrial agreements. They want the protection which an agreement will give them. They want the ability to go and seek arbitration. There is a very big difference between a contract of service and a contract for services. A contract of service is a contract for employment. It is covered by industrial law and arbitration is available. If the employee is dismissed he has a right to demand that this action be on fair grounds. Such a contract is suitable for pan-time employment. It carries fringe benefits under industrial law. This type of contract exists in Queensland and South Australia at the present time. This is the type of contract that the doctors are seeking. 
On the other hand, a contract for services makes the doctor an independent contractor. It is a common law contract and arbitration in the Australian Capital Territory would be possible only under common law. This type of contract severely limits the rights of a doctor in matters of reappointment. It is the type of contract appropriate to the employment of casual workers. It does not carry fringe benefits. It is the Repatriation Department model. The Government is trying to force a contract of this type upon the profession, when what members of the profession are asking for is a fair kind of contract which would give them some rights when the skulduggery which they expect is brought to bear on them in the next few years. The Government is trying to by-pass the industrial system. We think that eventually it will try to establish tribunals which will prevent the doctors going to industrial law. 
We can look at one other area for the effects of government as an employer. I wish to refer to the Report of Inquiry into the Health Services of the Northern Territory which was tabled in the Northern Territory Legislative Council in November 1972. The 3 commissioners who prepared the report were  Mr Edmunds, Dr Vanderfield  and  Mr Dearlove.  I wish to refer to page 2 1 1 of the report which contains their conclusions. The report states: 
However, the greatest handicap under which the service operates, is not the climate or geographic isolation, but the system'. The Public Service Board System and its method of administration is oriented to procedural requirements and Departmental Regulations and not to patient care, whereas the ONLY reason for the existence of a Health Service should be patient care. 
The Commonwealth Department of Health is not by tradition, structure, background or experience suited for providing health care at a patient level. We agree completely with the Member of the Legislative Council who described the system as 'domineering, cumbersome and outmoded'. 
The system is more important than patient care or staff welfare so that staff are discouraged by it and its methods of employment. 
In one of the laboratories which government had available to it, the Northern Territory, where it is running a salaried health service, a commission of inquiry found it necessary to condemn the Department of Health as a suitable employing agency. What chance have we got of expecting any better health care under Labor's proposals? 
The Australian public was surveyed in Gallup polls. The results of a survey which were published in the 'Sun' newspaper of 12 September 1 973 showed that 54 per cent or more than half of Australians said 'no' to the health scheme. If honourable senators opposite want to think that they have a mandate to try to get their scheme through this chamber let them put this issue to a vote when they are ready and see how strong their mandate is. None of us got here except by the votes of the Australian people. 
Before I conclude my speech I would like to quote from one other document which I am very pleased to bring to the attention of honourable senators. I refer to the policy speech of the Liberal Movement delivered by the leader of the Liberal Movement  Senator Steele  Hall at the Unley Town Hall on 1 May 1974. When talking about the consequences of a Labor victory,  Senator Hall  said: 
. the result will be catastrophic for the non-Labor cause. We would be subject to rapid and extreme socialistic measures which would significantly and permanently weaken our free enterprise economy. For instance, first past the post voting, nationalised health and medical services and increased taxation are but a few of the possible results. 
I would like to move on to another part of  Senator Hall  's policy speech in which he said: 
In general terms, we do not support Labor's plan and we will fight their proposals which will ultimately lead to nationalised medicine. 
I must say how pleased I was to read that policy speech and to know that we have support from that area. 
It is my belief that all the talk of free health care is a hoax. There is no such thing as free health care and there never was. Someone has to pay, and it will be the Australian people. But we will not pay only in terms of money, we will pay in terms of quality, we will pay in terms of satisfaction and we will pay because this scheme will not work unless it has the co-operation of the medical profession. 
The scheme cannot work if the profession is implacably opposed to it. The Government's job is to seek some kind of reconciliation, to seek some modification and to seek some fair dealing so that its scheme for payment under the health insurance proposals will be more equitable. If the Government does not do so, quality will suffer, costs will rise, queues will form, and doctors will continue to leave primary care. There will be a 2- tiered system of medicine with the wealthy willing to pay whatever it costs for private care. This is the last thing we wish to see. One of the country's best care systems will be converted into a vicious class distinctive system- the very opposite to what the Labor Party thinks it is trying to do. I oppose the Bill and I support the remarks of  Senator Guilfoyle. 
-Will the Minister representing the Prime Minister agree that the latest consumer price index figures indicate a current inflation rate of 16 per cent in Australia? Will he agree that this is the highest rate for more than 20 years? Will the Minister also agree that Labor Party advertising in May 1974 claimed that: 
Only Whitlam has reduced inflation by one-third. 
Will the Minister now agree that such advertising was misleading and untrue and unsubstantiated by subsequent events? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. It refers to the refresher course for mariners which is designed to improve their knowledge of ship stability, which was referred to in the statement of the Minister for Transport of 12 July last. I draw particular attention to that portion of the statement which states: 
Many of the participants, in praising the course, agreed that they had been 'somewhat rusty' in many areas of ship stability and loading data. 
Is the general tenor of the statement that mariners operating on the Australian coast are inadequately trained? Is one implication that safety standards and training are inadequate and that some recent disasters involving shipping have been the result of bad examining and licensing arrangements of ships 'officers? If this is not the case, will the Minister state clearly the situation with regard to mariners' knowledge, appreciation and application of safety standards? If there is a defect in the training of ships ' officers operating on the Australian coast, will the Minister make the retraining program a matter of the highest priority in the interests of safety of shipping in Australia? 
I address a question to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. I refer the Minister to the impasse which has arisen between the Australian Government and the medical profession over the staffing of hospitals and health centres in Canberra. Will the Minister urge the Prime Minister to intervene directly in the dispute with an aim to securing a compromise? Will he urge the Prime Minister to set up a process of conciliation and to bring his influence to bear in an effort to find the kind of solution which will benefit the people of the Australian Capital Territory, maintain the best possible standards of health care and protect the legitimate aspirations of the profession? 
The Senate is debating a motion for the suspension of Standing Orders. I was interested to hear  Senator Steele  Hall's remarks over the last few days about a commonsense approach to many problems and about the traditions of parliamentary practice and parliamentary democracy. I am not convinced that we should treat this matter as a matter of urgency. I wondered about the kinds of motions which one would treat as urgent motions. If there were some question of a pension being withheld unless we acted or if there were some question that urgent action was really required, I think that a case could be made out for suspending Standing Orders and proceeding with the matter, as has been suggested. But I can see no such situation in relation to this matter. One is forced to ask: What is the urgency? I am inclined to think that it is the urgency of newspaper deadlines, of television interviews and of making sure that one gets a good Press so that one can grandstand. I would think that the attitude of some honourable senators is determined by the amount of mileage that they can get out of an issue. This approach is entirely wrong. The Senate makes determinations on what is right and proper in relation to the question before it. If there is any urgency, it has to do with the issue. It does not have anything to do with the time at which a particular program might go to air in a certain State or the time at which certain newspaper men might want to see one so that one is well reported in the Press. I think that that kind of thing is happening in relation to this matter. 
I am one of the new senators. I am sure that  Senator Mcintosh,  who is sitting opposite, feels as I do. I am very concerned that we should have the right to make up our minds on the facts, to examine the issues and to come back to this Parliament prepared to have our say and to vote on the issues before us. I do not think that the matter of urgency comes into it. Let us look at the situation. We will come to a decision on the matter. There is no way that we can avoid making a decision. It is being suggested that by not agreeing to debate the matter now we are in some way running away from it. I will not debate the substance of the matter now, but I will say that there is no way in which honourable senators on this side will run away from some kind of stand. We have our opinions, but we will present them in good and proper time. I think that previous speakers have said this. 
Sitting suspended from 1 to 2.15 p.m. 

 -Mr President, before the suspension of the sitting I was discussing the motion for the suspension of Standing Orders. I had made the point that I considered that a motion for urgency had validity only under certain special conditions and that I could see nothing in the present circumstances to fulfil this set of conditions. I drew attention to the fact that there could be other reasons connected with publicity on television and in newspapers which could be motivating honourable senators to try to make this a matter of urgency. I remind you,  Mr President,  that I had moved on to the point where I had said that we will be debating and coming to a decision on this matter. There is no question of any honourable senator on this side of the chamber attempting to side-step or dodge or move away from this issue. What we are arguing about is whether this matter is of sufficient urgency to insist that it should come on for debate now. 
I think that this is a matter of great importance, a matter of some substance. I should like to think that I had time to examine the issues, to examine the various points and to make a considered judgment. Some of my colleagues already have referred to this.  Senator Cotton  made some points on this very matter. I consider this to be an exceedingly important matter which we are being asked to decide, and I point out that if we look at it from another point of view there is no urgency. The date 1 August is the essential date that we have to consider, and before that date we have at least one more sitting day- next Tuesday- to debate and dispose of this matter. This would give us the opportunity to spend the weekend examining the various issues and what is involved in this matter and to take advice. I point out to honourable senators and to  Senator Hall  in particular that I would like to come back here well prepared, with expert advice, on some of the matters covered in the Remuneration Tribunal 1974 Review which do not relate specifically to our own salaries and allowances. I think that this is a matter which we have to consider. 
The report came down at 8 p.m. last night. I remind honourable senators that when it was presented  Senator Greenwood,  speaking for our side, drew attention to the fact that we had not seen the report, that we had no prior knowledge of it, that we had no knowledge of its contents and that we had no means by which we could make any kind of an informed judgment. I remind honourable senators of what  Senator Willesee  said when he presented the report. He said:  1 am sorry that  Senator Greenwood  had not been informed of this matter. I had intended to break into the Senate's time for about one minute. I thought that this arrangement had been made. 
Clearly it had not been made. You will remember,  Mr President,  that last night we had to call for the report; we had to ask where it was. We were without the report. We had no way of knowing what the substance of it was or no way of knowing how we could form a view on these matters. I point out to honourable senators that this is a most extensive report. I will not canvass the actual subject matter of the report,  Mr President,  but with your permission I will just look at the index which shows the contents of the report, because when we are considering a matter of urgency we have the right to know what it is that we are being asked to bypass. The report contains a number of determinations. It covers the legislation and the salaries and allowances of members of Parliament, and it refers to judges, First Division officers of the Public Service, Permanent Heads of departments of state, unattached First Division officers, Permanent Heads of parliamentary departments and the holders of statutory offices. The Commissioners have gone to the trouble of providing appendices which contain 8 tables so that honourable senators and members of the House of Representatives can actually examine the data that was available to the Commissioners, to look at the means by which the Commissioners reached their conclusions, to form some judgment about the adequacy and appropriateness of the conclusions and to come back to this place next week and make a judgment of which we can be proud. 
I repeat that we have no wish to dodge the issue. We have no wish to avoid coming to some kind of a vote in due course. We have never avoided coming to a vote on this kind of thing. There are deeper issues involved in this question of urgency. There is the question of what is the weight which should be attached to the findings of independent tribunals. I will not canvass that issue, but I will simply say that if we appoint a tribunal and it meets and puts down an extensive finding which affects many people, what kind of an attitude should we take to it? Surely it deserves adequate, considered and proper attention. We have to take proper note of the number of people who will be affected by the contents of the report which we will debate at another time, and how many people stand to lose or to gain from the report? 
Of course, we have to look at the extent to which the decisions that we make now will be used by other people for purposes of which we do not particularly approve. For example, this morning I noticed that  Mr Hawke  is all for our accepting the contents of this Tribunal's report. I am surprised, of course, that he has any knowledge of what is contained in the report. It came down only at 8 o'clock last night. I wonder how he got the details so quickly and had an opportunity to analyse them. 1 wonder whether the details were leaked to him. Was it only members of the Senate and members of the House of Representatives who were left until last to know what was contained in the report? 
No  Senator shall  read extracts from newspapers or other Documents, except Hansard, referring to Debates in the Senate during the same Session. 

 - Mr President, I believe that I did not refer to any newspaper report. 
Thank you,  Mr President.  I was just trying to outline some of the issues which are involved in our granting urgency to this matter. There are many implications connected with our decisions- implications which will affect our own future, which will affect many other people and which possibly will affect the general wage demands in our community. I believe that there are many options open to us and that there are many ways in which we can reach a decision and many ways in which we can dispose of or deal with the Tribunal's findings. It would be less than just to the Tribunal to take a hasty view. I personally would like the weekend in which to consider the report so that I could come back to the Senate next Tuesday, within the time span, and discuss this matter more fully. I do not believe that any of the speakers in this debate have really established a case for urgency. I believe that no valid reason exists for approving of this motion to suspend Standing Orders. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Will Australian servicemen be with the armed forces of Papua New Guinea after that nation achieves independence on 1 December next? If so to whom will those servicemen be responsible and from whom will they take their orders? I ask this question with special reference to any internal troubles which might arise in a newly independent nation and which might require the armed services to restore order. 
My question to the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security concerns recent publicity surrounding the proposed purchase of an IBM computer for the 
Department of Social Security. Has a provisional letter of intent been given by the Department for one 370 model 168 large scale computer system worth $4m with an undertaking that a second 168 system also worth $4m will be ordered later? If so, will the Minister indicate when the funds for these purchases were approved? Was the letter of intent given before any funds were approved by Parliament? Was the letter given after open tenders had been called and, if so, how many companies tendered? 
The Senate is considering 4 Bills in a cognate debate. They are the National Health Bill, the Health Insurance Levy Assessment Bill, the Health Insurance Levy Bill and the Income Tax (International Agreements) Bill. Those Bills are part of the program of the Australian Labor Party to nationalise health and health services in this country. The Liberal Party of Australia is opposed to the philosophy of this approach to health care and the delivery of health care. As the Liberal Party opposed the philosophy of this approach when similar Bills were previously before the Senate it is only right that it should continue to oppose the philosophy of this approach when these enabling Bills are before the Senate. We are opposed to the Government's proposed scheme. As these Bills are part of that scheme it is only proper and appropriate that we should not give any assistance to pushing through something that we do not believe is in the best interests of Australia. 
Some of the Bills before the Senate concern the collection of money and some of them concern the levy which it is proposed to place upon the Australian population. Let me emphasise once again that this levy is open-ended. All we have been given is a starting point- a figure at the start. Many times we have heard the proposed figure in the Senate and it has increased steadily each time the proposition has been presented to us. A very inflationary situation exists at present. There is no way in which the levy proposed at this stage can be the levy that will continue to be imposed. I have noticed that clause 10 of the Health Insurance Levy Bill limits the application of the proposed levy until 1 July 1975. 1 presume that we will be likely to see an increase in the rate of levy and increased maximum levels at that stage. So we, the Australian people who will have to pay for this scheme, will be faced with escalating costs which we cannot control by the simple expedient of using our feet and marching to a different fund. We will be tied in and wedded to this proposal, no matter how bad it is. It is the Opposition's fear that it is going to be a bad scheme. 
Recently we had the spectacle of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  delivering an address at the Liverpool District Hospital in the south-west of Sydney in which he made some predictions about the cost of health care and gave some projections about the proportion of our gross national product which would be taken up in paying for health care. He made the point that we are now spending 5 per cent of our gross national product on health but that this will rise, by his estimate, to 12 per cent over the next 25 years. That would involve an enormous expenditure. That money, or a large part of it, will be raised from the Australian people. It will be raised either directly by way of this proposed levy or by a grant from Consolidated Revenuesocalled balancing grants- to make the scheme work. 
The Opposition is opposed to the whole system by which this levy has been proposed. We place on record once again and we will keep placing on record for as long as we can our objection to the kind of scheme under which every wage-earner will be charged a levy of 1.35 per cent. As  Senator Sheil  has said, let us ask the people of Queensland, who at the moment have some of their health services provided to them free, how they are going to feel about paying a levy of 1.35 per cent. Let us ask the many hundreds of thousands of Australian wives who are working as part of a family team how they are going to enjoy having to pay 1.35 per cent of their net income as a levy for something which can now be obtained as a benefit by the breadwinner in the family at a family rate. Under the proposed scheme they will pay more than they are paying now; and, if other people in the family group are earning money, they will have to pay the levy as well. 
I am intrigued, in reading the second reading speeches, to see the burgeoning list of people who may be entitled to exemption. Already, in the application of this proposal to raise the levy and in the granting of exemptions, the Government is starting to increase the complexity of the scheme. It is starting to define the people who can have exemption. I notice that the Government finally is starting to look at the question of defence personnel and is deciding whether they will be entitled to exemption. The Government is finding that the operation of the scheme will be complicated and not simple. We were assured that one of the main benefits of the scheme would be its simplicity of operation. If we need more proof of its complexity, we only need look at how it will operate and read some of the administrative requirements that will be needed to make this scheme work for ordinary wage earners. If the scheme is to be financed through the pay as you earn system, people will have to fill in a number of forms and a number of returns will have to be made with every pay. The complexity of our taxation gathering system will increase in quite a marked way to take account of the Government's wishes and proposals in this legislation. I notice that the provisions relating to pensioners will be fairly complicated. I also notice that the pool of people entitled to a pension is being increased. With this in mind, we are likely to have increasing complexity in trying to decide whether these people will fit into the Government's scheme as regards the payment of the levy. 
I would like to amplify briefly something which  Senator Guilfoyle  has said. It should be emphasised that we are discussing a levy upon net income. But this is not the only levy upon net income which is being proposed by various commissions, inquiries and tribunals set up by this Government. The legislation before us proposes a 1.35 per cent levy on income. But we face the prospect of a 2 per cent levy on income if the Woodhouse proposals are put into law and a 5 per cent levy to carry out the proposals of the Hancock Committee. We could end up paying quite a considerable proportion of our net income in statutory levies before we get any money which we are entitled to use without any strings attached. 
The cost of health care is limitless. There is no amount of money that one can give which will meet all the requirements of health care. If we again consider what  Senator Sheil  has told us we can say that costs are increasing very rapidly. The bed costs per day in public hospitals in this country have increased from $2 1 in 1968 to $23 in 1969, $26 in 1970, and $31 in 1971. The projected cost in a couple of years time could be as high as $60 a day. I know that the cost of operating beds in teaching hospitals in Sydney exceeds $40 a day at the moment. So, there will be a vast explosion in cost and it is my belief that a scheme financed in this way has no incentives built into it to keep costs down or to manage costs in any real way. 
If we look at the expected expenditure in the hospital sector for the year ending 30 June 1975, should this scheme be operating, we can say that the total expenditure on public and private hospitals will be somewhere between $ 1,400m and $ 1,600m and we can say that after all the money that will be recouped from patients, from the levy and from the levy for workers compensation is collected we will still be required to take about $800m to $900m from Consolidated Revenue to balance out this expenditure. These are vast amounts of expenditure. I think we are faced with the prospect that the Government will be required to ask for an increase in the levy at the first available opportunity once its scheme is introduced and the taxpayers of Australia will be caught by yet another Labor Party confidence trick. 
I hope to talk later today on another Bill which is concerned with health funds. But at the moment I will confine myself to mentioning that there are 34 hospital benefit funds in my State of New South Wales. Let me give the Senate some of the figures relating to the operations of these registered hospital benefit funds for the year 1972-73. Eleven of these funds operated at a deficit in 1972-73. Bearing in mind the kind of fees that they charge, I point out that, if they cannot operate profitably and the Government claims that the proposed scheme will be cheaper for most Australians, there will be a greater deficit and the Government will require a greater contribution from Consolidated Revenue. According to figures issued recently by the Department of Social Security, of the 29 registered medical benefit funds operating in New South Wales in 1972-73 only two had an operating surplus and twenty-seven had an operating deficit. So, there will be a cost explosion, and we have reason to believe that the Government's projections are an act of bad faith and grossly understate the likely position, the amount of levy that will be required and the amount of contribution that will be required from Consolidated Revenue. 
I would like to speak briefly about the National Health Bill, which is one of the 4 Bills now before us. It seems to me that this is a consequential Bill and that there is no point in agreeing to it unless we agree to the other Bills. Unless we agree to implement the Government's insurance scheme, there is no point in passing a Bill which seeks to do away with the present provisions. The National Health Bill is characterised by its wish to take something away from the people of Australia. The decision made by the Government in regard to this legislation is not unlike the decision that it has made on petrol subsidies to rural areas where clearly it is taking something away from people and making life more difficult. 
I believe that the present health scheme has many virtues and many strengths. I believe that the scheme is in the best interests of the Australian people. I see no convincing reason why it should not continue to operate. I see nothing in the argument that the Government might be able to start a new scheme. I see nothing wrong with the old scheme continuing to operate. There will be a continuing need for private health insurance. I think that there is every reason to reject this Bill. But I go further: This Bill seeks, in its own way, to destroy the private health funds. It seeks to destroy them by setting a date on which the funds must cease operation and by stipulating that if the funds do not cease operation on a certain date they can be fined $ 1 ,000 a day for every day they continue to operate. 
The Bill contains provisions for the reregistranon of funds- I suppose notationally new funds -to carry on from some unspecified date. One wonders how a dedicated and unscrupulous Minister- if such a person existed- might care to use these powers to impose discipline of an absolutely arbitrary kind on the funds. He could force them to stop operating. He could force them to cease paying benefits to people. He could take his time about renewing their ability to carry on in the insurance industry. I agree that in this Bill there are some initiatives dealing with health insurance which I would not oppose, but I am concerned. There is no requirement to stop the payment of Commonwealth benefits and no requirement to put in these punitive provisions against the health funds. The good aspects of this Bill could be introduced separately and put to us in their own right. I join with my Party in opposing the Bills. 
We are debating a Bill for the purchase of certain lands in Glebe, Sydney, by the Australian Government.  Senator Carrick  already has set out to some extent our attitude towards this Bill. I point out that Sydney, the largest city in Australia, has the highest level of property values and some of the worst housing problems. We agree with the aims of the Government in acquiring this land, but we have some reservations about the plans of the Government to utilise this acquisition and to administer it. I think it is only fair that I set out some of our misgivings at this stage. 
This is a unique opportunity for the Government to acquire this area. I think any government would like to grasp such an opportunity, although I must say that there are certain problems that I visualise in regard to the relationship between the new landlord, the Australian Government, and the State Government and the local councils. In my opinion those problems have not been adequately resolved at this stage.  Senator Carrick  emphasised some of the financial aspects and problems of this area but I do not intend to canvass those again. I remind the Senate that the stated objectives of the purchase are to avoid the sudden displacement of an existing population, to avoid any disruption to existing community networks, and to retain the opportunity for low income earners and families and aged people to live close to the city as part of the wider community. We applaud and approve these aims. The aims are said to include also the desire to improve environmental conditions and social conditions of the residents of the estate and surrounding area, but I have grave reservations that this aim will be met by the proposed legislation, at least so far as the details given to us so far would lead us to believe. The Bill is said to aim also, according to the Minister's second reading speech, at preserving the townscape and sympathetically rehabilitate it. 
I emphasise again that the initiative for this project has come from the Church of England.  Senator Carrick  said that it was the Archbishop who realised what a unique opportunity existed here in offering to the Australian Government a large area of land. I think we have to acknowledge the role that the Church of England has played in this business. The moneys which the Church will receive will be put to good use. I think it is worth spending a moment or two in pointing out some of the work done by the Church of England in Australia. The money which it will receive from the sale of this land at commercial rates will be used to further the social work of the Church. It will support education, social services, counselling services and communication work through television. It will support the activities of the Moore Theological College, provide support for theological students, the superannuation of church members and the development of new areas for the church. These are all very worthwhile activities which justify the asking of a commercial price for the area. I can only commend the Church of England for its whole approach. 
Those of us who live in Sydney admire many of the things that the Church does. It may interest honourable senators to know that at St John's Church of England in Darlinghurst the Rector is supported at Church expense by 2 social workers, a manager and an administrator. They play a very active role in the social activities in that area. My friend the Rev. Bill Ostling at Marrickville plays a very active role at St Clement's Church in the care of old people. It was the initative of the Church of England in approaching the poverty inquiry which has led to the present acquisition of this land. 
I would like to say a little about the Glebe area. One of the residents of the Glebe was the Liberal Party candidate for the seat of Sydney in the last election. We chose someone locally from the Glebe area to represent us in the election. This candidate, a young lady,  Mrs Joy  Wallace, has been very active in the campaign to preserve one of the most historic homes in the Glebe area. The glebes, of course, were areas of land granted to the Church of England early in the days of New South Wales. The Rev. Richard Johnson received the grant. He came out with the First Fleet. It proved impossible for the Church of England to develop all the land. Some of it was sold and some was developed by the church, as  Senator Carrick  said, to give it a source of income. In the first half of the last century the glebes were developed and we now have the area known as Glebe, the suburb close to the University of Sydney, and the area we are discussing. But we should remember that there are other Church of England glebes. There are glebes at Waverley, Edgecliff and Randwick, and the kind of scheme we see operating here in one area of church land might some day come to operate in other areas. It is appropriate for us to examine what is being done here because it may have implications for the future. 
Most of the land in the Glebe area was let out on 99-year leases and these leases have been terminating in the last few years. The Glebe Society, a very active local group in the area, issued a report on the Glebe district recently. It stated that most of the buildings to which the Bill refers were built between 1855 and 1875; that is to say, they are 100 years old. I move ahead a little to indicate that when we come to discuss the consultants' report we will see that they have said that most of the area is capable of rehabilitation but that they took only a 10 per cent sample. They inspected only a few of the houses in the glebe.  Senator Carrick  has pointed out already that it may be a little optimistic to assume that the whole of the area can be rehabilitated. We may have to be a little more realistic as to what we can do. Like so many suburbs in Sydney, this was once the leading suburb in Sydney. It consisted of a number of different areas. Today it is a polyglot area- an area in which many languages are spoken, in which there is a lot of change and in which several very different social groups come together. It consists of mansions from the grand old days when Glebe was the leading suburb of Sydney. I mention again 'Lyndhurst', which is one of those old homes. They are a bit run down perhaps and they are changing their character. There are 2-storey terraces, Queen Anne and Italianated houses and a great area of small workingman's cottages. The area we are discussing today consists largely, but not completely, of small workingman's cottages. They form a significant part of the glebe estate. 
The estate we are discussing comprises about 20 per cent of the suburb. People should realise that it is not the whole of the Glebe district that is being purchased but only about 20 per cent of it. I mention to the Minister that it has a definite zoning under local government and State ordinances. It is zoned 2(d) for redevelopment under the City of Sydney planning scheme. Any redevelopment of this area at present requires the concurrence of State authorities. It is in the municipality of Leichhardt and as  Senator Carrick  has said, the western expressway will pass across the area. The area has a varying intensity of population. There are as many as 100 people to the acre in the St Phillip's area of Glebe and as few as 55 people to the acre in some other areas. I will mention this aspect again in a few moments when I talk a little more about the consultants' report. The area contains many students, many elderly people, about 20 per cent transient population, a number of low income people and a number of people who are secondarily single- that is to say widowed, divorced or separated. One wonders what kind of tenancy provisions a bureaucracy will impose on this kind of population. How will a government regard transients as tenants in this area? How will it regard people who are otherwise social dropouts? This is a problem not just in Glebe but all around the world in areas where public housing has been provided. 
It is interesting to note that the Glebe area at present has the character I describe. But what I am asking is: Will it be able to retain that character? In regard to the consultants' report I reiterate the kinds of things which  Senator Carrick  said. It is an inadequate report for a project of the size of the one at which we are looking. One imagines that the consultants had to produce their report under the stress of time. It is easy to realise that they put in the best report they could, but I ask the Minister. Can we be assured there will be further and more detailed reports on what will happen in this area so that those who are interested in what is happening in the area, including the senators from New South Wales, will know exactly what is to happen? Will there be other reports of that type and not just a rather sloppy report, lacking in detail, produced under the duress of time and containing totally inadequate information? 
For example, the consultants talk ofthe lack of open space in the area. They talk of the lack of services in the area. But they then proceed to tell us that there is to be some in-fill development. Those are their words. How are we to provide in-fill development in an area which already has inadequate open space? They carefully do not tell us. They tell us that there are to be 'medium rise residential flat buildings' and they propose that there should be 1 50 units of middle income rental housing. Where are these to be situated? What is to happen to the open space? Does it mean that they will tear down some of the existing buildings? If so, will the Minister let us know whether this is to happen? Will we see a modified scheme for rehabilitation and redevelopment with some loss of the existing houses, or will we see in the glebe a loss of open space in order to provide extra housing? 
The consultants also tell us that they would increase the population density in one of the areas. They think an increase in population density is desirable for that portion of the glebe estate where the density at present is 55 persons to the acre. This is something about which the people of the Glebe area might want to know and about which they might have some reservations. An increased density of population is being proposed by the Government. I suggest that there are some specific problems for areas of the inner city and for areas affected by public housing proposals. Let us look at what was said by the Australian Council of Social Service, which had an anti-poverty conference at the University of Sydney on 13 October last year, about life in the inner city and some of the problems of the people who live there. On page 9 the conference report, which was produced by the residents of the inner city, states that the people there are fighting for their survival. The report makes some points about the people who live in these areas. It says that they are inarticulate, ignorant of their own rights, low in expectations and politically alienated and that they have little or no access to the decision makers. One wonders how much the local people in Glebe were involved in the preparation of this proposal and how much they will be involved in the plans that will be made for the detailed redevelopment of the area. 
Let me remind the Minister that the Opposition supports the proposal, but I am very concerned that when the Government goes ahead and redevelops this area it should give a real voice to the people who live there and whose area it is to be. The Australian Council of Social Services report states that in most of the inner city areas there are inadequate health, education and welfare facilities. We want assurances that these will be provided once the Government scheme is put into action. There will be extra problems in these areas. There are inadequate services there now. The map provided by the consultants shows that the only public service utility present in this glebe area that is proposed for redevelopment is a post office. There are no schools and no welfare services. Possibly these are present in the area around the glebe, but they are not present in the area proposed for redevelopment. There is a marked lack of open space and parks, as I mentioned before. There are no community services at all and we have no guarantee that they will be provided under this plan. 
I would like to mention one of the things that happens in inner city areas. I commend to the Minister some of the studies on public housing. For example, there is a book on public housing produced in the United States of America which draws on the experience in that country. The book is written by Leonard Freedman and it is a very excellent one. He makes the point that there is a culture of poverty. What happens in the inner city areas particularly in public housing schemes where it is indicated in advance that the houses will be for low income people, is that only low income people are segregated into this area. 
The second reading speech of the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  delivered in another place drew attention to the fact that there had been an influx of middle-class high income earners into the Glebe. He acknowledged in his speech the worthwhile contribution which they have already made to the district and to life in the district. I think that it would be a great pity if, in the policies that were developed regarding tenancy, it was made impossible for middle-income earners to move into this area, to play their part in helping to rehabilitate homes and to help improve the district to provide the kind of social leadership which we know they can provide and to assist in making this the kind of heterogeneous area that will benefit the residents the most. To make this area available only to the poor and to exclude people if they cannot meet a means test is, in the long run, not in the best interests of the residents themselves. 
It has not been spelt out yet how the Government will administer this area. Is it to have a means test for those people who wish to move into the area? Is this means test going to be applied once only? If people increase their income and improve their position in life, will they be evicted? What does it mean when the Government states that it wants to provide a pool of housing for low income earners? Does it mean that people, once they move into the area, will be able to stay there? Does it mean that as they come up in the world and buy their Rolls-Royces they can continue to live in the Glebe? Does the Government mean that if such people cease to meet the provisions of the means test which will apply they will be thrown out? These are fair enough issues for the people of the Glebe to hear about and they are the kind of issues upon which they want answers. 
The Government's emphasis has been on low income families only. I would say that in other areas where public housing has been put into operation one of the problems has been paternalistic administration. It is very simple for the people if we do things for them and if we decide the kinds of standards which should apply, the way in which people should live, the attitude towards the painting of homes and this kind of thing. Such a situation may produce very rigid paternalism. You can get an elitist view. Such a view may work to keep out some of the very qualities of Glebe which attract some of the most vigorous and interesting people- the university students and some of the migrant groups now present in the area. It all depends on the kinds of policies introduced by this Government when it actually comes to administer the area. 
I should like to ask a few questions about the Government's role as a landlord because the answers to such questions have not been spelt out adequately so far. Firstly, I should like to ask the Minister some questions about the role of the Commonwealth as a landlord in this area generally. I have been led to believe that the purchase of this land by the Government was made probably pursuant to section 7 of the Lands Acquisition Act. If that were the case, the lands would become the property of the Australian Government. As such, I would like the Minister to clarify for us whether the lands cease to be liable to many State and local government laws. These are some of the matters that concern me: Will the Commonwealth pay land tax if this tax were otherwise payable? Will the Government pay rates? If it will not pay rates, who will provide the services? Will State building codes apply on the Glebe land? That last question is a very important one. I hope that the Minister will supply an answer for me. I come back to what I said earlier, that this estate is only a portion ofthe Glebe. It is not the whole area. If we have a situation in which the Commonwealth Government is not paying rates and the local council still has to provide the services, who will pay for the services? Will it be the rest of the residents of the Leichhardt Municipality? Will it be the 80 per cent of the residents of the Glebe who are not covered by this scheme? We have a situation in which we may have an increased rating responsibility and a liability on the rest of the residents to pay all the rates. 
There is a cohesive and comprehensive plan for the development of this area. Will the Government give an undertaking that it will try to redevelop the area in co-ordination with the State authorities? I think that it would be a disgrace if the Commonwealth Government moved in to take over an area like this and simply said that it would not deal with local authorities or State authorities and that it would not pay land tax or council rates and that it would leave the rest of the people of the area and the State to pick up the tab. I hope that the Minister will give me an answer that will satisfy me. I hope the answer will be that the Commonwealth will not take this kind of action and that it will move to meet the legitimate needs of the other people in the municipality of Leichhardt. 
I want to ask the Minister some other questions about the Government's role as a landlord. What kind of policy does it plan in terms of eviction? We have heard much criticism of state housing commissions because of their tendency to evict people who are behind with the rent. I want to know what the Minister's commitment to low income families is. It is a commitment to make the place pay for itself? Is it a commitment however, to throw out people if they cannot keep up with the rent? I ask this question because again it is the kind of thing which the people of Glebe have a right to know. I can understand why  Senator Georges  who is attempting to interject, does not like this kind of questioning. It is embarrassing for him. 
I would suggest that the administration ofthe area should be in the hands of the local people. The consultants who were employed to undertake the study did not make it clear how the administration will actually be carried out. The Minister simply told us in his second reading speech in another place that 2 Commonwealth Departments would be responsible. I think that it is absolutely inappropriate for people in Canberra to try to deal with the local problems of the people in Glebe. I am delighted to see in the submission a suggestion that there will be an information officer in the Glebe area. I agree that this is one way to make low income earners aware of some of their social rights and the availability of social service facilities. But I would hope that the Government would allow local groups to become involved in the actual administration and that it will devolve to them as much of the decision making as it possibly can. 
I would like to deal with the Government's stated aims and how it is going to meet them. We can say that the Government has acquired the land. We can say that it has acquired some land in. the St Phillips area containing very few parks. It contains workmen's cottages and has a density of over 95 persons to the acre. The Government has acquired the Wentworth Park area of the Glebe Estate where the consultants have recommended redeveloping the land. They have recommended redeveloping some land at present used for parking. Will the Minister tell the people of Glebe whether this means that their present parking space will be taken away from them in order that there will be, if I can use the words in the consultants' documents, some more 'infill development', whatever that means? To me it means loss of open space and a worsening of the area. I would like to know something more about the cost of rehabilitating the houses. Does the Minister believe that by taking a 10 per cent sample of the houses in Glebe this will give him the kind of information that he needs to do a costing? Are we to be faced with another openended scheme such as the Government foists upon us time after time? I remind the Senate of the policy of my Party, the Liberal Party of Australia, which emphasises home ownership as well as tenancy and I remind the Senate again of some of the advantages of home ownership. These include the greatly reduced cost of housing over a lifetime; the fact that people who pay rent all their lives end up paying more and the fact that if a person owns his own home he has absolute security of tenure. I would hate any person who may live in this estate to believe that he had lifetime security as a tenant of the Government. He may suddenly find a new needs formula being applied which may cause him to be kicked out of the estate. We believe that home ownership gives people the acquisition of a valuable asset. We believe that it encourages them in pride of ownership and to develop and look after their homes. It also encourages the more able and articulate members of society to move into the area. I draw attention again to the comments made by  Mr Uren  in his second reading speech where he acknowledges this fact. I ask the Minister and the Government to consider whether there could be some way in which home ownership could be one of the options offered to some of the people living in this area. The possibility of home ownership could attract some better types of people. 
With all the good aspects of this scheme there are some aspects that are highly unsatisfactory. The most unsatisfactory aspect has been the lack of adequate consultation with the New South Wales Government. Two Australian government departments are involved in this scheme. They are the Department of Urban and Regional Development, which is  Mr Uren's  department, and the Department of Housing and Construction. There has been consultation with the Minister for Local Government in New South Wales, but I would remind the Minister that New South Wales also has a Minister for Housing. At no time has there been any kind of approach to or consultation with that Minister. I have in front of me letters which document that statement. There has been informal consultation at an officer level with officers of the Housing Commission of New South Wales, but I should have thought that courtesy would have demanded that the Minister involved should be brought into the discussions or brought into the negotiations. However, that has simply not happened. Any statements to the contrary are just not factual. 
I finish off by saying that I think the Government has a great challenge in front of it in relation to the acquisition of this land at Glebe. I think it has a great challenge in front of it to make sure that the project works. It has a great challenge in front of it to make sure that it is not putting an imposition on other people in the Glebe area and in the Municipality of Leichhardt. The Government will have an opportunity to demonstrate its bona fides and to show that it will carry its weight in terms of its responsibility for local government functions. I do not mind that this has not been the practice in the past. I suspect that this kind of activity by the Government will be a continuing activity. I would like to see ground rules laid down that do not disadvantage the people who already live in or around these areas, who pay the rates, who provide the services and who want to continue to live within their means. Most of all I think the Government has a challenge to develop this area in such a manner that it does something about the question of poverty. If it is not careful the Government will simply make this a poor ghetto, it will diminish the standard of living in the area and it will fail to do what it set out to do. I am in favour of the acquisition of the land. I hope that the Minister will be able to reassure me on many of the problems I have raised. 
I present the following petition from 1 14 citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled: The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully showeth: 
That the Australian Government's willingness to officially recognise the incorporation of the Baltic States into the Soviet Union will cause considerable difficulties to former citizens of Baltic countries who have acquired Australian citizenship and are revisiting the countries of their origin. 
By this hasty act, taken without consultation with the groups of Australian citizens concerned, the Australian Government has seemingly recognised the Soviet claim that the Baltic immigrants, upon their arrival in Australia, were really citizens of the U.S.S.R., and as such are not entitled to assume the protection of Australian citizenship until released from the citizenship of the Soviet Union. 
Considering the difficulties involved, we the undersigned, humbly petition the Senate that the action which has been taken, be nullified. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Was  Dr David  Jarvis, an experienced general practitioner, employed at the salaried Health Centre at Melba, Australian Capital Territory from the beginning of September 1973. 
Did  Dr Jarvis  recently resign from the Health Centre to enter private pracitce in Latham, A.C.T. 
Did  Dr Jarvis  give reasons for his resignation; if so, what were they. 
Did the reasons include lack of control over his own clerical and nursing staff in the Health Centre. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
Was a provisional letter of intent given to IBM Australia Ltd for one 370 model 168 large scale computer system worth $4m for the Department of Social Security, with an undertaking that a second 168 computer system also worth $4m, would be ordered in the future; if so, will the Minister indicate when the funds for these purchases were approved. 
Was the letter of intent given before any funds were approved by Parliament. 
Was the letter given after open tenders had been called; if so, how many companies tendered. 
One of the proudest claims cf the Whitlam Labor Government is the program it has introduced for the support of schools on a basis of need. I am interested in the case of a particular school in New South Wales which I would like to recount to the Senate for a few moments. 
That has been done and it is fair enough to raise this matter. If we look at the conclusion arrived at in the Karmel Committee's report of the situation in New South Wales we find that 105 schools were originally given an A classification, which is the classification for the most wealthy schools for which support for recurrent expenditure was to be withdrawn after a given time, and for which recurrent expenditure was at the smallest level while the grants were to continue. Among those schools were many of the very wealthy schools in New South Wales. After appeals were made, 50 schools remained in that category. Among those schools were such schools as Ascham, Cranbrook, Kambala, Kings. Presbyterian Ladies College, Pymble, Sydney Grammar and Sydney Grammar Preparatory- all the wealthy schools in New South Wales. Among the schools that appealed, many of the wealthy schools obtained a lower classification. There is a school- the Rabinovitch Yeshivah College at Bondi-which was classified A and which remained classified A after appeals were made, i went out to examine this school because I thought, when its Principal rang me and asked for help, that it must be a very luxurious establishment, well set up. It is an extremely poor school. If the Government is sincere in its claim that it is operating on a basis of needs this school is a school that deserves and requires recurrent support. 
This school was mentioned in the Senate last year by  Senator McManus,  who drew attention to some of its problems. It is a school which takes people from poor families. Most of the students there come from working class families. It is not a wealthy school. The uniforms of the pupils indicate that. The school is housed in the basement of a synagogue in some old cottages which are undergoing conversion. It is a very small school. 
It was classified A only because its pupil-teacher ratio, on the formula adopted, put it into the A classification. There is no doubt that this school is in need of recurrent support and if the Government is sincere it should receive this support. On looking at the list of schools that appealed against their classifications and had their classifications moved down, I was surprised to see that such a school as the Armidale School, which is one of the great public schools, was reclassified from A to C. It is a wealthy school compared to this one. Barker College at Hornsby, which is one of the wealthiest schools in Sydney, was reclassified from B to C. Chevalier College at Bowral was reclassified to F. The New England Girls School, which is a private girls school at Armidale, was reclassified from A to D. Newington College at Stanmore, which is one of the great public schools and one of the schools for the privileged rich, was reclassified from A to B. 
It seems totally inappropriate that those schools, which quite clearly are wealthy schools, should be able to get a reclassification and larger support for their recurrent expenditure when another school which is small and struggling is unable to get the same kind of support. I do not object to the needs concept. The Labor Party is in government. It puts out the program and it determines which schools are in need. I am merely putting to the Minister that here is a case of genuine need. If the Government is sincere, I want it to look at ways of giving support to this school. I believe that the formula that has been adopted has not filled the bill. It is not good enough for the Government to say: 'We have a formula and any school that cannot meet this formula clearly is not in need'. That is not the approach. The Government says that it is looking for genuine need and that it will respond to genuine need. I am telling the Government that the Yeshivah school at Bondi is genuinely in need of recurrent grants and recurrent support. So far it has received no kind of support from the Government. It has received no indication that it will receive any support. All I ask the Government to do is to look into some way of finding a formula to recognise genuine need where it exists and to find some way of helping this school. 
-I present the following petition from 7 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  of the Senate and senators in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
The undersigned men and women of Australia vigorously protest against your Government's reported provision of Government funds amounting to $150,000 to African Liberation Movements this year, which amounts to contravention of United Nations Charter and is direct interference in internal affairs of African countries. We are aghast that the Government of Australia should involve itself in furthering unrest and warfare between racial groups on the continent of Africa and direct public funds to this end, and we request that senators take up this matter with the Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign Affairs immediately. 
Your petitioners humbly pray that senators in Parliament assembled will ensure that due account is taken of this petition and your petitioners, a' in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I  present the following petition from 194 citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled: The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully showeth: 
That the Australian Government's diplomatic action to recognize officially the incorporation of the Baltic States into the Soviet Union has been taken contrary to the Prime Minister's assurances to Australian citizens of Baltic origin given as recently as the 17th May 1974. 
We, the undersigned, therefore humbly petition the Senate to ensure that the above action is rescinded. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security relates to the question asked earlier by  Senator Lawrie.  Is the Australian Government, through the Australian Industry Development Corporation, a substantial shareholder in Escor Insurance, a British insurance company? Is Caravan and General Finance Ltd, the company holding a 35 per cent interest in Oak Insurance, a wholly or partly-owned subsidiary of Escor Insurance? If so, will the Government review the situation where it appears to be indirectly associated with what seems to be a dubious insurance proposition which could prove disastrous for many Australians? 
-My question, which is directed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, follows on the question asked of him by  Senator Webster.  What was the involvement of the Prime Minister in the decisions taken throughout the Ermolenko affair? Did the Prime Minister have a role in the decision to order the Orion aircraft? Did the Prime Minister make the decision that the Government would take  Mr Ermolenko  from Australia? Was decision-making throughout the 
Ermolenko affair in the hands of the Minister for Foreign Affairs or the Prime Minister? If the Prime Minister was involved what was the extent of his involvement? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What is the number of Canberra doctors who have agreed to work in Canberra hospitals, under conditions laid down by the Australian Government. 
asked the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) How many Aborigines are at present employed in the Australian Public Service. 
How many Aborigines are employed in (a) the First Division; (b) the Second Division; (c) the Third Division; and (d) the Fourth Division. 
Does the percentage distribution of Aborigines between the various Divisions differ markedly from that of white employees of the Australian Public Service. 
I present the following petition from 5,545 citizens of the Commonwealth. 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. 
The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully showeth: whereas the Government of the United Kingdom, United States of America, Canada and many European countries have not recognised the unlawful annexation of the Baltic States- Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia by the Soviet Union, the Prime Minister of Australia has authorised the de jure recognition of this annexion. 
According to the Chapter of the United Nations, the Baltic States are entitled to independence and their people to selfdetermination. 
We beg that such de jure recognition be disallowed. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I present the following petition from 1 19 citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. 
The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully showeth: whereas the Government of the United Kingdom, United States of America, Canada and many European countries have not recognised the unlawful annexation of the Baltic States- Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia by the Soviet Union, the Prime Minister of Australia has authorised the de jure recognition of this annexation. 
According to the Charter of the United Nations, the Baltic States are entitled to independence and their people selfdetermination. 
We beg that such de jure recognition be disallowed. 
Petition received. 
As a petition in identical terms has already been presented, I do not propose to move that the petition be read. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Defence: What loss of employment is projected at the Lithgow Small Arms Factory over the next 12 months? Is there likely to be a downturn in employment at the Lithgow Small Arms Factory with the winding down of the 7.62mm rifle project? Will the Government give an undertaking to the people of Lithgow that there will be no unemployment in that town as a result of Government retrenchments from the Small Arms Factory? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the average increase in rates to be paid by owners of property in Canberra, following upon the recent revaluation of land. 
What is the amount of extra revenue anticipated from the new rates. 
What is the percentage increase in rates as a result of the revaluation. 
Over what period is this rating to apply before new values are struck and a further rate rise ensues. 
I  present the following petition from 724 citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the Honourable the  President  and members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully showeth: whereas the Government of the United Kingdom, United States of America, Canada and many European countries have not recognised the unlawful annexation of the Baltic States- Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia by the Soviet Union, the Prime Minister of Australia has authorised the de jure recognition of this annexation. 
According to the Charter of the United Nations, the Baltic States are entitled to independence and their people to self-determination. 
We beg that such de jure recognition be disallowed. 
Petition received. 
I  present the following petition from 25 citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament Assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully showeth: 
That the Australian Government's diplomatic action to recognize officially the incorporation of the Baltic States into the Soviet Union has been taken contrary to the Prime Minister's assurances to Australian citizens of Baltic origin given as recently as the 1 7th May 1 974. 
We, the undersigned, therefore humbly petition the Senate to ensure that the above action is rescinded. 
Petition received. 

 - Mr President, as petitions similarly worded have been read in the Senate, I do not propose to move that these petitions be read. 
My question is directed to the Mininster for Foreign Affairs. Has there been a change in the rights of Australian citizens of Baltic origin in regard either to the carrying of their national flags in Australia or showing Estonia, Lithuania or Latvia as their country of birth when applying for Australian passports or visas to visit other countries? 
-Has the Leader of the Government in the Senate seen the results of the local government elections which were held last weekend in New South Wales? Did the Australian Labor Party suffer major setbacks in almost every local government area in New South Wales? Did the Labor Party lose control of many councils which it previously held? Will the Government now acknowledge that there has been a clear expression of opinion from the grass roots in New South Wales? Will the Government moderate some of the iniquitous and devisive policies which have obviously upset the electorate? 
I present the following petition from 1,175 citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully showeth: 
Whereas the Government of the United Kingdom, United States of America, Canada and many European countries have not recognised the unlawful annexation of the Baltic States- Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia by the Soviet Union, the Prime Minister of Australia has authorised the de jure recognition of this annexation. 
According to the Charter of the United Nations, the Baltic States are entitled to independence and their people to self-determination. 
We beg that such de jure recognition be disallowed. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition from 1 16 citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully showeth: 
Whilst the Australian Government is granting freedom and independence to Papua and New Guinea, the once free Baltic States of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania are occupied by the Soviet Union and their citizens are continuously and brutally deprived of personal, civil and religious freedoms. We humbly beg to draw the attention of the Senate to this fact and ask that the matter bc raised in the United Nations by the Australian Government. The annexation and incorporation of the Baltic States by the Soviet Union has not been recognized by any Western democracy, including Australia. We beg the Senate to continue such nonrecognition and to disallow any steps by Australian Government which would amount to recognition of aggression. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition from 124 citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully showeth: 
Whereas the right of self-determination belongs to every nation, big or small, the Baltic States of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania have been deprived of it for 30 years by the Soviet Union. All Australian Governments for 30 years have refused to recognise the Soviet sovereignty over the Baltic States, but we now understand that such recognition has been granted. We the undersigned petitioners wish to express our concern and dismay and humbly ask that it be retracted. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition from 88 citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully showeth: 
Whereas the Governments of the United Kingdom, the United States of America, Canada and many European countries have not recognized the unlawful annexation of the Baltic States of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania by the Soviet Union, it has been announced from Moscow that the Australian Government is now recognizing them as part of the Soviet Union. We wish to point out that according to United Nations charter these States are entitled to independence and their people to self-determination and beg that such recognition be disallowed. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition from 45 citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully showeth: 
The undersigned citizens of Australia of Baltic origin wish to express their concern at the announced intention of the Australian Government to recognise the annexation of the three Baltic States of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania by the Soviet Union. We submit that these once free and independent States were occupied by force of arms and beg the Senate to disallow such recognition as a matter of principle. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition from 44 citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the Honourable  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. 
The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully showeth: whereas the Government of the United Kingdom, United States of America, Canada and many European countries have not recognised the unlawful annexation of the Baltic States- Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia by the Soviet Union, the Prime Minister of Australia has authorised the de jure recognition of this annexation. 
According to the Charter of the United Nations, the Baltic States are entitled to independence and their people selfdetermination. 
We beg that such de jure recognition be disallowed. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I ask a supplementary question. It was not clear from the Minister's answer whether there will be jobs for school leavers at the end of the school year and I seek clarification. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Labor and Immigration. Is unemployment worsening in Australia at the rate of about 1,000 persons a day? Is this situation worsening in spite of all Government initiatives and efforts? Have Government ministers said that there is no way that all the 180,000 anticipated school leavers will be able to find employment in Australia at the end of the year? Is it a fact that the Government has no coherent plans to provide jobs for all Australians who want to work? 
I present the following petition from 320 citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. 
The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully showeth: whereas the Government of the United Kingdom, United States of America, Canada and many European countries have not recognised the unlawful annexation of the Baltic States- Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia by the Soviet Union, the Prime Minister of Australia has authorised the de jure recognition of this annexation. 
According to the Charter of the United Nations, the Baltic States are entitled to independence and their people to selfdetermination. 
We beg that such de jure recognition be disallowed. 
And your petitioners as in d Utyduty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Did  Mr Barry  Read,  Chairman  of the Community Committee of the Melba Health Centre, issue a press statement on 22 July 1974 concerning the resignation of  Dr David  Jarvis. 
Did  Mr Read  state in this press release that one reason which might cause a doctor to resign includes his foregoing the right to restrict the number of patients seen. 
Will the doctors working in salaried Health Centres not be able to determine their case loads and the number of patients they see. 
Will the Minister give an assurance that quality and care will not be prejudiced by the placing of pressure on doctors in Health Centres to meet specific 'production quotas' at the expense of health care given. 
We are discussing the Sewerage Agreements Bill which is a Bill for an Act to provide financial loans to some of the States for sewerage works. We support the Bill but with the reservations which  Senator Carrick  has already outlined. It is worth looking at the promises specifically relating to sewerage works and the provisions of these works by a Labor government which were made before this Government came to office. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  in his 1 972 policy speech stated: 
A Labor Government will immediately ask the principal water and sewerage authorities what Commonwealth grants - 
I draw attention to the word 'grants '-  in the present financial year would enable them to embark promptly and economically - 
I emphasise the word 'economically'-  on an uninterrupted program to provide services to all the premises in their areas by 1978. For subsequent financial years, the Commonwealth Grants Commission will investigate and recommend the size of Commonwealth grants - 
Once again let us emphasise what  Mr Whitlam  was promising in the policy speech on which he was elected-  required to see the program through. 
This was a very specific promise of money. It was a promise of financial grants. In no way did  Mr Whitlam  suggest that the States would be given a series of loans which were to be repayable. The actions of the Government since it was elected do not support the promise made in that policy speech. If we look at the Budget papers which were presented in the Senate recently we find that the Budget will provide $105m during this financial year for sewerage services. This Bill refers to part of that allocation. Of course in this Bill there are 2 issues. The first is the issue of the sewerage program itself. This is a matter on which we do not disagree with anything the Government is doing in relation to the provision of sewerage programs and works which are required and the extra facilities. We support this. We are as concerned as the Government to see the new works proceed and the new facilities made available. 
But the second issue central to this Bill is the method of financing. It is here that we think the States are receiving and have received a raw deal. Though this Bill refers to 3 States only, it is fair to say that the total program will take in all States. It is in the context of a program which will involve the whole country that I am speaking to this Bill and about my concern at the prospects for my State of New South Wales. In the end the central question is the debt structure of the various government bodies in Australia. What is the debt structure and how has it been altered?  Senator Carrick  has referred already to some of the features of the debt structure. I refer to 2 tables which I have had prepared. I seek leave to have these tables incorporated in Hansard. 
They are tables relating to the debt structure. The Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Cavanagh)  has a copy. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
1 ) Has an application been made by medical students at the University of New South Wales for increases in their tertiary allowances from 1975. 
Does the truncation of the medical course create less opportunity for students to obtain part-time work to help support themselves. 
Does a longer academic year and extra expenses associated with the medical course justify a greater allowance. 
Has inflation made the allowances worth less in terms of purchasing power. 
Will the Minister give early consideration to the medical students' application. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. Is the Minister aware that a draft contract for hospital services, prepared by a working party from the Government and the medical profession, is to be presented to Canberra doctors for their approval at a meeting tonight? Is he also aware that acceptance of this contract would enable adequate staffing of Australian Capital Territory hospitals by doctors already in Canberra with no need for extra full time appointments? Is it a fact that notwithstanding the foregoing,  Dr Wells  of the Australian Capital Territory Health Services has already appointed full time specialists to the hospital services scheme without advising the doctors of these appointments? Will the Minister, as a matter of the greatest urgency and in order to prevent breakdown in the almost completed negotiations, order the immediate publication this afternoon of all appointments made secretly by  Dr Wells  to Australian Capital Territory hospitals and will he assure the Australian Capital Territory Medical Association that the position of its members has not been prejudiced by the actions of  Dr Wells  to date? 
We are debating the motion that the Senate take note of the Budget Papers.The Budget Papers constitute a wretched Budget.  Senator Bishop  can defend it all he wants to, but it is bad in its structure and it makes no economic sense at all. It is evil in what it promises for this country.  Senator Bishop  spoke about the promises that we did not make. The point is that his Party made many promises across the board and, having made them, has failed to keep them. It makes no sense for  Senator Bishop  to tell us about the unemployment benefits that the Government will be providing for Tasmania. The people in Tasmania would rather have their jobs than the Labor dole. It is in relation to employment that Labor has broken one of its many promises and for which it has to answer. 
On 2 1 September, 4 days after the Budget was delivered, the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  addressed the regional conference of the Australian Labor Party in Townsville, and he had this to say: 
I have long held the view that the Budget is not just an economic document but a declaration of the Government's view of the kind of society we want and the kind of people we arc . That is what our Budget was about. Nothing we have done has so clearly demonstrated, so clearly symbolised, this Government's philosophy and concerns, its priorities and aspirations. 
The Prime Minister said that nothing that the Labor Party has done so clearly emphasises its aims. Yet we have a situation of people being out of work and the economy being out of control. That is what Labor is all about. The amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Withers)  indicated the wide ranging dissatisfaction with the Budget, and it emphasises the things we are most concerned about. Unemployment is out of control and getting worse, inflation is worse than we have known it for years, private enterprise is stifled, thrift is penalised, there are socialist attacks on the States and there is a clear attempt to take over control. 

 - Senator Button does not like what I am saying. I saw what  Senator Button  had to say last week in Melbourne. There is a clear attempt to remove resources from the private to the public sector. One of the worst features of this Budget which has been put up to the Australian people is the total lack of any national plan. People in business want to get some direction from the Budget so that they will know what the Government has in mind. There are no real signs in this Budget. The first evil in the Budget is the production of uncertainty in our society. I was most interested to see reported in the 'Canberra Times' of 30 September- last Monday; 2 days ago- that that Acting Prime Minister  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  had admitted that there was uncertainty and lack of confidence in Australia. And well there might be. I say that because the Government in power is a government of which he is the  deputy  leader. Nothing of which I can think would give less confidence in our country. There is doubt and there is insecurity. These conditions lead to a lack of confidence on the part of those who are planning their business enterprises. They cannot budget, they cannot plan ahead and they cannot make the decisions which they need to make if their businesses are to get under way and move ahead. 
Australia has a mixed economy, and we believe that there is a clear attack by this Government on the private sector. I remind the Government that in this country it is profit that creates most jobs; it is profit from which taxes are paid; it is profit from which investment is made; and it is profit in the private sector which leads to the production of Australia's wealth. It is one thing for the Government to talk about what it has done in distributing wealth in this country; but it has done a lot to depress the capacity of this country to create the wealth. Without the creation of wealth and without profit there are no jobs, no taxes, no investment and nothing to share. This is a lesson which this socialist Government has not understood. When private industry suffers, the whole community suffers and the whole country suffers. That is what is happening now. When private companies go out of business, they are backed only by the guarantees of individuals. So those people go to the wall. Companies which have traded profitably for years and which have provided jobs for ordinary Australians are now going out of business. We are losing the capacity to produce. We are losing the capacity to share the wealth. And it is all because of the financial mismanagement of the country by the Government in the last 20 months. 
This Budget contains some really iniquitious features. It contains a capital gains tax. I believe that if I have an asset worth $100 today and there is an inflation rate of 20 per cent per annum and the nominal value of that asset is $120 in one year's time, I should not have to pay a capital gains tax on that increase in value. The increase is due solely to inflation. To be equitable, any capital gains tax should be a tax in terms of real increase in value over and above the increase caused by inflation. This kind of capital gains tax is inequitable. It has many unfair features and it is depressing to the community. 
In the last couple of weeks we have seen some disturbing features develop in the Australian society. We have seen the Cambridge Credit Corporation Ltd go into receivership. The interesting thing about this company is that it is the only major finance house in New South Wales not backed by a bank; that is, it does not exist as the offshoot of a bank. It is the largest landholder in Australia and the land which it holds is adequate to cover its debts. In any normal situation, this company would not have failed. The distressing thing is that there are many shareholders- ordinary people- who have no cause to suffer but who will be made to suffer because this Government has produced the kind of policies which I will outline in a moment and which have driven this company to the wall. 
Recently I have had to take action to try to support a very fine private hospital in Greenwich in Sydney. This hospital has the distinction of being one of the few places where paraplegics are cared for.  Senator Button,  a Labor Party senator from Victoria, may smile. But there are not many people who will nurse paraplegics. Of course, these people are paralysed. This hospital has provided a service for many years. Suddenly, it is in danger of closing. It is in danger of closing because of the high price rises that are occurring and because of increased wages. It is being caught in a squeeze not of its own making. The same remarks apply to many other institutions in New South Wales. I will mention just one of them: The Family Welfare Bureau is the only family counselling bureau in Sydney for a large number of people from poor areas. This is a voluntary agency that has had to close its doors, as a result of which there are now no facilities in Sydney for many people who require this kind of counselling. It has closed its doors for one reason only, namely, that on the money available to it it can no longer afford to employ the staff or to continue to exist as it is entitled to do. 
I submit that the private sector of our economy is the productive sector. Why are we transferring to the public sector this year an amount which represents 34 per cent of Government spending? We are seeing diminished investment in the private sector. We are seeing a diminished capacity to produce. We are seeing no growth in real terms in the non-farm product. We are seeing continued shortages. The only thing that is increasing is the expenditure in the public sector, and this is associated with a diminished capacity to meet demands. The old-fashioned kind of class warfare is no longer relevant. It is no longer a case of the haves and the have-nots, in the broad sense, in Australia. It is no longer a case of them and us'. We are all in this together. There is only one boat. It is in a stormy sea and there is only one crew. It will not work for the Labor Party to introduce a Budget which attempts to divide the community and which attempts to impose 2 income tax scales- one for some people and one for other people. A punitive tax scale for those who have dared to be thrifty throughout their lives will not do. In the end, we have to have one common destination. The kinds of things which the Labor Government is doing are clearly detrimental to Australia. The public and private sectors should be interdependent, but they are not being given a chance to be. 
I have referred to inflation. I would like to talk on that subject a little more now.  Mr Whitlam  himself had a bit to say about inflation. It is worth recalling the words that he used when addressing the Building Workers Industrial Union- a strong union- on 5 August. He thought that he was among friends. He had this to say: 
I do not need to remind you how dangerous and destructive inflation can be for the worker and his family. It can destroy all your efforts and ours- to improve living standards and promote security and social justice. It can also, as I say, destroy the Government. 
I only hope that he is correct. Inflation is proceeding to rise and I hope that it destroys this Government.  Mr Whitlam  went on to say in the same speech: 
That is why, from the moment the Government was elected, it has worked unremittingly, ceaselessly, to attack inflation at its roots. . . 
If that is what the Government has done, it has been remarkably unsuccessful. If we were told that the Government had not acted to attack inflation, then we could look at the present inflation rate and say that perhaps the Government will get to work on it now. But if we are told that it has been working unremittingly and ceaselessly to lower that inflation rate, then it has made a pretty poor job of it.  Mr Crean,  the Federal Treasurer, introduced a mini-Budget in July this year. He had some things to say about inflation which are worth repeating today. He said: 
Inflation is utterly inequitable in its effects. 
We all agree with that. He went on to comment on some of the things that inflation has done. He said: 
Yet in the last 12 months inflation has ripped off well over $ 1,000m from the real value of savings bank depositsdeposits owned for the most part by the little people, the ordinary people of this country. 
It is during a period of Labor Government, during a period of his stewardship of the economy, that he has allowed inflation to rip off, to use his words- to use the words of the Labor Party $ 1,000m from the value of the savings of little Australians. This is some record to be proud of!  Dr Cairns  had his own remarks to make back in May of this year at the declaration of the poll for his seat in Melbourne. He was not so confident about inflation. He had this to say: 
Perhaps inflation could be reduced by S per cent in a year, but it would be likely to be at the expense of throwing 350,000 people into unemployment, and at the cost of cutting national production by $ 1,500m. 
We do not even know what the Labor Party's view is on whether it wants to control inflation, whether it is willing to take the steps or whether it knows what those steps are. All we know is that at this moment there is no effective and integrated plan against inflation. 
The only thing the Government has done that has carried any weight has been to increase interest rates in Australia. The Government has confined itself solely to monetary policies for the effective action that it has tried to take. Australia is a country in which there is no oil crisis. We produce most of our oil and, thanks to  Mr Gorton,  we have the cheapest oil in the world. There is no reason why our interest rates should still be the fourth highest in the world. There are 4 things that high interest rates do to Australia: They discourage investment because for many people it is cheaper to put their money into Government bonds.  Senator Steele  Hall last night reminded us that the return on investment for the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd is one cent in the dollar. A person can receive 10c in the dollar if he puts his money into Government bonds. That is what people are doing. The second thing that high interest rates do is generate excessively high wage pressures, and that has been happening. Thanks to Government policy wage pressures are increasing because the average worker has to pay the interest on his home loan, which has gone up not once but many times since this Government took office. The third thing the high interest rates are doing is destroying the capacity to raise money for private industry, so that private industry cannot expand. This is why there can be little or no real growth this year. The fourth thing the high interest rates have done is direct money away from productive areas into non-productive areas such as Government bonds. 
There is no effective anti-inflation policy from this Government. If inflation is one of the evils that this Government has given us, there is another one which is like a cancer in that it is spreading throughout society, and that is unemployment. We know that with the inflationary problem in this society we have seen welfare programs lose their impact, we have seen social progress slow, we have seen the pensioners do without their rise in this Budget. We have seen none of the recommendations of the Henderson Committee implemented. In addition to this, we have rampant unemployment in Australia. It is interesting to hear what the Labor Party has to say about unemployment.  Mr Whitlam  in his policy speech in 1972 made one of his most specific promises on employment, because he criticised the Liberal Party on unemployment. In 1972 he had this to say, and I will remind honourable senators of it: 
Labor's first priority would be to restore genuine full employment, without qualification, without hedging. 

 Mr Whitlam promised to restore genuine full employment without qualification and without hedging. Just to drive it home, he came back in the 1974 election and promised something else. On 5 May, a couple of weeks before the election, when addressing a convention he had this to say, and he was talking about inflation: 
No solution is acceptable if it tolerates high levels of unemployment. 
He pledged himself then not to have unemployment, and during the campaign and in his advertising we saw the statement: 
In Australia alone unemployment and inflation do not march side by side. ' 
How sick those comments look today when we have to examine the unemployment situation in Australia. The Labor Party has recanted.  Dr Cairns,  who told us in July that unemployment was not an option, now says to us in Septemberand I am quoting from the Sydney 'Daily Telegraph' of 18 September- that it was not possible to reduce inflation without producing unemployment. This is  Dr Cairns  telling the Australian people that any prescription he had to reduce inflation would mean unemployment for Australians. How did he come to this revelation in September that was not available to him in July and, more particularly, was not available to him when he was going to the Australian people in May. It seems to me it was more convenient not to know the facts in May.  Dr Cairns  went on in his statement to say, following the statement that we have to have unemployment: 
And that is a Tact, however unpalatable, that must be faced both by the Government and by the people. 
In Australia at the present time we have a situation where unemployment is rising by four or five thousand people a week; four or five thousand people are losing their jobs. There were 30,000 extra people registered for employment between June and August this year. In today's Australian 'Financial Review' we have an article headed 'Rising pool of jobless'. And it is going up and up. We face the situation where we have a government committed to controlling employment which cannot do so. Labor was committed to this, as it was to other articles of faith. It was committed to growth, and that article of faith has gone by the board; it was committed to low interest rates, and that article of faith has gone by the board.  Senator Georges  had something to say about that tonight against his own side. Labor was committed to control of prices, and that has gone by the board. It was committed to the virtues of upvaluing the Australian dollar, and that has now gone by the board. It was committed to full employment, and that has gone by the board. There are 180,000 young Australians leaving school this year with little or no prospect of absorption into the work force. It is no fault of theirs; it is the fault only of the Labor Government that has mismanaged Australia and whose Budget makes no provision for solving all these problems. 

 Mr President, one would wonder whether a government could be so stupid. Honourable senators opposite are interjecting now- the Labor people here do not like this. I come to one other matter- whether it is the responsibility of the Government or whether it is the fault of the system. In 1972  Mr Whitlam  gave the Fabian Lectures in Victoria- and I am sure  Senator Button  was there to hear them- called 'Labor at Home'. He had a number of things to say about the responsibilities of a government in Australia. He said: 
Another form of defeatism blames the system. 
That is what he said. He went on to say something else in that speech. He said: 
For all its difficulties and shortcomings, the Australian Constitution is not an insurmountable barrier against social reform and social justice . . . It would be intolerable if a Labor government were to use the alibi of the Constitution to excuse failure to achieve its socialist objectives . . . 
This is what he said, that it would be intolerable if a Labor government used the Constitution. He went on to say that it would be doubly intolerable because it is just not true that it need be so. 

 Mr Whitlam made these statements about the system before Labor was elected to office. He said there was no way you could hide behind the Constitution. But then we have had the statements in the last couple of months from  Mr Hawke  and we have had the statements from  Dr Cairns,  that it is not the Government that is at fault, it is the system under which we operate. They cannot have it both ways.  Mr Whitlam  when he is giving the learned address cannot claim that the system is adequate and then have his  Deputy  Prime Minister hide behind him. It is Government mismanagement. 
We come to the real purpose of this Budget when we look at the Treasurer's own remarks. The Treasurer said that this Budget would achieve the first real opportunity to transfer resources to the public sector. We are seeing a Budget which promises less control of Australia by private Australians, more control of Australia by the state. The state will own more and more and it will produce less and less for wealth. There will be less wealth to distribute and less opportunity for the welfare programs which are wanted. The Government will not listen to the facts of the matter. It will not learn; it does not seem able to be educated about what is going wrong. Australians are worse off while the Labor Party pursues this hallucination, its dream of socialism. It is a false dream and the Labor Party should know it by now. 
We condemn the Budget, whoever 's Budget it is. I do not think it is the Treasurer's Budget. I do not think it is the Prime Minister's Budget; he was not there to hear it delivered. I think it might be the Caucus's Budget. Let Caucus patch it up in any way possible, anything to ease the mess and the pain which this Budget means for most Australians. This is the second Labor Budget in 25 years. It is a disgrace. It is a catastrophe, and for ordinary Australians it provides none of the things they want. It provides no stability, no justice, no hope. 
The final quote I will offer to the honourable gentlemen opposite is from their own 'It's Time' folders from before the 1972 election. They hate seeing these things. I will quote from it. It makes good reading: 
Governments are only people. But if the people who make up Governments lose their way, become confused, forget what they are there for; if they become tired, and dispirited and leaderless, then they cease to be a Government. They become a rabble. 
Labor senators should read that section of their document again. It is prophetic. They are a rabble. They have lost their way. They are leaderless. They have produced a budget from a rabble. The Budget and the rabble have failed Australia. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Douglas  McClelland) adjourned. 
My question is directed to the Attorney-General. Following the AttorneyGeneral's revelation of a document allegedly written to  Mrs Petrov  by a  Mr Hogan,  I ask: Does the Attorney-General intend to refer the document to the Ethics Committee of the Australian Journalists Association as it appears to breach the ethics of the Association? Is the writer of the letter a member of the Australian Broadcasting Commission? If so, will the AttorneyGeneral ask his colleague the Minister for the Media to refer to the ABC the letter and its implied threats to  Mrs Petrov?  Is it a fact that  Mr Petrov  is seriously ill in hospital? What steps is it intended should be taken to ensure the safety and privacy of  Mrs Petrov? 
It is a pleasure to be able to join  Senator Rae  in supporting the passage of the States Grants (Universities) Bill and particularly those aspects of it which deal with the creation of a new medical school in New South Wales. I believe this is the first medical school which the Labor Government will have established. It will follow the tradition of previous Liberal Party governments which considerably increased the number of medical schools in Australia over a number of years. I wish this endeavour well. 
There is a great need at the moment for extra medical education and educational facilities. I want to highlight the fact that in Australia we have a tremendous lack of doctors in practice and to place on record that we have only about 7,500 general practitioners in a doctor population of close to 20,000. This is an obvious imbalance which is affecting the kind of program which the Labor Government is trying to bring in to provide more primary care, more care for people out in the community where they need it. It is a fact that if we continue to use traditional medical schools built around the traditional hospital structure it is likely that we will worsen the situation because the kind of training people will receive will encourage them to go into hospital practice or into specialties, and we will continue to get this smaller number of people wanting to go into primary care, wanting to practise in the community. If the community health centre program- the primary care program- is to mean anything, in the end it has to mean more people in practice giving their services. We will find this happening only if we have people trained for it. 
What is offering in this Bill is an opportunity for a new kind of medical school in a different kind of situation and operating in a different way. This is what makes the Government's program for Newcastle so exciting. What the Government has provided in this Bill is just the nucleus to get the program off the ground- the initial establishment costs to plan the school and a little money to get the administrative set up going. Newcastle is an industrial city with all the problems that exist in the large cities of Australia. Honourable senators may recall  Senator Chaney  's maiden speech last week in which he drew attention to the fact that only in a city with all the problems can you start looking for the solution to Australia's health problems. He was talking about the need for Canberra to get a bit of industry so that it knows what is going on throughout Australia. 
Newcastle has all the problems. It has migrants, it has all levels of wealth, and it has all the kinds of problems we see in Australian society. It is the ideal place for a medical school. I want to make a plea that when this medical school is brought into being it is more than just the conventional type of medical school built around a big hospital, the old kind of honorary system and the study of exotic diseases. I hope the Government will stay with its proposal that this medical school will operate out in the community. The doctors who will come out of this school will help, but there will not be that many of them. If the Labor Government is to proceed with medical education it will need more medical schools. It will need to extend this program. I hope the funds will flow to get the school into operation and after that I hope another medical school is set up. 
I suggest that there is another great industrial city, Wollongong, which is not only ideally suited for a school of its own but which has produced a plan for a radical new kind of medical school which will provide the kind of primary care we need. The Minister for Health  (Dr Everingham)  will know that  Dr John  Stevens, a leading English general practitioner, has put in a comprehensive plan of medical education for the Wollongong situation and it could be put into action any time we wanted to do so. 
I would like to say that I would not regard Canberra as a suitable place for the establishment of an undergraduate medical school. It is a homogeneous middle class society. Canberra does not have the problems that students in Newcastle will be exposed to. The Government has made the right decision in going to Newcastle. It would be making the wrong decision if it decided to put an undergraduate medical school in Canberra. I would like to emphasise that: Canberra may be fine for postgraduate medical institutes, for academic institutes, but let us not get ourselves into the situation where this or any other government is talked into putting an undergraduate medical school here. I wish the Newcastle proposal God speed. I wish Professor David Maddison, who has already been appointed Dean, the best of luck. I hope that these gentlemen bring in something more than a conventional medical school structure. I hope that they fulfil our aim of producing doctors for primary care. I hope that this is only the first of many similar important projects. 
I  present 2 petitions, identical in wording and from 14 and 75 citizens of Australia respectively, in the following terms: 
To the Honourable, the  President  and members of the Senate of Australia in Parliament assembled: The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That in modern society which accepts divorce, the law of divorce should be fair to both parties. However, we are very concerned about proposals to alter the law in the Family Law Bill 1974. 
The Family Law Bill, 1974 would fundamentally change the institution of marriage itself; that is all existing and future marriages. 
The said Bill does not protect the legal and social rights of women and children in the family. 
The said Bill does not provide for either the training of suitable counsellors who can assist in conciliation procedures or for suitable initiatives to be taken prior to the breakdown of marriage. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that this Bill be tabled for 6 months and that all sections of the community be consulted on marriage, the family and the long term effects of such a Bill upon our Australian society. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petitions received. 
A petition similarly worded has already been presented by  Senator Carrick.  I therefore do not propose to move that the petitions be read. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the Department of Social Security's 168/370 IBM Computer only been in operation since April. 
Has the health insurance scheme proposed by the Labor Government not yet been introduced. 
What is the computer being used for. 
Is the computer being used full-time or is the computer's capacity being wasted. 
What use will the computer be put to in the event of long delay in the implementation of the Government's health insurance program. 
If the computer is not now in use, will the Minister explain why it was necessary to by-pass normal tendering procedures and have the computer ordered on a 'certificate of inexpediency'. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
What documents of provisional intention of any kind relating to the purchase of a model 370/168 computer system were exchanged between the Department of Social Security and IBM Australia Ltd (a) before 29 November 1973 and (b) between 29 November 1973 and 1 1 December 1973. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Science, upon notice: 
1 ) When will the new flexible system of metric units be officially in use in Australia in the practice of clinical pathology. 
Will the conversion from mass concentration (mg. per litre) to substance concentration (millimoles per litre) cause confusion among some health workers. 
What arrangements have been made to inform the medical profession and the other health professions of the problems and to provide them with appropriate conversion charts. 
I present the following petition from 1 6 citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the Honourable the  President  and members of the Senate in Parliament assembled: The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully showeth: 
Whereas the Government of the United Kingdom, United States of America, Canada and many European countries have not recognised the unlawful annexation of the Baltic States- Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia by the Soviet Union, the Prime Minister of Australia has authorised the de jure recognition of this annexation. 
According to the Charter of the United Nations, the Baltic States are entitled to independence and their people to selfdetermination. 
We beg that such de jure recognition be disallowed. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition from 127 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate of Australia in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That, in modern society which accepts divorce, the law of divorce should be fair to both parties. However we are very concerned about proposals to alter the law in the Family Law Bill 1974. 
The Family Law Bill 1974 would fundamentally change the institution of marriage itself; that is all existing and future marriages. 
The said Bill does not protect the legal and social rights of women and children in the family. 
The said Bill does not provide for either the training of suitable counsellors who can assist in conciliation procedures or for suitable initiatives to be taken prior to the breakdown of marriage. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that this Bill be tabled for six months and that all sections of the community be consulted on marriage, the family and the long term effects of such a Bill upon our Australian society. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition from 1 5 citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully showeth: whereas the countries and peoples now being administered by communist governments-Poland, Hungary, Czechoslovakia, Russia, China, North Korea, North Vietnam, Romania, Yugoslavia, Mongolia, East Germany, Bulgaria, Albania and Cuba- are entrapped by political and economic ideals repugnant to Australian concepts of liberty and fair play; and whereas the freedom of religion, assembly, speech, movement, fair trial, and enterprise are denied to these people by their governments; and whereas Opposition political parties are suppressed, the right to strike refused, and conscripted labour cruelly exploited by these same governments. 
According to the Declaration of Human Rights and the Charter of the United Nations, these peoples under communism are entitled to the same freedoms as enjoyed by Australians, including independence and self-determination. 
We beg that all Australian economic ties be severed with these governments until such time as they grant to their peoples the freedoms freely enjoyed by Australians as enshrined in the Declaration of Human Rights. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What is the difference between a Community Health Complex and a Community Health Centre, in relation to the community health program grants for New South Wales. 
Does the program provide for the establishment of 12 Health Centres. 
What was the basis for the establishment of each of these Centres. 
Was each Centre established only in an area of need; if so, how was this need assessed. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Will the Minister inform the Senate of the extent to which medical investigators using National Health and Medical Research Council funds must adhere to the requirements for consent in human experimentation set out on pages 444-5 of the Council's 1972 Report on Medical Research. 
Does the National Health and Medical Research Council insist upon and monitor compliance with the requirements set out in the Report. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) Has a letter been written by the Minister for Social Security to the State Ministers for Health setting out the Commonwealth offer on Federal contributions to the funding of hospitals under the proposed new National Health Insurance Scheme. 
In what manner do the offers vary from the proposals contained in the 'White Paper'. 
Are there any qualitative variations in the offers made to the States, one compared with the other. 
Will the Government, in the interests of 'Open Government', make the letters public, so as to enable electors to know the basis of the offer being made to their respective State governments. 
-I am anxious to seek your ruling,  Mr President.  Is it the custom of the Senate that all senators be given the call to ask one question before second questions are allowed? Some senators have been toying to get the call all week. 
1 was not objecting on that ground. I was seeking your advice about the practice of permitting senators to ask 2 questions before other senators have been called. 
I  present 2 petitions, identical in wording and from 10 and 74 citizens of Australia respectively, in the following terms: 
To the Honourable, the  President  and members of the Senate of Australia in Parliament assembled: 
The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That, in modern society which accepts divorce, the law of divorce should be fair to both parties. However, we are very concerned about proposals to alter the law in the Family Law Bill 1974. 1. The Family Law Bill, 1974 would fundamentally change the institution of marriage itself; that is all existing and future marriages. 2. The said Bill does not protect the legal and social rights of women and children in the family. 3. The said Bill does not provide for either the training of suitable counsellors who can assist in conciliation procedures or for suitable initiatives to be taken prior to the breakdown of marriage. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that this Bill be tabled for 6 months and that all sections of the community be consulted on marriage, the family and the long term effects of such a Bill upon our Australian society. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petitions received. 
I present the following petition from 86 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable, the  President  and members of the Senate of Australia in Parliament assembled: 
The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That, in modern society which accepts divorce, the law of divorce should be fair to both parties. However, we are very concerned about proposals to alter the law in the Family Law Bill 1974. I. The Family Law Bill, 1974 would fundamentally change the institution of marriage itself; that is all existing and future marriages. 2. The said Bill does not protect the legal and social rights of women and children in the family. 3. The said Bill does not provide for either the training of suitable counsellors who can assist in conciliation procedures or for suitable initiatives to be taken prior to the breakdown of marriage. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that this Bill be tabled for 6 months and that all sections of the community be consulted on marriage, the family and the long term effects of such a Bill upon our Australian society. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Labor and Immigration. I refer the Minister to recent newspaper reports that the motor vehicle component manufacturer Borg- Warner (Australia) Ltd last week retrenched 205 employees from its Fairfield plant in Sydney, making a total of 380 persons retrenched in Sydney since mid-August. Can the Minister confirm that Borg- Warner also retrenched 72 employees in Albury 6 weeks ago and that a further 84 employees were retrenched in the same city last week? Can the Minister give assurances that companies like Borg-Warner can survive to oner the employment opportunities so necessary in Sydney and in growth centres like Albury-Wodonga? Is it a fact that there can be no growth centres without adequate opportunity for employment and that the whole program of decentralisation is threatened by today's widespread unemployment? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) Will the Minister for Social Security have tabled in the Senate a report of his most recent visit to New Zealand to study the national health scheme of that country. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) Does the Minister for Social Security still hold the view that bulk billing of medical fees by doctors is an essential ingredient in the Government's proposed national health scheme. 
Is the Minister satisfied that sufficient numbers of doctors will co-operate to ensure that bulk billing is a feasible proposition. 
What alternative does the Minister propose if sufficient doctors will not co-operate. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the current estimate of the cost of the Government's proposed national health scheme. 
What provision has been made in that estimate to compensate for the present high rate of inflation in Australia. 
What is the estimate of the cost of the scheme in (a) the second year of operation and (b) the third year of operation. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) How many health benefit organisations are at present registered in Australia, excluding duplicate registrations because of multi-state operations. 
How many branches are proposed for the new Health Insurance Commission. 
How many agencies are proposed for the Health Insurance Commission. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
1 ) How many certificates of inexpediency have been issued in the past two years. 
What are the projects and project costs which have resulted from the issue of such certificates in the past two years. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
1 ) What are the guidelines for the issue of 'certificates of inexpediency'. 
How many contracts let without open tender under certificates of inexpediency' in the past two years have been for amounts exceeding ( a) $ 1 m and ( b ) $2m. 
I present 2 petitions, identical in wording from 41 and 52 citizens of Australia respectively, in the following terms: 
To the Honourable the  President  and members of the Senate of Australia in Parliament assembled: The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth- 
That, in modern society which accepts divorce, the law of divorce should be fair to both parties. However, we are very concerned about proposals to alter the law in the Family Law Bill 1974. 
The Family Law Bill 1974 would fundamentally change the institution of marriage itself; that is all existing and future marriages. 
The said Bill does not protect the legal and social rights of women and children in the family. ( 3 The said Bill does not provide for either the training of suitable counsellors who can assist in conciliation procedures or for suitable initiatives to be taken prior to the breakdown of marriage. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that this Bill be tabled for six months and that all sections of the community be consulted on marriage, the family and the long term effects of such a Bill upon our Australian society. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petitions received. 
I ask the PostmasterGeneral: Is it a fact that people living more than 8 kilometres from a telephone exchange now lose their right to the free use of departmental line plant for telephone installations? Under the new regulations has a quotation of $480 been made for the connection of a telephone line to a farm at Candelo in New South Wales just 1.3 kilometres beyond the regulation distance from the exchange? Will the Minister agree that this is yet another example of a punitive impost on the people of non-metropolitan Australia, that it is excessive and is likely to prevent the farmer and his family from availing themselves of a telephone service? 
asked the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation, upon notice: 
1 ) Were fees payable to doctors for consultation for treatment of repatriation beneficiaries increased from 1 July 1974. 
Are the fees fixed at a concessional rate, or are they fees for services as determined by the Medical Fees Tribunal. 
If the fees are fixed at a concessional rate, will the Minister advise the Senate whether repatriation beneficiaries require the same attention as other members of the community or whether they require discounted attention. 
Is it the Minister's intention that repatriation patients should get equal treatment and is it the Government's intention that all concessional fees should be phased out; if so, will the Minister make an early start to paying the fees recommended by the Medical Fees Tribunal for services to repatriation patients. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
When will the refit, planned to be carried out in the United States later this year commence on the guided missile destroyer HMAS Perth. 
What is the estimated cost of this refit. 
What would have been the cost had the refit been carried out in Australia. 
What is the estimated cost of the refits which have commenced on HMAS Hobart and HMAS Brisbane. 
Does the Leader of the Government in the Senate agree with the  President  of the Australian Labor Party,  Mr Hawke,  and the Federal Secretary of the Federated Clerks Union,  Mr J.  R. Grenville, when they state that the Government in its efforts to find a scapegoat for the nation's problems is guilty of union bashing? 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Will Australian Servicemen be with the armed forces of Papua New Guinea after it achieves independence on 1 December, 1 974: if so, 
to whom will those servicemen be responsible; and 
from whom will they take orders. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Services and Property, upon notice: 
Did the Minister for Services and Property state in a press release on 19 September 1974 that proposed changes in the Senate voting system would not affect the result of one Senate election in 100 years, as compared with the present system; if so, will the Minister for Services and Property arrange to have tabled in the Senate the advice, given to him by the 
Chief Australian Electoral Officer, which purports to put the view of the effects of the proposed electoral changes. 
My question which is addressed to the Minister representing the Special Minister of State relates to the terms of reference of the Royal Commission into Human Relationships. I ask: Did the motion passed in another place on 13 September 1973 call for a royal commission to include in its terms of reference that the commissioners should have regard to the United Nations declaration on the rights of the child and the sanctity and preservation of human life? Why do the terms of reference, published on 21 August 1974 by the Special Miniser of State, confine themselves to matters of sexual practice, abortion and so on and why specifically do they not include the concern for the rights of children and for human life set out in the resolution of the Parliament? 
We are discussing the Family Law Bill 1974. 1 understand that this is the first time this BUI has come up for debate, although the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  has had the depressing experience of having to present more than one- I believe three- second reading speeches during the time that this Bill has been acooking. I understand, too, that this is the first of 2 debates which we will have and that the Committee stage of the Bill will engender a lot of discussion and debate. At this stage it might be worth while looking at the philosophy of divorce and at what we think we should be aiming for. If we can define that and get a good idea of where we think we are heading, we might be in a better position to examine the proposals and to decide whether they are good or bad. 
I place my own position on record, not least of all because I would like to satisfy the large number of people who, as has happened to everyone in this chamber, have been lobbying me- people who want to impose one view or the other. I thought  Senator James  McClelland was extremely tolerant in referring to the Queensland branch of the Divorce Law Reform Association. My inclination to support the Bill has not been helped by the extreme and unpleasant way in which this branch of the Divorce Law Reform Association has done its lobbying. Its cause has not been advanced by the vituperative language or by the extreme way in which it has presented its view. In particular, I was disgusted by the latest circular to reach me from this organisation. It is the October 1974 circular of the Queensland branch of the Divorce Law Reform Association. I think that it should be ashamed of the words it has written. 
I will quote it. I think it is disgusting. It says: 
Once again the members and the public are staggered that the Senate appointed a Committee of Lawyers to provide amendments to the Family Law Bill. The result is recommendations that will make greater profits than ever for the legal profession. The public is sick and tired of a sell-out to lawyers particularly with a social and medical problem and which is not a legal issue. 
The writer goes on to criticise various parties. As a non-lawyer I place on record the fact that it is the Senate which created the Committee, it is the Senate to which the report came; and it is the Senate which will make its own judgment. If we choose to select from among our members those with legal training to advise us, that is 'our right. It is no business of any association such as this to criticise us and to claim that we are in any way selling out or giving up our responsibilities. 
As I said, I am inclined to support many parts of this Bill. I think there are many ways of looking at it. So far we have had 2 speeches from men with legal backgrounds. I think it is good that the debate include as many people as possible who bring other points of view, such as those who in their professional life have seen divorce from other aspects. In my own work, where I have been involved in counselling in a professional sense, I have seen many instances in which human distress springs out of unhappy marriages and out of the present divorce law as it exists. I have seen degradation. I have seen people who have had to resort to subterfuge and hypocrisy and who have had to invent reasons for getting divorced. I have seen people locked into marriage because of inadequate law and inequitable legal practices. 
I understand that other speakers will concentrate on detailed provisions of the Bill. I shall not try to do this, so that I will not take up too much time of the Senate. I shall limit my contribution to some of the social areas; to discussing what we mean by marriage, what we mean by divorce and what we should mean by family law. Before doing that I shall make a comment about this debate going on today. The Bill which we are considering will have offered to it a number of amendments which are contained in the large report from the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs. This report came to us only 2 weeks ago. I have no objection to the second reading debate going on. But I know that many people in society- people whose views I do not share and people whose views I will not necessarily support- feel that if the Committee stage of the Bill goes on quickly they will be denied the chance of analysing this document and of preparing what they think are amendments which could be useful for consideration by honourable senators. 
It is my view that there should be some adequate time for those groups in society which are interested enough to want to work on this Bill to present their cases. It is my view that 6 weeks from the date of the presentation of this report would not have been unreasonable. It would be a finite time. It would bring back debate. It would still force us to debate the Bill and to make up our minds. Six weeks from the presentation of this report would be about 26 or 27 November. I think that that would be a fair and reasonable time to go on with the debate or, at least, to go on with the Committee stage of the debate. I hope that the Attorney-General will consider this point and consider whether we can give these groups a period of time. As I have said, I am not inclined necessarily to support the ideas such groups will put forward. But I would hate anyone in society, particularly in the emotionally charged atmosphere which surrounds this debate, to go away saying that he did not think he had had a fair go. I suggest that the Bill which may emerge as a result of these amendments is different from the Bill which has been around for two or three months. These amendments create a different piece of legislation. The people who have been looking at the Bill and who have been lobbying us have a valid point if they say that it is only in the past 2 weeks- it is less than that actually, because this document has not been on sale for the past 2 weeks- or during the period that the report has been on sale in the bookshops that they have been able to analyse the new, new, new Family Law Bill, depending upon which model we look at, to analyse the amendments and to work out what they might want to say in reply. It is my feeling that we should go ahead with this second reading debate because it is a debate of principle and belief; but for the detailed consideration in Committee I hope the Senate will defer further debate. 
I believe that there are 2 aspects to marriage. One of those aspects concerns relationships between people. Those relationships do not require any legal backing at all. As  Senator James  McClelland has made clear, those relationships will exist no matter what the law is or in spite of any law. In the end it is those relationships which are really important in marriage from society's point of view. If we approve of marriage it is not necessarily because we approve of the legal state of marriage. We approve of the situation which marriage creates for the protection of society. That is one part of marriage. 
The second part is the legal framework which we have found necessary to regulate marriage and to help us to decide a number of matters  which come out of it. It would be wrong if we saw the Family Law Bill solely in terms of the legal framework of marriage. I agree that if we are altering the law we must consider this. We must know what these legal consequences are, but we must examine also what the social consequences will be. What will happen to people who are caught in relationships or who must exist and cope irrespective of the law? Our law on marriage is quite different to the law operating in some other countries. That law is peculiar to this country, but the relationships between men and women tend to be more universal and more important. In our society the social relationship of marriage implies certain things. It implies exclusivity between partners and permanence. I am talking about marriages that work. It may change in future. Society and many features of society are changing. At present we see marriage as a union which tends to be an exclusive and permanent union. No matter what new ideas come, we must try now to protect the stable bonding of man and woman and provide a stable situation in which children can be brought up and protected and in which family life can be established. 
These relationships are very difficult. They depend upon the mores of society as they exist at any moment. Various groups in society may not believe in marriage. Marriage is becoming more popular. Both  Senator. Missen  and  Senator James  McClelland have adverted to this fact. Many of the patients to whom I have spoken in the last few years- young men and womenhave impressed me with the morality of their relationships. Many of them are not married but are living together quite monogamously. After a period, when they feel that they are ready, they marry. I am not saying necessarily that this is what I wish to see but I appreciate that this is essentially a very moral way of approaching relationships with the other sex. In our society marriage is related to our past experience, past expectations, history and this kind of thing. For example, each of us understands, whether we are men or women in terms of our genetic make-up, that we are caught in a situation in which we see our functioning in terms of our being male or female. It could be that in society from now on we will need to change that idea. We will need to see our gender roles changed to protect our society. If women become better educated and liberated they may wish to return to the work force, and the men in society may have to take over more of the role of home making and child rearing. If we are to protect the institution of marriage, if we are to stop women being slaves, caught in the home, and men being free and able to work, we may need to look at this social aspect. We may have to move this way. 
Marriage is more difficult today. There is more stress on people as individuals; less of our needs are met from within the family; more things are done in schools; more of our needs are met from outside; people turn less to the family for their recreational needs. The family structure itself has altered. The family is less supported and less extended. Fewer generations can lend support. Women have been liberated and have different expectations, not only because their attitudes are different but also because their education is better. The laws of the land are changing. Modern contraceptive practice has enabled women to control child bearing. The Finer Commission on one-parent families in the United Kingdom was established in 1969 to report upon the effects of Britain's new divorce law. It made a large number of comments relating to family life, family structure and family stability. It made the point that marriage is being entered into at a younger age and child bearing is being controlled and compressed into a much shorter period. So there are smaller families rather than larger families, and women are tending to return to the work force in their mid-thirties whereas previously they worked in that brief period between school and marriage. 
Early in this century most marriages were broken by death, few were broken by divorce. 
Today with modern medicine and modern divorce practice the reverse is the case. The Finer Commission which examined divorce practice in the United Kingdom reached the conclusion that we can expect at least 1 5 per cent and possibly 25 per cent of all marriages to end in divorce from now on. If we are thinking about family law and family law Bills we are thinking about a situation in which one-fifth or one-quarter of the marriages in our society will break down and end in the divorce court. I would hope that one of the things we wish to do for children in our society is to teach them about the kind of relationships that go into a marriage. We need to commence this education in early childhood. It is not good enough for us to start talking about buttressing the family at the point of divorce. 
-That is a statement with which I agree. We should start preparing people at an early age for marriage, the responsibilities of marriage and their role in the kind of relationships they will need to make, and we should keep this kind of education going forward. It is more important than learning algebra. Yet in our educational system we give a high value to matters which are often largely irrelevant for the kind of life we will live. We are ignoring totally many of the behavioural sciences and skills which we will need to survive socially. It is a topsy turvy situation. 
If  Senator Coleman  lives in hope it may yet happen. My response to her plea is that the biology of these relationships just is not enough. We must teach something much more than biology, and one of the criticisms of present day sex education is that it is too factual. The teaching of relationships is difficult and is a lot more than the factual business of the birds and the bees. We know that more people are marrying, divorcing and re-marrying. This in itself is not a bad thing, but the Senate may care to know a few basic health facts about marriage. If one examines the death rates, sickness rates and psychiatric illness rates of married men and single men and married women and single women one will find that married men are healthier than single men and have lower mortality rates. One will find also that married women are worse off than single women. Marriage, as it exists at present in Australia, has a very marked medical disadvantage for women. They have an excessive mortality rate, especially during the period they are bringing up children. This is something we should understand if we are examining the structure of marriage and its relationships and what is happening to them. 
I would like to refer now to the Committee to which  Senator James  McClelland referred in his speech. It was set up by the Archbishop of Canterbury to study divorce. The Committee's report was published as the document 'Putting Asunder A Divorce Law for Contemporary Society'. 
The Archbishop's Committee recommended the abolition of all existing grounds for divorce and the substitution of the sole ground of breakdown of marriage. The Committee recommended also- I think this is an important point in a consideration of some points of the Bill- that to discover whether the breakdown was irretrievable a court should always investigate the breakdown. I want to get round to the point that most of us would agree with the concept that there is only one real ground for divorce, and that ground is irretrievable breakdown of marriage. But I would go further and say that it has always been the ground for divorce. We have only ever had divorce where marriages have broken down. It is just that we have applied different tests to determine whether or not a marriage has broken down. 
The Archbishop's Committee which has been quoted recommended that we should always investigate whether a particular marriage has broken down. I take it from this that that Committee was concerned about the methods of proving irretrievable breakdown. When we are looking at the matter of dissolution of marriage, it is in this question of how we determine irretrievable breakdown that some doubt starts to appear. I am grateful to  Senator Missen  and to  Senator James  McClelland for the way in which they have explained the views of the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs and the purposes of the Bill. But there are problems with accepting one year's separation as a blanket ground for dissolution and saying that in all cases that proves that there has been irreconcilable breakdown. Even though there exists a provision for one partner to object, you get the kind of situation where separation could occur quite normally. For example, someone might volunteer to work in the Antarctic and be sent there and be physically separated for a period of time. 
If they have separated and they are apart for a year, one partner to the marriage could petition for divorce. 
I am aware of the fact that the other partner could object to that kind of a ground, but I am not convinced that one year's separation in itself is complete or adequate proof of irretrievable breakdown, nor am I convinced that it is necessarily the only ground which we should accept. What I want to do is to join  Senator James  McClelland in finding some way of defining 'irretrievable breakdown', and when that has been found to get dignified, simple divorce, and to get it without the kind of dishonesty that goes on at the present time. I suggest that there is some virtue in seeking a system where there might be another ground, and that ground would be intolerable conduct. This matter has been canvassed already. In one of the paragraphs of the report of the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs it was suggested that there could be another ground for dissolution, and that is the ground of intolerable conduct. I would see that as another way of proving irretrievable breakdown of marriage. 
I agree still with the central theme of the Bill and with the Committee 's idea that it is only irretrievable breakdown that we want as a ground for divorce, and that we want to do away with some of the other fault provisions which in themselves have been quite degrading. But I am concerned that there should still be immediate relief available for those who want it. I suggest that if we have one year's separation, or whatever period the Senate and the Parliament decides, as one way of proving irretrievable breakdown and we have another method available as well, most people will avail themselves of the first method; most people will avail themselves of the separation ground, because it is simpler and cleaner. The only people who would need or use the other ground are those who would want immediate relief under special circumstances. I hope that at the Committee stage of the debate an amendment will be moved to include a second method of proving irretrievable breakdown of marriage, and I hope that if that happens it will be acceptable to the Committee. I believe that it would allay the worries of some people and obviously it would strengthen the Bill. 
I do not wish to comment on the other aspects of the dissolution clause except to answer one criticism which I get from a great number of people who are writing to me, and that is that we may well get a rising divorce rate.  Senator James  McClelland referred to this point in the concluding words of his speech. A rising divorce rate in itself says nothing about the relationships between people. What has gone wrong is the breakdown in marriage. A rising divorce rate is merely an indicator of something more basic that is going on in society. The rate of divorce itself is not a true indication of how people are relating one to the other. There are other ways of making that kind of a judgment. I would expect that if we altered the divorce rules there would be a rise in the number of divorces registered, and I think it would be quite wrong under those circumstances for us to proceed to assume that our society was falling apart or that marriage was becoming less stable. A rising divorce rate merely reveals a previously existing rate of failed marriage- that is all- and in those circumstances it would be wrong for people to make erroneous conclusions as to what they read into what follows the passage of a Bill like this. 
The other provisions of the Bill which are causing concern are the provisions relating to maintenance and custody. I am very grateful to the Senate Standing Committee for the breadth and detail of its report. It has clarified quite a few issues. There has been a lot of concern in society that many women would be disadvantaged. I think it is fair to say that women will be potentially disadvantaged. I put the point of view that marriages contracted 15 years or 20 years ago were contracted on the understanding between the parties that they were working within a certain set of understood rules. We now propose to change the rules so that those marriages could be dissolved under a completely different set of rules. There seems to me to be some possible injustice being done to people who might have married on one set of assumptions, that they were undertaking a certain kind of commitment one to the other, and who may now find that that commitment no longer exists. It may be true to argue that that commitment is no longer relevant, but I should like to think that in fact it should apply in the future or that there should be some adequate transitional period during which people can decide whether or not they wish to get divorced under the old rules which they understood to operate when they married and at the time when they set up their married life together. 
I am anxious that we should get justice for the women who have been a disadvantaged group in our society up to now. They have been deprived of the same educational opportunities as men, they have been deprived of the same work opportunities, and they have been deprived of the same financial opportunities. Up to this stage they have not been able to compete equally with men in the divorce arena, except perhaps as regards their rights to maintenance. Under this Bill, I believe, husbands are less liable to maintain their ex-wives than they were previously, but the wife is more liable to support an ex-husband than she was previously because if a husband can show need he may well be able to get support and maintenance. The wife may have this positive legal duty to maintain her husband. 
All that this tells me is that there is an area of potential hardship for some women, especially ibr the mature woman to whom  Senator James  McClelland referred who may have had only a brief period in the workforce. They may have stopped working when they were 21 or 22 years of age and spent the next 20 years bringing up their children, but at the age of 45 years they may be told to go back to work. They can go back to work all right at the same level as they were in the workforce at the age of 22 years. If they were employed at the age of 22 years as a secretary, that is what they will go back to the workforce as when they are 45 years of age. Their chance of going back to the workforce in some senior position is zero. Their chance of maintaining the same standard of living is nonexistent. I am very keen to ensure that under this Bill we do not create the situation where a whole generation of women who have contributed to family life and to the bringing up of children are now left with nothing but the chance to go back and work for subsistence. I hope that the kind of factors taken into consideration will enable these women to get adequate protection for maintenance, because I again draw your attention to the comments on the British divorce Bill and to the actions which followed it. The comment was made that financial and ancillary matters remained bitter conflicts even after the passage of that legislation which was designed to make the dissolution of marriage simpler and fairer. I do not want that to happen in this country where we are simply removing the area of battle from the dissolution of marriage to the financial and other considerations which flow on, the ancillary matters to which  Senator James  McClelland referred. If we do that, we have not really progressed very far at all. If we return to the situation of a full-scale battle so that all the legal trappings we see now in the divorce courts are to be the future surroundings of applications for maintenance, custody and property, I do not think we will have made the kind of progress we would have expected. Many people in Australia will be sorely disappointed because they are looking to this Bill to simplify divorce and associated matters. This will happen only if the ancillary matters are adequately coped with. 
On the question of custody particularly I cannot see how we can move away from some consideration of conduct in arriving at custody decisions. I have had numerous patients who have been divorced and who have had grave psychological problems. I have known people wanting custody of their children who have been alcoholic or psychiatrically disturbed. It has been recorded that people seeking custody of their children have been cruel and sadistic. If the courts are not allowed to take those kinds of factors into consideration, and they should be able to do that - 
-They will be able to do that. We have a situation where conduct comes back into the field of family law and no one society should think of a family law situation where conduct is not relevant. It is relevant. Even if it is not revelant to the dissolution of marriage it becomes relevant again in the determination of these other matters. 
In a family law Bill- not necessarily this Family Law Bill but an ideal Bill- we should be seeking a way of creating better marriages and in some way of maintaining those marriages. The three areas of marriage are entry, the period of marriage and the dissolution. With all respect to those people who have worked so hard on this Bill, it confines itself to the point of break-up. It is achieving some very great advances in doing so but it is still ignoring the long period during marriage and the period at which people enter into marriage. Both are very important stages at which we could do so much to protect the marriage bond and to make divorce less likely. 
The Catholic bishops of Australia, as honourable senators probably know, have recommended positively that marriage should be made more difficult. They have suggested that those who are very young and who wish to marry should have to give a fairly lengthy period of notice and should be encouraged to seek counselling during that time. That has some virtue. Divorce being an area of such disputation and the cause of so much unhappiness in marriage and in the light of the divorce statistics showing that young marriages tend to break up there is some virtue in the suggestion from the Catholic bishops that there should be some kind of extra waiting period except when a special dispensation is given by a magistrate before people under 18 years of age can marry. 
The Catholic bishops went further and suggested that for everyone the waiting period between the application to marry and the marriage ceremony should be 4 weeks. Again there seems to be a lot of merit in this suggestion. It is such a simple thing to do. It would cause no real hardship and could do something to make people think just a little more before they enter into marriage and bring upon themselves all the difficulties which may ensue if the marriage is unhappy and they have to seek dissolution at a later date. 
In our present society protection of existing marriages is really lacking. The situation in New South Wales is abysmal. One of the only counselling bureaus available to low income families recently had to close. At a time when we are discussing a Bill which will set up counselling services a counselling bureau in Sydney went out of business because of lack of money. The result is that people in New South Wales who have not the money to go to expensive private counsellors have lost one of the only agencies which could have helped and was helping up to a few months ago. 
If we are serious in our desire to buttress marriage, let us do it at some point prior to the entry into the divorce courts. It is all very well to say that a reconciliation service will be set up and that we will insist on people using it. We will not insist upon their using it until they have decided to get a divorce. That is an empty way to use marriage counselling, to wait until people have made the decision to separate before saying that they must seek reconciliation. The time to do that is at a much earlier stage. We should have marriage counselling with all the facilities available in a widespread way throughout the community. I believe it would be better if the counselling services were provided separately from the family courts. 
My view is that the family courts will use these facilities well- there is no question about thatand they will be extremely valuable to their functioning. However, there will be a tendency to limit their operation to marriages that are already in bad trouble and to couples who in some way have found their way to the courts. It would be desirable if the counselling structure were separate but had close links with the courts. By being separate it could attract people who at present might be a little reluctant to seek counselling when it is available only from the court which handles divorce. I do not think that idea is too extreme. 
Professor Julian Katz, professor of child psychiatry at the University of Sydney, recently at a large Sydney hospital discussed divorce. He commented, as we all know, that divorce is a crisis in the lives of all the people involved- the two parents and the children. All the counselling facilities we can get to provide for these people are valuable but I do not see them operating necessarily to effect reconciliation. I believe this is an empty thought. I see them operating to offer therapy to people at a time of crisis, to help children through a period when they are likely to get very disturbed, and to help men and women who have to make decisions about their own worth and future. I hope that when the counselling services come into operation they will see this therapeutic function as a major activity and will not simply concentrate on patching up marriages. Attention should be given to helping people to live better in the divorced state and to getting the children used to the idea that they are going to exist without one or other parent in the house. Looking at what the Americans have done, I remind the Senate that they set up an ad hoc committee on a Standard Family Court and the National Council of Crime and Delinquency. That committee reported in 1959 and recommended, regarding counselling services, as follows.   . . does not insist that the service be located principally in the court. The court should support the idea of a community clinic outside the court through suitable referrals to private agencies. 
The recommendations go on to say that counselling can often be more effective if it is outside the court than if it is within it. 
Finally, I believe that what we are looking at here is primarily a divorce Bill. It is not really a family law Bill in the sense that it takes in the measures which I would like to have seen to support and strengthen marriage. It does not discuss marriage and it does not really discuss the needs of couples during the long period of marriage and during the time when their troubles develop. That it is a divorce Bill I do not say in any critical way. I think we require a reform of our present divorce law. It is only secondarily a family law Bill of the kind I would like to see. The aspects of the Bill devoted to counselling, reconciliation and to this kind of support are, to my mind, inadequate. This Bill is concerned with the dissolution of families. It will work, I believe, to minimise the distress and the unhappiness of dissolution as we have it at the present time. But to the extent that the Bill does not work to hold families together or to strengthen the family unit in our society, the Bill fails. I would think that it will require further legislation from this Government or from some other government to offer the kind of measures to support families in what is becoming an increasingly difficult world in which small isolated families can survive. 
I hope that during the Committee stage of consideration of the Bill we may see amendments proposed which will seek to add an extra way of proving that irretrievable breakdown of marriage has occurred, and that is the ground of intolerable conduct. I would support such an amendment. I hope to see some consideration given to whether counselling services might better exist outside the family court, though still working closely with it. I do not believe that 12 months separation is necessarily proof of irretrievable breakdown, nor do I believe that it is in itself the only proof. In fact, the only reason that we have chosen it is that it is administratively simple. It is something we can define and it is something which could work. A Bill which promises so much will be a farce if social justice does not follow it and if in fact the same kind of bitterness that we see at the present time carries on after this Bill is passed. 
I would like to congratulate those people who have involved themselves in the Bill. I congratulate the Attorney-General who has presented the Bill to us on a number of occasions and the members of the Senate Committee who have done so much to examine it, to improve it, and to enlighten the Senate as a whole. I am grateful for the examination which they have given the Bill and for the help which they have given to all honourable senators. I do hope to see the Bill passed into law; I hope to see it become law with amendments. I hope that when it does become law it can usher in a new era for divorce practice in Australia. I also hope it will be followed by the other measures which are so necessary to strengthen marriage and to buttress family life. 
The Senate is debating the Social Services Bill (No. 3). I support  Senator Guilfoyle  and wish to make a few observations upon the Bill and its shortcomings. For a Labor Government that places such store on its social welfare initiatives this Bill is pitiful in the small amount of benefit it offers to people and the small number of initiatives it takes. It offers very little. We are very pleased about what it does offer, about the fact that there is to be additional payment for children of pensioners and beneficiaries, raising the payment from $5 to $5.50 a week. We applaud the supplementary assistance and allowance increase by $1 a week to $5 a week and the increase in the double orphans' pension by $1 to $11 a week. However, these increases plus a few other minor benefits are all that is offered. It is deplorable and we have nothing in prospect to suggest that any further benefits are to become available if this is in fact the Government's social welfare package as a consequence of the Budget it brought down. 
My remarks are not entirely unfair because we had come to expect from the Government a continuing program of social welfare initiatives. We had every reason to expect that in this Budget we would see further action.  Senator Guilfoyle  mentioned an inflation rate measured at this stage at over 16 per cent and likely to be much higher next year, on the admission of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam).  Unless the benefits paid to pensioners and other social service beneficiaries are increased they are in fact dropping behind all the time. The failure to give any extra increase in the basic standard pension in this year's Budget means that the pensioners are already receiving less than 25 per cent of average weekly earnings and will be receiving considerably less by the time we reach the autumn session of the Parliament. 
We have available to us a document which should have guided the Government in its preparation of the Budget. We know that when  Mr McMahon  was Prime Minister he appointed a commission of inquiry into poverty to be headed by Professor Henderson. When the Labor Party / came to power, far from abolishing the commission it expanded and widened its powers. We know further that the Labor Government asked the commission to provide it with an interim report in May of this year so that the proposals it contained could be considered for inclusion in the Budget. The Budget was delayed, so that there was every opportunity for these particular proposals to be considered by the Government. 
I am not saying that all the proposals put up by the commission are necessarily correct but the fact that almost none of them has been accepted is a sorry commentary upon the social welfare capacity of this kind of socialist government. The proposals put up by the Henderson Commission as matters of urgent need included a major increase in child endowment payments but in that regard there has been no action. It recommended changes in taxation deductions for dependent children and further increases in the basic rate of pensions, and sickness and unemployment benefits, special benefits, and supporting mothers' benefits, but in not one of those areas has the benefit been increased. The commission recommended an increase in the mother's or guardian's allowance from $4 to $8 a "week but no action has been taken. It recommended fringe benefits for fatherless families but there has been very little improvement in that field. It recommended that a pension and fringe benefits as are paid to widows and subject to similar conditions be paid to men bringing up children on their own, but again no action was taken. 
The Henderson Commission recommended fringe benefits and health care be made available to all invalid pensioners so long as any part pension is paid; again no action has resulted. It recommended abolition of the 7-day waiting period for unemployment and sickness benefits, but nothing in that regard has been done. It recommended an increase in the amount of supplementary assistance from $4 to $8 a week. A pitiful increase of $1 a week has been granted. It recommended a change in the means test for supplementary assistance and offered recommendations on the general question of abolishing the means test. 
We have to ask ourselves whether the Government has decided to repudiate the Henderson Commission's approach to poverty. Is the Government no longer interested in the problems of poverty? Does it not accept the figures as to the extent of poverty in Australia as set out by Professor Henderson in his interim report? If it accepts the figures which show the very great amount of poverty and the extent of the problem why has no action been taken? 
That is quite irrelevant. We are looking at what is being done by this Government and the answer is that nothing is being done. We can look around to find what other people have had to say about this Government's efforts in the field of social welfare, particularly in the last Budget and the Bill before us. The Australian Council of Social Service is a very respected body which makes many submissions. 
I thank  Senator Button  for his agreement. The Australian Council of Social Service makes submissions on many matters of social importance and speaks generally with a responsible and moderate voice. It issued a Press statement after the Budget, on 20 September 1974, over the signature of the SecretaryGeneral, Edward J. Pennington. The Council said: 
The Budget as a whole, however, is another piecemeal approach to the question of social development and shows once again the need for an economic and social planning unit. 
We certainly see nothing in this Bill to give any hope that the Government has a commitment to the proposals put forward by Professor Henderson. I hope that when his final report comes down it is given a better hearing and that more action follows. ACOSS goes on about some of the other effects of the Budget and has some detailed comment to offer about the Government's proposal to tax income from rental property. It points out quite correctly that the people in receipt of social service benefits are the people paying rent. They are the people likely to be especially disadvantaged by the proposed tax because their rents will rise and there will be a disincentive to people to invest in building accommodation for rental. Therefore the stock of housing is not likely to increase appropriately. ACOSS goes on to comment that the Government's offer to increase supplementary assistance is supposed to help people in a rental situation and adds: 
Further, the $ 1 increase to the supplementary benefit is completely inadequate, particularly in times when rents are rising quickly. 
That is the story of the Social Services Bill. It is inadequate in its scope, its provisions and amount. 
-That is so. The ACOSS report finally comments on the Budget: 
Thus although ACOSS welcomes the initiative that the Government has taken in several broad areas of social welfare it feels that the Budget has done little to help the ordinary person on a low income struggling to make his way in an inflationary society. In particular the present beneficiaries and the lowest income groups renting a home have received little help. 
There is nothing in this Bill to make the Government proud. It has done the absolute minimum in terms of making any progress on the broad canvas of social welfare policy. This Bill has totally failed to achieve its aim. It is nothing more than window dressing. It provides nothing to attack any of the deep-seated problems, and I think it is shameful that it so completely ignores the recommendations of the Henderson Commission which were given in detail. It is a tragedy that so little acknowledgement was given to this report when the Budget was brought down. 
Naturally I will support the Bill, because any benefits that flow are benefits that we will welcome. I also support the amendment moved by  Senator Guilfoyle  because it so obviously refers to an area of need not being met. I plead with the Government to accept this amendment and to try to extend these kinds of benefits to the group of people for whom  Senator Guilfoyle  has spoken so that we can do something at least to raise the level of this Bill to something decent and acceptable. 
I present the following petition from 23 citizens of Australia: 
To the honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That whereas the Budget Paper No. 9 titled 'Australia's External Aid 1 974-75 ' allocated $ 1 50,000 for humanitarian assistance to National Liberation Movements in Africa; 
And whereas the humanitarian needs of these oppressed people require greater assistance from Australia than the above amount allocated in the budget; 
And whereas such assistance is in keeping with that provided in Norway, Sweden, Finland, Denmark, The Netherlands, Canada, the Federal Republic of Germany, and New Zealand, and United Nations Organisations such as UNICEF, UNDP, UNHCR, FAO and WHO, and such non-Government organisations as the World Council of Churches, the Australian Freedom From Hunger Campaign, Community Aid Abroad, and some Roman Catholic Aid Agencies in Europe; 
So therefore your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate will take action to substantially increase the abovementioned humanitarian assistance. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present 4 petitions, idential in wording and from 18, 24, 118 and 344 citizens of Australian respectively, in the following terms: 
To the Honourable the  President  and members of the Senate of Australia in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That, in modern society which accepts divorce, the law of divorce should be fair to both parties. However, we are very concerned about proposals to alter the law in the Family Law Bill 1974. 1. The Family Law Bill, 1974 would fundamentally change the institution of marriage itself; that is all existing and future marriages. 2. The said Bill does not protect the legal and social rights of women and children in the family. 3. The said Bill does not provide for either the training of suitable counsellors who can assist in conciliation procedures or for suitable initiatives to be taken prior to the breakdown of marriage. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that this Bill be tabled for six months and that all sections of the community be consulted on marriage, the family and the long term effects of such a Bill upon our Australian society. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petitions received. 
I present the following petition from 25 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The Petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth: 
We, the undersigned, wish to lodge our objection to the passing of the New Family Law Bill, suggesting- Easier Divorce, No Innocent Party as regards Court Costs, or Maintenance for the Wife. 
In our opinion it takes at least 3 years to consolidate a marriage and every effort should be made to make it work, with equal responsibilities on both sides. Children of all ages should be able to feel the security of a complete family and we should be looking to this most of all. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition from 10 citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. We the undersigned Citizens of the Commonwealth, by this our humble Petition respectfully showeth: 
That the existing matrimonial laws in Australia are archaic, unrealistic, and cruel and so completely at variance with modern thought as to require their immediate repeal. 
That there is such urgent need for reform that there must be no delay in presenting the Family Law Bill 1974 to Parliament for debate. 
That the ground of Irretrievable Breakdown of Marriage be the sole ground for divorce with proof of this determined by a maximum of twelve months separation. 
That dissolution of marriage must come out of the legal system with people resolving their family matters between themselves according to guidelines and with assistance of a mediator. Family Courts only to be used for enforcement as a last resort. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) Did the Commonwealth Government acquire in 1 946 responsibility for the medical and hospital care of Pensioners. 
Is the total Commonwealth contribution towards bed costs for Pensioners$5 per day; if so, did this represent onethird of total bed cost when fixed in 1 966 and 1 967. 
Does the $5 a day now represent only one-tenth of the cost to the States caring for Pensioners. 
If the cost of hospital care of Pensioners is a Commonwealth responsibility, will the Minister undertake an urgent review of the present situation, so that the Commonwealth, by increasing its contribution in this area to the States can fulfil its Constitutional obligations. 
asked the Mnister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
Is the Minister aware that a  Mr Garske,  a former officer of the Department of Social Security, has been appointed Queensland manager of the Health Insurance Commission? 
What was  Mr Garske  's salary in the Department immediately prior to his new appointment? 
What was  Mr Garske's  salary upon appointment to the Commission? 
What is  Mr Garske's  salary now? 
asked the Minister representing the Special Minister of State, upon notice: 
1 ) Why was the interim review of academic salaries confined to university salaries. 
Why did it not include a special study of salaries at colleges of advanced education. 
Will the Minister inform the Senate as to whether there is a fixed relativity between academic salaries at universities and at colleges of advanced education, in view of the proposal contained in a press statement made on 14 July 1974 that "the outcome of the interim review would have application also for colleges of advanced education ' '. 
Will this relativity be maintained in a fixed relationship so that alterations in the salaries of one group will automatically flow onto the other. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
What is the establishment of the Social Welfare Policy Division of the Department of Social Security. 
When were these positions first advertised. 
How many of them have been filled. 
What positions in the Division in each level of the Public Service remain unfilled. 
ls the strength of the Social Welfare policy division of the Department adequate to enable it to function efficiently. 
-Following on what  Senator Georges  said, I would like to remind the Senate that there are many dangers to the efficient functioning of estimates committees. I was a member of one of the estimates committees. We were allowed to ask questions and no impediment was placed in the way of our getting the eye of the  chairman.  Our work was completed without our sitting for too long. I took the opportunity, as did many other honourable senators, to sit in at a lot of the other committees. I must say, for example, that at the hearings of Estimates Committee A I was received most courteously and allowed to take part in the deliberations, as is my right as a member of the Senate. But that was not the situation with all the committees. There was at least one estimates committee at which I sat in where there was a very conscious effort on the part of the  chairman  to get the estimates finished and, if he could, to curtail questioning and to curtail attempts to ask questions. It was very hard to get the call from that  chairman.  I want to put to the Senate the danger - 
The  chairman  is here and he knows. The fact of the matter is that this did not happen only to me, a visiting senator. It was very difficult to get the time to look at an item before it had been passed over. I would just like to say that the dangers - 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) Will the Minister for Social Security have tabled in the Senate a report on his most recent visit to Canada to study health care services in that country. 
Did the Minister's investigations confirm what the others had discovered, namely that health care costs have escalated alarmingly in Canada since the introduction of the compulsory health scheme. 
3 ) Has bulk billing by doctors been a major factor in that escalation, bringing with it gross over-use of the system. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
How many days' sickness were taken by workers in Australia for each ofthe past three years. 
What is the frequency of absence from work because of illness between unskilled workers and professional men and women. 
Do the figures show, as in England, that unskilled workers remain at home because of illness or injury two and a half times more frequently than professional workers. 
Do unskilled workers lose, as in England, four and a half times as many days from work in a year as do professional workers. 
I present the following petition from 10 citizens ofthe Commonwealth: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. We the undersigned Citizens of the Commonwealth, by this our humble petition respectfully showeth: 
That the existing matrimonial laws in Australia are archaic, unrealistic, and cruel and so completely at variance with modern thought as to require their immediate repeal. 
That there is such urgent need for reform that there must be no delay in presenting the Family Law Bill 1974 to Parliament for debate. 
That the ground of Irretrievable Breakdown of Marriage be the sole ground for divorce with proof of this determined by a maximum of twelve months separation. 
That dissolution of marriage must come out of the legal system with people resolving their family matters between themselves according to guidelines and with assistance of a mediator. Family Courts only to be used for enforcement as a last resort. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. I remind the Minister of newspaper reports that some of the Aborigines who protested outside Parliament House last week had not arranged return transport to their homes. I ask the Minister: After the demonstration were any of the Aborigines lodged in accommodation in Canberra at government expense? If so, how many, and where were they accommodated? After the demonstration were any of the Aborigines sent to the South Coast of New South Wales in taxis at government expense? 
I rise to speak on the first reading ofthe Appropriation Bill (No. 1) 1974. I am rising to speak on 3 matters. Under standing order 190 I believe that I am entitled to speak on matters relevant or not relevant to the Bill. I want to refer to 3 matters relating to pharmaceutical products in Australia. These relate to the supply and availability of insecticide to fight the present plague of the spur-throated locust and to 2 matters of pharmaceutical benefits. Last week I sent a telegram to the Minister for Agriculture  (Senator Wriedt)  concerning the availability of insecticide in Australia to fight the present plague of the spurthroated locust. Honourable senators will remember that the locust in question is normally found in Queensland but has recently crossed the border into sunny New South Wales. They are now advancing on the town of Walgett and on the wheat crop in that area which is ready for harvesting. The problem with this particular locust is that it can be attacked only by certain kinds of insecticide. These insecticides are Diazanon and Folithion- 2 products which are not manufactured in Australia. Both of these insecticides are imported into this country from raw materials prepared in Switzerland or in Japan. The situation is that even if the Government moves now- I remind honourable senators that  Senator Martin  has spoken on a number of occasions regarding this locust and the damage it is doing- there are inadequate supplies of insecticide in Australia to enable this locust plague to be fought effectively. 
I have checked with the 2 drug companies involved and have been told that at the moment they are out of insecticide and that no supplies are expected in the near future. Knowing this, I took the opportunity to look into the question of how the insecticide was being imported and what the world situation was. As a result of these inquiries I sent a telegram to the Minister for Agriculture last week impressing upon him the urgency of the situation and asking the Government, as a matter of urgency, to try to make some approaches on a government to government basis. The situation is that the drug companies in Switzerland and Japan are not at present able to promise Australia the adequate supplies we need to make up the insecticide to fight the plague. The situation is quite simply that we may be in a position where we cannot take effective action. 
I understand that South Australia- it is that State's good fortune- has some kind of stockpile and it may be possible to get a loan from South Australia. I understand that a ship is on its way to Australia containing some of the raw material but that the normal unloading time in the port of Sydney is anything up to 6 weeks. I have asked the Minister for Agriculture to consider, as a matter of grave urgency, taking some positive action to put in the hands of the growers the insecticide they need. This may require a direct approach to the governments of Switzerland or Japan asking them to use their good offices. It may involve an approach by the Government to the drug companies. 
It had not been done last week according to the drug companies, lt may involve a special appeal to unions in Australia which, if they understood the situation, might make special efforts to expedite the unloading of this material when it reaches Australia. 
The wheat growers in the Walgett area in the north west of New South Wales are most concerned. They are very much in need of a good wheat crop this year and they are very concerned that these locusts will get out of hand. These locusts have a life cycle which is such that if the insecticide is not made available soon they will commence the egg-laying phase of their life and at that stage we will have the locust established in New South Wales. I hope that the Minister can give an assurance to the people of New South Wales not only that he will make moves to obtain this insecticide but that the insecticide will be available and will be available in adequate amounts. To date I have received no reply to my telegram. Perhaps it has not been possible to provide a reply in the week's recess. I hope that we can get some effective action because many people are very concerned. 
The other 2 matters on which I wish to speak concern a drug and a therapeutic appliance used for human beings in Australia, both of which have come under some kind of suspicion. I raise with the Senate the question of the mechanism that we are using to warn the public when dangers apparently rise from the use of therapeutic substances. One of them is an intra-uterine contraceptive device and the other is a drug. In each case the problem is similar from the point of view of the users. First, I draw attention to the fact that in October 1974 the Australian Drug Evaluation Committee circularised all doctors in Australia, drawing attention to a possible association between the use of a drug and the development of cancer of the breast in women. This is a very serious matter. Cancer of the breast is a common disease which carries with it considerable mortality. There appears to be some evidence to indicate that a drug which is being used in Australia has some causal relationship to an increasing incidence of breast cancer. I will read to the Senate parts of the letter from the Australian Drug Evaluation Committee because the matter is important. The letter is signed by  Sir 
William Morrow who is  Chairman  of the Australian Drug Evaluation Committee. He would be one of the most respected physicians in Australia. He is a man whose opinion and judgment are beyond question. The letter states: 
The association between carcinoma of the breast and the use of rauwolfia derivatives-  rauwolfia is the name of the drug -  detected by the Boston Collaborative Drug Surveillance Program was also found in surveys from the United Kingdom and Finland. The fact that the association was shown in 3 different sets of data enhances the likelihood of a causal relationship. 
We have a situation where in 3 countries it has been possible to raise the suspicion that people using rauwolfia drugs may be more than usually prone to develop breast cancer. This is a matter of the utmost seriousness and importance. As I have said, this is a particular kind of tumour which occurs with great frequency in Australia. It is the cause of much distress and considerable mortality among Australian women. The final paragraph of the letter which  Sir William  Morrow sent to all doctors in Australia reads as follows: 
With the above reservations, the Australian Drug Evaluation Committee does not recommend the withdrawal of rauwolfia derivatives. It considers continued surveillance necessary and suggests that medical practitioners should review the role of rauwolfia in the anti-hypertensive regimen of individual patients since alternative drugs are available. 
The situation is that rauwolfia- honourable senators might know it as reserpine or various other proprietary drugs- is a simple form of blood pressure lowering pill. But it is neither unique in its action nor indispensable to the practice of medicine today. If it were unique or indispensable we would have a situation where we might have to say that we had to balance the advantages of continuing to use the drug and the disadvantages of continuing to use it and perhaps running the risk of causing this malignancy. The situation we have, though, is that other drugs will do the job perfectly well. It is possible to treat people with hypertension without using rauwolfia. It is possible to give perfectly good medical care without ever resorting to this drug. 
I would be the first to admit that for many years in my management of patients who have had high blood pressure I have used rauwolfia drugs, and have been pleased to use them. Such drugs have been very effective. They have been safe in other ways and such side effects as they have are well known and easily recognisable. But I would wonder why if we have a situation in which there is even a hint that a drug used for the treatment of a common condition and a drug not unique in its properties might be causing cancer or might be contributing to cancer in Australian women we do not seek the voluntary withdrawal of the drug by the appropriate drug company until the facts are known. I do not want to disadvantage the drug company concerned. I feel that it may be more disadvantaged if it does not withdraw the drug from sale. 
We have had 3 lots of studies from 3 countries in the world. The studies have been conducted in the United States of America at Boston under the Boston Collaborative Drug Surveillance Program, in Finland and in the United Kingdom. All of these studies have been published in a most reputable medical journal, the 'Lancet'. There is even a suggestion from those studies that there is a possible association between a common cancer in women and a drug used for a condition for which other treatment could be effective. I wonder how we as a society can continue to recommend the use of this drug and to recommend its use and availability on the pharmaceutical benefits list. Surely action is called for at this stage to have the drug withdrawn voluntarily and to have the drug taken off the market by the manufacturers. Preferably, the Government should approach the company concerned and put to it that this is the proper thing to do until we are able to carry out the kinds of studies that will establish whether or not this relationship is a proven one. 
We did not hesitate when the question of cyclamates- artificial sweeteners- was brought up. The Government approached the manufacturer of cyclamates and in a voluntary fashion the availability of cyclamates in Australia was limited. This was done because there had been a suggestion that they were associated with the development of a certain type of cancer. If it is good enough to follow that course with cyclamates, surely it is more important when we are dealing with an anti-hypertensive drug, a widely used and very well known agent, that not only should we draw the position to the attention of members of the medical profession but also we should draw the position to the attention of the whole community. One of the reasons that I have risen to speak about this preparation is that, although I think it is admirable that the Australian Drug Evaluation Committee has circularised the medical profession and doubtless it has circularised the pharmaceutical industry, I doubt whether the Australian public has been informed. I suppose it is fair to say that when a decision is being made as to the way this drug should be prescribed the consumer might well be given some say in the decision. We should emphasise to people that other drugs are available. This drug may well prove to be safe. It may be impossible to prove beyond doubt that this association does exist. But we have a letter issued on 25 October 1974 from this most reputable body in Australia stating that it is worried that there may be an association and yet not recommending any kind of withdrawal of the drug. 
I would hope that the Government would have another look at the situation and that it would see its way clear to approach the drug company and to ask it whether it does not think it has a responsibility to set up the studies which might be needed to help clarify this issue and whether in the meantime that company does not have some responsibility in regard to the availability of the drug. We might certainly want to take some measures regarding continued availability of the drug on the pharmaceutical benefits list. I add at this point that the kind of study which might be necessary to prove conclusively whether the drug is guilty or innocent may be very difficult to carry out. It may be necessary to do cohort studies, that is, studies of people of certain ages, in an on-going fashion. This may take a number of years. But we have had other examples in the pharmaceutical industry over the last few years of drugs being brought under suspicion. In such cases, pending the resolution of that suspicion, the companies involved have taken it upon themselves voluntarily to limit the availability or sale of the product. 
Sitting suspended from 1 to 2.15 p.m. 

 -Mr President, before the suspension of the sitting for lunch I was discussing 3 matters of importance, one of which is the availability of insecticide to enable us to fight the plague of spur throated locusts in New South Wales. I remind the Senate that I then moved on to discuss the potential danger from the use of rauwolfia drugs and the point I was making before the sitting was suspended is that the public has a right to know whether any dangers exist from the use of particular therapeutic substances. Members of the public have a right to know whether they wish to use that substance or wish to express an opinion to their doctor. A third therapeutic substance which I want to discuss is a form of intra-uterine conceptive device. 
As the Senate will know these devices are small pieces of material which are inserted inside the womb of a female to prevent the birth of children. The device functions as a form of contraceptive although, in fact, it is an agent which produces very early abortions. It is a widespread form of birth control and it is being used more and more widely. The Australian Drug Evaluation Committee has again issued a letter of warning. On this occasion, as far as I can tell, it is undated. In the letter the Committee raises some doubts about one of the forms of intra-uterine contraceptive device. I mention that there are several such preparations. Some of them are favoured by some doctors and some by other doctors. I shall read parts of the letter because it raises the same kind of question in relation to how the public safety is best protected. This letter is signed by  Sir William  Morrow on behalf of the Australian Drug Evaluation Committee and reads as follows: 
Dear Doctor, 
Septic Mid-trimester Abortion 
The Australian Drug Evaluation Committee has been made aware of several cases of septic mid-trimester abortion which have occurred in this country in association with the Dalkon Shield intra-uterine contraceptive device. This complication was first recognised in America where the manufacturer has voluntarily suspended sales of the device pending elucidation of the potential hazard. 
The letter then goes on to list information which the Committee would like to gather from Australian doctors to get a true picture of this hazard, whether it is occurring frequently and how widespread and severe it is. 
It is sent to every doctor in Australia. Before lunch we were discussing another letter which had been sent to every doctor in Australia. As a registered doctor I received this letter, in company with every other medical practitioner in Australia. I am bringing it to the attention of the Senate in that light. It is a letter which has been made public. We have a situation where the medical profession has been made aware of a possible complication from a particular intra-uterine contraceptive device which is only one of a number of available devices. 
Several points come out of this letter. The first point is that some cases of this complication have been reported in Australia. The letter makes that clear. The second point is that the complication was first recognised in the United States of America. I took the trouble to telephone some gynaecologists whom I know and who are experts in these matters to learn from them their assessment of the situation and how serious it is. They confirmed for me that there is no doubt that there have been a number of quite serious complications in people who have this form of intra-uterine contraceptive device fitted. In the United States of America 6 deaths were reported to the Food and Drug Administration which is the authority responsible for regulating therapeutic substances in the United States. It was the American FDA which first alerted the Australian authorities. 
It is not at all certain that the American experience can be blamed with certainty on this device. I return to the statement which I made earlier on the rauwolfia drugs. We are dealing with a suspicion, but a reasonable suspicion, against a therapeutic substance. In Australia most specialist gynaecologists who are fitting an IUCD- an intra-uterine contraceptive device- now are not fitting this type. What concerns me is to raise with the Senate the question at what stage the public should be made aware that there is a possible complication because the complication raised in this letter- septic mid-trimester abortionis a very serious one. It is an extremely serious time of any pregnancy for abortion to occur. Septic abortion, when it occurs, is always a very serious complication and potentially fatal. If doctors decide that they should be using intrauterine contraceptive device? they may Stil do so without using this preparation. As the company involved has voluntarily suspended sales of the device in the United States, why has it not suspended sales in this country? What is the virtue in protecting the women of the United States of America and not offering the same protection to the women of Australia? 
I think the company would be quite amenable to an approach from the Drug Evaluation Committee for a voluntary removal of this product from sale. But I think it would not hurt if we prodded the company a little. I know the company involved. As far as I know it has very high ethical standards and its products enjoy a reputation as very reputable substances. But here we have a situation where we are being warned by the Drug Evaluation Committee of a complication which could mean the death of women. It is the kind of contraceptive arrangement which is often used for women who cannot afford to use the oral contraceptive pill. It is the kind of complication which, if neglected, could lead to the death of these women. I think it appropriate under these circumstances for the company to apply to Australia the same kind of standards that it has applied in the United States and that is to withdraw the substance, to clarify the situation, to find whether this is a true complication of the apparatus and, if it is a complication, to withdraw it completely. In fact, if it is good enough to take this product off the market in the United States there is no real justification for keeping it on the market here. I think this is a moral question for the company to face. It is a fact that the company has been trying to let the doctors of Australia know that this possible complication exists, but I feel we could well go further and not only let the doctors know but also make the public aware that one device is possibly hazardous. We should let women have part of the say when they attend a doctor and when a choice is made of a proper contraceptive device for them. 
In relation to these 3 matters I am concerned to hear from the Minister for Agriculture  (Senator Wriedt)  what can be done to ensure supplies of insecticide to fight the locusts. I am anxious to hear from the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation  (Senator Wheeldon)  who in this chamber represents the Minister for Health  (Dr Everingham),  what we will do about the drug rauwolfia, especially since there has been a suggestion of an association between the use of rauwolfia and breast cancer. I am concerned to hear from the same Minister what out attitude will be towards the use of the Dalkon shield intra-uterine contraceptive device. I think these are all matters of public importance which could well occupy the attention of the Senate. 
I rise to speak briefly to this pan of the debate to follow up some of the things to which  Senator Greenwood  adverted. He raised some very important matters. One that concerns me is Australia's decision to support the right of the Palestine Liberation Organisation to speak at the 
United Nations. This seems to be one of the most shocking decisions which any Australian Government could have made over a large number of years. We have a situation where a loose organisation, a confederation of a number of terrorist groups which is not representative of the community it seeks to represent and which has exerted all its power through terror, seeks to sit down at the bargaining table and to address the United Nations to try to have a voice in what should be a responsible institution. 
I think it reflects, as  Senator Greenwood  said, the double standard which has crept into the conduct of our foreign affairs. It reflects this double standard when we are willing to accept under any circumstances the Palestine Liberation Organisation with all that it stands for in terms of terrorism, torture and murder and its avowed aims which are the destruction of the State of Israel and the genocide of the people. It reflects this double standard when we are willing to accept that organisation but at the same time to mouth piously about other nations when they do not match some moral standard with which we claim to be associated. I would remind the Committee that Palestine, as nearly as we can remember it, was the mandated territory created after 1918. After the Balfour Declaration there was a state of Palestine. That state today is represented by the states of Jordan and Israel. Most of the refugees who come under the banner of the PLO live in Jordan. In fact, most of the refugees- the largest precentage of them- are still in Palestine in the sense that Palestine existed following 1918. 
The refugee problem is a very complex one, it is almost insoluble, but it will not be helped by the recognition of the PLO or by allowing the PLO to have a voice in the United Nations or in any other international body. In fact, we are looking at one step towards the destruction of Israel. If the Australian Government wants to support recognition of the PLO, it should be clear that this is what it is doing- it is going one step along the way to destroying Israel. The Palestine Liberation Organisation says that it will talk to anyone provided he accepts as a basic tenet that Israel must give in and give way. I remind the Committee that in 1948 it was a Labor government, and particularly it was  Dr Evatt,  who played a very major role in the creation of the state of Israel. It was the initiative taken by Australians in the United Nations in a hostile world that helped to get through the United Nations the votes to form the state of Israel. Up to this year Australia was highly regarded by many Jewish people around the world in recognition of what it had done. Yet today we see a situation where the Government is reversing its policies. 
One could ask: Why reverse the policies? Is it that we have seen a new morality? Of course it is not. The fact is that Australia is seeking to protect its oil interests. The so-called even-handed policy is not even-handed; it is lopsided. It is an antiIsraeli policy, and this Government has demonstrated, not once but a number of times, that in its dealings in the Middle East, it is moving further and further from Israel and further and further towards the Arab nations. 
It looks after only one side. I would not be surprised if soon we saw more trade deals completed between Australia and Arab nations. Apart from trade deals, there may be political prices to pay as well, and those prices will all be at the cost of the state of Israel. If we had an even-handed policy I suppose we could accept it. But this decision to support any recognition of the Palestine Liberation Organisation is a disgrace. It is something of which Australia as a nation should be ashamed, which the Australian Government should see as a cynical move designed to protect short term interests and which the Australian Government must recognise is one step along the road to destroying Israel. We were midwives at the birth of the state of Israel. It looks as if we will be among the executioners along the way to the destruction of that state. I think Australia owes it to the Israeli people and the Israeli Government at least to give them the proverbial Australian fair go. They are not getting that at the present time. If Australia follows this kind of a policy we may one day walk alongside the PLO as pall bearers after the total destruction of the state of Israel. I condemn this action by the Australian Government and this continued imbalance in its foreign policy initiatives. 
Before the sitting of the Committee was suspended we were discussing several matters relating to the functioning ofthe 
Senate Estimates committees. Some doubts had been expressed about the capacity of these Committees to function. I remember that  Senator Wriedt  mentioned in passing that there could be some doubt about the continued existence of Estimates committees. The statement was made in a very general way. Following upon that,  Senator Magnus  Cormack made some general statements about the problems of achieving parliamentary supervision of expenditure. At that stage I rose to point out that there are several ways in which the work of Estimates committees could be distorted. One way is by unduly detailed questioning as has been mentioned from this side of the chamber. Another way is in the situation where it becomes difficult to ask all the questions one wants to ask. I remain with the statement that unless one has the chance to ask the question one wants to ask at an Estimates committee hearing it becomes difficult to get the best value from such a committee. I think that if there is any difficulty at any stage in getting the call at an Estimates committee hearing the committee 's value is somewhat diminished. 
I was restricted. I will say that at the hearings of the Committee of which I was a member- Estimates Committee E- there was no problem 
-During the discussion of Senate Estimates Committee E a number of questions came up which I think should be mentioned for the consideration of the Committee of the Whole. It is apparent from examining the estimates in division 462 that there is a shortage of trained staff in Australian repatriation institutions. On questioning the departmental representatives present at the Committee hearing there was no indication that they saw a means of finding the doctors, nursing staff or other professional staff which will be needed to fill the positions and to adequately look after the veterans who are in receipt of repatriation benefits. The information which we received from  Mr Kelly  who helped us at the Estimates Committee hearing was that 23 specialist doctor positions were vacant out of a total establishment of 1 14. That is a very large percentage of vacancies in that part of the repatriation establishment. There is a considerable shortage of nursing sisters and associated nursing staff such as nursing aides.  Mr Kelly  commented further that if we looked at all the associated skills such as paramedical skills which go to make up the proper functioning of a repatriation hospital or department, we would see considerable shortages of staff. I think it is important when we look at the estimates to realise that they are based on the establishment being fulfilled. But at the moment there seems very little likelihood that we will reach that happy situation. In the present situation there is a shortage of trained staff in the service of repatriation hospitals. 
I mention that we can come back to this theme later when we consider the estimates for the Department of Health because a similar situation exists. For example, in the Northern Territory there is a great deficiency in the staff available to fill the positions which are available on establishment. That is one of the matters of which I think this Committee should be aware. 
There is another matter which concerns the procedures which the Department adopts for the spending of money and the criticisms made of those procedures by the Auditor-General. This matter was raised by our Committee. If honourable senators look at the Hansard of Estimates Committee E they will see at page 190 that quite a discussion took place on the criticism made by the Auditor-General. I again draw to the attention of the Committee that money was expended at the Repatriation General Hospital, Concord, to provide a child minding centre. This is obviously an admirable kind of service to provide. It was made clear by the departmental officers that it was provided to help in recruiting staff to hospitals. I have already agreed that there is a shortage of staff and that we should do whatever we can. But the AuditorGeneral has commented that this child minding centre was established without appropriate authority from the Public Service Board. We had quite a discussion on the Department's attitude with  Mr Kelly  who was advising us.  Mr Kelly  stated: 
The answer is that in our view the authority was there for it . . . 
The Auditor-General's view was that the authority was not there for it. I am not arguing with the provision of the service. I think it is excellent. But I want to raise for the consideration of the Committee the fact that a service was set up before appropriate authority had been obtained to authorise staffing. 1 understand it was done on a temporary basis by moving staff from other positions but I would like to be sure that the Department, in spending money in the future, will do so within the limits set by the Auditor-General and with the approval of the Public Service Board when it fills positions in its service. 
The only other point I wish to make refers to that item in division 466 concerning payments made to local medical officer and ancillary medical services. We are in danger in Australia at the moment of large numbers of doctors resigning from the services where they offer concessional care to increasing numbers of Australians. I want to sound a word of warning that if we continue to increase entitlements to repatriation benefits without adequate consultation with, for example, the medical profession more doctors, particularly doctors in country towns and in isolated areas, will cease to make themselves available to give care to repatriation patients. This is something that has to be watched very closely when the Minister, for example, is seeking to widen the basic cover which can be offered to veterans. There must be adequate consultation with the health professions because a lot of doctors have told me privately that they are not happy with the way in which additional people can become entitled to concessional care with minimum consultation with them or with their professional colleagues. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
What capital expenditure is the Government presently committed to in establishing the Health Insurance Commission. 
What is the estimate of the total cost of capital equipment in the establishment of the Health Insurance Commission. 
Has capital equipment already been purchased subject to competitive tender. 
When were such tenders called. 
5 ) What was the response to such tenders. 

 Mr Hayden; The answer to the honourable senator's question is as follows: 
The Commission at this stage has made no firm commitments for capital expenditure, however plans are well advanced which will lead to estimated commitments and expenditure of $1,770,000 as outlined in Appropriation Bill (No. 2) 1974-75 (page 23) and Table II (page 45) of the document Estimates of Receipts and Summary of Estimated Expenditure ( 1 974-75 Budget Paper No. 4). 
Capital equipment to be purchased by the Commission will be limited to office furniture and normal office equipment. It is planned that the Commission be operational by 30 June 1975 and provisions for expenditure by that date are $870,000 for purchase of furniture and $900,000 for purchase of office equipment. As this latter expenditure is not, in Governmental accounting terms, classified as Capital Expenditure, the provision is made in Appropriation Bill (No. 1) 1974-75. 
No purchases have been made to date. 
4 ) See answer to ( 3 ) above. 
See answer to (3) above. 
 Senator Jessop  last night asked a question which had not been completely answered when the Committee reported progress. The question concerned the hospital in South Australia which was to be reopened with no increase in staff allowed to the Department.  Senator Jessop  wanted to know how it was proposed that the hospital would be staffed. 
I thank the Committee. I will not take very much more time. To date I am not aware of any circumstances which would enable us to say of any regional council that there has been anything which is particularly noteworthy. This kind of situation could be fairly easily fixed if there were a requirement on behalf of the Social Welfare Commission that certain procedures be followed to ensure wide public knowledge of the forms of interim councils. All the information that we have sought has indicated that very little money has been spent on advertising, that there is very little paid advertising and that the Commission is more interested in laying down requirements for advertising the work of the Commission than for advertising the means of getting access to the regional councils. I would like the Minister to take this problem under consideration and to give us some indication that the Commission will look further at this matter. 
I  present 3 petitions, identical in wording, and from 64, 67 and 76 citizens of Australia, in the following terms: 
The Honourable, the  President  and members of the Senate of Australia in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That, in modern society which accepts divorce, the law of divorce should be fair to both parties. However, we are very concerned about proposals to alter the law in the Family Law Bill 1974. 
The Family Law Bill 1974 would fundamentally change the institution of marriage itself; that is all existing and future marriages. 
The said Bill does not protect the legal and social rights of women and children in the family. 
The said Bill does not provide for either the training of suitable counsellors who can assist in conciliation procedures or for suitable initiatives to be taken prior to the breakdown of marriage. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that this Bill be tabled for six months and that all sections of the community be consulted on marriage, the family and the long term effects of such a Bill upon our Australian society. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petitions received. 
I present the following petition from 16 citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the Honourable the  President  and members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. We the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth, by this our humble petition respectfully showeth: 
That the existing matrimonial laws in Australia are archaic, unrealistic, and cruel and so completely at variance with modem thought as to require their immediate repeal. 
That there is such urgent need for reform that there must be no delay in presenting the Family Law Bill 1974 to Parliament for debate. 
That the ground of irretrievable breakdown of marriage be the sole ground for divorce with proof of this determined by a maxium of twelve months separation. 
That dissolution of marriage must come out of the legal system with people resolving their family matters between themselves according to guidelines and with assistance of a mediator. Family Courts only to be used for enforcement as a last resort. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present 3 petitions, identical in wording, and from 26, 63 and 480 citizens of the Commonwealth, in the following terms: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully showeth: 
Whereas the Treasurer of the Australian Government has proposed that the concessional deduction for education expenses be reduced from $400 to $ 1 50. 
We, the undersigned, humbly petition the Senate to return any legislation which could give effect to such a proposal to the House of Representatives and request that the concessional deduction for education expenses be restored to $400 for each child attending an approved school or college. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petitions received. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. Does the October 1974 edition of the magazine 'The Radical' include an article written by the Minister for Health which contains a very considerable mis-statement of fact? Does the magazine published for the Australian Labor Party of New South Wales state in an article by  Dr Everingham  on page 8 that financial assistance to the extent of $1,1 36m is to be provided this financial year to the family medicine program of the Royal Australian College of General Practitioners? Is the stated amount a gross exaggeration and is the correct appropriation closer to $lm than $1,1 36m? Will the Government seek to correct this mis-statement of facts by the Minister and will the Minister be more factual and less generous in future statements on public expenditure proposed by the Government? 

 - Mr Temporary Chairman, I wish to raise for the consideration of the Committee some questions relating to the Australian Assistance Plan. This matter was discussed in some depth at the hearings of Estimates Committee E, and part of that Committee's report adverts to matters arising out of answers that we were given. I have checked with the  Chairman  of Estimates Committee E to ascertain whether he would rather introduce this matter today, but he has suggested that I might go ahead and raise the doubts that we have. The major potential problem with the Australian Assistance Plan is the question of access to allow people to participate in the functionings of the Plan. The Plan operates through the establishment of interim regional councils for social development which, after a period, can be converted to regional councils. These regional councils eventually can become eligible for a capitation grant of $2 per head of population. This can enable large amounts of money to be made available to these regional councils which can spend the money in the provision of welfare services. 
I remind the Committee that the shadow Minister for Social Security for the Liberal and Country Parties praised the concept of the Australian Assistance Plan, and anything that I say today is purely directed towards certain problems that we see in the procedures which have been laid down for the functioning of the Plan. We are seeking to have the Plan improved to ensure that access for all interested people is possible and is made likely. The problem as it arose was that we could see no way in which there was any guarantee that all those people in the community who were likely to be interested would become aware that an interim council was to be established, or no way of ensuring that they would become aware that it was proposed to convert an interim council to a permanent council. In other words, they may not know that there is to be held a meeting which they should attend if they wish to participate. 
Most people involved in the functioning of these councils are people who are very well motivated towards the social aims of such councils. But it is conceivable- we are just looking at possibilities- that there could be groups of people who became involved in an interim council and who were anxious not to encourage other people to participate in the formation of a regional council. The prize at the end is the availability of very large amounts of money which are to be spent on welfare services for a region. If the Australian Assistance Plan is to succeed it is necessary that the Councils themselves should be absolutely impeccable in the way in which they are set up and that there should be no chance of people claiming that access for all citizens is not possible. 
The report of the Estimates Committee E stated: 
The Committee considers that there is a need for adequate procedures to be laid down to ensure that the regional councils are genuinely representative and that the fullest opportunity is provided for public participation in them. 
I should like to mention the steps that were taken at the hearings of Estimates Committee E to ascertain the facts about this question of access, to find out how much publicity is insisted on, and to outline some of the answers that we received. The Minister for Repatriation and Compensation  (Senator Wheeldon)  will remember what he said at the hearings of Estimates Committee E. At page 201 of the Hansard of 17 October 1974 he is reported as saying: 
I would agree with  Senator Baume  that if there were a regional council established and nobody knew it had been established, this would not be very helpful. 
This is really the crux of the issue before us. Do people always know that interim councils are being formed? Does the whole community know? Do people then know that the interim council is to proceed on to become a regional council? 
We questioned the departmental officers fairly closely, and they were most co-operative and helpful in the information that they gave us. It occurred to me that we were raising a problem which had not previously occurred to them, that we were raising an issue which they had not previously seen as a problem.  Mr Colliver,  who gave evidence, is reported at page 204 of Hansard of 17 October 1974 as follows: 
The normal process would be to identify existing groups, that is social welfare agencies, groups of citizens who have been interested, local councils and others, and invite them to various kinds of sub-regional meetings to gain their interest in the Australian Assistance Plan generally. 
Of course, it is a very desirable thing that they should do it.  Mr Colliver  then went on to say: 
The experience has been that they move from this to a larger meeting when people are involved in interaction and discussion about the Australian Assistance Plan and its possibilities. This then leads to a setting up of an interim council. At this point an interim council would need to draw up a constitution and have this approved and would then make application for a further grant which would be the $20,000 or, as it will be in future, $40,000. 
So interim councils are entitled to receive money, and they use this money to appoint various staff who will assist them in the specialist duties that they have to perform. We then asked  Mr Colliver  about the possibility of giving capitation grants of $2 per head of population for some regional councils. On the same page he is reported to have stated: 
At the present time only 6 regions have been designated for the purpose. 
I suppose we could restate that and say that already 6 regions have been designated. There are 6 regions in which it is proposed to pay a grant of $2 per head of population, and this is the money that will be available for distribution. A  Mr Luby  also gave evidence before Estimates Committee E at that time. When referring to the advertising that is done for interim councils, he is reported at page 205 of Hansard as saying: 
Some of the groups that were invited to participate- this is within the 35 at the moment- were invited on the basis of their already being a nucleus as an interim committee. It is their responsibility to widen their representation. The first discussion paper which the Social Welfare Commission published last year does not set out the types of representation that are envisaged. 
I emphasise that it does not set out the types of representation which are envisaged. Further on  Mr Luby  stated some of the groups which might possibly be included. He mentioned the 3 level of government, appropriate voluntary organisations, citizen groups, client and consumer groups, and employer and trade union groups. But at no stage could anyone tell us it was necessary that there should be advertising throughout the community in order to ensure that everyone was aware that an interim regional council was in the offing or that an interim regional council intended to proceed to a more permanent basis or a more permanent structure. That is the situation that we found in the hearing of Estimates Committee E. 
As a result of the questions that we asked a statement was prepared for us, and it is included as statement F in the attachments to the report from Estimates Committee E. The important paragraph of that statement reads: 
In regard to the regional promotion, the Department and Social Welfare Commission are in the process of reviewing the various regions to see where publicity could stimulate wider community interest and understanding of the Australian Assistance Plan and thereby attract wider representation. 
That is the appropriate paragraph. It is still a post hoc move. It still in no way indicates that when these Councils are set up anything is done to avoid their falling into the hands of a small, trained elite- those who, say, are socially competent or well trained or those who have access to the present, existing facilities in the community. 
There is another document which is helpful in this regard. It was published in October 1974 and is entitled 'Guidelines for Pilot ProgramsAustralian Assistance Plan'. It is put out by the Social Welfare Commission of the Department of Social Security. This is an excellent publication. It contains the most detailed instructions on many aspects of functioning of the Australian Assistance Plan. For instance, it nominates the kind of motor car that should be bought by regional councils. It nominates the conditions under which that motor car may be airconditioned. It includes draft constitutions and all kinds of information which regional councils would need to know about appointing auditors and meeting the requirements of companies Acts. It goes through the most detailed information. It has very little to say about any measures which are necessary to ensure the widest community participation at the outset when regional councils are being formed. However, it does make some points about where responsibility for these matters lies. It makes it quite clear that the 
Department of Social Security is primarily responsible for approving the constitution of interim regional councils and regional councils and for advising the Social Welfare Commission on the administrative implications of policy issues generally. It is on this basis that I am addressing these remarks to the Committee of the Whole while we are considering the estimates for the Department of Social Security. There is joint responsibility between the Social Welfare Commission and the Department of Social Security to develop a policy in respect of membership and representation of organisations and citizen groups. 
Reading through this document, I notice that any statements about representation on regional councils is in the most general terms only. The statement is made on page 5 of the document that regional councils -  should seek to ensure that their regions are aware of and consider the use of various other funding programs . . . 
I mention this just to point out that it is envisaged that the regional councils will move into quite a wide area of social welfare policy, such as grants for community health services, States Grants (Home Care) Act, grants for the development of low cost accommodation for young travellers, etc. It is intended that the work of these councils should move across many areas of social welfare to try to draw together all the available grants. On page 6 of the document statements are made concerning the constitution and the suitably constituted association which is needed. Paragraph 4.3 on page 6 states: 
A suitably constituted association formed of interested persons and conducted by persons of appropriate qualifications working towards the establishment of a Regional Council in any non-funded region may apply to the Department of Social Security for an initiating grant. 
But it is not stated that such people have to be representative or that they have to make widely known that they are about to take this kind of action. The same paragraph states: 
Regional Councils should develop from such associations . . . 
It does not say at any time that it is imperative that advertising be carried out or that the community be made aware of the position. 
I think that we really have quite a problem in this regard. The Australian Assistance Plan could founder if the public came to regard it as a small, non-representative, elite group and if large amounts of money were put into it. Let me take the most pessimistic view: A situation could arise in which regional councils under the control of small pressure groups were unwilling to advertise their activities and unwilling to make known when their meetings were being held and were making it difficult for other citizens to participate. I think that these are issues which require some kind of clarification if the Australian Assistance Plan is to be the success that the Government hopes and if it is to achieve its objectives without running into criticism. 
When we were first discussing the Australian Assistance Plan some time ago we were concerned about some of the administrative problems that seemed to be arising which might make an excellent concept difficult to operate well. I think that some of the things that have been raised should be reiterated, and there is one other problem which has not yet been ventilated which I think should be brought to the attention of the Minister. There are certain welfare agencies which play a very major role in delivering services, particularly in the city of Sydney where I come from, which are going to find it difficult to operate under a regionally funded system. There are certain organisations in Sydney, for example the Smith Family and the Sydney City Mission, which operate centrally but operate throughout areas of need in Sydney. Administratively, they are going to find it difficult to get money through regional councils. 
Their concern is that they are going to have difficulty on 2 scores. Firstly, they are going to find it difficult to convince regional councils that they should be funded. It could well be said: 'But you are a central body, you get your money elsewhere.' If these organisations do want to get money from regional councils they are going to have to seek representation on those regional councils. These charitable organisations have finite resources in terms of personnel and it worries them that they will have to try to join each of the regional councils around Sydney. Secondly, they are worried that there will be less money available from a central source from which they can seek an allocation to carry on their present work. So while they applaud local initiative and the provision of welfare services, they see themselves as threatened. 
Some of these welfare services are notable for the fact that they are very flexible and are involved where services are needed. To give just a simple example, the Sydney City Mission for a long time maintained some activities in Paddington. Some years ago Paddington was taken over by a new kind of resident who was more middle class and less in need of help. The Sydney City Mission disposed of all its assets in Paddington and with the money it received it has now moved out to Green Valley, where it has opened some very urgently needed community services. It is doing a job all round Sydney trying to fill areas of need, but it sees a threat, in the operation of the regional arrangement, to its continued efficient functioning. I am not asking on that ground that the regional system be abandoned, but I am asking that account be taken of the fact that there are certain groups giving welfare help for whom this kind of arrangement will be inappropriate. This applies in most cities. 

 - Senator Devitt asks: 'Can they not be integrated into the system?' I hope that they can, but at the moment they see some difficulty as the system is proposed. We have been told that the system is having teething problems and that we should accept this. That is fine. But I think it is important that those of us who are examining the Estimates ought to state what these teething troubles are and should try to highlight some of the areas of difficulty. 
I should like to make only one other point for the Minister, and that is to suggest that a region as it is constituted is less close to the people than local municipal councils. It is extremely easy to demonstrate that fact. It was mentioned earlier- I think by  Senator Greenwood-  that a capitation grant of $236,000 was made in Melbourne. 
I am sorry, the amount of $236,000 was mentioned by  Senator Wheeldon.  At $2 a head that means that 1 18,000 people are represented by the regional council which received that money. There are fewer people represented by most municipal councils. I am not convinced that we could not achieve the same aims with regard to the provision of welfare services if we worked through our local elected councils. There is no problem of access there. We know that access is good. We know that the councils are elected in a democratic fashion. Perhaps we should encourage them to seek to appoint some grouping of interested people to disburse the money. 
-That may be.  Mr Chairman,  I seek leave to continue my remarks at a later stage. 
Leave granted; progress reported. 
-Before the sitting of the Senate was suspended I was speaking to the Australian Assistance Plan, about the question of access of interested groups in the community to participate in the regional councils, about the question of publicity and about the question of whether local government councils should be more involved than they are at the present time. A central issue concerning the regional councils is to know to whom they are responsible. I would like the Minister to give us an answer to this question: To whom is a regional council that receives a capitation grant answerable for the expenditure of the money? There is no way that I can discover from reading the material on the Australian Assistance Plan whether the councils are really answerable in that they have to disclose to whom money has gone so that we can find out whether it has been used properly. If there is a situation in which the councils are not really answerable in the sense about which I am talking and we do not discover where the money has gone or how it has been used, then there will be disquiet in the Parliament. This is one of the issues that has not yet been resolved. I repeat what I was saying before: Local government councils elected in open elections are closer to the people than these regional councils. They represent smaller groupings of people. I remind you,  Mr Chairman,  that the Melbourne group referred to by  Senator Greenwood  received a grant for over 100,000 people. Although these teething troubles that the regional councils are going through may be only temporary, there is nothing in the arrangements of which we have heard yet that indicates to us that anything is being done to resolve these problems. 
Finally, I remind  Senator Wheeldon  that I am keen to know the position of the large welfare agencies. I refer to the Brotherhood of St Laurence, the Sydney City Mission, the Smith Family and agencies of this kind that at the present time are quite unhappy about the setup of the Australian Assistance Plan and about the possibilities of their participating in it. The only other thing I would like to do is to answer something that  Senator Devitt  said before the sitting was suspended. He referred to the information attached to the report of Senate Estimates Committee E and quoted extensively from it. I emphasise that the information we were given established that the regional councils could use money for advertising, not that they had to use money for advertising. So the position could arise that regional councils did not bother to insert a newspaper advertisement in all the newspapers in their areas - 
I am answering the points made by  Senator Devitt.  The Estimates Committee made the point that very little money was expended in paid advertising. This brings me back to my original criticism: This is one of the things that should have been done and we would hope to see done in the future. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
Is the Minister aware that the area around Avoca Street, Randwick, New South Wales is extensively built-up. 
Is the Minister also aware that there is a need for more open space in the area of Randwick-Coogee. 
Will the Minister examine the possibility of having 10 acres of land presently held by the Army available as open space for the use of the people of the Randwick-Coogee area. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
1 ) What zoning regulations control the land surrounding the Department of Defence land in Avoca Street, Randwick, New South Wales. 
Do the regulations concerning zoning of land in the district surrounding Avoca Street, forbid the building of high rise appartments 
Would any high rise development by the Department of Defence be out of character with the surrounding area. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
What arrangements has the Government made to replace two patrol vessels that have been given to Indonesia, and a further five patrol vessels should such a number be given to Papua New Guinea. 
When will the proposed combat support ship tentatively named HMAS 'Protector' be built. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
Is 50 acres of land in Avoca Street, Randwick, New South Wales, held by the Department of Defence for Defence purposes. 
Is it intended to build residential accommodation on this land; if so, what kinds of buildings are planned. 
How many floors are planned for any buildings and how many persons or families are expected to be accommodated. 
I present the following petition from 6 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable, the  President  and members of the Senate of Australia in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That, in modern society which accepts divorce, the law of divorce should be fair to both parties. However, we are very concerned about proposals to alter the law in the Family Law Bill 1974. 
The Family Law Bill, 1974 would fundamentally change the institution of marriage itself; that is all existing and future marriages. 
The said Bill does not protect the legal and social rights of women and children in the family. 
The said Bill does not provide for either the training of suitable counsellors who can assist in conciliation procedures or for suitable initiatives to be taken prior to the breakdown of marriage. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that this Bill be tabled for six months and that all sections of the community be consulted on marriage, the family and the long term effects of such a Bill upon our Australian society. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 

 -Mr Chairman, I seek leave to make a short statement. 
I must say that I am very grateful to the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation  (Senator Wheeldon)  for the prompt way in which an answer has been sought and given in relation to matters which I raised 2 days ago. The Minister makes several points which I think should be answered briefly at this stage. Firstly, he states that one of the overseas studies concerning rauwolfia suggests an increased risk of the order of two to four times in the incidence of breast cancer. I submit that we are not in a situation where we are looking for scientific proof of the correctness or incorrectness of the suggested association. We have a situation where plenty of alternative agents are available. If a doubt has been raised about what, up to now, has been an excellent drug surely the correct thing to do is not to seek scientific, irrefutable proof but to take the appropriate action. We should not use the drug until we know what the situation is. The Australian Drug Evaluation Committee thought the position sufficiently serious to circularise all doctors. 
I reiterate that it is appropriate in my mind that the drug should be voluntarily withdrawn. It is not a question of knowing with 100 per cent certainty that this association actually occurs. What we do know is that 3 groups, in a reputable way, have raised this doubt. I am concerned all the time that there could be another thalidomide disaster around the corner tomorrow, next week or at some time. The lesson which we got from the thalidomide disaster was not to do with that drug alone; it had to do with our methods of reacting to suspicion. If there is one thing that went wrong with thalidomide it was that we did not act sufficiently quickly when suspicion was first raised. I am not saying that rauwolfia does cause breast cancer. No one can say that. All I can say is that some reputable people have raised the possibility. If at this stage my wife was being treated with rauwolfia I would make damned sure that she was not being treated with the drug after today until I knew for certain. I appreciate the scientific view taken by the Australian Drug Evaluation Committee, but personally, I do not think that is the appropriate response in view of the evidence offered. 
With regard to the Dalkon shield, I simply say that A. H. Robins Pty Ltd was kind enough to supply me yesterday with a considerable amount of data. The information suggests, as the Minister has told the Committee, that it is likely that the product will be released again for use on the American market. But the point I make once more is that the product was removed from the American market in June this year. Again I say that if suspicion arises the correct thing to do is to withdraw the product since we know that good alternatives are available. If that is a bit hard on the manufacturer, I am sorry, but it is probably not hard on the women of Australia who may unwittingly be using a product which might just possibly be dangerous. It appears that the Dalkon shield might be cleared of the suspicions which have been raised against it. I have here a letter sent to me by the managing director of A. H. Robins. He states that the Food and Drug Administration in America is in receipt of its subcommittee report which it expects will clear the product. But there has been some delay in releasing that report and allowing the product back on the market in the United States. I am not disturbed at all with the factual answers I have received. I think the facts speak for themselves. But I am concerned about the principle of action which has been established and about our proposed course of action in the future whenever doubts are raised about any therapeutic substances. 

 Senator WHEELDON (Western AustraliaMinister for Repatriation and Compensation)- I seek leave to make a very short statement in response. 
Attorney-General's Department 
Proposed expenditure, $62,764,000. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
1 ) Did the Minister for Defence promise a delegation of shipbuilding workers on 20 September 1972 that a series of small naval vessels would be built in Australia to patrol the Australian coast-line in a manner similar to that of the United States Coast Guard. 
Has the Government now ordered two patrol frigates from the United States of America. 
3 ) Could these frigates have been built in Australia. 
Why was a contract to build these ships not given to an Australian shipyard. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
Did the Minister for Defence meet a delegation of shipbuilding workers on 20 September 1972 and promise them that no Australian naval ships would be built outside Australia. 
Is that still the Minister's position. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
Was a determination made  on  21 April that there would be no rebates for purposes of Commonwealth Benefits for diagnostic procedures carried out on the same day as a medical consultation. 
) Was this determination implemented immediately. 
Was the medical profession advised of this determination by circular letter on 19 May 1974. 
Was there therefore an interval of almost one month in which the medical profession was unaware of the situation relating to the payment of medical benefits to patients. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
Has the Minister's attention been drawn to an article in the edition of 3 August of 'Taxpayer', the national organ of the Taxpayers' Association, referring to tax collection aspects of the proposed national health scheme. 
Will the Minister give an assurance that tax collection under the scheme will not, as stated in the article, become a nightmare for employers. 
Will the Government reimburse employers for the additional cost to them of having to cope with what the article describes as a 'mathematical shambles'. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) Does the Minister claim that there arc too many health benefit organisations in Australia. 
How many additional health benefit organisations have been registered since 2 December 1 972. 
What are the names of those organisations and on what date was registration approved, in each case. 
Why did the Minister approve such registrations, at a time when the Government claimed that there were already too many health benefit organisations. 
I rise to support the 2 Bills under discussion and to join with my colleagues who have consistently throughout this debate supported the 2 Bills- the States Grants (Housing Assistance) Bill 1974 and the Housing Agreement Bill 1974. We have all supported the Bills but we have taken the opportunity to point out to the Government some of the facts about the building industry today. I was shocked to hear  Senator McLaren  trying to assert that people on our side were holding up the passage of urgently needed legislation. I took the trouble to find out when the Government first brought these Bills into the Parliament. These 2 Bills were introduced into the House of Representatives not a day ago, not a week ago, but on 30 October. If there has been any delay or shilly-shallying it has been on the part of the Government. The Government controls the business; we merely respond when it brings on Government business. These Bills have been around for over 3 weeks and the only reason they have been brought on tonight is so that the Government can alter the order of business and take off the business paper the Customs Tariff Bill, Customs Tariff Bill (No. 2) - 
I present the following petition from 13 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate of Australia in Parliament assembled: The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That, in modern society which accepts divorce, the law of divorce should be fair to both parties. However, we are very concerned about proposals to alter the law in the Family Law Bill 1974. 
The Family Law Bill, 1974 would fundamentally change the institution of marriage itself; that is all existing and future marriages. 
The said Bill does not protect the legal and social rights of women and children in the family. 
3 ) The said Bill does not provide for either the training of suitable counsellors who can assist in conciliation procedures or for suitable initiatives to be taken prior to the breakdown of marriage. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that this Bill be tabled for six months and that all sections of the community be consulted on marriage, the family and the long term effects of such a Bill upon our Australian society. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present 2 petitions, identical in wording and from 41 and 257 citizens of the Commonwealth respectively, in the following terms: 
To the Honourable the  President  and members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully showeth: 
Whereas the Treasurer of the Australian Government has proposed that the concessional deduction for education expenses be reduced from $400 to$150, 
We, the undersigned, humbly petition the Senate to return any legislation which could give effect to such a proposal to the House of Representatives and request that the concessional deduction for education expenses be restored to $400 for each child attending a n approved school or college, 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petitions received. 
First petition read. 
My question, addressed to the Minister representing the Treasurer, follows a question asked a little while ago by  Senator Lawrie.  Have preliminary figures relating to the cost of living been received by the Government in the past 2 days? Do these indicate an accelerating rate of inflation in Australia? Is the indicated rate of inflation now of the order of 30 per cent per annum? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) Does the Minister for Social Security accept the recommendation of the Nimmo Committee that health benefit organisations should hold reserves equal to at least three months' contribution income. 
Will the Minister have Table 6 and Table 14 of the Third Annual Report on the operations of the Registered Medical Benefits and Hospital Benefits Organisations for the year ended 30 June 1973, re-drafted so that the amount of the reserves recommended by the Nimmo Committee Ls segregated from the ' balance of the fund ' column. 
Will the Minister direct that future reports are presented in this way. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Minerals and Energy, upon notice: 
I ) What are the number of oil wells at present being drilled in Australia. 
What has been the change in the number of holes drilled in each of the past five years. 
How many rigs are operating in oil exploration at present and how many have been operating for each of the past five years. 
What are the number of geologists employed in oil exploration in Australia at the present time and what has been the number of geologists employed in each of the past five years. 
What are the number of companies actively exploring for oil in Australia at present and how does this number compare with the numbers for each of the past five years. 
What are the number of oil leases held and how does this number compare with the numbers operating in each of the past five years. 
I do not intend to vote for the amendment proposed by  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson but I was brought into this debate by the words used by  Senator James  McClelland. I do not think there is anything to be gained today by introducing too much emotionalism into the debate or by becoming unduly provocative. The Festival of Light has concerned itself with the Bill. It has tried to become involved, to learn something about the Bill, to take an attitude and to contribute something, even if all honourable senators do not happen to agree with the point of view which the organisation expresses. I have had discussions with representatives of the Festival of Light and in those discussions I have found them most reasonable, most positive and most level headed. They started from a premise with which I did not necessarily agree. They reached conclusions with which I did not necessarily agree. But they were intellectually honest throughout. They were concerned with family life. They were concerned with a good divorce Bill. I think that it achieves nothing to refer to them as the 'Festival of Darkness'. I found the words offensive and I found the description as applied to this organisation offensive. It will not help the debate if this unnecessary and pejorative language creeps in. 
I heard some talk earlier about a filibuster. From my point of view I have an amendment which I want to move at a certain stage. It is my intention as far as possible to stay out of the Committee discussion up to that stage, at which time I intend to discuss as fully as I can that amendment, what it might mean and what the Committee might do. But I will find it easier to stay out of the discussion if a reasonable tone is adopted by those who take part in the debate. 

 Senator Sir KENNETH ANDERSON (New South Wales) (12.20)-! feel obliged to refer to some of the comments that have been made by  Senator Missen  and  Senator James  McClelland. There has been a suggestion that this amendment is based on a cynical attitude, to use  Senator Missen  's words. I might say to him as a new senator in this place that if that is to be the pattern of his speeches he has a hell of a lot to learn before very long. In relation to  Senator James  McClelland 's attitude and his reference to the Festival of Light, this was a very poor exhibition by no less a person than the  Chairman  of the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs. I point out to  Senator James  McClelland as the  Chairman  of that Committee that it purported to put its blessing upon this Bill. It took evidence from only 7 people on this Bill as printed, not as it may ultimately be if the amendments are accepted. We are dealing with clause 1, not the circulated amendments which may or may not be adopted. I regret to have to say this to the  Chairman  of the Constitutional and Legal Affairs Committee but I repeat that this Committee took evidence only in relation to this Bill. 
I seek advice from the Attorney-General. Referring to clause 12 (2) (b), which provides that the Attorney-General may approve any such organisation where he is satisfied that marriage counselling constitutes or will constitute the whole or the major part of its activities, I understand that this provision is carried over from the old Act. I also understand that it has required many organisations to create a separate counselling service within their structure. For example, I am aware that the Family Welfare Bureau went out of business in Sydney recently and many of its assets were taken over by the Smith Family. It is to be hoped that the counselling activities will continue and that they will get the approval of the Attorney-General. But will it be necessary for such a body to have a separate organisation created and registered, as it were, with counselling as its major function? I merely ask the Attorney-General: Is it necessary to have this sub-clause providing, as this does, that counselling shall constitute the whole or the major part of the activities of an organisation? The Smith Family has many diverse activities, only one of which is counselling, and I am sure that it is deserving of support. 
In looking at proposed clause 14a (2) J. notice that the wording indicates the purposes for which people may be interviewed by a marriage counsellor, and these include assisting the parties with a view to a reconciliation or the improvement of their relationship to each other and to the children of the marriage. I rise only to ask the Attorney-General whether he would concede that there is another major purpose of counselling in this situation, and that is to offer therapy to people. There is the actual therapeutic role of counselling in what is a very disturbed situation. If we are to spell out what the purposes of counselling are, should we include a few extra words to take in the meaning, say, 'or for purposes of offering personal counselling which may be necessary to cope with the problems resulting from a disturbed family relationship'? It is a slightly different thrust to what the services can be used for. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) Was a letter written by  Mr R.  Dowell, Director of the New South Wales Branch of the Department of Social Security, sent on 15 August 1974 to a leading Sydney neurologist advising that a benefit for electroencephalography was payable only if an interval of at least two hours had elapsed from the end of a consultation. 
) Does the same determination apply to other diagnostic procedures such as electrocardiography and sigmoidoscopy. 
Who made the decision referred to in  Mr Dowell's  letter, and when. 
By what manner and on what dates, if at all, was the medical profession advised of this new alteration in the conditions relating to the payment of medical benefits for diagnostic procedures carried out in relation to original consultations. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Is the Women's Health Centre at Leichhardt, New South Wales, funded with Federal moneys. 
Was  Dr Siedlecky  appointed to a position at the centre; if so, is she paid with money supplied by the Commonwealth. 
Was the position advertised; if so, how many advertisements appeared and what selection procedures were used to determine the successful candidate. 
What procedures are laid down by the Commonwealth in relation to the selection of personnel to outside institutions, which are funded by it. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
Does the Department of Social Security observe all the provisions of the Audit Act in accounting for expenditure of moneys through Regional Councils established under the Australian Assistance Plan. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
How many appointments have been made to the Department of Social Security since 2 December 1972. 
In what classifications were those appointments made. 
What is the total annual salary cost of the appointments. 
How many of the appointees will be transferred to the proposed Health Insurance Commission when it is formed. 
How many ofthe appointees will become redundant when the new Commission is formed. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Did the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation vote recently to exclude Israel from certain activities of that Organisation and at the same time to include the Palestine Liberation Organisation? Did Australia vote on these resolutions? If so, how did Australia vote? 
During the second reading debate I. made a comment about the place of family courts and  Senator James  McClelland indicated by way of interjection that some of the things I was hoping family courts could achieve probably had no constitutional head of power. I think that is correct. What were concerning me at that time were matters relating to juvenile delinquency and cases of that kind which ideally should be within the ambit of a family court. If one looks at the structure of family courts throughout the world, the best of them seem to take in not just matrimonial causes but many other matters affecting children. All legal matters affecting children are dealt with in this kind of court in the best kind of atmosphere. If there is a constitutional limit to what can be done by the Commonwealth I think we have a pretty strong argument for inviting the States to be involved in the setting up and operation of family courts. We have a strong argument for inviting the States to come in on a partnership basis and invest the court with these other matters. I would like the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  to consider this point and answer it. There are other matters which should be dealt with in family courts but this can only be done if the States are involved on a partnership basis. 

 - Senator Sir Kenneth Anderson's amendment contains 2 main propositions one of which relates to a clause involving fault and one of which relates to a period of time. I find it difficult to agree that the period of time should be 3 years. I would like to suggest that part of my proposed amendment has to do with matrimonial fault, lt might be convenient to argue the case now and not re-argue that part of the case later on. I am intervening only to discuss the question of matrimonial fault as  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson has raised it. I would start off by saying that the Bill purports to do away with fault. I have had the opportunity, as have all honourable senators, to read the reports of the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs and also to read the transcripts of evidence which were made available to us. It is quite clear that conduct remains relevant even with this new Bill. I should like to quote from part of the report to illustrate my point. On page 25 of the report of the Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs appears the following statement: 
The provisions of the Bill do not abolish all consideration of so-called 'fault'. In particular, in the provisions which deal wilh the right of a spouse to maintenance, the Court is required to take into account a number of matters which involve detailed facts relating to the marital relationship. 
Paragraph 58 on the same page states: 
Moreover in respect of custody proceedings the conduct of the panics is relevant to the determination ofthe issue. 
It is quite clear that this Bill does not eliminate the element of conduct. If honourable senators believe the report of the Committee, it does not eliminate fault. To say that fault is absent from this Bill is not correct. There has been an attempt to remove fault from the area of dissolution but it does not follow that one could say that this is a no fault Bill. I found the proceedings of the Constitutional and Legal Affairs Committee of considerable help when I was examining this question of where we stand with regard to matrimonial fault and trying to make up my mind. 
If honourable senators examine what the Committee considered in evidence they would find a lot of detail relevant to this matter. I remind the Committee that on 1 1 September 1974 when  Mr Watson  gave evidence to the Committee- I quote from the transcript of evidence taken on 1 1 September 1974, page 15- he stated in his written submission: .-  
As to (g) there are those who argue that there should be an immediate ground of divorce to deal with intolerable spouses. They remind mc that in July, 1972 1 advocated such a ground . . . I do not entirely abandon this ground. However I realise the conflict in philosophy by putting it into the present Bill. 

 Mr Watson goes on to say that on balance he is inclined to reject the idea of matrimonial fault as part of dissolution but makes the point that he has some ambivalence. Further in that transcript of evidence at page 37  Mr Watson  is reported as follows: 
I have advocated that there should be an immediate ground of what I would call 'intolerable conduct'. In other words, where the conduct is intolerable, the party should be able to get out of it. So let me read what I have written here because it is a problem which I think is a real problem. 
He then read that part of his written submission to which I have referred earlier.  Mr Watson  again makes the point during his evidence that he does not entirely abandon that ground. On page 38 he is reported as saying: 
Whilst I am still ambivalent on the question. I would recommend that the present ground be given a trial. 
The consultant advising this Committee had considerable ambivalence about whether or not there was a place for a ground involving matrimonial fault. I would like the Committee of the House to accept that it is not a black and white matter- it is not a simple matter to determine. It is obviously a matter which gave the Constitutional and Legal Affairs Committee considerable concern and which exercised it for a considerable time. That Committee recognised the need for some kind of immediate action. My colleagues who have spoken in relation to this point have brought my mind back to the injunctive provisions in this Bill by saying that this will provide adequate and immediate relief for people. 
I am not entirely persuaded that that is so. I still believe that there is a case which says that some people may be worse off for not having available to them the immediate ground. So I looked further into the evidence presented to the Constitutional and Legal Affairs Committee. I looked to find exactly what had been meant when  Mr Watson  spoke about an immediate ground.  Mr Watson  was asked what kind of other proof of irretrievable breakdown he would accept. On page 57 of the transcript of evidence of 1 1 September 1 974 he stated: 
We build in, perhaps, a tripartite thing which is basically intolerable conduct and secondly involves a certain period of separation- probably 6 months at least- and which thirdly involves mandatory counselling. 

 Mr Watson goes on to discuss this in some detail. He discusses the ground of intolerable conduct a little further on and as may be seen at page 60 of that evidence he stated: 
It is intolerable conduct and it has to show 6 months' separation, or some period of separation and has to be subject to mandatory counselling. 

 Mr Watson further states that he is not entirely happy with mandatory counselling. The Constitutional and Legal Affairs Committee went as far as looking at a provisional draft for a possible second ground. I will not bore the Committee by reading it now. The Constitutional and Legal Affairs Committee was sufficiently concerned and uncertain about this matter to go into it in great depth and detail to examine just what place matrimonial fault had. Some of the members of that Committee themselves were uncertain.  Senator Missen,  as may be seen at page 42 of the transcript of evidence, when trying to examine this question of whether there should be an extra ground based on matrimonial fault to give immediate relief- that is what the objective of a fault ground is- said:   . . the suggestion is surely not that a new ground be established but a new method of proof of irretrievable breakdown not just 12 months' separation, but a second means of proof, namely, that over a period of perhaps 12 months there has been an intolerable situation? 
-Well, perhaps. But  Senator Missen  was saying something terribly important. What we are looking for is not the establishment of fault or blame: we are looking for the means by which we can show that there has been irretrievable breakdown. One of the central arguments to which we return again and again is that there is a certain lack of logic in asserting that there is only one way to arrive at the conclusion that a marriage has broken down irretrievably.  Senator Missen  went on to say:  ls not the real problem, which you do not advert to here, (hai under the present Bill you may not be able to prove separation in any real sense, you have a small family, in a small house, living obviously, apparently together, and even what has been written into the Bill at the present time which says that you can have separation under the one roof, but you have no real separation? Are you not left with a situation, it seems to me. where people must fail in their divorce applications, unless you have a further means of proof in this case? 
The Committee went on to deliberate a lot further but  Senator Missen  has stated the kind of dilemma that concerns a lot of us; that in fact people may be losing something which is available to them at present under the Bill being proposed.  Mr Watson,  in replying to  Senator Missen  's statement, stated, according to page 43 of the transcript: 
I think there is a great deal in what you have said, and 1 have indicated my ambivalence in this in all fairness. I have tried to get round it by drafting into section 90 and section 14 a way to practically handle the situation. But I think you still have, with respect, a very good point. 
He went on to say that he would personally like to try the Bill for 12 months to see how it worked.  Senator James  McClelland, the  Chairman  of the Committee, tried to clarify what  Senator Missen  had asked for by saying, as reported at pages 44 and 45: 
. what  Senator Missen  has put in but which does not really involve fault, if you could say: Could you have the test that one spouse found the conduct of the other spouse intolerable? Now the reassertion of that fact by one of the spouses does not involve any inquiry as to whether the spouse complained or was guilty of fault. 
But if the conduct was intolerable as between the 2 parties- they are my own words-  Mr Watson  went on to say that he would go along with this. He also indicated that there was a stage during the drafting of the Bill when the AttorneyGeneral had asked  Mr Yuill  and  Mr Watson  to have an alternative proof available to the Committee. So we have from the members of the Committee considerable concern that it is not possible to eliminate fault and that there are real grounds for concern that a single method of proof may disadvantage some people. 
I understand that the Committee eventually reached an alternative view and I understand that the Attorney-General holds an alternative view. I respect their bona fides and I respect their opinions but I am not certain that they are right. I am not certain that that small group of people who would benefit from having a second form of proof available are necessarily going to be better off. I think they may be worse off. The argument against allowing in this kind of provision has nothing to do with the argument we are putting forward. I think few people would disagree that a second method of proof would be useful. The concern, as I understand it, is related to potential abuse of such a provision if it was there. So to prevent the abuse, we are going to deny to certain people a possible means of relief in matters of dissolution. 
I think we need to examine the place of a second ground. I think it would be of benefit to a small but real number of people, whether we take the present provisions of the divorce law, whether we take the English provisions, or whether we take some other grounds of behaviour which indicates some way in which a court may decide that there has been intolerable conduct, 'intolerable' used not in a blaming sense but in a sense that the relationship between the 2 people is no longer viable. I do not care what kind of second ground we use but 1 think many people deserve an opportunity for a second mechanism, a method of proving irretrievable breakdown of marriage. 
Having said all that, I indicate that 1 would like to see us vote on this question of a second ground. If the vote is unsuccessful, when it comes time to consider my amendment I will not insist on proceeding with that part of it which deals with fault. I will look at the vote on  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson's amendment and  Senator Laucke  's amendment and decide from that point that if the Committee is going to reject any idea of a second ground I will accept that verdict. I thought it appropriate to speak at this stage. 
I present the following petition from 145 citizens ofthe Commonwealth: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members ofthe Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens ofthe Commonwealth respectfully showeth: 
Whereas the Treasurer ofthe Australian Government has proposed that the concessional deduction for education expenses be reduced from $400 to $ 1 50. 
We, the undersigned, humbly petition the Senate to return any legislation which could give effect to such a proposal to the House of Representatives and request that the concessional deduction for education expenses be restored to $400 for each child attending an approved school or college. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security. I remind the Senate that in July the Minister for Social Security refused to grant permission to the Medical Benefits Fund of Australia and the Hospitals Contribution Fund of Australia to raise their contribution rates in order to cover higher benefits of from 52 per cent to 167 per cent. I also remind the Senate that the Minister for Social Security subsequently introduced a Bill to control further the health funds and that the Senate amended the Bill to provide an appeal mechanism. I ask: Have those two large health funds used this appeal mechanism? Did the Supreme Court of New South Wales give judgment last week allowing the funds to increase contributions by the full amount they sought and did the court in so doing effectively repudiate the earlier action of the Minister for Social Security? Will the Minister agree that one effect of continuing uncontrolled inflation is a rise in hospital costs and that this, in turn, will inevitably involve rises in the cost of health insurance? 
I intervene at this stage to seek some clarification from the Attorney-General or from some member of the Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs. The amendment before this Committee concerns the period of separation required as proof of irretrievable breakdown. 
In the transcript of evidence which I referred to last night there were several references to the difficulty of establishing separation for some people. I seem to remember  Senator Everett  at one stage in the evidence asking questions of a  Mr Barblett  who was giving evidence to the Committee.  Senator Everett  was proposing that it would be or could be sometimes impossible to prove separation. I am very concerned that we might be introducing a Bill under which it would be impossible for a few people, only a small percentage, to establish grounds for dissolution of marriage. I remember that during the second reading debate it was pointed out that separation did not always have to be physical but I also remember that  Senator Everett  expressed the view that it might be impossible sometimes for separation to be proved. I ask for the advice of the Attorney-General. Can we be certain that everyone will be able to prove separation where a marriage has broken down? 
The next amendment with which the 
Committee is about to deal is the last one proposed to clause 26. The amendment I wish to move is different from the one circulated in that I am not going to move paragraph (c) of the circulated amendment immediately. I move: 
Leave  out  sub-clause (2), insert: 
Subject to sub-section (3), in a proceeding instituted by such an application, the ground shall bc held to have been established, and a decree of dissolution shall be made, if, and only if, the court is satisfied that- 
the parties have separated and thereafter lived separately and apart for a continuous period of not less than 2 years immediately preceding the date of the filing of the application for dissolution of marriage; or 
b ) the parties have separated and thereafter lived separately and apart for a continuous period or not less than 12 months immediately preceding the date of the filing ofthe application for dissolution ofthe marriage and neither party opposes the dissolution of the marriage. 
As was the case with the amendment moved by Senators Durack and Chaney, I hope that we will be able to get a vote on this amendment, which in my opinion will be of benefit to the Bill. I will proceed with sub-paragraph (c) of the circulated amendment only if I am successful in getting sub-paragraphs (a) and (b) accepted; otherwise there is no point in including it. What we are discussing here is the means by which we are establishing the existence of an irretrievable breakdown of marriage. What I have proposed is an alternative means of going about this kind of proof. 
The Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  has proposed one ground, which is that of irretrievable breakdown, and one means only of establishing that this has occurred. It is simple to put up a single ground, but it lacks any logic. I have no argument with the central idea that we are seeking to establish the existence of irretrievable breakdown. In fact I support this idea. Throughout the debate we have all supported the idea that irretrievable breakdown is what we are talking about. There is considerable concern about the means of establishing the existence of this ground. We have already heard in discussion ofthe last amendment that there could be cases in which the proposition which is in the Bill at present could be disadvantageous to certain people. There are reasons for saying that the existence of a single method of proof does have its disadvantages. It is simple, and its simplicity is attractive. It is not necessarily the fairest method. Until we have settled the best means of establishing irretrievable breakdown we cannot necessarily say that the single ground which is proposed by the Attorney-General is necessarily the best one. 
I believe it is too simple to think that 12 months separation should be the only way of establishing breakdown of marriage. What has been put forward is that after 1 2 months separation most people want a divorce. 1 accept that. What 1 am proposing in this amendment is that if there has been separation for 12 months and both parties want a divorce, they should be able to obtain dissolution of the marriage. I am saying in paragraph (b) that 12 months should be an adequate period of time if both parties consent. It was suggested that if both parties crosspetitioned this would in itself be a demonstration that they consented to 12 months as the period. All we have done is to separate out the group of people who may disagree about 12 months being an adequate period. Let me be quite clear about this. Where breakdown is clear and all that is left is the shell of a marriage, under my amendment one would be able to obtain a dissolution at the end of 12 months. In circumstances in which there is some doubt we are proposing that the period should be 2 years. 
I suppose that what I am doing is trying to take the best of the arguments that  Senator Chaney  and  Senator Durack  put to the Committee of the Whole, combining them with the argument that the Attorney-General has put and trying to come up with a composite ground which will cover both kinds of situation. We could have a situation in which the existence of irretrievable breakdown is not clear at the end of 12 months and in which one of the 2 parties to the marriage is not satisfied that the marriage is irretrievably lost.  Senator Everett  referred to clause 26 (3), but I understand that if one party to the marriage went to court and said: 'I do not care what the other party says. I believe the marriage has broken down forever and I wish to have no further part in it', the judge, in interpreting subclause (3), would probably not withhold an order for dissolution under the Bill as it stands at present. 

 - Senator Everett says that each case would depend on its merits, but it is possible that the judge might decide that the opinion of one party alone is sufficient to establish irretrievable breakdown. My concern is that there will be a small number of people who wish to have a longer period. Let us be quite clear. Most people who seek dissolution of marriage and use the amendment which I am proposing would clearly use the 12-month period. It would meet their needs. It would be simple. It would have all the advantages of the ground which the Attorney-General has already put into the Bill. To provide protection for those people who want a longer time we would say that the period should be 2 years when consent from both parties could not be obtained. If 90 per cent of divorces at present are undefended- this is the figure that I heard mentioned today- it indicates that 90 per cent of cases probably would be dissolved at the end of 12 months, under my amendment. There would be a very small number of cases in which one of the parties would have an objection to dissolution at the end of 12 months. I am not worried about adding an extra ground if we make the Bill fairer and if we take into account the needs of everyone who must be looked after. As someone said, we need a period which is not so short as to prevent reconciliation and not so long as to prolong the agony unduly. I was told during the debate this afternoon that 60 per cent of people wanted one year but a very small percentage wanted a longer period. I believe it is possible for this kind of amendment to achieve both those aims. 
That is another question. I believe 12 months is a short enough period. I believe 12 months gives justice in terms of not being too long. If  Senator Button  is suggesting an even shorter period he should propose an amendment to that effect. 
Fine. I believe we have a duty to examine what will happen to all the parties to all marriages and to try to avoid injustices. We have already established that certain people in society probably will be locked into marriage and will not be able to establish separation at all. Even if they can obtain an injunction under clause 90, that injunction does not entitle them to a dissolution of marriage. I remind  Senator Everett  that when he was answering my earlier question about people who cannot establish seperation, he made the point that people can get an injunction and that should protect them. It does not get them to the stage of dissolution of marriage. 
If my current amendment is agreed to I would suggest to the Committee further consideration of sub-clause (3) which I have not yet put to the Committee. 
The vote will be taken separately on both parts so that the Committee can clearly decide between them. I believe there is considerable merit in making the period 12 months only if both parties consent, otherwise 2 years. I hope that the Committee will consider the amendment favourably. 
I present the following petition from 1 47 citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully showeth: 
Whereas the Treasurer of the Australian Government has proposed that the concessional deduction for education expenses bc reduced from $400 to $ 1 50. 
We the undersigned, humbly petition the Senate to return any legislation which could give effect to such a proposal to the House of Representatives and request that the concessional deduction for education expenses be restored to $400 for each child attending an approved school or college. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
We are discussing the Electoral Laws Amendment Bill 1974. The stand that is to be taken by the Opposition has been made clear by our Leader and by  Senator Missen.  I wish to speak only briefly on a couple of provisions in the Bill. I hope that the Government will listen to some of the propositions that I will put to it. It is a pity that this is an omnibus proposal. It is a pity that so many different proposals are wrapped up in the one package. It has been made clear already by other speakers that we have only the option of accepting or rejecting the total Bill when it would have been quite possible to examine any one of the proposals or to have negotiated on them and to have found some basis of agreement in at least part of the Government's package. It has been made clear that we will not accept the Bill as it has been presented.  Senator Missen  has said- I agree with him and emphasise his position- that that is not to say that we are against all the proposals in the Bill. We are against the total package as it has been given to us, and we are against the way in which we have been given no time really to examine the implications of the Bill. 
I wish to refer to only 2 points. I wish to refer to clauses 45 and 39 of the Bill. Clause 45 provides that voting for the Senate can be done by optional preferential voting rather than, as at present, by complete preferential voting. I would remind the Senate that this proposal might have been interesting if it had come from the Liberal side.  Senator Missen  has already had a few words to say about optional preferential voting or systems other than full preferential voting. Let us be quite clear. The present system that we enjoy is Labor's system. It is the system which the Labor Party uses, and it is a system which the Labor Party introduced. It is probably worth while emphasising the history of the type of voting for the Senate today. 
In 1948 the Labor Government introduced a Bill to provide for the application of proportional representation to the election of senators. At that time we had already had preferential voting since 1919, it had always been full preferential voting and moves to consider optional preferential voting had been rejected. When the Bill to have proportional representation for Senate elections was introduced in 1948, the AttorneyGeneral of the day,  Dr Evatt,  in his second reading speech, was critical of any proposal to make voting optional. It is worth reminding ourselves of the words that he used. He said that in his view the requirement that voters must indicate the order of their preference for all candidates- I quote:   . . might have the effect of continuing to produce a fairly high informal vote, it definitely precludes the possibly greater evil of exhausted votes- that is, votes which become exhausted in the process of transfer. . . one result of a system that does not require electors to vote for all candidates whose names appear in the ballot paper is that a candidate may be declared elected although the total number of votes credited to him falls short  or  the required quota. At the parliamentary election in New South Wales in 1922 and 1925, the exhausted votes, which far outnumber the informal votes, were the cause of much dissatisfaction and disputation. 
Later on he amplified the point when he stated: 
Under proportional representation a very low preference may become either an effective vote when candidates are excluded from the bottom of the ballot paper, or a fraction of an effective vote when candidates are excluded from the top of the paper. 
I suppose the position is that the system that was introduced in 1 948 and vigorously defended by  Dr Evatt  is what one might call a Labor electoral system and we now find the Labor Party abandoning it with no real explanation as to why it is being done and no real statement to guide us as to the possible advantages. It is sometimes stated that if we introduce optional preferential voting for the Senate we may reduce the number of informal votes. Some information is available from elections for the Australian Capital Territory Advisory Council, as it was, from 1949 to 1 970, and it gives us some indication of what the effects have been in at least one electoral system. I have a table showing the effects of optional and complete preferential voting. I seek leave to have the table incorporated in Hansard. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Georges)-  Is leave granted? 
There being no dissent, leave is granted. (The document read as follows)- 

<graphic href="062232197411285_37_1.jpg"></graphic>

If we examine the table we find that optional preferential voting in Advisory Council elections was introduced in 1959. In the table all election figures for 1949 to 1957 are complete preferential voting figures. We find that during that time a percentage of informal votes between 4 per cent and 9 per cent. We find that after 1959, when there was optional preferential voting, the rate of informality was between 8 per cent and 1 1 per cent. One may not say that it is a significant change. It certainly is not any significant reduction in the rate of informal votes. 
It is a slight change upwards. I would not like to suggest that it is a significant change upwards in the statistical sense but it certainly does not bear out the proposition that by introducing optional preferential voting we will reduce the rate of informality. I have carefully stayed away from the question whether we should have optional preferential voting in elections for the House of Representatives. I have confined myself to Senate voting. I remind the Senate that more than anyone alse in Australia, perhaps with the exception of  Mr Westerway,  I had reason to understand the argument that the Senate election result was slow after the 18 May election. 
I must say to  Senator Missen  that it took longer in New South Wales than anywhere else. It took 5 weeks to the day before we knew the result of the Senate election in New South Wales. For my part I would say that what we got was a fair result. 
Thank you. The point we have to answer is whether it is better to get a quick result or whether it is better to get a result that accurately reflects the wishes of the electors. The argument that you will get a quicker result does not impress me really, and the argument that you will reduce the rate of informality lacks any evidence to back it up. All I have to say to the Government is that we require from it some basis of argument and some demonstration of logic to show why it wants to introduce optional preferential voting and what advantages this will have. 
The only other part of the Bill to which I wish to refer is clause 39 which seeks to amend section 1 1 1 of the Act to provide that polling hours shall be from 8 a.m. to 6 p.m., not from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. as at present. The only possible reasons for introducing this is to help the returning officers to get a quick result on election night. It has been argued that it is undesirable that people should have to wait. Again we have to look at the equity involved in the proposal. Is it fair, for example, that polling places should be closed at 6 p.m.? The people of at least 2 religions- not just the Jewish population of Australia which  Senator Missen  mentioned, but also the Seventh Day Adventist community- are severely disadvantaged by the electoral laws as they operate here. They should be able to expect that they have the right to go to a polling place and cast their cotes as other Australians do. I am not going to enter into the detailed arguments about what is being done to alter the right to cast postal votes. The fact that someone has the right to get a postal vote is not the same as having the right to go and cast a vote. 
In many other countries around the world elections are held mid-week. They avoid holding elections on what is the sabbath day for at least 2 religious groups. Certainly those groups are small in number but the people concerned feel strongly about it and feel that the present situation is discriminatory. I have taken the trouble to find out how severely these 2 groups are affected. I remind honourable senators that sabbath for both the Seventh Day Adventist community and the Jewish community runs from sunset on Friday to sunset on Saturday. In terms of actual hours, it varies therefore at different times of the year. Sunset occurs at or before 6 p.m. from about 1 April to 23 September. 
These are figures throughout Australia. We approached the Bureau of Meteorology and were given these figures as representative of what applies generally throughout Australia. Using standard time, sunset is never after 8 p.m. Using summer timedaylight saving- sunset occurs after 8 p.m. from about the end of November to the middle of February. That means that with the present arrangements under which the polling booths are open from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. people of the Jewish faith or Seventh Day Adventists might be excluded from casting a vote themselves for about 10 weeks of the year, that is, between the end of November and the middle of February. Where standard time is used they are not excluded from voting because the polling places are always open for some of the hours following sunset. If we accept the proposition in this Bill that polling places will close at 6 p.m. it still will be before sunset for almost 27 weeks of the year. This proposition in the Bill, if it is carried, will make it impossible for people who adhere to those 2 religious faiths to cast a vote in person because it is their sabbath and they are specifically forbidden to carry out activities such as casting a vote on those days. 
I raise that point simply for the consideration of the Government. Maybe some way can be found of amending its proposals or obtaining some other solution to try to ensure complete preservation of the rights of all Australians. People of every group have a right to vote and have a right to cast their own vote for themselves. It is not fair that it is so difficult at present for these people. I have been medical officer to a Seventh Day Adventist hospital for some years. People of that faith have to wait until an hour or half an hour before the polls close, and then there is a great rush on the polling places because that is the only time on election day when they are permitted under our law to cast their own vote. I intervened in this debate simply to make those 2 points and to join with my leader,  Senator Withers,  and other members of the Opposition in saying that the Bill in its present form is unacceptable and that I, with my colleagues, will vote against the Electoral Laws Amendment Bill 1974. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What is the breakdown of moneys for medical research by the National Health and Medical Research Council given as dollars and as percentages of total grants between: 
acute disease conditions, 
chronic disease conditions, 
non-disease oriented basic research, 
social problems, 
geriatrics, 
rehabilitation, 
psychiatric research, 
general medicine excluding (d), (e) and (f), 
general surgery excluding (d), (e) and (f). 
other. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
How many appointments have been made to the proposed National Health Commission. 
What is the current cost to the taxpayer of the salaries of persons appointed to the Commission. 
How can this expenditure be justified when all legislation necessary for the Commission to function has not yet been approved by the Australian Parliament. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Housing and Construction, upon notice: 
1 ) How many housing loans were made by Permanent Building Societies in 1973-74. 
How does this figure compare with the number of loans made in each of the three previous years. 
What was the average loan figure in 1973-74 for houses with Permanent Building Society loans. 
How does this compare with the figures in each of the previous three years, corrected for decreases in the value of money over the period. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. Did the Australian Government underwrite a recent share issue by Mary Kathleen Uranium Ltd? As an underwriter, did the Government take any responsibility for the preparation of the prospectus which accompanied the offer of shares? Did the prospectus materially understate the potential profitability of company contracts, especially in view of today's announcement of an 80 per cent price increase on all existing contracts? Since trading in Mary Kathleen shares has this morning been suspended on the Melbourne Stock Exchange will the Government make an early statement on its part in the preparation of a prospectus which may have reduced the equity of individual Australians in this company? 
I  present the following petition from 9 citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully showeth; 
Whereas the Treasurer of the Australian Government has proposed that the concessional deduction for education expenses be reduced from $400 to $ 1 50, 
We, the undersigned, humbly petition the Senate to return any legislation which could give effect to such a proposal to the House of Representatives and request that the concessional deduction for education expenses be restored to $400 for each child attending an approved school or college, 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-Will the Leader of the Government in the Senate inform the Senate on how many occasions, besides the case of Miss Junie Morosie he has supported the requests of employees for special consideration of priority for Government accommodation? 
asked the Minister for the Media, upon notice: 
1 ) What were the reasons given in the request for the certificate of inexpediency' which enabled a 370/ 168 computer system to be purchased for the Department of Social Security at a cost of $5.4m without public tenders being called. 
) On what date was the request made for the issue of the certificate. 
3 ) On what date was the request agreed to. 
On what date was the 'certificate of inexpediency' issued. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Does the Minister acknowledge the views attributed to him in an article in the Canberra Advertiser of 9 October 1974. 
Did the article correctly state the Minister's view on rehabilitation in the Australian Capital Territory that 'what is done is streets ahead of anything anywhere else in Australia'. 
What assessments have been made of rehabilitation services in the Australian Capital Territory to justify this statement by the Minister. 
Are there any current objective assessments of rehabilitation services in the Australian Capital Territory; if so, will the Minister undertake to have them tabled in the Senate. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Will the treasurer bring up to date the figures given in an answer to House of Representatives' Question No. 5904 (Hansard, page 2352, 10 October 1972), and provide the Senate with the current figures. 
My question, which I direct to the Leader of the Government in the Senate, relates to the appointment of  Mr David  Ditchburn to the Films Board of Review. I ask: Will the Minister table the file concerning this appointment of  Mr David  Ditchburn to the Films Board of Review? 
The Senate is considering the Banks (Housing Loans) Bill 1974 which aims to appropriate $ 1 50m to banks, mainly savings banks, for lending for housing. This is a rescue operation, as  Senator Hall  and  Senator Carrick  have stated. It is nothing more than a rescue operation in a desperate situation. Although we applaud this measure it is a disaster that it should be necessary. The Minister for Agriculture  (Senator Wriedt)  stated in his second reading speech on this Bill:   . . the reduction in activity in the home building industry was in danger of becoming more extensive than the Government would have wished. 
This sounds fair enough until we consider what the Government proposed in July when this session began. In July when the Governor-General gave his Speech we learned that the Government intended that there should be a reduction in activity in the housing and home building industry. We have it on record that that was the intention of the Government. It is worth thinking about some of the speeches made during the AddressinReply debate when  speaker  after  speaker  on this side of the chamber drew attention to this part of the Government's program and begged the Government to think again because what it was proposing was a very dangerous course, one which we thought could lead to a collapse of the home building industry. So it has proved. 
We have in front of us now a situation of the utmost gravity, as previous speakers have so capably pointed out. We have a very different situation today. We do not have a government telling us that it wants to see some abatement in the home building industry; we see the reverse. We hear the Minister telling us that although housing construction was at a high level at the end of the June quarter it is down at the present time and the Government thinks that the action proposed by this Bill will help to restore the situation. We are seeing the effects of the grossest and most tragic king of Government miscalculation over the last few months. It is worth asking ourselves whether this was an act of deliberate Government policy or was it something that happened without the Government being able to control events. We could say that it was deliberate Government policy if we refer to the GovernorGeneral's Speech. The Government at that stage was seeking ways of applying its credit squeeze, of continuing with high interest rates and of doing what it could to cut down activity in the home building industry. 
If that is the case the Government must stand condemned for what we see in Australia today, where many people cannot get jobs, where the home building commencements are down and where the industry faces collapse. Alternatively, perhaps it was not planned. Perhaps things have just drifted into this situation. But if that is the case the Government is equally culpable for its responsibility is to provide the kind of conditions in which home building and other major industries can exist and can remain in some state of health. Really it does not matter which way it has gone, it is equally disastrous. 

 - Senator McLaren interjects, but this is the cry of someone in bad trouble. It is worth looking at the report put out by the Department of Housing and Construction dealing with finance for new homes. We learn from it that a survey carried out in May and June this year shows that the average Australian buying his first home is a young person under the age of 30 years. He earns only a modest income, generally less than $8,000 a year. He has a child. He has secondary education. He has extra debts. He has extra credit responsibilities. He has borrowed more than 70 per cent of the money he needs to build his home. This is the picture of the Australian who is trying to get his own home. He has got most of his money from a bank or from a building society. I shall return a bit later to that point to support what  Senator Carrick  said, that the Bill provides finance for only one of the institutions which is providing finance for the home building industry. 
We have welcomed the allocation of funds, but we deplore the necessity for this kind of action. There will be a shortfall this year of at least 50,000 homes in Australia and by the end of this financial year fewer than 100,000 homes will have been commenced in Australia. What a tragedy this is in a country where we aim for home ownership and where we have had, until now, the highest level of home ownership in the world. This present situation has been achieved under a Labor government. We have an industry that can no longer produce the 160,000 homes wanted to give people their chance to live in their own homes. We have an industry which has employed approximately 400,000 people and, as  Senator Carrick  has pointed out, 95,000 of those jobs are in immediate jeopardy- almost 25 per cent of the people employed in the home building industry. What kind of situation is this into which the Government has taken us? It is not as though the Government has not been warned. If we look back into the Hansard records we can see reference after reference to what was ahead. As  Senator Hall  stated, uncontrolled inflation is a large part of the problem. 
The  President  of the Master Builders Association said in a statement today that many of the builders who will close at Christmas time will not reopen in the New Year. This in itself is a disaster. We are going to have an army of unemployed, an army of people who will be made unemployed by the high interest rates and the uncontrolled inflation that has been a legacy of our Labor Government. No credit has been available. We have had a climate in which survival of the home building industry has been impossible. We have no confidence and we will have a loss of jobs. 
The second big point we should mention with regard to this loan is that the appropriation is for housing loans; it is not necessarily for housing construction. There is a big difference between money put into the purchase of houses and money that is put specifically towards the building of new homes. I emphasise again what  Senator Carrick  said, that unless that $ 150m finds its way into the construction of new housing much of its intended effect will be dissipated. Clause 3 of the Bill provides money for the purpose of assisting men and women to purchase, erect or extend homes. It would be better if the money were to be provided specifically for the erection or extension of homes so that the money would go into the industry that provides jobs for those actually involved in building. We want to make sure that this money actually works to provide employment opportunities for those Australians who need employment. The problem is one of home construction, not just of the real estate industry. We are concerned with the home building industry itself, and this is one problem that could have been attended to in this Bill. 
My next point is that the banks are getting all this money. The Department of Housing and Construction, in the document it put out to which I have referred and which all honourable senators have seen, points out in figure F2 on page 38 that if one looks at the sources of finance for first homes one finds that 27 per cent of the finance for all homes included in the survey conducted by the Department came from permanent building societies and that almost the same percentagejust marginally higher- came from the savings banks. It is very good that the savings banks are getting some financial assistance, but it seems to me iniquitous that we have a situation in which the capacity of the permanent building societies in Australia to carry on their important job has been seriously eroded. The building societies have been affected by the inflation in Australia, by the general lack of confidence among investors and by the high bond rate which has made it impossible for them to compete. The result has been a marked decrease in the number of loans given by permanent building societies for housing. 
Recently I asked a question of the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Les Johnson)  and in his reply he set out the details of the job being done by the permanent building societies in Australia. The number of loans approved for houses in 1971-72 was 48,000; in 1972-73 it was 70,000; and in 1973-74 under the Labor Government it had dropped to 41,000. It had dropped in one year from 70,000 to 41,000. That is what the Labor Party has done to the capacity-- 
Just over half, as  Senator Davidson  said. 
I am quoting the figures given to me by the Minister for Housing and Construction in response to Senate question No. 173. 
I am not going to tell  Senator McLaren  what the question was. He can look it up in Hansard if he is interested. The number of approvals of loans by permanent building societies fell from 70,000 in 1972-73 to 41,000 in 1973-74, and it has fallen further since. So we have a situation in which the permanent building societies are finding it virtually impossible to lend money to do the job which they have done so well for many years. 
This Bill is a salvage operation. It is designed to take care of a disaster created by the Labor Government. We know that a disaster faces the whole housing construction industry at the present time. Many people will have to leave the industry, and recovery will take many years in spite of efforts such as this to plug up some of the holes. It will not be just a question of diminished activity until the end of the March quarter. This will carry on for a long time as builders and other people go out of business and take themselves to other forms of employment. There will be no employment in the housing industry, just as there is no employment in so many other industries in Australia today. 
I have a particular interest in the western suburbs of Sydney. It appalled me recently to learn that over 13,000 people are receiving welfare cheques between Parramatta and Penrith and that in the district of Mount Druitt alone in the western suburbs of Sydney- an area in which I do electoral work- over 25,000 people are receiving welfare. What kind of Christmas are they going to have? They will not have many kind words for the Labor Party which gave them this unemployment. We are seeing in this situation an albatross around the neck of the Labor Party. We welcome any measure to undo the disaster it has wrought on Australian housing. This is only one of a series of disasters. At present we seem to see the Labor Party lurching from debacle to debacle, from scandal to scandal, from disaster to disaster, from defeat to defeat and, hopefully, to its destruction as a government. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) What facilities exist in the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory for management of families with a battered child. 
Are the facilities adequate; if not, what is required to make the facilities adequate. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Are there systems in existence in the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory adequate to allow comprehensive reporting of cases of the 'battered child syndrome'; if not, what changes of procedure are planned to make the system of reporting more adequate. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What are the sources of referrals of cases ofbattered child syndrome' in the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory and how many referrals in the past five years have come respectively from: (a) general practitioners, (b) dentists, (c) lawyers, (d) hospitals, (e) welfare agencies, (f) police, (g) teachers and (h) others. 
asked the minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Is there a system for bringing to the attention of authorities cases of the 'battered child syndrome' occurring in the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory. 
How many such cases are known to have occurred in the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory in each of the past five years. 
Do the numbers of cases reported represent a true measure of the problem in the Territories. 
These 3 Bills, the Health Insurance Levy 
Assessment Bill (No. 2), the Health Insurance Levy Bill (No. 2) and the Income Tax (International Agreements) Bill (No. 3) are the 3 Bills necessary to bring into operation what is popularly called the Hayden health scheme. These 3 Bills were not introduced into the Senate until this sessional period of Parliament which began in July. What we are seeing is the end of an exercise in ineptitude by the Labor Government which we have had in office for the last couple of years. The Government controls the entry of business into the Parliament; it controls the preparation of legislation; it controls the preparation of its legislative program. As I go round the community I am asked by my constituents: 'Why do we not have the Labor health scheme operating now? You had a Joint Sitting'. The answer is quite simple. The Labor Government had not prepared all the legislation necessary to make the health scheme work. When we had the double dissolution we had before the Parliament only some of the legislation which the Labor Party required. 
I think in fairness I should point out that when  Senator Button  referred to what I had said, as recorded in Hansard, it was to something which I said not in the debate on these 3 Bills. I am prepared to be corrected, but I think it was in the debate on the National Health Bill which concerned the whole philosophy of the health scheme. It was the National Health Bill which went to the Joint Sitting and was passed by the Joint Sitting. I was making then no such offer with regard to the Health Insurance Levy Bill which sets out to raise the money to finance what I regard to be a thoroughly bad scheme. But the fact remains that had the Government ordered its business correctly it could have had all the necessary legislative parts of this scheme available at the time of the double dissolution and could have had them all brought before the joint sitting. What we have seen is further ineptitude. The Government has gone to the Joint Sitting without all the pieces it needed to put together this jigsaw of a health scheme. 
I will not debate the benefits or otherwise of what the Labor Party proposes in its scheme; we have done that before.  Senator Guilfoyle  already has reminded us of many of the things which this scheme will do. She has reminded us very correctly that a recent gallup poll showed that more Australians are in favour of voluntary health insurance than was the case previously. We are faced with the prospect of seeing a government which has attacked the advertising industry, among other industries, spending a lot of money in the next few months advertising to try to sell a program which holds less and less support in the community. 
The Queensland Government has just had an election.  Senator Milliner  probably campaigned for the Labor Party. It was a very successful election for the Labor Party in Queensland too! The only reason why we are considering these Bills relating to health insurance levies is that they were not brought in before and were not available at the time of the Joint Sitting. On this side we have been consistently and completely opposed to the whole idea of the Labor Government's compulsory health scheme. We have made our stand known at every opportunity. We have made it known that if the Health Insurance Commission were established we would take steps to reverse the scheme and dismantle the Commission if we could. We have made a public statement on that matter. We believe the scheme will be very expensive, and more expensive than the Government has admitted. We believe it will add to inflationary pressures and that it is unwanted by most Australians. We are constant in our opposition to it. Also we are fortified by all the signs of government disintegration which we see around us. In office, as I said, we would disband the Health Insurance Commission. We remain opposed to the Bills and to what they are trying to achieve and take the view that since they are abhorrent they do not deserve passage. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) What educational programs are in existence to make doctors, dentists, lawyers, social workers, child health and community nurses, police officers, teachers and others aware of the incidence, problems, and best management for battered children and their families. 
What number of people from each of the sub-groups in ( 1 ) have been exposed to each of the programs in each of the past five years. 
What preventive health programs exist in the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory to predict families at risk of having a battered child. 
What programs of intervention exist to protect children expected to be at risk as a result of such prediction. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) With regard to the answer to House of Representatives Question No. 1343 (vide Hansard, 19 November 1974, page 3733), how was the cost of $51,000 estimated in respect of the use of Government cars during 1973-74 by  Mr A.  J. Grassby. 
On a mileage cost, what was the cost per mile, and how many miles were driven to incur this cost. . 
On a time cost, what was the cost per hour and how many hours were driven to incur this cost. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
Are Regional Councils, established under the Australian Assistance Plan, required to observe all the provisions of the Audit Act in accounting for expenditure of moneys. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security. I preface it by joining with  Senator Carrick  in saying that the problems concerning the Darwin evacuees were difficult and complex and that I am not in any way trying to be unduly critical. I also preface my question by reminding the Minister that many people who arrived in the major capital cities from Darwin lacked health insurance cover because of the availability of health care from Government doctors in the Northern Territory and that many of them required and still require primary medical care from local suburban doctors, many of whom are treating these people free of charge. Is it a fact that the Department of Social Security decided not to give these people automatic cover under the subsidised health benefits scheme? Will he agree that such action would not be difficult to initiate and would be consistent with a commitment to universal accessibility to health care? In view of the urgent need for the ex-residents of Darwin for all kinds of social support, will the Minister undertake to have the situation reviewed? Will the Minister ensure that the community, through its government, will bear the legitimate medical costs of uninsured people evacuated from Darwin as a result of cyclone Tracy? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
What notices are required to be placed by Interim Regional Councils formed under the terms of the Australian Assistance Plan to advise all citizens in an area of the intention to call a meeting to elect a Regional Council. 
Could failure to advertise adequately affect adversely the opportunities for all citizens to participate in the formation of a Regional Council. 
Would failure to advertise properly invalidate the appointment of a Regional Council. 
What advertisements were placed to ensure representative community participation in Regional Councils formed in the areas of (a) Blacktown-Penrith, (b) Crows Nest, (c) Fairfield, (d) Gosford, (e) Narrabeen, (f) Narribri, (g) Newcastle, (h) Parramatta and (i) Surry Hills. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
What notices are necessary in local and city newspapers to advertise the intention to form an Interim Regional Council under the terms of the Australian Assistance Plan. 
What advertisements were placed to ensure representative community participation in Interim Regional Councils formed in the areas of (a) Blacktown-Penrith, (b) Crows 
Nest, (c) Gosford, (e) Narrabeen, (f) Narribri, (g) Newcastle, (h) Parramatta and (i) Surry Hills. 
I present the following petition from 257 citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the Honourable the  President  and members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully showeth: whereas the Treasurer of the Australian Government has proposed that the concessional deduction for education expenses be reduced from $400 to $ 1 50, we, the undersigned, humbly petition the Senate to return any legislation which could give effect to such a proposal to the House of Representatives and request that the concessional deduction for education expenses be restored to $400 for each child attending an approved school or college. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-Question No. 405 asks of the Attorney-General: 
1 ) Has the Commonwealth Police Force investigated an allegation contained in 'The Bulletin' of 1 1 September 1974 that a  Mr Michael  Darby was involved in training a private army, or contemplating illegal acts, including assassination. 
Has the report from the Commonwealth Police Force been received yet. 
Does the report show that the allegations are entirely without substance. 
Will the Attorney-General make the report public in order that  Mr Darby  may be publicly cleared of such accusations. 
Many Australians will be disappointed by the weak and evasive case presented by the Postmaster-General  (Senator Bishop)  in response to  Senator Greenwood  's spirited, vigorous and detailed attack upon the unemployment which the Government has produced and which it is fuelling. Excuses are not enough. Thousands of Australians are losing their jobs every day. The number of registered unemployed is already over 300 000 and the situation is not yet at its worst. We expect the March figures to be worse. This Government dares to say that its record is not too bad. Its record is a disgrace. Its record is a record of failure. It is a legacy of a government with no credibility and a government whose promises are empty. Whenever it has made a promise it has broken it soon after. What can we believe about a government of this kind? We remember the 1972 policy speech in which  Mr Whitlam  promised full employment. There were no 'ifs' no 'buts' and no equivocation. That was his promise in 1972 and that was bad enough, but the Prime Minister, delivering a speech on 1 3 May 1974 stated: 
In Australia alone, there is no unemployment; in Australia alone, unemployment and inflation do not march side by side. 
It was untrue then and it is even more untrue now. He was willing to say anything in the election campaign. In Australia under a Labor Government inflation and unemployment do run side by side- the worst inflation and the worst unemployment that people of my age have known. Broken promises by this Government represent a cynical disregard for everything on which it went to the Australian people. The solemn promises that it made in its policy speeches have all been broken. In the field of employment we see the Government's worst record. I remind the Senate of what was said in the Budget Speech presented on 17 September 1974 by the then Treasurer, the Honourable Frank Crean. He said: 
The Government is not prepared deliberately to create a level of 4 or 5 per cent, or perhaps even higher unemployment. 
It is a fact that the Government is prepared to tolerate a level of unemployment higher than 5 per cent. Fine words butter no parsnips, as the old proverb goes. When the Government presented its Budget it said that it would not tolerate unemployment of 5 per cent, but already we have an unemployment level of 5.2 per cent and rising and no relief in sight. The severity of unemployment is something that we have not known before. It is producing exceptional hardship for Australia and Australians. It is affecting not the wealthy Australian but the battler. The man affected is the man who works for wages, the man who in his innocence and trust helped to vote this Government into power and the kind of Australian who will vote it out of power sooner or later- I hope sooner. We have almost onethird of a million people who are registered as unemployed. We have more people who are out of work but who are not registered. That figure has not yet reached its peak. 
I am glad to see that the Manager of Government Business is in the House. I would remind  Senator Douglas  McClelland that, he had this to say when speaking in the Budget debate in 1 972, and referring to the previous Government: 
We have a great and serious unemployment problem in this land of opportunity- a land crying out for development; a great nation looking for leadership. 
I am sure the honourable senator remembers this speech. 
The unemployment rate is at its highest for the past decade. It has been deliberately created by this Government's policies. Over 1 12 000 Australians, virtually the voting population of 2 electorates, are looking for work . . . 
Two months before their election 1 12 000 Australians were out of work, and  Senator Douglas  McClelland found that intolerable. I wonder how he and other Labor men feel about the betrayal that has taken place, as we now have 31 1 000 people who are unemployed. The record of past years shows that Australia is a high employment country. We are a full employment nation, except when we have the Whitlam Labor Government in power, and we have seen a steady erosion in employment and employment opportunity in the last 2 years. The Prime Minister himself, when addressing the nation in a radio broadcast last August- and at that stage there were 1 1 1 000 people unemployed- said: 
We have in reserve a wide and flexible program to cope with such unemployment as will occur. On this point you can plan ahead for yourselves and families with confidence. 
Pity the poor Australians who took the Prime Minister at his word. He has almost trebled that unemployment figure.  His  wide and flexible programs have proved totally unable to stem the tide or to prevent the loss of jobs. We in the Liberal and Country parties believe in opportunity, we believe in the right to work. We have a concern and a care for innocent victims in society, as well as helping to try to improve the opportunities for private initiative. The unemployed today are victims. They are innocent victims of the programs of the Labor Party. They are being subjected to misery, to loss of dignity, to loss of the right to work and to the threat of loss of equity in their homes, in their own communities and in the things they would like to provide for their families. 
However, this is only one manifestation of a disaster situation facing our country. Most people are employed in the private sector of industry. They are losing their jobs only because private employers can no longer continue to function effectively. There have been a loss of contracts, a loss of export markets, thanks to the Labor Party insulting most of our long term customers, a loss of our beef markets because of an export tax on beef, a loss of all our export markets because of clumsiness and inefficiency. Businesses are closing. Because of the Government's tariff policies we have seen numerous industries forced to close, and I instance the textile industry, which is particularly hurt. We have seen a great loss in capacity in the private sector and, with this, the closure of businesses, a loss of jobs and unemployment. 
The Liberal Party has an alternative program for Australia which we presented this week. This program has been well received in the Press. It is a coherent program, a positive program, an integrated program. It is a program that will work. The Australian public knows that we have predicted with exactitude throughout the last 2 years the likely results of all the economic policies of the Labor Government. We have been right; the Government has been wrong. Our program with its propositions for the future will work. We will be right again and the Labor Party will be wrong again. Our program will lead to increased opportunities for employment, to increased capacity for jobs, and we will cure this present unemployment, which is unparalleled in the history of Australia. 
We are told by the Government that it has done well. That is not good enough, and the Government knows it. It went to the people promising full employment and it has not given them full employment. It is not as if the Government was not warned. On 20 September last year the employer organisations warned the Government that there would be 200 000 jobless by Christmas. The employers were right; the Government was wrong when it would not listen. At the same time in September 1 974 the honourable member for Kooyong  (Mr Peacock)  warned of 300 000 unemployed by the end of the year. He was laughed at by the Government. He was right; the Government was wrong. 
Throughout this situation we have been telling the Government what is likely to happen as a result of its hare-brained schemes and its halfbaked economic policies. It has been wrong at every step, and it is not as if the Labor movement itself has not been divided. I remind the Government that last October the Federal VicePresident of the Australian Labor Party,  Mr Jack  Egerton, conceded that at that time Australia's unemployment figure was closer to 200 000 than the official figure of 130 000. He was then highly critical not only of the deliberate under reporting of the amount of unemployment but of the policies which had produced unemployment and of the lack of any real policy designed to alleviate unemployment. The Labor Party contains within its ranks some more realistic critics than can be found in the Ministry. 
The new Liberal initiatives will be effective. They will create jobs and they will restore confidence in society. We recognise the need for jobs, the need for personal dignity. We have concern for the weak and for the right to work. Those people abandoned by Labor must be and will be a first concern to a future coalition government. We will not allow the unemployment created by Labor to be repeated or to become part of Australian life. 
I remind the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation of departmental reports that 2 973 non-entitled people were treated in repatriation hospitals throughout Australia between April 1973 and June 1974. I ask: Were these people treated free of charge? If they were treated free of charge under what appropriation was money provided? Why was a fee not charged? Were non-entitled members of the public treated in repatriation hospitals placed at a financial advantage over members of the public at large who pay some portion of their hospital costs? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
Why are grants under the Child Migrant Education Program as shown in the Minister's press release of 9 December 1974, made to Roman Catholic, but not to other nonGovernment Schools. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
1 ) Do recent studies by R. J. Walsh and Phillip Morris and referred to in SPELD News 1973 indicate that specific learning difficulties may have a significant genetic component. 
What plans does the Department of Education have to carry out surveys to confirm or deny this potentially important observation. 
If the observation is substantiated, will the Department arrange for screening of school children to find those at risk and in need. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. I remind the Senate that a Press statement describing the recently removed Aboriginal tent embassy as a symbol for Aboriginal people throughout Australia was released on 13 February jointly by the Honourable Gordon Bryant, the former Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, and  Mr Charles  Perkins, a public servant from the Department of Aboriginal Affairs. I ask: Did  Mr Perkins  speak with the agreement or the authority of the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs? Did the Minister know of and approve the issue of the statement, joining as it did this officer with a former Minister of the Department? Finally, does the Minister subscribe to  Mr Perkins's  view that the embassy was serving the cause of Aboriginal advancement in Australia? 
I direct a question to the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation. I remind the Minister that he stated on 11 December 1974 in relation to casualty services at repatriation general hospitals: 
In fact, already at the Concord Repatriation General Hospital in the southern - 
Your geography, Minister- suburbs of Sydney a casualty section has been provided. 
Is this statement completely correct? Is it not more correct to state that the casualty section at Concord is still under construction, has not yet been used, will not be completed until at least June or July 1975, that no staffing is contemplated until at least the third term of the current hospital year, and that his statement anticipated events by some 6 to 8 months? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. I draw to the Minister's attention the actions of Ampol Petroleum Limited, an Australian company, in seeking a petrol price rise through the Prices Justification Tribunal, a body constituted by the Labor Government to hear applications for increases in prices. Has the Minister been acquainted with reports that the National Secretary of the Builders Labourers Federation,  Mr 
Gallagher, has urged his members to place a ban upon Ampol building sites and to boycott the products of the company because of its application to the Prices Justification Tribunal? Will the Government express disapproval of any suggestion that industrial blackmail of the kind proposed should be instituted against Australian owned companies approaching the Labor Government's price fixing tribunal? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Attorney-General. I remind the Minister that Saturday, 1 February, marked the effective introduction of the Trade Practices Act. Is it a fact, as reported in the 'Sydney Morning Herald' on 30 January 1975, that as one effect of implementation of this Act it will no longer be possible for manufacturers of food items to offer discounts to retail stores? Discounts available up to now have included those to certain chain stores which are known to charge the lowest prices to housewives. In view of the very narrow profit margins on many groceries, is one effect of the legislation likely to be a further rise in grocery prices as a result of loss of manufacturers 'discounts? 
asked the Minister representing the Special Minister of State, upon notice: 
1 ) Have preliminary figures relating to the cost of living been received by the Government during the past 2 days; if so, do they indicate an accelerating rate of inflation in Australia. 
2 ) Is the indicated rate of inflation now of the order of 30 per cent per annum. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
How many regional offices of the Department of Social Security are to be used for administering the Medibank health insurance scheme. 
Under what appropriation item are these offices funded. 
I remind the Minister representing the Treasurer that on Tuesday last I asked him a question related to the action of Ampol Petroleum Ltd in seeking a petrol price rise through the Prices Justification Tribunal. At that time the Minister stated that he had not seen reports that the national secretary of the Builders Labourers Federation,  Mr Norman  Gallagher, had urged that a national black ban be placed on Ampol Petroleum Ltd for having approached the Prices Justification Tribunal for a price rise. Has he now seen the report? Will the Government express its disapproval of any suggestion that industrial blackmail of the kind proposed should be instituted against Australian companies daring to approach the Labor Government 's price fixing tribunal? 
The Senate is debating the National Health Bill 1 974. There are provisions in this Bill which require the attention of the Senate and require our consideration. This Bill sets out to remove a number of existing benefits. I asked  Senator Button  what he knew about clause 8. I imagine he has not read it. Clause 8 of this Bill sets out, among other things, to abolish the pensioner medical service. If we are considering this Bill it is essential that we consider this point and examine the implications for the people of Australia. The Bill sets out as a second main objective to render some first aid against its own discriminatory actions which have had the effect of weakening and threatening many of the private voluntary health insurance funds. 
The Bill does make some moves towards providing extra .nursing home benefits. Though these could be desirable, we have to look at them in the context of the Bill as a whole. We have to look at what the Government is asking us to do. One desirable set of benefits is not in itself enough reason for passing this Bill. Finally we have to examine the second reading speech of the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation  (Senator Wheeldon).  Most of the speech did not discuss this Bill but discussed the Medibank scheme as a whole, and it is therefore appropriate also to have a few words to say about the scheme. 
May I start by looking at some of the benefits which will be lost if this Bill comes into operation. The Minister stated in his second reading speech that he does not require the passage of this legislation to make his scheme effective. This Bill is not necessary for Medibank to operate. It is what might be called an optional extra from the Government's point of view. It sets out to remove from the Australian people benefits they presently enjoy. It sets out, from a date to be proclaimed, to abolish Commonwealth hospital benefits, to abolish medical benefits payable by the Commnonwealth, and to abolish hospital and medical benefit organisations. We Commonwealth, always believed and continue to believe in the place of the voluntary health fund in the system of private voluntary health insurance subsidised by government. We intend to preserve that system and we intend to take no steps which will help to destroy it or dismantle it. 
Failure to pass this Bill will not in any way hold up the Government's program, and there is no reason why we should be party to abolishing these benefits. It is interesting that I had the pleasure of opposing the Minister for Health  (Dr Everingham)  2 weeks ago in a public debate. He assured an audience of several hundred people that from 1 July the private medical insurance funds would cease to exist. I do not know whether the Minister for Health was speaking on behalf of his colleague, the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden),  but he stated that all the funds would cease to exist on 1 July. Some of the clauses of this Bill clearly set out to do that. The Bill provides for the cessation of the payment of Australian Government medical and hospital benefits under the National Health Act after 1 July. Those provisions are contained in clauses 4 and 5. 
There is no reason for us to agree to this measure if, as the Minister says, Medibank can operate without this Bill being passed. As  Senator Guilfoyle  has already said, the Bill sets out in clauses 14, 15 and 16 to discuss the ways in which a registered organisation may no longer operate after a date to be proclaimed. If we are to believe what the Minister for Health said in public in Sydney 2 weeks ago, that date is to be 1 July. We see that the funds are to be penalised $ 1 ,000 for each day during which they continue to operate. But the Bill goes further and provides that from a date to be proclaimed the protection of the pensioner population of this country is to be removed. 
It provides that the pensioner medical, service is to be dismantled, that benefits payable under the scheme are no longer to be paid and that agreements made by doctors are no longer to be valid.  Senator Grimes  says that that is not so. I hope that the honourable senator has read the Bill. 
Good. I refer the honourable senator to clause 8 of the Bill which says: 
Before section 3 1 of the Principal Act the following section is inserted . . . 
That clause then goes on to set out certain words which are to be inserted and they have the effect of making that part of the Principal Act inoperative. If honourable senators look at the principal Act they will find that the section involved is the pensioner medical service.  Senator Grimes  would not disagree with that. If we look further down the Bill to clause 9 we find that agreements with medical practitioners are to become inoperative. There are millions of pensioners in this country who count their entitlement to health care under the pensioner medical service as one of their rights. 
I will come to that point. I will come to the arrangements that the Labor Government has not made for alternative provisions. We have a Labor Government, allegedly protecting the weak in society, which is asking us in the Senate to give it the ability to proclaim a day on which pensioners no longer will have their medical service for their protection, when doctors who are willing to use that agreement to provide services to pensioners no longer will be able to do so and when the benefits payable no longer will be available. This is in the Bill. The Government cannot deny that this is what it is asking us to give it. 
The pensioner medical service came into being as a result of an agreement between the medical profession and the government of the day. It came into being because there was goodwill between the medical profession and the government. Without that goodwill there can be no such agreement. I remind the Government that the pensioner medical service is a very special kind of arrangement. Society decided that a certain group of people should receive special consideration, in this case concessional medical care, and that is something I applaud and with which I agree. The arrangement reached could have been reached only with the medical profession as it is one of the few professions with a history of public service in the rendering of free and concessional care. The medical profession agreed to provide concessional care over many years for those people whom the community decides should be eligible for pensioner treatment. It is a matter of record that for a number of years doctors have entered into agreements with the Commonwealth to treat pensioner patients at rates lower than those which would apply otherwise. It is this agreement, entered into as a result of goodwill and negotiation between the profession and the government, that the Labor Party proposes to abolish. 
Therefore we must ask: If these agreements are ended, if the benefits payable are removed, if the pensioner medical service ceases, what will exist in their place? 
What will exist in their place? 1 want to refer the Senate to what the Minister for Social Security said in his second reading speech. Before reading it I point out that the Minister has confronted the medical profession and threatened it and there is no goodwill between it and government. The profession regards itself as having its head in the lion's mouth waiting for the lion to bite the head off. The Minister for Social Security said: 
I will be writing to all doctors asking them to accept benefits in full settlement for treating these patients. I am hopeful that doctors will co-operate in this arrangement. 
Several comments Can be made. What will the Minister be doing? He will be asking doctors to agree to bulk billing of pensioner patients when bulk billing has now become a major issue between the Government and the profession. It is possible that the profession will not agree. The situation is that the medical profession has been giving something to society. Let us be clear about this: The medical profession has been giving concessional care in the same way as visiting specialists at hospitals have been giving honorary care to the people of Australia. I remind honourable senators that the Government is providing payment for work done at present in an honorary capacity. In my State the Government has made preliminary budgeting arrangements for $20m a year to allow for the honorary work done by my profession. The profession has done that work in an honorary capacity for over 50 years. It has a proud record of honorary care to society. 
If the Medibank scheme comes in as proposed there is no guarantee that doctors will continue to use the Government's new arrangements and there is a danger to the pensioner population that some of them could be left uncovered. Surely it would be much more sensible to work out arrangements with the medical profession under the Medibank scheme, to get them operative and then to come to the Parliament and seek authority to abolish the pensioner medical service and its benefits. I am not concerned at this time about the Medibank scheme or the medical profession but about the pensioner patients. I assure honourable senators that if this Bill is passed and if this Labor Government proclaims on a certain day that the pensioner medical service no longer operates, there is a chance, as a result of Labor Party initiative, that there will be pensioners in Australia who will have to pay for care which they now get free. The matter does not end there. 
They would do it for anyone except when they are dealing with the Labor Party. (Quorum formed) There is another danger facing pensioners if this Bill is passed. Under the Medibank scheme the Labor Government proposes to pay only 85 per cent of the scheduled fee. The fee schedule is to be fixed by the Government. There is no assurance as to the means of updating this fee schedule and there is likely to be an increasing gap between 85 per cent of the scheduled fee and the actual fee. There is likely to be an increasing increment to be paid by patients, and pensioners are in danger if they are no longer protected by the agreement between doctors and the Government as to the treatment provided for them at the moment as a result of Liberal Party initiative. I say again to the Labor Party that there is no reason for abolishing this particular section of the National Health Act and there is no reason for putting pensioners in this kind of peril. 
The next thing which this Bill proposes is to render some first aid to some of the health funds. The Minister for Social Security said this in his second reading speech: 
Some organisations may not be able to meet claims for medical and hospital benefits for services rendered prior to I July 1975. 
The Minister for Social Security admits that some of the health funds are in trouble. Why should this be? It is quite clear that this Government has set out to drive the funds to the wall. Many of them are small funds, union funds, funds run by single business enterprises and teachers federation funds. These funds have become the victims of deliberate Government action. Today we see a situation in which some of the funds are in danger of not being able to continue. 
It is instructive to go back and examine the position in the last year for which the report entitled 'Operations of the Registered Medical and Hospital Benefits Organisations' is available. That is for the year 1972-73. The situation is worse now. The Minister's own words tell us that some of the funds are in trouble. If we go to page 12 of the report on the operations of the health funds and look at the trading operations of the medical benefit organisations in New South Wales we find that the result is an overall deficit for 25 out of 29 medical benefit funds. In 1972-73, 25 out of 29 funds operated at a deficit. Some of the funds were very large and some of them were very small. The best way to express their trading result is to express their deficit in terms of the contributions they received. If a fund received $1,000 and had a deficit of $1,000 we could say that that was a 100 per cent deficit. Some of the small funds had quite large deficits. 
The Local Government Medical Benefits Fund had a deficit for that trading year equal to 30 per cent of contributions. These are the rapacious, voluntary health funds which the Labor Party wants to destroy! The Medical Benefits Fund of New South Wales, which is a large fund and which is particularly disliked by the Labor Party, had a 5 per cent deficit for the year. The New South Wales Teachers Federation Benefits Fund, which is a fund run by a group of employees trying to band together for their own protection, had a deficit equal to 1 1 per cent of contributions for the year. Let me refer to some other well established private voluntary funds. The United Ancient Order of Druids Fund had a 27 per cent deficit for the year. The Grand United Order of Oddfellows had a deficit of 27 per cent. The Hospitals Contribution Fund had a deficit of 5 per cent. In Victoria the same situation applies. The largest medical benefits fund in Australia, the Hospital Benefits Association, in the year 1972-73, when conditions were better and when the funds were in a better position, had an overall trading deficit of 28.6 per cent of contributions. 
The document does not show that figure. It shows that at the same time the HBA had a cash balance of minus $6m. We have a situation in which the Minister has made it one of his projects to try to cripple the voluntary health insurance system. He is attempting deliberately to drive the funds to the wall. We can go back and look at some of his past statements. I have given the Senate figures showing that the funds were operating at a deficit. I wish I had more up to date figures. They would show a worse situation. 
On 29 July last the Minister issued a Press statement in which he set out to blackguard the funds. He advised health insurance contributors in New South Wales not to pay contribution increases. He said that the increases were, to use his own words, a blatant and deliberate attempt to overcharge health insurance contributors. The Supreme Court of New South Wales did not agree with him. The health funds used the appeal mechanism which was put into the Act by the Liberal and Country Parties in this place. When the Minister went to court he lost every point he contested, the funds won every point they contested and costs were awarded against the Government. In July the Minister was willing to blackguard the funds and to say things about them which would have been actionable in other circumstances. The Minister said he felt that the funds should meet the costs of higher benefits to patients out of their own financial reserves and liquid holdings. This is what he set out to achieve. 
I remind the Senate that in April last year the Medical Fees Tribunal recommendations came into effect and medical costs rose. The Minister passed the major burden of the Tribunal's recommendations on to the voluntary health funds and on to their contributors. At that stage the Government's share of medical benefits payments dropped. As a matter of interest I point out that when the Liberal-Country Party Government was in office the Government contributed 61 per cent of the benefits paid. We quite deliberately set out to make health insurance attractive by subsidising it. Under the Labor Government that contribution has dropped to 47 per cent. It is still dropping at a time when the funds are facing increasing difficulties. The Government's contribution to hospital expenditure is 9 per cent and the funds' contribution is 91 per cent. During this last year there has been enormous inflation in this country due to Labor's mismanagement. One aspect of that inflation has been a rise in hospital costs and in the cost of medical care. In New South Wales the cost of hospital care has gone up 100 per cent in the last 7 months and further rises are proposed. Because of the National Health Act the funds have been unable to increase benefits, to increase contribution rates or to increase the kind of insurance cover they offer, without getting ministerial approval. 
In August last year  Mr Hayden  refused the funds permission to increase the contribution rates. As I mentioned, when taken to court he lost the case. He then refused to approve a proposal by the funds which would have allowed the backlog of contributions to have been collected painlessly. Since the Australian Labor Party came to government one fund in New South Wales has increased the benefits it pays by 1 33 per cent and the Government has increased its contribution by 33 per cent. The Government has not kept pace. It has been squeezing the funds unmercifully. Most of the funds carry reserves on their hospital side equal to about only 3 months payout. They are very close to the Nimmo Committee recommendation. As is the case in many insurance operations, in past times the funds have attempted to capitalise future liabilities. This is generally sound practice. They can no longer do it. The latest figures we have for the Hospitals Benefits Association suggest that its hospital reserves are less than two months payouts and that its medical fund has a deficit of $6m. As at 1 March- that is next week- the Hospital Contribution Fund and the Medical Benefits Fund will have only 3 months' reserves. In terms of liquid and available cash, most funds keep reserves of only one to two weeks. If costs keep increasing in the next 3 or 4 months further increases in contribution rates may be necessary. 
I should remind the Senate that when questioned directly on 'P.M.' on 17 February  Mr Hayden  went on record as recommending Australians to maintain their health insurance cover right up to 1 July, and I hope that all Australians listened to what the Minister for Social Security had to say. The situation at that time is clouded. The future of Medibank is uncertain, and it has nothing to do with any kind of Supply Bill. The Government has available to it now, as of this moment, the grounds for a double dissolution and it is an entirely competent for the Government, not the Opposition, to bring on an election.  Senator Steele  Hall, with his usual lack of insight, was quite incorrect last night in attacking  Senator Scott  and saying that  Senator Scott  was talking about some hypothetical situation which could occur. The facts are that  Mr Whitlam  has the grounds now for a double dissolution and if he called an election, as well he might- I suppose were it not for this morning's unedifying events in another place- and if defeated the Labor Party could leave this country in a very serious situation. If  Mr Whitlam  called a double dissolution and the Labor Party was defeated, the pensioner medical service could have been abolished by means of this Bill, the voluntary health funds could have been driven to the wall, and the Government's Medibank scheme might not be in operation. It is up to the Government to consider these real possibilities and to recognise that the destruction of the private funds is neither desirable nor necessary. 
In the Minister's second reading speech on this Bill he made some claims about Medibank which are untrue. The Minister claimed that Medibank would alter medical care; it would make it more accessible. In his Press release on 12 February the Minister said that Medibank would provide adequate access for all to the best quality medical care. 
The Minister for Health in the Whitlam Government does not agree with him.  Dr Everingham  gave an interview to the Australian Journal of Pharmacy and on page 624 of the September issue the Journal had this to say: 
The Federal Health Minister,  Dr Everingham,  conceded to The AJP  last month that health care standards for the majority of Australians could be expected to 'fall slightly', on introduction of the Government's Health Bill. 
The Minister for Health concedes that standards of health care for most Australians will fall slightly when the Medibank scheme comes into operation. The Minister had something else to say, and this is shown in quotation marks by the Journal: 
And for those who can afford it, the private and best care will still be available, ' he said. 
The Minister clearly concedes that health care standards will fall and that the private care available under our present system is the best careand, after all, the Minister for Health was a member of our profession for some time. But there is an assumption in the thinking of the Labor Party which is basically false. It seems to assume that health care in Australia is rationed by financial considerations. It assumes that access to medical care in rationed by expense. This is just nonsense. The Minister of State for Health in the House of Commons in the United Kingdom,  Mr David  Owen, was quoted on 2 February 1 975 in the ' London Times ' as saying: 
The health service is a rationed service. There will never be a government or a country that has enough resources to meet all the demands any nation will make on a National Health Service. 
Those are the words of the Minister in England. 
Depreciate the currency and drive up the national debt; I am indebted to  Sir Magnus.  The reason why there is rationing of health services in Australia is that there is a lack of resources. I have mentioned before in this place that we have adequate resources in some parts of Sydney, for example, and we have an inadequate number of doctors and other health personnel in other areas of Sydney. Rationing occurs where the services are not available and they will still not be available on 1 July. There will not be one extra doctor in Mount Druitt; there will not be one extra children's hospital bed in the western suburbs of Sydney. There will be no extra services flowing on to the people of Sydney as a result of this particular piece of legislation, and because of this it is a sham to say that access will be improved immediately. In Canberra the Government has been successful in completely stopping the entry of doctors into medical practice here. In many suburbs doctors are leaving Canberra, and if you are a citizen of Canberra it will now take you much longer to get to a doctor, the doctors are much busier and your service and your access will drop. 
However,  Dr Everingham  gives some indication of what is intended when Labor gets complete control of health. Writing in the journal New Accent' on 25 October 1974,  Dr Everingham  had this to say, and it is an extraordinary statement: 
Well, I suppose you can take 2 extremes. You can take an affluent area where there is a doctor's brass plate and a red light on every third street corner, like Vaucluse, where they sometimes charge well above recommended AMA fees, let alone tribunal fees or government approved fees. If they did not they would not be able to pay for the plush surgeries, the cars, environment and rentals, or whatever, in which they live, with the rather small turnover they have and giving very lengthy, friendly consultations to the rich people of that area. 
The fact is that Vaucluse has an adequate number of doctors. This is the kind of standard for which we should all be aiming- enough doctors to be able to give leisurely consultations to those who need to talk, enough doctors to give the time to their patients and the care that they really require. The Labor Party's program will do nothing to advance this kind of problem or its satisfaction for Australians. The Minister has claimed not once but many times that under Medibank, and under this Bill and all the ancillary Bills, the freedoms of choice of doctors and patients will be preserved.  Senator Button  drew attention to that point when he was in the chamber. I would say straight away that there will be no freedom for pensioners if the pensioner medical service is abolished and the Government has not made adequate plans for its replacement in the meantime. That would be an act of Government stupidity which would harm the most helpless in our society. 
In addition to that there will be no freedom for the people if they are faced with an even more complex claim form than that to which they have had to face up to now. Most of us are aware of the means of claiming for medical benefits under the present scheme. The claim form is a simple one. I have in my hand a facsimile of the Medibank claim form. It is an enormously complicated document. In submitting a claim one will have to write down one's 10-digit identification number and one will have to put in a fair bit of information. It will be a complex method of claiming. The Government has actually had 59 million of these forms printed. It is a very interesting form. One of the things required of a medical benefits organisation is internal auditing after cheques have been issued. The claim forms of the Medical Benefits Fund, the Hospitals Contribution Fund and the Hospitals Benefits Association have set aside a space for the writing down of the number of a cheque issued in payment of a claim. Of course, the Government has forgotten to provide for that space on its claim form. Either it is not going to worry about internal auditing or it is going to have the cheque number scratched down somewhere. 
But the fact is that it has forgotten one of the important accounting needs that a claim form should serve. There are 50 million of these forms now in the process of being produced. I hope that the Government will see its way clear to correct the defects in the forms. The Bill will not give extra freedom to the people who have to pay their doctors' bills and then get the money back from the Health Insurance Commission. 
The Government has not yet made an adequate agency arrangement for its medical scheme. There is no freedom for me, as a user of health services, if I cannot find somewhere at which to lodge my claim. We want the Government to tell us where claims will be lodged and who is going to operate its agencies. Is there any truth in the report that the pharmacies are going to do it and that they are going to be paid 50c for each claim form they process? That being the case will there be a charge on the Health Insurance Commission of something like $40,000 a day just for the agency arrangements? If the pharmacies do it what kind of courier service will be set up to bring in the claims and have them assessed? There has been nothing in any kind of situation yet to show us the infrastructure that the Government has or will set up to make this extraordinary proposed system work. 
Finally on the question of freedom there is no freedom for doctors facing the possibility of salaried employment under this Government. We have had several indications of what salaried employment is likely to mean. I draw the attention of honourable senators to the situation in Tasmania. In doing so I refer to the 'Mercury' of 14 November last iri which the Minister for Health in Tasmania,  Mr Farquhar,  in announcing moves in Tasmania to eliminate the choice of doctors at public hospitals from 1 January, said not only that people would lose the choice of doctors at public hospitals in the Labor State of Tasmania but also that it was happening as part of a nationwide scheme. I can do no less than believe the words of the Labor Minister for Health in Tasmania on this matter. 
Sitting suspended from 12.45 to 2.15 p.m. 
We are discussing the National Health Bill, and before the suspension of the sitting I was discussing some of the ways in which this Bill is unjust. I was discussing the fact that doctors do stand to lose some of their freedoms and I instanced the situation in Tasmania where the Labor State Munster for Health,  Mr Farquhar,  announced, as reported in the 'Mercury' on 14 November, that doctors in that State would be paid a sessional rate and that that would eliminate the choice of doctors at public hospitals from the beginning of the year. This goes against what  Mr Hayden  has promised. It is one indication of what can happen. 
But the worst example we have available to us of what salaried service will mean to the medical profession comes from the Department of Repatriation and Compensation, and I am sorry that the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation, representing the Minister for Social Security, is not here at this moment. 
For many years  Dr Thomas  O'Donnell lived next door to me. He is a man whom I know very well and who taught me. He graduated in 1942 from Sydney University and served in the Australian Imperial Force. In 1947 he was appointed an ear, nose and throat visiting surgeon to the Repatration General Hospital, Concord. From 1953 onwards he was senior visiting ear, nose and throat surgeon. From 1947 to 1974 he gave 27 years' service at Concord Hospital. Last October under the sessional salaried service in Repatriation hospitals he went one day to do his operating session and found on the window sill a little envelope telling him that he had been sacked. He was sacked because the Department of Repatriation and Compensation had taken on a full time salaried specialist- a very well trained man and a man with whom there is no argument- and in taking him on the Department sacked  Dr O'Donnell, Dr Frank  Lang,  Dr John  Walker and  Dr Robert  Talbot. Four of the visiting ENT surgeons at Concord were sacked. 
There is no way in which the Government can pretend to the medical profession that there is no danger to that profession personally from the kind of proposal the Labor Party puts forward. Here is a Commonwealth department employing doctors and that department sacking doctors, one of them a returned soldier who had been on the staff since 1947 and a senior man since 1953. And oh, in what a gentlemanly way it does the sacking. There are no personal calls and no letters to their rooms but the same letter- an original for 2 doctors and a copy for the other twosent to them inside the hospital, sitting on the window sill when  Dr O'Donnell  came to do his operating, saying: 'You are sacked'. We know what this Government has in store- arbitrary dismissals which bring no credit upon the Department of Repatriation and Compensation but which give a very real message to the members of the practising professions in Australia. 
There is no assessment of skills; it is an ideological matter. The Government wants a salaried staff and when the salaried man arrives, 4 ENT men are sacked. The facts are clear and there is no way around the sequence of events that happened. The method of their sacking was clumsy m the extreme. It was done by a junior officer in a totally impersonal way. 
The final danger to the medical profession, and it is a very real danger, is the bulk billing method of the Medibank scheme.  Mr Hayden  said that it is not a proposal to nationalise medical services or the medical profession. Yet if the scheme works as the Government intends and if the doctors use the bulk billing mechanism, doctors will receive their total incomes from the Government. The Government will pay only the scheduled fee and the Government will set the fee schedules. Acting as paymaster and feesetter, the Government will effectively have nationalised the medical profession even without the constitutional power to do so. 
This is why the profession will oppose bulk billing, and this is why it is essential for the protection of pensioners in Australia that we do not abolish the present pensioner medical service and leave ourselves dependent entirely upon acceptance of bulk billing by the medical profession. For goodness' sake, keep the present pensioner scheme. Do not pass this Bill which proposes to abolish pensioner benefits, pensioner agreements and the pensioner medical service. Keep the pensioner scheme until the Government has come up with some proof that the doctors will agree to use the mechanism they fear the bulk billing mechanism, because if the Government does not, pensioners in Australia are in danger. 
They are in danger for another reason also. The Government claims that this scheme will be free at the point of receipt. That is not true. The scheme will be free at the point of receipt only if two things happen- only if doctors are charging the scheduled fee and only if they use the bulk billing mechanism. The facts in Australia do not lead us to suggest that those conditions will be met and, if they are not met, the scheme is not free at the point of receipt. The rebate will be 85 per cent of the scheduled fee. Many medical fees at this moment are higher than the scheduled fee and that will leave a gap between actual cost and rebate which will have to be met by the patient. There is nothing in the Government's proposals to indicate regular and predictable updating of fees and there is no guarantee that the Government will increase its share to match any increases. We could have a situation developing where the Government pays 85 per cent of what becomes an outdated scheduled fee and the medical profession charges more. To society as a whole this scheme will be expensive. Reference has already been made to the extra net cost of the Medibank scheme over the present scheme being somewhere in the order of $730m on present actuarial estimates. With total income tax collections next year estimated at $ 10,000m, this represents about 7 per cent of personal income tax. I would remind the Senate that when Professor Richard Downing recently gave the George Judah Cohen Memorial Lecture at Sydney University he talked about the cost of the 3 Government welfare programs- the Hayden health scheme, the Woodhouse scheme for which  Senator Wheeldon  is responsible, and the national superannuation scheme- as far as they could be costed at this stage.  His  findings were that those 3 schemes together in the first year would cost $2,800m and, with total personal income tax collections estimated at $ 10,000m, this represents 28 per cent of personal income tax and makes it an expensive scheme for the Australian community. 
At the present time we have only 60 per cent adherence by doctors to the common fee schedule. Experience shows that once bulk billing comes in the Government will fix scheduled fees and patients will have to pay more. 
The final point on costs is this:  Mr Hayden  is well aware of the adverse effects of expensive welfare proposals on society.  Mr Hayden  gave the Chifley Memorial Lecture in 1973 and during that lecture discussed a proposed welfare initiative. He pointed out that the initiative he was discussing would cost $ 1,200m. Having said that, he made some comments which I will quote to the Senate. He said: 
The repercussions of such a measure- 
That is the expenditure of $ 1,200m on a welfare proposal -  would be enormous- there would have to be large increases in taxation to begin with. 

 Mr Hayden says that to introduce his welfare proposals and to spend that kind of money would involve large increases in taxation. He went on to say something else: 
Above all, at a time of severe inflationary pressures it could have serious deleterious economic effects. That is, while the desirability of a major welfare re-distribution program may seem incontestable, the implementation is bound up with many factors including timing and public attitudes. 
There is nothing free about the Hayden Medibank health scheme. It is unlikely to be free at the point of service. It is likely to leave pensioners facing higher costs than they face now. It will be very expensive from the public point of view. I believe, as do my colleagues, that the voluntary health insurance funds have served a very valuable purpose. There are many small funds. There are the funds representing a single trade union, those representing single business organisations and the teachers federation funds. These have all served the interests of their contributors and they are faced with destruction by the implementation of this legislation. The position of millions of pensioners is placed at risk. But more than that, the Bill is entirely unnecessary. We are assured that Medibank could operate without this legislation. The Prime Minister could call a double dissolution of the Parliament now and the effects of this Bill could be disastrous if Labor did not continue in government. 
There are a lot of things against a single national fund. There is a lot against nationalisation. I am sure that honourable senators opposite would be pleased to know that  Mr Bill  Hartley agrees with me. He was quoted as saying certain things in the 'National Times' published last Sunday. He said: 
There's not much point in nationalising things- in fact I see very little point in State capitalism. At its very best State capitalism has usually been run in Australia so that it's no better than private enterprise. 
That is at its best. At its worst it is a lot worse. I remind honourable senators that this Government has said- I quote from the second reading speech of the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation  (Senator Wheeldon): 
Medibank can be brought into operation and can function without further legislation. 
There is no need for this Bill to be passed. The public interest is not served by these proposals, particularly a proposal which would allow the Government to abolish the pensioner medical service. The pensioners of Australia deserve something better. The Government needs to tell them how it will guarantee their free care after 1 July, the proposed introduction date of the Medibank scheme. We say to them that the Government should keep the present pensioner scheme, keep the present arrangements and keep the present benefits that will give Australian pensioners the kinds of guarantees they deserve. Pass this Bill and give the Government a chance to abolish all benefits under the pensioner medical scheme and millions of Australians will be worse off. The Bill is unnecessary and should be opposed. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
1 ) Is the Schools Commission preparing a new questionnaire to be completed by non-government schools. 
Will this questionnaire contain approximately 110 questions, as compared with the fifty-five questions in the original Karmel Committee's questionnaire. 
What is the purpose of the questionnaire, and for what purpose is the very detailed information being sought. 
Will it be a condition of continuing support for current or capital expenditure that non-government schools complete the questionnaire. 
Will some appropriate financial assistance be given to schools to cover the costs of completing detailed questionnaires requiring answers to extremely complex questions. 
asked the Minister for Manufacturing Industry, upon notice: 
1) What loss of employment is projected at the Lithgow Small Arms Factory over the next 12 months. 
Is there likely to be a down-turn in employment at the Small Arms Factory with the winding down of the 7.62mm rifle project. 
Will the Government give an undertaking to the people of Lithgow that there will be no unemployment in that town as a result of Government retrenchments from the Small Arms Factory. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Housing and Construction. Do figures released yesterday by the Australian Bureau of Statistics show that approvals for new houses and flats in Australia sank in January to the lowest level for 8 years and that in New South Wales alone approvals for new dwellings fell 36 per cent when compared to December? Is this fall a result of deliberate Government policy as foreshadowed in the last Labor Budget or has it occurred in spite of Government attempts to prevent it? 
Has the Leader of the Government in the Senate seen the report in the Australian' newspaper of today's date that the Prime Minister has indicated to the Palestine Liberation Organisation that its representatives should be able to visit Australia soon? Is there any substance in this most unfortunate report? Is it likely that representatives of this terrorist organisation will be allowed into Australia? Since the terrorists are from countries which already have diplomatic missions in Australia will the Minister urge on the Prime Minister the view that these missions are better able to publicise the views which might be expressed by the Palestine Liberation Organisation and that this group, which has been internationally condemned, has no place in this country? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
What will happen to the present employees of the Health Funds when ' Medibank ' scheme is fully staffed. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
With all of the problems facing the 'Medibank' scheme, how does the Government expect to still start the scheme by 1 July 1975. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
How does the Minister expect the Health Funds to effectively carry out their agency responsibilities if their staffs are being encouraged to leave the Funds and become employees of Medibank ' schemes. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
What will happen to the Health Funds which may act as agents for 'Medibank' scheme after the three years agency period has expired. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
How does the Government plan to operate the Medibank scheme if the Health Funds do not agree to act as agents? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation, relates to treatment at repatriation hospitals of people not entitled to repatriation benefits. Noting the intention of the Minister to make available facilities in the proposed emergencyaccident centre at the Repatriation General Hospital at Concord to road accident and other emergency cases from a 'source area to be delineated by the Health Commission of New South Wales'- they are the Minister's words- I ask: Has the Minister's discussion with the Health Commission included determination for the sharing of financial responsibility between Federal, State and private sectors responsible for health care? Will the Minister advise the Senate what these arrangements are? Is the Department of Repatriation and Compensation to undertake regular care for non-entitled emergency or accident cases entirely at Commonwealth expense? If so, under what appropriation item is such expenditure authorised? 
In speaking to Appropriation Bill (No. 3)1 wish to refer to the estimates for the Department of Foreign Affairs and particularly to the question of any proposed visit by members of the Palestine Liberation Organisation to this country. Yesterday, in answer to  Mr Ruddock  in another place, the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  gave conditional approval to a visit by the Palestine Liberation Organisation to this country. Further, in answer to a question by  Mr Berinson,  he offered some justification of the stand taken by the Palestine Liberation Organisation. Today, according to the best information from radio and wire services, a terrorist attack has occurred in Tel Aviv. To the best of our information 12 Arab terrorists have come ashore in Tel Aviv in 2 boats. Firing automatic weapons they have taken over the Hotel Savoy in Tei Aviv. The terrorists are holding somewhere between 40 and 45 hostages. It is uncertain but reports indicate that some people have been killed, all of them being civilians. A number of people have been taken from the hotel on stretchers. It appears that the terrorists are demanding an aeroplane, safe conduct and the right to take hostages from Israel. 
The group claiming responsibility for the attack is not entirely clear, but 3 groups appear to have claimed responsibility at this time. Reports indicate that the Palestine Forces Commandthe military arm of the Palestine Liberation Organisation- has claimed responsibility. The second news report indicates that El Fatah,  Mr Arafat's  own group, has claimed responsibility. This group is part of the Palestine Liberation Organisation. The third report indicates that the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine- General Command- has claimed responsibility. This group is also part of the Palestine Liberation Organisation. In the end it does not matter which of these 3 groups claims responsibility. The Palestine Liberation Organisation today has launched an attack upon the civilian population of a city in Israel. lt is worth looking at some of the recent history of the Palestine Liberation Organisation. In 1 968 the 14 groups making up the Palestine Liberation Organisation met and issued a covenant, a document of common principle. I should like to quote to the Senate just two of the articles of that covenant. Article 9 of the covenant states: 
Armed struggle is the only way to liberate Palestine. 
Article 2 1 of the covenant states: 
The Palestinian Arab people, in expressing itself through the armed Palestine revolution, rejects  every  solution that is a substitute for complete liberation of Palestine, and rejects all plans that aim at the settlement of the Palestine issue or its internationalisation. 
The Palestine Liberation Organisation has as part of its covenant' armed struggle and the destruction of the State of Israel. The Palestine Liberation Organisation is, on past history, a terror group. It is a terrorist group responsible for some of the worst massacres of the last 10 years. It has specialised in attacks upon the unarmed, upon civilians and upon athletes. The associated groups that make up the PLO have used terror against civilian populations as part of their regular program. Today's events in Tel Aviv simply emphasise that that is the case. The PLO is not a legitimate national liberation organisation. It has no right to speak for the Palestinian people. It is not an elected body. We do not want it in Australia. Its acceptance here would enhance its standing in the world at large. If it can be shown that yet another country has been willing to accept representatives of the PLO it could only increase its standing throughout the world. I certainly recognise the legitimate and proper place in this country of the embassies and missions from Arab nations and I recognise the job that they do and should do. I confine my criticism and remarks to this particular grouping of organisations- the PLO- which uses terror as its weapon and has totally unacceptable foreign policy aims. 
In speaking to this item in the Appropriation Bills I am asking the Prime Minister to consider the position again. I am indebted to one of my Senate colleagues for having made available to me remarks by a pioneer civil rights activist of America's black community- a man named Bayard Rustin. Writing in the 'Jerusalem Post Weekly ' last January, he roundly condemned the PLO, he roundly condemned its tactics and he condemned the kind of international attitude that could accept any of its activities as being in any way legitimate. The Prime Minister and the Cabinet should consider again their expressed conditional support for a PLO visit. While these organisations use terror they should not be allowed into Australia. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) How many regional offices have been set up by the Department of Social Security since December 1972. 
Where have these been set up. 
What has been the cost of renting and equipping those offices and of employing staff. 
Under which appropriation items have these offices been financed. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) What programs exist to enable assessment of social welfare initiatives in Australia. 
Which of these assessment programs are 'client oriented ', in that assessments are made by the users, rather than the providers of the services. 
If any programs are ' client oriented' what are they and how do they function. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
1 ) Did the RAAF use Hercules aircraft in the airlift from Darwin following cyclone Tracy 
Did the RAAF use its available flying hours for the year 1974-75 during this evacuation. 
Were RAAF Hercules aircraft stopped from flying during January and February 1975 because the permitted flying hours were exhausted. 
How many hours have been flown by RAAF Hercules aircraft in each month since June 1 974. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Is the Government now reappraising its views on defence and foreign relations in Australia's region as a result of current events in Indo-China? If so, when will the results of such a reappraisal of the Government's foreign affairs and defence thinking be made known to this Parliament? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
1 ) What was the number of registered unemployed in the Australian Capital Territory in each of the months of September, October and November 1974, as (a) a total number, (b) excluding school-leavers. 
Can these figures be compared month by month with similar figures for New South Wales and the whole of Australia. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Does the Minister for Health accept as accurate, statements attributed to him in an article in the Sydney Daily Telegraph of 6 February 1975 by Trevor Kavanagh concerning the value of research into cerebrovascular accidents (strokes). 
Does the Minister accept as an accurate summary of his views the statement in the article that, because patients who get strokes are generally old, the disease should not enjoy high research priority and that present priorities in research have become distorted. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
1 ) What are the latest available figures of the amounts of money available in the National Welfare Fund. 
Are moneys in this Fund used for purposes of paying Commonwealth fund benefits or health insurance. 
What special appropriations of money other than those to the National Welfare Fund, have been made which could be used by a Government health insurance fund. 
What are the amounts of money available as a result of each of these special appropriations. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Is there available in Australia sufficient antihaemophilic factor or cryoprecipitate to meet the needs of the estimated 740 haemophiliacs, of whom 350 are thought to be severe cases. 
) Is there sufficient of these two products to meet obligatory basic needs for surgery trauma and dentistry. 
Is there sufficient of these two products to meet in addition needs for day to day spontaneous bleeds. 
Are 1 5 million units of these factors required each year to cover the needs of patients for best possible treatment. 
Were only 6.6 million units of these products produced in 1973-74. 
Is the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories only capable of producing 1.5 million units of concentrate if it works maximum capacity at its present plant 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) Did the Doctors' Reform Society of New South Wales hold a special function at the Reception Hall, Sydney Opera House on Friday, 2 1 February 1 975, at 7.30 p.m. 
Was the cost of hire of the Hall some hundreds of dollars. 
Does the Department of Social Security, or the Department of Health, or any other Government Department, subsidise the Doctors ' Reform Society directly or indirectly. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
Did the previous Attorney-General,  Mr Justice  Murphy, state that  Mr David  Ditchburn had advised him in writing that he would not accept payment to be offered for services on the Films Board of Review. 
As the Papers tabled in the Senate on 10 December 1974 did not include such a letter would the AttorneyGeneral now have the letter tabled in the Senate. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
Has the Depanment of Transport investigated claims made by  Dr Hans  Pacy of Tea Gardens, New South Wales, that a free emergency telephone at critical points on highways could significantly shorten the time required for rescuers to reach the scene of road accidents. 
What plans does the Depanment have to investigate  Dr Pacy's  assertions and the feasibility of assisting State governments to introduce an improved communications system to enable more rapid roadside attention to victims of road accidents. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
How may prescriptions were written for pharmaceutical benefits purposes in which the drug Rauwolfia, in one or other form, was prescribed (a) in each of the 12 months up to and including October 1974 and (b) in the months since October 1974. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation. Did the Minister cancel an appointment with an insurance industry delegation set down for last Friday? Has the Minister issued an instruction to officers of his Department that they are to see representatives of the insurance industry only to discuss written submissions and only with his specific permission? Would he agree that such measures are likely to lessen communication between his Department and the industry likely to be most affected by any national compensation scheme? 
The Senate is debating a matter of urgency, a motion condemning the Whitlam Government for its actions in relation to the situation in Vietnam. South-East Asia is the foreground of Australia's foreign policy perspective. Even though we have abandoned a military role in South-East Asia we have a proper and legitimate diplomatic role and failure of the Australian Government to exercise this role is a failure of national policy which deserves to be condemned in the strongest terms. We are part of this region; its problems are our problems and its interests are our interests. Where we fail to act we are letting the whole region down, not just the countries involved. We can sustain an increasing interest in global policies but not at the expense of our proper role in South-East Asia, our own part of the world. 
The Australian Government has ignored what has been going on. It has ignored what it should have detected months ago, that is that the North Vietnamese were building up an invasion preparedness in gross violation of the Paris Peace Accords. Either the Government did not know that this was happening, in which case it stands condemned because it should know what is going on, or it did know what was happening and did too little, a cynical failure to act when strong action was called for. Australia needs to have a credible standing in South-East Asia. We need to be known as reliable and level-headed allies but nothing that has happened as a result of actions of this Government is going to serve those kinds of ends. There is little credibility for us in South-East Asia unless we concern ourselves more positively with regional issues, and there are no greater issues today than the invasion of South Vietnam on the scale we are seeing. 
The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  has not assisted in giving Australia the proper standing and the proper role. He seems to be more involved in globe trotting and glad-handing than he is in solving some of these real regional problems. We have been waiting for this debate and we have been waiting for the Prime Minister's statement of yesterday.  His  statement was eagerly awaited. We wanted to get some sign of Australia's future positive role. After all,  Mr Whitlam  is the real foreign minister. He is the man who made the decision to recognise the Soviet incorporation of the Baltic States. He is the man who has taken personal control over Australia's activities in regard to this matter of Vietnam. He is the man who chose to make the statement yesterday, bypassing his Foreign Minister  (Senator Willesee).  It was interesting to note that when the same statement was read in the Senate it was not read by the Foreign Minister. He was relegated, and it was read by the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Wriedt).  The statement indicates the Prime Minister's attitude and it tells us that the mess we see today is his mess and the Government 's mess. 
The Prime Minister's statement was a disappointment. It was wholly retrospective. There was nothing in it pointing to the future and to the kind of role which this Government hoped to play.  Mr Whitlam  evaded many great truths about Vietnam and gave tacit acceptance of the spread of Asian communism in what we see going on in Vietnam today. He did not mention the role of China. He scarcely mentioned the role of other communist powers in increasing the supply of arms and material to South-East Asia before this invasion. lt was the Whitlam Labor Government that told us recently that there was no military threat in this area for 1 5 years. I point out that today we are seeing increasing instability in this region, not only in Indo-China. We are seeing instability in Timor and instability threatens in Papua New Guinea. The situation in South-East Asia today is that, far from being a stable and safe part of the world, it is full of uncertainty. 
Part of the Government's foreign policy failure has been that it has misinterpreted what is happening and what may happen. It has left us with no defence capability to cope with situations that could arise. Because of the events in IndoChina more of mainland Asia falls under communist control. This is a new situation and it poses new problems for us and new instability. 
Nothing in the Prime Minister's statement indicated how we were to deal with this situation or what the national Government sought to do. 
We need to do more now to preserve national independence for the other countries of SouthEast Asia. We need to look at the situation in countries like Thailand. The Prime Minister said nothing about this in his speech. We need to strengthen non-communist governments. We need to strengthen their democratic institutions. We need to help strengthen their economies and we need to give them support. The Government promises to do nothing in this region. We need to influence Hanoi to cease and limit its role as a subversive force. The Government does too little in this regard. Even by tortured Labor Party logic there can be no way of condoning communist aggression in Thailand or other nations in the South-East Asian region. Let the Prime Minister declare his hand here. Let him come out and say positively that he will condemn- as roundly as he has condemned other nations- subversive action or invasion of other countries not presently under threat. 
In South Vietnam we have seen aggression of the grossest kind. After the Paris Peace Accords there was some tussle for territory and there were minor transgressions from both sides, but only one side, the North Vietnamese side, has engaged in gross violation of the terms of the Paris Peace Accords. The North Vietnamese, in contravention of the Paris Peace Accords, increased the size of their army from 200 000 to 300 000 troops. They increased their fire power. They increased their supplies and they increased their tanks. They did everything to build up an invasion capability, all in contravention of the Accords they had signed. North Vietnam callously equipped itself for an offensive invasion. There was no condemnation of this action from  Mr Whitlam  or his Government. South Vietnam engaged in no such activity. In fact since the Paris Peace Accords were signed the United States of America has disengaged from South Vietnam and the size of the South Vietnamese army and its forces has decreased. 
We know what the communist invasion of South Vietnam means. I remind honourable senators that several years ago Hue was captured by the communists and then recaptured. We had quite a rare opportunity to see what happens when a period of communist occupation occurs. We understand some of the real facts. The facts that came out of Hue were mass graves, mass executions. It was all very skilfully done. The people killed were pan of the infrastructure which ran the Government in that part of the country. They were the professional people, the administrative people, the village officials, the government officials. They disappeared following the communist invasion and brief holding of Hue. No wonder that in 1 954 a million people fled south fearing the North Vietnamese regime. We understand that nothing like that number has fled towards North Vietnam. In 1975 there are 2 million refugees out of their homes and running from the North Vietnamese armies. Those people have voted; they have voted with their feet. They have indicated their preference. It is not a question of just running from war because they are running south away from the communists. They are not running north; they are not running to Hanoi. They fear the communist regime and they do not want to join it. 
The Prime Minister's position, his posturing, his evasion and his equivocation are just not good enough. It is the  Deputy  Prime Minister of Australia  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  who tells it as it is. He spells out the Labor Government's total indifference to the suffering in South Vietnam and the total indifference to the invasion which has occurred. He spells out the ineffectiveness of his Government in responding to the wishes of the people and the fact that it does not intend to do anything to stop this invasion or even to condemn it. The Prime Minister has not disowned this action by  Dr Cairns.  The Minister for Foreign Affairs has not disowned the words of  Dr Cairns.  The Labor Party has not disowned what  Dr Cairns  has said. He is the only one who has spoken forthrightly and expressed a point of view and he has disgusted most of the Australian community. No one in the Australian Government will disown what the  Deputy  Prime Minister has said and his outrageous comments stand as Australian Government policy and as Australian Government belief. There has been a vacuum of real policy. What he says remains the only words by which Australians can judge this Government. The real challenge at the moment is in our region, and it concerns our credibility as allies and our proper role. The Australian Government stands condemned for what it has done to our capacity to be seen as a good ally, to our acceptability in South East Asia and eventually to our capacity to protect our own security. The motion is a proper one. It expresses properly our condemnation of the Government's action, particularly the Government's failure to act equally towards both sides in this war. The motion has been debated adequately. We on this side support it. Therefore, I move: 
That the question be now put. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Attorney-General. For how many years and on whose specific instruction has it been the practice in the Australian Capital Territory not to prosecute people for possession and use of cannabis derivatives? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the Department of Transport investigated claims made by  Dr Hans  Pacy of Tea Gardens, New South Wales, that a free emergency telephone at critical points on highways could significantly shorten the time required for rescuers to reach the scene of road accidents. 
What plans does the Department have to investigate  Dr Pacy's  assertions and the feasibility of assisting State governments to introduce an improved communications system to enable more rapid roadside attention to victims of road accidents. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation. I remind him that people with repatriation entitlements to medical treatment are at present disbarred from benefits from voluntary health insurance funds. Will such people be able to use Medibank in preference to the repatriation system into which they are at present locked? In other words, will they be able to see any doctor, not just those doctors presently approved by the Department of Repatriation and Compensation? Will they be able to obtain extra insurance benefits for any medical expenses? If so, is it intended that separate repatriation entitlements for medical care from local doctors will continue? 
I support what  Senator Hall  and  Senator Scott  have said. I suggest to the Minister that if the assertion is being made that a number of objections are frivolous, it might be helpful if we could be given the statistical base on which the assertion is made. If most objections that are made are successful and proper ones, they are clearly not frivolous. Only if it can be shown that a large number of the objections that are being made are not being sustained can any argument be advanced at all for the kind of punitive action which is being suggested in this clause. It would be helpful if we could have the material and the data base which justify this proposal by the Government. 
The Senate is debating the Electoral Laws Amendment Bill 1974. This is the second occasion on which this Bill has been before us. On the first occasion there had been inadequate time to consider the Bill. The Bill returns now that we have had a chance to study it, analyse it and make up our minds about it. It seems to me that we are considering a Bill, the aim of which is, or should be, to amend the electoral laws to increase the chance of democracy functioning properly. If it is to be justified, the Bill must serve the democratic process. We must look at this Bill, criticise it and analyse it with that in mind. It is irrelevant what the specific provisions are in themselves. The provisions are important as they apply to the right of Australian citizens to nominate, to take part in elections and to get the kind of result which the community wants. If we are seeking the aim in this legislation that is related to the democratic process, we can look at what this Bill proposes. 
The very brief second reading speech of the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Senator Willesee)  outlined 3 main aims of the Bill. First, the Bill is designed to allow for speedier finalisation of federal election results. That is a major aim of the Bill. Secondly, the Bill proposes to improve voting facilities. Then it proposes a number of consequential amendments which will enable it to remain a coherent document. 
But the main thrust of the Bill is to seek speedier election results. I see no virtue in speed in itself. The Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  in his second reading speech when he first introduced this Bill placed enormous importance upon speed. He was appalled that Australians should have to wait for their election results. But in fact the speed with which the result is arrived at is important only if in the process we lose nothing of democratic justice or democratic fairness. The democratic system itself must not suffer in this haste for a quick result. Speed in results is of no intrinsic value in itself. It is possibly of some value to the media in their coverage of an election; it is possibly of some value to the Press to be able to state who has or has not won, but in terms of governing a nation speed in getting the result has no value whatsoever. If we take 3 days or 10 days or 5 weeks to learn the result of a Federal election, democracy is well served if it is the right result- using the word right' in the sense that it is the result that the community wants. This legislation, in its search for speed, does not seem to protect democratic rights, and it is for this reason that we will be opposing sections of the Bill. 
I refer to something that  Senator Withers  said in his remarks on this Bill. We will be supporting large parts of the Bill. We have no objection to electoral reform in itself. We have every objection to so-called electoral reform which is no reform at all when one comes to look at its effect upon the community and upon the electoral and democratic process. I remind the Senate once again that with the present system the political party gaining the majority of votes in Australia can form a government because it will obtain the majority of seats in the Parliament. We want to ensure that that system is retained. I would abolish or change the system only if I saw some higher purpose served, and speed does not serve that purpose. Let us examine once again the proposal to cut the hours of polling. This proposal is contained in clause 39 of the Bill, which states: 
Section 1 1 1 of the Principal Act is amended- 
by omitting paragraph (b) and substituting the following paragraph:- 
The poll shall open at 8 o'clock in the morning and shall not close until all electors present in the polling booth at 6 o'clock in the evening, and desiring to vote, have voted;' . . . 
There are several points to be made here. Australia is one of the few countries that holds it major national elections on a Saturday. In other countries, such as Great Britain and the United States, elections are held mid-week. We have heard a number of honourable senators refer today to the problems that have arisen from the Australian practice of holding its national elections on what is for a portion of our population the Sabbath Day. The fact is that Saturday is the most unsuitable day for Seventh Day Adventists or for people of the Jewish faith. There are sizable communities of people who adhere to these religions and who find in the present proposals restrictions upon their right to vote which to them are abhorrent and totally unnecessary. 
These people are not impressed by any argument that counting of votes can commence 2 hours earlier. I remind honourable senators that for these 2 religious groups the Sabbath extends from sunset on Friday to sunset on Saturday, whenever sunset occurs and, of course, it will vary throughout the year depending upon the length of the days. I also remind honourable senators that if sunset occurs after the polls have closed the adherents to the Seventh Day Adventist or Jewish faiths are unable to attend a polling place and cast a personal vote. If the polls close at 6 p.m. those people have lost something- they have lost part of their right to take part in the democratic process. If the polls close at 8 p.m. standard time this is always after sunset; that is to say, 8 p.m. standard time will always allow people of these religious faiths to attend the polling places in person. But if the polls close at 6 p.m., I have been informed by the Bureau of Meteorology that for some 27 weeks of the year -more than 6 months of the year- 6 p.m. will be before sunset and people of these 2 religious faiths will be prevented from personally attending the polling places and casting their own votes. Again I ask: Does the desire for a speedy result justify this kind of sacrifice of democratic principle or right? 
Other arguments have been advanced. I noted that  Senator McLaren  drew attention to the long hours worked by the officers who have to man the polling places and to the complexity of the arrangements, and I agree with him. But in itself that is no argument for shortening polling hours. It may be an argument for altering the administrative arrangements, for altering the shifts worked by these officers or for seeking more officers. Everything that  Senator McLaren  said is correct. These people who work at the polling places do so under great difficulty and strain. But I submit to  Senator McLaren  with the best will in the world that it does not follow that a reduction in hours of polling, which will disadvantage the adherents of the 2 religious groups, and possibly other people in Australia, is necessarily justified. If the aim of the legislation is to improve democracy, we cannot really do so by disfranchising people. Perhaps we need to change our day of polling from Saturdays, and this is an argument to which I could listen. 
I remind  Senator Poyser  that other countries declare a public holiday and have their elections mid-week. I am just saying that there is another alternative which could possibly be considered. 
But let us examine the other way open to some of these people who would not be allowed to attend the polling places in person. They would be able to seek a postal vote. Therefore we look at what this Bill proposes with regard to postal voting. The alternative open to these people is to seek a postal vote, and many of them will do this. But postal voting depends upon a number of things. It depends upon the legislative arrangements for postal voting, it depends upon the efficiency and impartiality of the postal services, and of course it depends upon the existence of industrial peace at election time. There only needs to be a situation in which there is industrial unrest and the postal service is interfered with by strikes, and postal voting becomes an empty mockery. If there is any delay in processing the application for the votes or in returning the votes then electoral justice is lessened. 
I might mention that following the last election more people came to me complaining about failures at various points in the postal voting system, more of them complained about their postal voting rights not being fully met according to the way they saw the situation, than about any other electoral matter. Postal voting is a very important matter but does this Bill extend or reduce the rights of people to cast a postal vote? Well, under this Bill the Government has decided that it is going to set an earlier deadline for the return of postal votes and it will insist upon their being returned direct to the respective returning officer. It is proposed in this Bill to restrict postal voting application forms to those gazetted for the particular election. These measures are designed to limit, even if they limit ever so slightly, the opportunities to cast a postal vote, to use the postal voting system. An earlier deadline for the return of postal votes has no justification except that it will lead to this more rapid result which is seen by the Labor Party as such a valuable aim in itself. Any kind of postal delay, any kind of bureaucratic failure, any delay in delivering postal vote application forms, any overloading of a divisional returning office with work could result in the disfranchisement of those seeking postal votes. I see no real justice in the rather draconian restrictions which are proposed in relation to those aspects of postal voting. The other proposal for postal voting to be made more available to those in prison and who have retained their franchise entitlement is something to which we of the Opposition take no exception. 
On the same theme, I would like to discuss once again, briefly, the question of optional preferential voting. The Government's proposal to make preferential voting optional is justified only if there is seen to be some higher democratic good in this change in the electoral system. To do it to make things more simple is in itself no justification. It is justified only if the electoral system and the result we eventually get gain something. I remind the Senate that the question of optional preferential voting is very different in the effects it will have on the House of Representatives and Senate election results. I would like to restrict my remarks once again to Senate elections and the effect which optional preferential voting might have in the Senate. The Minister for Services and Property described in his second reading speech the present requirement for full preferential voting as being meaningless and undemocratic. Mark those words. This same Minister was a member of the Federal Parliament in 1948 and voted to make preferential voting full and compulsory. I doubt that he found it either meaningless or undemocratic at that stage. I remind the Senate that full preferential voting in a Senate election ensures that there are sufficient votes remaining late in the count and available to elect the proper number of senators. I refer the Senate to page 1309 of Senate Hansard of 30 April 1948 where  Senator McKenna,  discussing the Commonwealth Electoral Bill 1948, was reported as having said. 
Nor is it intended to vary the requirement that voters must indicate the order of their preference for all the candidates. Whilst this latter requirement may have the effect of continuing to produce a fairly high informal vote it definitely precludes the possibly greater evil of exhausted votes, that is, votes which become exhausted in the process of transfer. In this connection it is pointed out that at the 1922 and 1925 parliamentary elections in New South Wales the exhausted votes, which in number exceeded the informal votes, were the cause of much dissatisfaction and disputation. 

 Senator McKenna, speaking in this place in 1948, gave us eloquent argument against optional preferential voting. We have in this country electoral history which tells us that exhausted votes do occur and that they can complicate the correct decision about who has been elected and who has not, and they can be the cause of much dissatisfaction and disputation. Surely the present system of full preferential voting which ensures that there is always a quota remaining for the election of the last few senators gives us a result which everyone accepts as the just result even if it is slow. 
In 1948  Dr Evatt  argued strongly against optional preferential voting. As AttorneyGeneral of the day he made a second reading speech in which he said: 
Under proportional representation a very low preference may become either an effective vote when candidates are excluded from the bottom of the ballot paper, or a fraction of an effective vote when candidates are excluded from the top of the paper. 
This is the system which has enabled this Senate to reflect the voting patterns of our community ever since 1948. Optional preferential voting would be a disadvantage because it would adversely affect the electoral justice which our voting system would give us. We saw this happen in New South Wales in the 1920s and we do not want the experiment repeated here. It is interesting to see that what  Mr Daly  supported in 1948 he describes as undemocratic and meaningless now. 
I intend, with my colleagues, to vote for the second reading of this Bill but then to consider very carefully in Committee the clauses and possible amendments. I reject utterly any assertions, like those made by  Senator Devitt,  that a reduction of 10 per cent in an informality rate would justify disfranchising 1 per cent of the community. I think I am quoting  Senator Devitt  accurately. I am ashamed that he should say such a thing. Nothing in a so called electoral reform Bill justifies disfranchising anyone. Nothing in the search for speedier results justifies taking away the rights of citizens to vote and to have their votes counted. Those parts of this Bill which aim to improve the electoral process we will support; those parts which diminish electoral justice we will oppose, and in so doing we will seek to do our proper job of protecting our community and ensuring that electoral results reflect the wishes of that community. 

 Senator DEVITT (Tasmania)-  Mr President,  I heard some reference by  Senator Baume  to observations I made in the course of my speech. I claim to have been misrepresented and I wish to make a personal explanation. I am sorry to have to do this. I am quite certain that  Senator Baume  misunderstood what I said to the Senate. If that was the impression that he got then I am sorry. It certainly was not the impression I intended to give that there would be any justification whatever for disfranchising people. What I was saying to the Senate was that, on the one hand, the Opposition was claiming that it was incorrect that about one per cent, or in any event, a proportion of the people would be disfranchised whereas, with the level of the informal vote, in fact 10 per cent of the people were currently being disfranchised. That is certainly what I intended to say and, if I gave the impression that I was trying to justify something other than that, I certainly did not intend to do so. That is why I thought I should make this explanation. 
-Will the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security confirm that patients in standard ward beds in public psychiatric hospitals will not attract benefits under arrangements being proposed for that part of the Medibank scheme affecting hospital care? Do such patients constitute 26 per cent of all those in public hospital beds in Australia? Will the Minister confirm that an undertaking was given to these patients in the White Paper produced by the Government prior to the introduction of its scheme which promised free standard ward care for everyone? 
It seems that the amendment proposed by the Opposition is designed to extend the opportunities for postal voting. I was interested to hear the Minister say in his explanation that there had been complaints about the operation of a similar provision in the Northern Territory and that the Government feared it might extend the opportunity for certain abuses. I would be grateful if the Minister could advise us of the kinds of complaints that have been received, and the kinds of abuses which he contemplates and about which he is fearful. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
How much of the $1,830,000 proposed for expenditure during 1974-75 on hospitals in New South Wales at Westmead, Campbeltown and Gosford is to be spent on each of those hospitals. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Is the amount of money recently made available for the provision of (a) home dialysis and (b) stoma appliances sufficient for the needs of all of those persons who require these services; if not, how is rationing of services to be carried out. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
What procedures exist to ensure that all members of the Australian Public Service dealing directly with potential clients of the welfare system (a) know what benefits are available, and (b) communicate this information accurately, courteously and expeditiously. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) Are Community Development Officers needed for the proper functioning of the Australian Assistance Plan especially to ensure effective and representative community participation. 
Are sufficient Community Development Officers available for recruitment at the present time. 
My question, addressed to the Minister representing the Treasurer, follows on that asked by  Senator Cotton.  Is not the rise in the consumer price index in the March quarter higher than that in 1971, 1972, 1973 or 1974? In fact, do not the figures show that it has been the worst March quarter rise in the consumer price index since 195 1? 
The Committee is debating an amendment which proposes to exclude clause 39 of the Bill. If anything points up the cant and hypocrisy of Labor's claim to electoral reform, it is this proposal in the Bill. If we look at what the Labor Party has said about electoral reform over the period of the year since I have been here, we find, turning to the second reading speech of the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly),  that in discussing the Commonwealth Electoral Bill (No. 2) 1973, the Minister said this about electoral laws:   if they are manipulated to reflect the political interest of persons or parties- it would be a denial of the very essence of democracy and a travesty of the electoral process. 
That is what the Minister said then. 
We have here a proposal that is clearly designed to limit the right of some people to use the electoral process. This comes from the Party which talked about one vote one value, and the necessity for everyone to be able to exercise his or her vote and to have his or her rights at the polls. It is the Labor Party that is proposing to alter the hours of polling. No reason has been given for this proposal apart from the very valid reason that polling day is a difficult and long day for poll workers. It is a 12-hour day for party workers and the officers who man the polling places. I adverted to this aspect in my speech in the second reading debate and I do not want to go across the same ground entirely. 
No point has been made to indicate any extra electoral justice or any great value to the electoral system in cutting back the hours of polling by the 2 hours proposed. I point out to  Senator Milliner  that it is perfectly possible to open the polling places later and to close them at 8 p.m. if what we are seeking is a shorter day for those who work at the polls. I think that  Senator McLaren  in his speech at the second reading stage referred similarly to the length of time people had to work. I will not argue about that. But I come back to the point that 6 p.m. closing of the polls has very special and definite disabilities for people of certain religious groups. Without going through the full argument again, I remind the Committee that for 27 weeks of the year 6 p.m. closing will prevent those people coming personally to polling places and voting because for 27 weeks of the year sunset occurs after 6 p.m. and those people will not be able to attend polling places. 
I would like the Government and the Minister to express a view on what the Government 's attitude is towards the rights of the Seventh Day Adventists community in Australia and the rights of the Jewish community in Australia. I want him to express a view on what his Government sees as the virtue in disenfranchising them in the sense that they cannot come to the polls for any more than half of a year if 6 p.m. closing of the polls is brought in. It is for the Government, if it wants to change the electoral laws, to show us some advantage to Australia. We say again, as we have said before, that getting a quicker result is no justice, is meaningless and is, in the end, unimportant. What is most important is that we get the right election result so that everyone's vote can count and everyone 's vote can be counted. 
These 2 religious groups are not small groups in Australia. There are more than 70 000 people in the Jewish population and more than 50 000 in the Seventh Day Adventist population. They are aware of what is being proposed by the Labor Government and they are not happy about it. The Seventh Day Adventist community in this country is organised in what is called the Australian Division of Seventh Day Adventists. Its chief minister is known as the  President  of Seventh Day Adventists. The  President  of this Division is Pastor K. Frame, an eminent man, a man who is the leader of his church in Australia. He sent me a telegram today on this matter. 1 shall read that telegram to the Senate: 
Re electoral amendment Bill. SO 000 Australian Seventh Day Adventists urgently request consideration of their plight and possible disenfranchisement if polls close at 6 p.m. Frame, President, Australian Division of Seventh Day Adventists. 148 Fox Valley Road, Wahroonga, New South Wales. 
This is a matter of some concern to Seventh Day Adventists, lt is not just a matter to be lightly laughed off. The postal voting arrangements and facilities are not all they should be. We have seen in this Bill a concerted attempt to limit the right to a postal vote even further. The Seventh Day Adventist community wants a clear answer. 
Members of that community can vote after sunset. Let us be clear about this. 
Their sabbath runs from sunset Friday to sunset Saturday. They do vote. They turn out and vote, given the chance. The Seventh Day Adventist community is an active involved community. It is almost a model community in the way it looks after its affairs. Those in Sydney will know that it runs probably the finest private hospital we have in that city. It is run with great dedication and care. The Seventh Day Adventists run a complete, well organised and most responsible community. They want answers as to where the electoral justice is in cutting the hours of polling back to 6 p.m. 
Let us take the points made by  Senator Milliner  and  Senator McLaren.  Let us open the polling places later if we feel that there is some urgent need to cut down on the work on polling day for polling officers and party workers. The Seventh Day Adventists want to know why their right to vote should be abrogated. If it is just a matter of expediency to achieve quick election results, they are not going to be impressed, and that answer is just not good enough. The Government has to justify its proposal to cut back polling hours. Unless it can do so, we will persist in our intention to vote against what this Bill proposes and to seek to leave the hours of polling as they are now. As the hours of polling are at present, people can vote for almost all of the year because sunset almost never occurs after 8 p.m. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) Which members of the Social Security Appeal Tribunals for (a) New South Wales, (b) Victoria, (c) Queensland, (d) South Australia, (e) Western Australia, (f) Tasmania and (g) the Australian Capital Territory, come from the Benefits Branch of the Department of Social Security and legal and welfare groups within the community. 
From which community legal and welfare groups do the appointed members come. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation and follows the question asked earlier by  Senator 
Brown. Will an Australian Government insurance office use ordinary actuarial methods in determining premiums to be paid for life assurance policies? Will known and measured morbidity experience of groups with certain characteristics- for example, a history of elevated blood pressure- be used in such actuarial calculation and premium loadings? Do Aboriginal people have an excess mortality measured simply on a basis of race and would this be a valid factor for actuarial calculation? If the Australian Government insurance office elects not to use all known factors affecting morbidity in determining life assurance premiums will it need subsidy payments or other arrangements to cover trading losses likely to follow such a policy? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health and the Minister for Social Security. Has the Government claimed that hospital treatment in standard wards will be free in those hospital systems participating in the hospital side of the Government's health insurance scheme? Has  Dr Everingham,  the Minister for Health, now announced that Canberra residents treated in standard ward beds by doctors of their own choice will pay a hospital surcharge of $20 a day for their accommodation, and that free standard ward care will be available only to those treated by salaried doctors? Is this proposed surcharge a punitive imposition designed to discourage participation of non-salaried doctors in the hospital care of residents of Canberra? 
I ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs: Was an approach made recently by  Mr Michael  Darby for Australian Government assistance in obtaining travel to Guam for a medical team? Had  Mr Darby  assembled, for the purpose of assisting with the care of the refugees, several tons of pharmaceutical goods, dried milk and other foodstuffs, together with teams of doctors and nurses? Was the plan to establish an Australian presence to serve humanitarian objectives for the large number of Vietnamese refugees in Guam and, as such, was the proposed mission one of which all Australians would approve? Had cables been received from the senior American officer on Guam welcoming the proposed help? Did the Department of Foreign Affairs decide not to assist the expedition to obtain the transport which it required to get its members and assembled goods to Guam? 
The Senate is debating a motion that the Senate censures the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Senator Willesee)  for knowingly misleading the Senate in relation to the contents of cables sent by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  to the Australian ambassadors in Saigon and Hanoi. It is not a motion about Indo-China, it is not a motion about the facts or otherwise over 10 or 20 years. It concerns one senator, a Minister of State, the Foreign Minister, and whether or not he misled the Senate in order not to be found out in relation to some things which had happened. That is what the motion is about. That is what we on this side are attempting to debate. It is not a history of Vietnam, it is not a history of what went on 10 or 15 years ago. It is what happened in this country in the last month and whether or not the Minister for Foreign Affairs has told the truth to the Senate. If he has not, there is a proper basis for a censure motion and a proper basis for condemning him. 
The motion concerns the authority of the Parliament. It concerns the right of the Senate to be properly informed on matters of state. It concerns the duty of honourable senators to tell the truth when they speak in this chamber. It concerns our right, when we ask questions of Ministers, to know that the reply which we receive, when it is unequivocal, will not be a deliberate or outright untruth. 
I would remind the Senate of the custom of the British Parliament, the Parliament of Westminster. When a Minister tells a lie and is found out, that Minister resigns his portfolio. I was in England in 1963 when the then Minister for War,  Mr Profumo,  had to resign his portfolio not because he had performed badly as a Minister or because his Government had been defeated, but because he had misled the House of Commons and had been discovered; and the only appropriate thing for him to do was to resign. The issue facing us today is whether the Minister for Foreign Affairs has told the truth to the Senate or whether he has not told the truth and if the latter is the case whether he should resign and make way for another Minister who will show greater concern for the rights of Parliament and for its traditions. I believe that unless this kind of care is taken of the traditions and rights of Parliament we will lose a lot. Those of us who ask questions of Ministers will not know, when we get an answer, whether it is an untruth made up on the spur of the moment to cover the exigencies of the moment. 
There are facts known about the present matter. The facts are that some cables were sent- one to Hanoi and one to Saigon- and that they were significantly different. I would remind honourable senators just how different they were. The cable which was sent to Saigon was brief, contained 4 paragraphs and set out very bluntly the Government's desire that the South Vietnamese Government should make the Paris Peace Accords work and that it should observe all its obligations under those Accords. The cable which was sent to Hanoi was quite different. That cable not only was much longer but also was much more friendly and more fulsome and it contained at least 2 portions not found in the cable which was sent to South Vietnam. Firstly, there was the following statement:   the Australian Government understands the sense of frustration which has given rise to renewed recourse to military pressure on Thieu although it cannot condone that recourse. 
There is no equivalent to that quotation in the cable that went to South Vietnam. I invite Government senators when answering to show me the part in the cable to Saigon which is equivalent to that reference in the cable to Hanoi. The cable to Hanoi continues: 
In this connection, the Australian Government believes it would have a most favorable effect if the PRG were to make it clear that recent military operations had had the aim of applying pressure to secure the observance of the ignored political provisions of the Paris agreement and that the operations would cease when satisfactory assurances were offered by Saigon that these political provisions would be implemented. 
There is no equivalent part to that paragraph in the cable sent to Saigon. 
There is no equivalent in the sense that the cables are different in intent and quite different in content. The cables exist; the cables are different. With that background of what the cables said we can look at what was stated by the Minister for Foreign Affairs when the matter was debated in the Senate. 
I quote first from Hansard of 9 April at page 853 where  Senator Willesee,  in speaking to a motion of urgency at that time, referred to what  Mr Peacock  had said. He referred to several points which  Mr Peacock  had made.  Mr Peacock  had submitted that a cable had been sent to Saigon. That is correct.  Mr Peacock  had asserted that the cable had stressed that the Paris Accords needed to be implemented. That is correct.  Mr Peacock  had asserted that in particular article 4, chapter 12 of the Accords needed to be implemented. That is correct.  Mr Peacock  had submitted further that another cable was sent to Hanoi which referred to the activities of North Vietnam being inspired by the Provisional Revolutionary Government. That is correct.  Mr Peacock  had further stated that words to the following effect were used: 
We understand that for public relations purposes it has to be said that pressure is being applied to the Saigon Government to get it to implement the Paris Accords. 
That is correct if one reads the text of the cables. Those are the matters which  Mr Peacock  asserted. Those are the statements in reply to which  Senator Willesee  stated: 
The purported quotation from the cable is just plain wrong. I have seen the cables. There is not one atom of truth - 
He did not say they were not completely correct. He said that there was not one atom of truth. I had not seen the cables at that time but when I sit in the Senate I believe the Minister for Foreign Affairs. If he says: 'There is not one atom of truth', what am I to do? I am to assume that he is telling the truth to the Senate and that that was indeed the case. Yet when I read the cables I found that that was not the case and that there was more than at atom of truth in what  Mr Peacock  had said and that there was considerable untruth in the statement made by the Minister for Foreign Affairs.  Senator Willesee  stated further: 
I have seen those cables. I say that those words did not appear in those cables. I have read them before and I have read them again this morning. The statements that have been made are quite untrue. 
The statements that have been made were not quite untrue. The statements were substantially correct.  Mr Peacock's  statements were substantially correct and the Minister had no right to say that they were quite untrue.  Senator Willesee  said further 
Opposition members allege the existence of a Government document- I stress ' allege ' - 
Why should he stress the word 'allege'? The document clearly existed. What was he trying to do? Was he trying to draw a veil across the facts? There was no reason for him to say that he stressed the word 'allege'.  Senator Willesee  said further:  . . then they let loose their imagination as to the contents of such a document. 

 Mr Peacock let loose his imagination in a remarkably accurate way for what he said about these documents has been proved subsequently to represent their contents, very nearly verbatim. 
On the following day, 10 April 1975,  Senator Willesee  stated, as reported at page 93 1 of the Senate Hansard: 'As we said last night, there are no major discrepancies'. One could not have a more unequivocal statement than that there are no major discrepancies. Yet, quite clearly, if we read the text of the cables, we see there are major discrepancies and major differences. Why has  Senator Willesee  not told the truth to this place? He continued to say: 'I said last night that the Prime Minister had said that there is not one atom of truth in  Mr Peacock's  statement. Honourable senators should stop basing their questions on a lie. ' I submit that Ministers should stop basing their answers on a lie. The facts are quite clear.  Senator Willesee  was willing to use untruths in the Senate. He did use untruths in the Senate. He did make statements that were not correct and were not true. He has shown no concern nor any remorse for having done so. He has shown no inclination to admit the real facts or to admit that he was in error in the things that he said in this place. He has issued no statements to make it clear to the Senate that he is in any way sorry for misleading the chamber as he did. The implications quite clearly are that in the future it will be difficult to place any reliance on what the honourable senator says when he speaks. It will be difficult to place any reliance on what he then says by way of explanation if he is challenged. It will be difficult to place any reliance on any denials which he issues if people accuse him of telling untruths. Aeschylus said: 'It is not the oath that makes us believe the man, but the man the oath'. The sad thing here is that it is the Minister for Foreign Affairs who has suffered by having made the assertions he did, with the strength he did, in declaring that there was not one atom of truth in what was said by  Mr Peacock  when clearly that was not the case. The Minister has no credibility left after this deception, this dissembling and these untruths. 
It is interesting that of the members of the Labor Party who have spoken in this debate none has sought to justify the words used by the Foreign Minister, and none has sought to deny that the Minister told untruths to the Senate or that he misled the Senate. No one has denied the charge contained in  Senator Greenwood's  motion. It must hurt the Minister more than anything else that his supporters are unwilling to defend him and turn always to argue about the Vietnam war and past policies. Surely members of the Labor Party will assert clearly their belief that Parliament is entitled to the truth. Surely they will assert that Parliament is always entitled to the truth and that Ministers of State who are unwilling to tell the truth should resign. Surely they should say that they believe in Ministers not misleading this chamber, not deceiving, dissembling and misleading this Parliament. I want to hear members of the Labor Party make that assertion, make that statement and give us that assurance. We want to hear their belief in the principle that Parliament is entitled to the truth. This can come from individual senators, from Ministers or from leaders of the Party. So far I have heard nothing of the sort. I have seen a smokescreen raised about Vietnam, but the issue here is the truth or falsehood of what was stated by the Minister for Foreign Affairs in this place in the last month. We have on record some of the attitudes which the Labor Party has recorded about telling the truth. I refer to an interview which  Mr Whitiam  gave to David Frost in 1972 before the election which saw  Mr Whitlam  become Prime Minister.  Mr Frost  asked  Mr Whitlam: 
Tell me, is it possible for a politician and someone on the verge of great office or someone in great office, to always tell the truth? 

 Mr Whitlam replied: 
Its . . . there are some things you obviously couldn't . . . But ah there's very few instances where you couldn't tell the truth. 
David Frost persisted: 
What would be an instance for instance? 

 Mr Whitlam replied: 
You couldn't say, for instance, if the Americans told you they were going to step up their war against Hanoi in a particular way next week. You couldn't tell Hanoi, or you couldn't tell the world. You couldn't tell the world. 
He went on to talk about the problem of not revealing international confidences of that kind. He then said: 
But those are the only instances where I can think that a person . . . 

 Mr Frost intervened: 
If faced with a direct question in those cases you would have to tell a lie? 

 Mr Whitlam said: 
You would have to and people holding top office have in those circumstances, lied. 
He went on to say later: 
But I don 't think, I can 't think of any other cases. 
On the one hand  Mr Whitlam  was asserting that you could lie but that it occurs only in very limited situations. Further, if we go back to the record, we find that in times past when  Mr Whitlam  was Leader of the Opposition he was very ready to move censure motions against members of our Government parties if he thought they had in any way misled the Parliament. In debating one such censure motion he paid tribute to a Minister for Air from my Party who had offered to resign over what was known as the VIP aircraft affair because the facts that emerged in the Minister's own view made it appear that he may not have told the truth.  Mr Whitiam  paid tribute to the Minister and it is recorded in Hansard. He took the view that the Minister had taken appropriate and proper action. 
In anticipation of what might be said in this debate I looked further into the Westminster tradition about telling the truth to Parliament. I refer honourable senators to May's Parliamentary Practice, Chapter X, page 138. The chapter is entitled: 'Breaches of Privilege and Contempts'. There is a heading: 'Misconduct of Members or Officers of Either House as such'. The next heading is entitled: 'Misleading the House '. The document reads: 
The House may treat the making of a deliberately misleading statement as a contempt. 
In 1963 the House resolved that in making a personal statement which contained words which he later admitted not to be true, a former member had been guilty of a grave contempt. 
The same paragraph goes on to indicate that contempts may be dealt with by the House by expulsion from the House of Commons. There is no doubt that in the Westminster tradition misleading the House is a very serious offence and is regarded as such. That is what the present debate is about. It is about 2 cables that went to Vietnam; it is about what they contained; it is about what the Minister for Foreign Affairs said about them; it is about the fact that what he said about them does not tie in with the text of the cables. What was said to get out of trouble early in April could not be sustained when the text of the cables was released later. 
This is not a substantive debate about Vietnam. It is not some kind of justification of second rate diplomacy which has been going on under the aegis of this Foreign Minister for some time. It is not an explanation of how  Mr Whitlam  played up, as he is always playing up, to his commie cobbers. It is only an issue of whether the Foreign Minister of this country misled the Parliament and whether in the light of the published text of the cables his statements in the Senate in support of  Mr Whitlam  were correct. The answer must be that the Foreign Minister did not tell the truth, that he did mislead the Senate, that he did mislead the Parliament, and that in supporting his leader and in asserting that there was not an atom of truth in what  Mr Peacock  had said he did his own personal reputation no good and did no good to the Parliament. I suggest that he should follow  Mr Profumo.  Let him bear the censure of this chamber and hopefully resign. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) Is the training of Community Development Officers vital to the effective operation of the Australian Assistance Plan. 
Has the Department of Social Security before it proposals for training courses for such officers. 
3 ) When were these proposals received. 
Have the proposals been agreed to or rejected. 
What is the anticipated need for Community Development Officers in Sydney during the next 12 months. 
Will the number of appropriate officers be available and will they receive their training either (a) formally, or (b) by on the job training, or (c) by a combination of both of these. 
I present the following petition from 439 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Senators in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth that the establishment of an Australian Government Insurance Office will: 
1 ) Cause the loss of jobs and future prospects of employees and agents of the private insurance industry throughout Australia. 
Compete unfairly with private insurers. 
Require large taxation subsidies for a lengthy period. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Senate rejects completely the Australian Government Insurance Office Bill 1975. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I wish to add only a small point to what has already been said. I was very concerned to read the amounts of this item in the Advance to the Treasurer during the last 5 or 6 years.  Senator Guilfoyle  has mentioned how they have been increasing. I was surprised at the extent to which they had increased. I remind the Senate that if we look at the Supply Bills for 1970-71 onwards we will find that the total amounts included in the Advance to the Treasurer were $40m in 1970-71 - 
-Not all of it, senator. The following year the figure was $50m. Then the figure rose to $75m. The total amount asked for in the Advance to the Treasurer in those 3 years is less than the amount being asked for now in a single year. The amount asked for last year was $150m and we are now being asked to approve $240m. The amount and rate of increase and the unspecified nature of the expenditure are proper and legitimate matters of concern. It is all right for  Senator Wriedt  to become a bit testy, but the facts speak for themselves: The expenditures up to the last 2 years were small and they have increased very rapidly and considerably. 
In discussing this clause I would remind  Senator Willesee  that when I spoke last year and I adverted to it he quite correctly took me to task for asking questions during a second reading debate which would be better reserved for a Committee debate. Now we have the chance to ask questions relating to this matter of optional preferential voting. I return to  Senator Withers'  point. What is the purpose of it? What is it expected to achieve? If the Government wants to introduce this voting change it is up to the Government to establish a clear case on what the measure will do and why it will do so. I have tried to find the aim of the clause. I am indebted to  Senator McLaren  who told us that it will reduce the number of informal votes. He did not tell us how. He did not make out a good case.  Senator Willesee,  when delivering the second reading speech on 26 November, referred to exhaustive preferential voting as 'meaningless, undemocratic'. He stated that it was a requirement which led to a situation in which many electors either intentionally or unintentionally disfranchised themselves'. I would presume that this is the reason behind the Government's desire for optional preferential voting. I am supported in my belief by an article which appeared in the Sydney 'Morning Herald' of 20 September 1974. The article quoted  Mr Daly  as having said that the optional preferential system was needed to avoid a repetition of the Senate elections in which 10.7 per cent of the vote was informal. I trust that that is the reasoning behind the Government's desire to introduce this measure, but it has totally failed to demonstrate to us how this will be achieved. If we look at the results of Senate elections we have no great reason to expect that it will be achieved. In table 1 which was attached to the second reading speech on the Electoral Laws Amendment Bill we find the figures for all the Senate elections held in Australia since 1 949.  Senator Withers  has already referred to some of those figures. 
What is interesting is if one looks at the figures for New South Wales one finds that in 1 974 the rate of informality was 12.31 per cent and that at that election there were 73 candidates. An examination of earlier elections reveals that on 3 previous occasions the informality rate exceeded 12 per cent and that on two of those occasions it was greater than it was in 1974. In 1949 the informality rate was 12.04 per cent and on that occasion there were only 23 candidates. In 1958 the rate was 12.46 per cent and there were 21 candidates. In 1961 the rate was 12.75 per cent and there were 25 candidates. I put it to the Senate that the rate of 1 2.3 1 per cent in 1 974 with 73 candidates does not bear out at all the contention that the requirement to write a smaller set of numbers will have any effect upon the rate of informal voting. It is the Government's job to prove that its proposal will be effective. 
The same kind of figures apply if we look at the figures for Victoria. In 1 974 the informal rate was 11.13 per cent with 48 candidates, but we can look back to a higher informal rate in 1 970 of 1 1.41 per cent when there were only 25 candidates, and in 1955 the informal rate was 13.49 per cent with only 15 candidates. So the requirement to write a greater or lesser series of numbers does not seem to affect the informality rate as one would expect if the Labor argument had any validity. The same thing applies in most of the other States of the Commonwealth. I ask the Minister: Where is the documentary proof that will give us some reason for expecting that the requirement to write fewer numbers will lead to a smaller informal vote? We can look at other experience. We can look at the Advisory Council elections in the Australian Capital Territory where optional preferential voting was introduced in 1959. 1 remind the Senate that the rate of informal voting did not drop when the voting method was changed from exhaustive preferential to optional preferential. For the Labor case to have any validity the Government must be able to show us an example where a voting alteration has led to an alteration in the result- a smaller number of informal votes. Before 1959 the informal rate for the Advisory Council varied from 5 per cent to 4 per cent to 6 per cent to 9 per cent and to 10 per cent. Following the change to optional preferential voting it was 9 per cent, 1 1 per cent, 8 per cent and 8 per cent. So there was no change. If we look at the results that have been obtained around Australia it appears that it is not the number of candidates or the exhaustive preferential system which affects the rate of informal votes. There must be other factors.  Senator Withers  has referred to some of them. I remind the Senate that in 1974 there was an unprecedented campaign to educate the Australian electorate. I submit that this act of education may have assisted significantly to produce the relatively good results obtained with such mammoth ballot papers and under trying conditions. I suggest that the answer lies not in destroying the voting system but in working on this aspect of education and information. I am sure that  Senator Willesee  would agree that access to information is vital for all citizens. The proper casting of votes is a road to power. 
I ask the Minister to help me with another question which concerns me. What does the Government intend to do to overcome the problem of exhausted votes? I am sure that the Minister will agree that wherever optional preferential voting has been used and wherever there has been a quota for the election of senators- even going back to the New South Wales experience in the 1920s- exhausted votes have meant that quotas could no longer be met for the later candidates to be elected. I want to know what the 
Government's plan is to cope with the problem of exhausted votes and inadequately filled quotas. Until these points can be cleared up the Government has made no case for optional preferential voting and for changing the system, as it now proposes. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Did the grant of $310,000 announced on 25 February by the Australian Government for home renal dialysis represent an amount sufficient to cover the needs of all those persons requiring this treatment. 
If it did not, what guide lines does the Government intend to lay down to ration the therapy and to decide which patients should and which patients should not get treatment. 
If there is such a programme of rationing, what reports will be made on its functioning and to whom will these be made. 
Will Parliament see or have access to such reports. 
I present a petition from 451 citizens of Australia. I should like the petition read, but as it exceeds 250 words in length I ask that leave be given for the first petition to be read by the  Clerk. 
I present the following petition from 122 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Senators in Parliament assembled. The humble Petition of undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth that the establishment of an Australian Government Insurance Office will: 
Lead to nationalisation of the Insurance Industry. 
Create hundreds of public service jobs and cause serious unemployment in the private Insurance Industry in Australia. 
By the 'National Interests' provisions of the Bill provide the opportunity for any government to introduce national schemes which should properly be the subject of separate legislation. 
Your Petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Senate rejects completely the Australian Government Insurance Office Bill 1975. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition from 1 14 citizens of Australia. 
To the Honourable the  President  and Senators in Parliament assembled. The humble Petition of undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth that the establishment of an Australian Government Insurance Office will: 
1 ) Lead to nationalisation of the private Insurance Industry, acquisition of its assets and thereby a nationalised control of a substantial part of the private sector of the economy. 
Provide no better insurance service to the public than that already provided by the existing 45 Life Offices and 260 General Insurers. 
Create hundreds of public service jobs and cause serious unemployment in the private Insurance Industry in Australia. 
Provide the opportunity for that office to obtain general and superannuation business by the application of Australian Government financial and verbal duress on State Government's local and Semi-Government bodies, Australian or State instrumentalities or any other body, or their employees, which is funded by the Australian Government. 
Your Petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Senate rejects completely the Australian Government Insurance Office Bill 1975. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition from 8 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Senators in Parliament assembled. The humble Petition of undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth that the establishment of an Australian Government Insurance Office will: 
. Lead to nationalisation of the Insurance Industry. 
Eliminate private insurance for Australians. 
Create hundreds of public service jobs and cause serious unemployment in the private Insurance Industry in Australia. 
Your Petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Senate rejects completely the Australian Government Insurance Office Bill 1975. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition from 15 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Senators in Parliament assembled. The humble Petition of undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth that the establishment of an Australian Government Insurance Office will: 
Provide no better Insurance service to the public than that already provided by the existing 45 Life Offices and 260 General Insurers. 
Lead to nationalisation of the private Insurance Industry, acquisition of its assets and thereby a nationalised control of a substantial part of the private sector of the economy. 
Have a serious effect on the private sector of the economy by the passing over of further funds to be controlled by the Government through its intrumentalities. 
Your Petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Senate rejects completely the Australian Government Insurance Office Bill 1975. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition from 2 1 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Senators in Parliament assembled. The humble Petition of undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth that the establishment of an Australian Government Insurance Office will: 
Cause serious unemployment in the private Insurance Industry in Australia. 
Permit unfair competition from a Government sponsored organization operating under favoured conditions. 
Open the way for ultimate Government control of private industry and commerce through acquisition of the shareholding assets of private Insurers. 
Your Petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Senate rejects completely the Australian Government Insurance Office Bill 1975. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition from 8 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Senators in Parliament assembled. The humble Petition of undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth that the establishment of an Australian Government Insurance Office will: 
Create hundreds of public service jobs and cause serious unemployment in the private Insurance Industry in Australia. 
Cost taxpayers far in excess of the $2 million capital and loan funds. 
Permit unfair competition against private enterprise with inevitable losses met by the taxpayer. 
Your Petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Senate rejects completely the Australian Government Insurance Office Bill 1975. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition from 16 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Senators in Parliament assembled. The humble Petition of undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth that the establishment of an Australian Government Insurance Office will: 
By the "National Interests" provisions of the Bill provide the opportunity for any government to introduce national schemes which should properly be the subject of separate legislation. 
Permit unfair competition against private enterprise with inevitable losses met by the taxpayer. 
Lead to nationalisation of the private Insurance Industry, acquisition of its assets and thereby a nationalised control of a substantial part of the private sector of the economy. 
Your Petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Senate rejects completely the Australian Government Insurance Office Bill 1975. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition from 37 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Senators in Parliament assembled. The humble Petition of undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth that the establishment of an Australian Government Insurance Office will: 
Lead to the Nationalisation of the Insurance Industry. 
Eliminate private insurance for Australians. 
Create hundreds of Public Service jobs and cause serious unemployment in the private insurance industry. 
Your Petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Senate rejects completely the Australian Government Insurance Office Bill 1975. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition from 1 7 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Senators in Parliament assembled. The humble Petition of undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth that the establishment of an Australian Government Insurance Office will: 
.  Lead to nationalisation of the insurance Industry. 
Eliminate private insurance for Australians and private enterprise will be restricted. 
Create hundreds of public service jobs and cause serious unemployment in the private insurance industry in Australia as well as restrict private enterprise from obtaining finance. 
Your Petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Senate rejects completely the Australian Government Insurance  Office Bill 1975. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition from 40 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Senators in Parliament assembled. The humble Petition of undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth that the establishment of an Australian Government Insurance Office will: 
Lead to nationalization of the Insurance Industry. 
Cost taxpayers far in excess of the proposed $2 million capital and loan funds. 
Provide no better insurance service to the public than that already provided by the existing 45 Life Offices and 260 General Insurers. 
Create hundreds of public service jobs and cause serious unemployment in the private Insurance Industry in Australia. 
Your Petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Senate rejects completely the Australian Government Insurance Office Bill 1975. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition from 20 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Senators in Parliament assembled. The humble Petition of undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth that the establishment of an Australian Government Insurance Office will: 
Cost taxpayers far in excess of the proposed $2 million capital and loan funds. 
Lead to nationalisation of the private Insurance Industry, acquisition of its assets and thereby a nationalised control of a substantial part of the private sector of the economy. 
Provide no better insurance service to the public than that already provided by the existing 45 Life Offices and 260 general Insurers. 
Your Petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Senate rejects completely the Australian Government Insurance Office Bill 1975. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition from 84 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Senators in Parliament assembled. The humble Petition of undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth that the establishment of an Australian Government Insurance Office will: 
1 ) Lead to nationalisation of the Insurance Industry. 
Eliminate private insurance for Australians. 
Create hundreds of public service jobs and cause serious unemployment in the private Insurance Industry in Australia. 
Have a serious effect on the private sector of the economy by the passing over of further funds to be controlled by the Government through its instrumentalities. 
Provide no better plan for the establishment of a National Disaster Fund than that provided by the Insurance Industry in its submission to the Treasury in October, 1 974. 
Your Petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Senate rejects completely the Australian Government Insurance Office Bill 1975. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition from 20 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Senators in Parliament assembled. The humble Petition of undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth that the establishment of an Australian Government Insurance Office will: 
Cost taxpayers far in excess of the proposed $2 million capital and loan funds. 
Permit the ultimate acquisition by the Government of the assets of private insurers which include substantial interest in the private sector of the economy. 
Provide the opportunity for that office to obtain general and superannuation business by the application of Australian Government financial and verbal duress on State Government's local and Semi-Government bodies, Australian or State instrumentalities or any other body, or their employees, which is funded by the Australian Government. 
Your Petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Senate rejects completely the Australian Government Insurance Office Bill 1975. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition from 171 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Senators in Parliament assembled. The humble Petition of undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth that the establishment of an Australian Government Insurance Office will: 
An AGIO will have an unfair advantage over private enterprise. 
Shrink the flow of funds to the private sector. 
Increase the bureaucracy. 
Your Petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Senate rejects completely the Australian Government Insurance Office Bill 1975. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition from 14 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Senators in Parliament assembled. The humble Petition of undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth that the establishment of an Australian Government Insurance Office will: 
Create hundreds of Public Service jobs and cause serious unemployment in the private insurance industry in Australia. 
Cost taxpayers far in excess of the proposed $2 million capital and loan funds. 
Provide no better insurance service to the public than that already provided by the existing 45 life offices and 260 general insurers. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Senate rejects completely the Australian Government Insurance Office Bill 1975. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I  present the following petition from 20 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Senators in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth that the establishment of an Australian Government Insurance Office will: 
Cost taxpayers far in excess of the proposed $2 million capital and loan funds. 
Permit unfair competition against private enterprise with inevitable losses met by the taxpayer. 
Provide no better insurance service to the public than that already provided by the existing 45 life offices and 260 general insurers. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Senate rejects completely the Australian Government Insurance Office Bill 1975. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I  present the following petition from 20 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Senators in Parliament assembled. The humble Petition of undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth that the establishment of an Australian Government Insurance Office will: 
Eliminate private insurance for Australians. 
Lead to nationalisation of the private Insurance Industry, acquisition of its assets and thereby a nationalised control of a substantial part of the private sector of the economy. 
Provide no better insurance service to the public than that already provided by the existing 45 Life Offices and 260 General Insurers. 
Your Petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Senate rejects completely the Australian Government Insurance Office Bill 1975. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I  present the following petition from 1 1 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Senators in Parliament assembled. The humble Petition of undersigned citizens of 
Australia respectfully showeth that the establishment of an Australian Government Insurance Office will: 
. Nationalise the Insurance Industry. 
Eliminate private insurance for Australians. 
Create hundreds of public service jobs and cause serious unemployment in the private insurance industry throughout Australia. 
Your Petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Senate rejects completely the Australian Government Insurance Office Bill 1975. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition from 1 7 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Senators in Parliament assembled. The humble Petition of undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth that the establishment of an Australian Government Insurance Office will: 
Provide no better insurance service to the public than that already provided by the existing 45 Life Offices and 260 General Insurers. 
Permit the ultimate acquisition by the Government of the assets of private insurers which include substantial interest in the private sector of the economy. 
Provide the opportunity for that office to obtain general and superannuation business by the application of Australian Government financial and verbal duress on State Government's local and Semi-Government bodies, Australian or State instrumentalities or any other body, or their employees, which is funded by the Australian Government. 
Your Petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Senate rejects completely the Australian Government Insurance Office Bill 1975. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition from 20 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Senators in Parliament assembled. The humble Petition of undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth that the establishment of an Australian Government Insurance Office will: 
Provide no better plan for the establishment of a National Disaster Fund than that provided by the Insurance Industry in its submission to the Treasury in October 1974. 
Cost taxpayers far in excess of the proposed $2 million capital and loan funds. 
Permit unfair competition against private enterprise with inevitable losses met by the taxpayers. 
Your Petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Senate rejects completely the Australian Government Insurance Office Bill 1975. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition from 20 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Senators in Parliament assembled. The humble Petition of undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth that the establishment of an Australian Government Insurance Office will: 
Permit unfair competition against private enterprise with inevitable losses met by the taxpayer. 
Permit the ultimate acquisition by the Government of the assets of private insurers which include substantial interest in the private sector of the ecenomy 
Lead to nationalisation of the private Insurance Industry, acquisition of its assets and thereby a nationalised control of a substantial part of the private sector of the economy. 
Your Petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Senate rejects completely the Australian Government Insurance Office Bill 1975. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition from 18 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Senators in Parliament assembled. The humble Petition of undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth that the establishment of an Australian Government Insurance Office will: 
. Have a serious effect on the private sector of the economy by the passing over of further funds to be controlled by the Government through its instrumentalities. 
Lead to nationalisation of the private Insurance Industry, acquisition of its assets and thereby a nationalised control of a substantial part of the private sector of the economy. 
Provide no better insurance service to the public than that already provided by the existing 45 Life Offices and General Insurers. 
Cost taxpayers far in excess of the proposed $2 million Capital and Loan Funds and cause serious unemployment in the private Insurance Industry in Australia. 
Your Petitioners, therefore, humbly pray that the Senate rejects completely the Australian Government Insurance Office Bill 1975. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition from 1 1 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Senators in Parliament assembled. The humble Petition of undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth that the establishment of an Australian Government Insurance Office will: 
1 ) Permit the ultimate acquisition by the Government of the assets of private insurers which include substantial interest in the private sector of the economy. 
Create hundreds of public service jobs and cause serious unemployment in the private Insurance Industry in Australia. 
Have a serious effect on the private sector of the economy by the passing over of further funds to be controlled by the Government through its instrumentalities. 
Provide no better plan for the establishment of a National Disaster Fund than that provided by the Insurance Industry in its submission to the Treasury in October 1974. 
Your Petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Senate rejects completely the Australian Government Insurance Office Bill 1975. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition from 20 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Senators in Parliament assembled. The humble Petition of undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth that the establishment of an Australian Government Insurance Office will: 
Eliminate private insurance for Australians. 
Create hundreds of Public Service jobs and cause serious unemployment in the private insurance industry in Australia. 
Have a serious effect on the private sector of the economy by the passing over of further funds to be controlled by the Government through its instrumentalities. 
Your Petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Senate rejects completely the Australian Government Insurance Office Bill 1975. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition from 27 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Senators in Parliament assembled. The humble Petition of undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth that the establishment of an Australian Government Insurance Office will: 
. Increase the number of Public Servants. 
The Government should instead concentrate on the solving of inflation. 
Shrink the flow of funds to the private sector. 
Your Petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Senate rejects completely the Australian Government Insurance Office Bill 1975. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition from 52 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Senators in Parliament assembled. The humble Petition of undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth that the establishment of an Australian Government Insurance Office will: 
Increase the number of Public Servants. 
Have an unfair advantage over Private Enterprise. 
Not assist in curbing inflation. Above all, the Government should fix the inflationary problems in Australia before considering competition against Private Enterprise. 
Your Petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Senate rejects completely the Australian Government Insurance Office Bill 1975. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Police and Customs. Has the Australian Government announced its intention to incorporate the police forces of the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory in a national police force? Did the Legislative Assembly of the Australian Capital Territory on 2 1 April last pass a motion protesting against the Government proposals? Was this motion passed unanimously and supported by Liberal, Labor and Independent members of the Assembly? Is the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly also adamantly opposed to the incorporation of its police force in a national body? Does the Government intend to ignore the expressions of protest by the elected assemblies of the 2 Territories in this matter? 
I desire to address some remarks to division 853- Capital Works and Services- subdivision 1, Plant and Equipment, Department of Health. The item allows for expenditure of $2,774,000. I wish to speak about the nonavailability of blood clotting factors for use by patients in Australia for treatment of the disease called haemophilia. Very briefly, people with this disease cannot stop bleeding normally. Until recently it was a fatal illness. People very seldom lived to adulthood. Their lives were marred by frequent attacks of severe bleeding, with blood clotted joints. It is only in the last 1 5 years or so that effective treatment has become available. The Commonwealth Serum Laboratories Commission, to which I will refer later, has been a pioneer in the treatment of this disease by replacement treatment with blood factors. It has done a great job. It brought out to Australia the pioneers of this kind of therapy. It is doing all it can to keep up with technological advances. The problem is that in Australia we have quite inadequate amounts of the blood clotting factors needed to treat haemophilia, and some Australian patients have died in the last year because of a lack of these blood clotting factors. Therefore it is appropriate that the Committee should know about this situation and about the urgency of proper treatment. 
Two kinds of treatment are available for this disease. One is a form of concentrate prepared by the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories. The other is a product prepared by the blood banks in each of the capital cities. At present about 750 people in Australia have this disease. All of them spend a considerable part of their time in hospital. Of those, 350 would be severely affected. This means that they would be in hospital once or twice a week for urgent treatment of bleeding- a very serious disease with very serious consequences for them. If they are not treated properly there is very considerable morbidity. Their joints become immobile. Adults lose a lot of time from work. Children lose a lot of time from school. There is quite a death rate. The cost to society is extreme, and when problems of surgery or dentistry arise the situation becomes really extreme. 
If a person with haemophilia is involved in a road accident or otherwise sustains an injury it can be catastrophic. For example, if someone required a simple operation, such as having a hernia repaired, he would require approximately 200 bottles of the product which is produced by the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories just to carry him through the period of the operation. As of yesterday the supply of this product available to the leading hospital clinic in Sydney, the Royal Prince Alfred Hospital, was 37 bottles. It was impossible as of yesterday for one haemophiliac to have an operation in Sydney. If a haemophiliac was involved in a road accident the total supply available in Sydney yesterday was 37 bottles of the anti-haemophilic factor produced by the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories together with 143 bags of the product produced by the local blood bank. A very serious situation exists. 
The life of a person with this disease has been altered by the technological advances of the last 15 years, which the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories have done their best to add to and keep up with. But the situation is that patients are being seriously disadvantaged. 
I think it appropriate to place on record just how bad the situation is. The needs for surgery and dentistry at present are not being met. On 2 May there were 8 patients requiring surgery moderately urgently at the Royal Prince Alfred Hospital. They had all been assessed by the Associate Professor of Surgery. Some of them have been waiting 4 or 5 years for sufficient material to become available to cover their surgical needs with safety. On 2 May there were 12 patients requiring dentistry. All of them had been assessed by the Department of Dentistry at the Royal Prince Alfred Hospital. Some of those patients have been waiting 2 to 3 years for sufficient material to become available to cover their dentistry with safety. That is the scope of the problem facing these people. 
I will come to that. It is a two-pronged attack. First of all, we will need more supplies of the material and we will need some rationalisation of the use of the material. In addition to that, the needs regarding trauma as a result of road and other accidents are not being met. I was informed by  Dr Kevin  Rickard, the senior staff specialist in haematology at the Royal Prince Alfred Hospital, that in the last 12 months to his knowledge 2 patients in New South Wales and the Australian Capital Territory had died following trauma simply because of inadequate supplies of these blood clotting factors. So we have a difficult and serious situation requiring some attention. 
The Coagulation Sub-Committee of the National Blood Transfusion Committee estimates the shortfall at some 7 million units a year. This is a problem of major magnitude. The Minister admits the limited capacity of the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories to provide enough material. This is easily understood, because over the last 5 or 10 years it has become possible to offer surgery to these patients in a way which was not possible previously. They are living longer, more material is needed and more surgery is being undertaken. The Commonwealth Serum Laboratories are planning an expansion of their services, and it is recognised that more of this material will be needed. However, the expansion which they are planning will not be adequate to meet even the minimum needs as estimated by  Dr Rickard  and the doctors who work with him. At present whenever there is an emergency situation we must divert the blood banks into producing more of their products and we must ration the available amount of these products to patients who would like to have dentistry or surgery carried out for perfectly proper reasons. 
There are 2 solutions. The first of these is to seek a situation in which all but urgent surgical treatment of people with haemophilia is undertaken by only a limited number of centres of excellence so that in any city there might be one or two centres which do all the non-urgent work and which assess all the patients. Then the available products should not be wasted in any way. Secondly, we need quite urgently a massive increase in the production of the product put out by the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories. I believe the amount mentioned in the Minister's answer to me, $250,000, is a start, but I would make a plea that this expansion program be hastened and that a realistic estimate of national needs for these factors be undertaken by the Department of Health. It is not just a question of asking the Government to spend more money. In cost-benefit analysis terms this expenditure returns an economic benefit to the community. For example, if enough of the factor were available we could give it to people to keep at home and parents can actually learn to treat their own kids who have haemophilia from the moment they start to bleed. The result of this would be less absenteeism from school, fewer admissions to hospital and less of the product needed, because if these attacks of bleeding can be treated early one can get on top of them quicker. For parents it means less absenteeism and more time at work. Altogether it has been estimated that in terms of cost-benefit analysis there are real yields to the community. 
That is a matter for the Government. I have noticed that there is an advance of $2%m for plant and equipment under the Department of Health in one of the Supply Bills and I should think that might be an adequate way to examine the matter. I quote from an article in the 'Medical Journal of Australia' last year which discusses home care for haemophilia. The article states in part: 
The advantages of home transfusion are prompt treatment of bleeding; reduced hospital attendance and admission; reduced need for joint aspiration; improved school attendances; reduced cost to family; and greater self confidence and independence of the boy with haemophilia. 
The same applies to adults who may have the disease. We have the situation that this Government produces these blood clotting factors. The Government has increased its production as fast as it could during the last few years, but I think even the Government has been surprised by the technological advances and the demand for these factors which is emerging in society. 
If we are to offer the normal rights of medical care and treatment to the increasing number of surviving patients with haemophilia, it is quite clear that what is being offered today by the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories is just not enough for the task. I make a plea to the Government to examine urgently and sympathetically the need for extra production of these factors and to take into special account the opinion of a very senior haematologist that people have actually died in New South Wales and the Australian Capital Territory not because of the accidents they have sustained but because not enough of these factors was available to stop the bleeding when technologically speaking that should not have happened. We should have these facilities for giving treatment in emergencies and we should be able to offer these people the same health care as we offer the rest of the community. 
asked the Minister representing the Special Minister of State, upon notice: 
1 ) Did a Resolution of the House of Representatives of 13 September 1973 call for the Royal Commission into Human Relationships to include in its terms of reference that the Commissioners should have regard to the United Nations declaration on the rights of the child, the sanctity of life and the preservation of human life. 
Why do the terms of reference, published on 21 August 1974 by the Minister, confine themselves to matters of sexual practice, abortion and related matters, and do not specifically include concern for the rights of children and for human life. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security. I refer him to page 8 of the booklet Medibank and You' which states: 
Patients should be aware, however, that by asking doctors to agree to this method - 
I interpolate that that is the assignment of billing -  they are not in any way seeking a concession. 
Will the Minister agree that whenever doctors reduce fees to 85 per cent of the scheduled fee a concession is being given? Will he also agree that whenever a doctor is asked to accept assignment of benefits for 85 per cent of the scheduled fee a concession is being sought? Is it not more just to acknowledge that the operation of the Medibank scheme envisaged by the Government will involve a combination of government funding and a concession in fees by doctors? 
The Senate is debating in a very agreeable and ecumenical fashion the Curriculum Development Centre Bill. It is a pleasure to support the Bill and to indicate that I believe that the amendments to be moved at a later stage by  Senator Guilfoyle  will strengthen the ultimate purposes of the Bill, and they deserve support. I believe the Curriculum Development Centre will be an important Centre, that the initiatives which it will enable will be important, and that it will enable us to innovate, to experiment and to encourage diversity in the development of curricula: I say this as one who has been a teacher, even if only at the tertiary level, but one who, even with the very poor curricula available to him, has seen one of his pupils make it into the Senate, even if on the wrong side. I would like to direct a couple of comments towards the basic aims of such a centre. 
The Curriculum Development Centre should achieve some aims in terms of the educational achievement of Australian school pupils. Indeed, it is only in the belief that the establishment of such a centre will have beneficial effects upon children at school that the Government can justify the creation of such a centre or its continued funding. The Government believes, and has stated on a number of occasions, that money resources are likely to be converted into educational achievement of some kind. I just sound the warning that there is evidence that that is not necessarily so. 
I draw the attention of the Minister for the Media  (Senator Douglas McClelland)  to the book entitled 'The Renewal of Australian Schools' in which J. P. Keeves has written a chapter concerning the actual educational achievement of some of the Catholic schools in Australia. The point he makes is that the Catholic school system, working with fewer resources in the way of teachers, fewer physical resources, larger classes and poorer assistance in terms of curriculum material, was achieving better results in terms of educational output than was the State education system. So we have just got to be careful about assuming that money resources, attractive as they seem to be, will necessarily be converted into some kind of educational output at the end of the line. It is argued in the book to which I have referred and in the chapter which I mentioned that if we do increase the resources available to some of these schools- for example, those in the Catholic system- which are disadvantaged as regards their physical facilities what we might end up doing is in fact widening the educational gap, because this school system seems to have some secret, having nothing to do with physical resources, which leads to good educational performance. What we eventually want is not just better curricula and not just better schools but better performance by students. That is what the Government should be' seeking at all times. For that reason whatever kinds of programs it brings in, whatever kinds of centres it starts, it has to have proper evaluation procedures to know whether something like a curriculum development centre is doing anything worthwhile or whether in fact it is doing nothing more than providing salaries for people producing materials which in fact may be doing very little in terms of educational impact. 
There are some problems attached to a curriculum development centre which I would like to highlight just briefly. They have already been mentioned, but they deserve further emphasis. The Curriculum Development Centre will duplicate existing State facilities. Every State at the present time has a centre for curriculum development. It was interesting to see in the Minister's second reading speech the comment that these centres are fully stretched at the present time and that it was mainly on that justification that the decision was taken that there should be a formalisation of the structure of the Commonwealth Curriculum Development Centre. That may be fair enough, but it may not be sufficient because it may be necessary to give some further support to the States to allow them to strengthen their own curriculum development branches and to carry out what has been stated so blandly in the speeches in the debate, namely, that we want to see diversity and that we want to see the maximum experimentation possible. Give the States a chance. If their resources are fully stretched they should be increased in their own curriculum development procedures. 
The other problem which seems to be arising is that wherever the Commonwealth and the States want to work together on curriculum development there are problems in reaching satisfactory agreement. There appears to be some Commonwealth intrusion into the field of curriculum development which some of us fear is going to be progressive. I note that when a project was mooted to deal with the provision of social science educational materials, contractual arrangements were made between the State and the Commonwealth for a joint effort, but that was only after prolonged argument and negotiation. There has already been evidence of some difficulty in reaching agreement between the States and the Commonwealth as to how these projects should be operated. I hope that the Commonwealth, which holds the power of the purse, will not always impose its will on the States as many people in the States fear. The thing that worries us is not the idea of the extra help that the Curriculum Development Centre can provide; it is the possibility that we may see the bypassing of the already existing State curriculum development branches. 
I am reminded that in Great Britain-  Senator Grimes  mentioned the situation in Great Britain -the National Schools Council has a similar function, but the approach to it seems to be quite different. The National Schools Council, which has the executive, financial and general overview control of education, has elected to decentralise curriculum development. It has elected to emphasise diversity by setting up not one but a whole number of curriculum development centres in England to encourage local regions to do their own curriculum development, without being bound by a central body, to emphasise and maximise local autonomy. I just mention the English model. It is possible for the same kind of thing to operate in this country if the Government will make a commitment to the strengthening and continued operation of the State branches already in existence. 
I am delighted at the opportunity for curriculum diversity which is being offered to us. I might mention-  Senator Douglas  McClelland will be interested in this-that in the area in Sydney in which he lives I recently had the opportunity to visit the Port Hacking High School which has an extremely innovative and original scheme. It is a core program which involves the use of social science projects. Here we have an example of the headmaster,  Mr Harold  Goodwin, being able to develop a program which is locally relevant and which has involved the children of that school in a whole series of exercises which they are embracing enthusiastically, which mean something to them and which are being related to a number of activities in the area in which the school is situated. To me that is diversity in curriculum development. That is the kind of local autonomy which I want to see- where a school principal can identify something which is relevant to his area and will be allowed to put it into operation. 
I would also remind the Minister that in Kogarah, the Marist Brothers College has started another experiment with an innovative curriculum. Brother Barry Lamb has established a separate little annexe to the school. He set it up in the local School of Arts. He has modified the normal school curriculum. He has taken a group of boys who were not doing well in the normal, rigid school situation. He has given them freedom and a flexible curriculum and the result has been that they are now improving their school performance; they are improving their motivation; and they have been encouraged to go back and become involved in achievement in the kind of education system in which we work. 
If that kind of thing can be encouraged and continued then I will be well satisfied. If the Curriculum Development Centre will enable that kind of program to carry on then we will all be well satisfied. But we are concerned that it could be the beginning, ever so insidiously, of the imposition of a national school curriculum. If that happens and if we have the imposition of a grey kind of educational uniformity, that would be a great pity. Education in Australia today is already too highly centralised. If our system is compared with other systems around the world it is seen that we do have a pretty centralised education system. Any effort to impose national curricula or to impose national examinations, or to use the Curriculum Development Centre to indicate what will be taught in different education systems would be unfortunate and would be resisted. Certainly we require more State involvement in curricula development and more State involvement in the resources which are available. 
The only other comment I wish to make refers to the multiplicity of bodies being set up in the educational field by the present Labor Government. The function of the Curriculum Development Centre will impinge eventually upon the functions of the Schools Commission. Depending upon the degree to which it extends in that direction, it could even impinge on the functions of the Commission on Advanced Education or possibly on the Technical and Further Education Commission. At the present time we have in Australia a whole series of bodies, each of which is responsible for some educational function. Their areas of responsibility overlap considerably, and there is no kind of co-ordination. I remind the Senate that in Australia at the present time there are some 30 comparatively small bodies and 4 quite major bodies which directly advise the Minister for Education on matters related to his portfolio. They cover a wide range of subjects and many functions, but the 4 major bodies- the Universities Commission, the Commission on Advanced Education, the Schools Commission, and the Commonwealth Teaching Service- together with the Commission on Technical and Further Education, and now the Council of the Curriculum Development Centre, all exercise functions independently although these functions tend to overlap, and what is concerning many very senior educationalists- this morning I took the trouble to telephone a number of universities to talk to professors of education- is the total lack of any mechanism for coordinating, even informally, the activities of these different branches of Government. 
There are inadequate mechanisms proposed to tie up the ends, where the functions, say, of the Curriculum Development Centre will or may overlap the functions of the Schools Commission. The same thing applies when we consider the different functions in post-secondary education and the lack of co-ordination in the grey areas of overlap which are becoming more apparent and which are going to give rise to more tension and more confusion. At present, the only point common to all those groups is the Minister for Education himself, and I would make the suggestion to the Minister representing that Minister that there may be a need for a coordinating body to examine some of the problems that are going to arise from the operations of all these independent groups in what should be an integrated area. 
The educational programs being proposed by the Labor Government have been extensive. In the end, they will be sustained in the public mind only if they can be shown to have some effect upon educational achievement. I would like to know that every program being put up by the Labor Government is to be subject to evaluation, not just in terms of whether the service is set up and exists, because that is meaningless, but also in terms of whether it is achieving anything to help Australians to better education, helping them to fulfil their capacities as individuals, and helping them to prepare themselves to live in the present society. Regardless of whether it is a Curriculum Development Centre, a Schools Commission, a Technical and Further Education Commission, or whatever it is, this Government has a duty to offer and present to the Australian people regular evaluations to show that the bodies concerned are actually achieving something. I remind the Minister that already doubts are being expressed whether this Government, with all its good intentions, is getting the return for the dollar that it hoped for in educational terms for some of the quite ambitious and quite original programs it has introduced. 
With those remarks, I say that it is a pleasure to support the establishment of the Curriculum Development Centre. I hope that the Government will consider a very simple amendment proposed by  Senator Guilfoyle  which will be discussed later in the Committee stage. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
How many civil marriage celebrants have been appointed in Sydney. 
What are the names of these civil marriage celebrants and what arc the dates of the appointment of each of them. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
1 ) Is an office of the Department of Education situated in Townsville, Queensland. 
Does this office employ approximately eighteen people. 
Were officers in Townsville unable to supply forms for travel re-imbursement under the Tertiary Education Assistance Scheme when requested to do so in early March 1 975. 
Did the Officer-in-charge advise a student that the sole function of his office during 1975 would be the administration of Aboriginal study grants and that all other inquiries, such as those relating to travel re-imbursement under the Tertiary Education Assistance Scheme, were to be referred to Brisbane for resolution. 
If the above facts are correct, will the Minister instruct his office to provide a more comprehensive service in Townsville than it appears to be doing at the present time. 
Is the Minister for Foreign Affairs aware that the Australian Society for Inter-Country Aid to Children, known as ASIAC, has a medical team of 13 personnel presently working among refugees on Guam? Is the Minister also aware of a request by  Mr Michael  Darby of that Society that the Australian Government assists with transport to Guam of a team of volunteers to replace those already there? What plans has the Australian Government to assist volunteers from ASIAC and other humanitarian organisations with transport to and from Guam in order to maintain an Australian presence? 
The Senate is debating a motion to approve of the redistribution of New South Wales into electoral divisions as proposed by the Commissioners. It is interesting to note that the largest State has been left until last. With 45 seats New South Wales is the State in which the redistribution will have greatest effect upon electoral justice in Australia. The Liberal Party and the National Country Party have carefully considered the .proposed redistribution in New South Wales and we are determined to oppose it on the following grounds: We do not believe that the redistribution will ensure that a majority of voters in New South Wales can obtain representation by a majority of the seats. We do not believe that the redistribution gives consideration, as it is bound to do, to the provisions of section 19 of the Commonwealth Electoral Act 1918-1973. We also believe that the redistribution is premature and will need to be repeated. 1 remind the Senate that the New South Wales division of the Liberal Party, in making a submission to the Commissioners, included the following statement: 
Although we realise that the matter is outside the authority of the Commissioners, our first submission is that it is undesirable to carry out a redistribution at this particular time. A national census is due in 1976, and this may well have the effect of altering the allocation of electoral divisions as between the States, resulting in the need for another redistribution for New South Wales during 1 977. 
The information that has been made public by a number of analysts indicates that New South Wales might well lose a seat following the next census, making a further redistribution necessary within a very short time. 
In criticising the proposals before the Senate today I would make it clear that we are concentrating on the proposals themselves and we are not criticising in any way the probity of the Commissioners who were appointed to draw up the proposals; nor should any criticism which I will offer be construed as criticism of the Commissioners. We will confine ourselves to criticising the proposals and the effects of those proposals without offering any comment which in any way suggests that the Commissioners have done anything else but approach the job in a manner as to aim to do it as they see it should be done. It is the substance of the proposals that concerns us. I was shocked to read in the House of Representatives Hansard of 20 May last that the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Kerin)  in another place made the following statement: 
. I suppose all governments set up laws to favour themselves marginally. We have been moral enough to set them up to favour us marginally. 
The honourable member for Macarthur who, as we pointed out before in an exchange with  Senator Walsh,  does not live in Macarthur but lives in Canberra, was saying that he believes that these proposals have been set up to favour the Labor Party marginally. I do not believe that they were set up in that way. If they have turned out that way that is a matter that we can analyse, but I do not think there is anything deliberate on the part of the Commissioners in that regard. I would reject any proposals that we were suggesting that in any degree. We disagree with the substance of the proposals. 
In summary, the proposed redistribution for New South Wales affects seats in the following ways: Of the seats presently held by the Liberal and National Country parties, Lowe and Riverina will be lost by abolition. The seats of Parramatta and Paterson will be lost to the Liberal and National Country parties by boundary changes. The new seats of Concord and Eastwood will probably be won by the Liberal and National Country parties. Of the seats held by the Labor Party, the seat of Evans- that is the present seat of Evans, not the proposed seat- will be lost by abolition. The seat of Toongabbie will be created a safe Labor seat, and Labor will gain by boundary changes the seats of Paterson and Parramatta. The effects of the redistribution in New South Wales will be that the Liberal and National Country parties, which at present hold 20 of the 45 seats, will hold 18 seats and the Labor Party, which at present holds 25 seats, will hold 27 seats. 
I remind the Senate further that we have had 2 sets of proposals from the Commissioners- a set of proposals that reached us in March and a further set of proposals contained in the final report of the Commissioners which was tabled by the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  on 13 May. The Commissioners, in their final report, made alterations to 13 of the seats in New South Wales. Anyone entering this debate should be working on the basis of these final proposals. Of the 13 seats eight- that is, Berowra, Eastwood, Robertson, Hughes, Lang, Sydney, Kingsford-Smith and Grayndler- have been altered in minor ways that have no real bearing upon the electoral result or the result of any future election. But 5 seats have been changed significantly. The seat of Cook, which is the second most marginal seat in New South Wales, has been weakened for the Liberal Party and strengthened for the Labor member,  Mr Thorburn,  by the subdivision of Kareela being taken back into the seat of Hughes and with the subdivision of Kirawee coming back into the electorate of Cook. The result will be that the Liberal vote will be reduced from 48.8 per cent, which could have been expected on the March proposals, to 48.34 percent at the present time. If that proposal were accepted the position in that electorate would be made worse than the position which obtains at the present time. 
The seat of St George, which will remain a safe Labor seat, has been slightly weakened for Labor. The seat of Phillip which is another marginal seat has been strengthened for the Labor 
Party by about 1.5 per cent. The seat of Macquarie has been altered marginally as has the seat of Mitchell, but the general effect of the changes proposed by the Commissioners has been to weaken the position of the Liberal Party by making it more difficult for it to regain the seats of Cook and Phillip while in no way making any changes which significantly assist the Liberal Party or make life more difficult for the Labor Party. 
I remind the Senate that for the election held on 18 May 1974 the vote in New South Wales for the Australian Labor Party was 52.7 per cent of the total. If, however, one looks at  Mr Malcolm  Mackerras 's 2-party preferred vote system the Labor Party can be stated to have gained approximately 54.9 per cent. On the present basis Labor, holding 54.9 per cent of the 2-party preferred vote, holds 56 per cent of the seats; but on the new redistribution, if the proposals are adopted, Labor would come to hold 60 per cent of the seats. The Liberal and Country parties have on the expressed 2-party preferred vote system 45.1 per cent of the vote. We hold 44 per cent of the seats but under the redistribution we would hold only 40 per cent of the seats. 
When we examine the redistribution we find that if the Labor Party lost some of its votes, if it polled only 48 per cent of the popular vote, it could continue to hold 53 per cent of the seats. That is, it could hold 24 out of 45 seats in New South Wales. The Liberal and Country Parties could obtain more than 50 per cent of the votes in New South Wales and could do no better than win 47 per cent of the seats. This is really the crux of the matter because the question concerning us is whether we can ensure that the majority will as expressed in the vote in New South Wales can be represented in the House of Representatives by a majority of the seats going to that Party. We believe that the electoral will of the majority should be reflected in a majority of the seats. We do not believe that the present redistribution proposed for New South Wales will allow this to happen. 
I remind the Senate again that the Liberal and Country Parties won 45. 1 per cent of the vote using the Mackerras preferred 2-party extrapolation. If we examine a 5 per cent swing away from Labor we can see that on the Mackerras system this would bring the Liberal vote to above 50 per cent. At the present time the Liberal and Country Parties would win 5 seats. We hold 20 seats; we would go to 25 seats. Under the proposed boundaries which are before the Senate at the present time, we would start off with only 18 seats and with a 5 per cent swing we would gain only 3 seats. We would move to only  2  1 seats out of 25 seats and that 5 per cent swing would give us a majority of the popular vote. It would leave us 2 seats short of a majority of the seats in the House of Representatives. I go back to my argument. I do not believe and I have never believed that I am criticising the Commissioners. I believe I am criticising the proposals in respect of what they will do to representation in the House of Representatives. It is not good enough for a 5 per cent swing not to be reflected in an appropriate change of seats. It is the essence of a gerrymander that a change in the popular vote does not remove a government which fails to get a majority of votes. We reject this and we reject it because it has also resulted in the strengthening of Labor marginal seats. 
I just remind the Senate again that under the present boundaries a one per cent swing to the Liberal and Country Parties would win us the seats of Eden-Monaro and Cook and if we had a swing of 5 per cent we would also win the seats of Macarthur, Evans and Phillip whereas under the proposed distribution we would win with a 5 per cent swing only Eden-Monaro, Cook and the seat of Paterson which we would have lost on the boundary changes. That is one arm of our argument. 
The other arm concerns section 1 9 of the Commonwealth Electoral Act (No. 2) 1918-1973. I remind the Senate that this section was amended at the Joint Sitting of the Houses last year and was assented to on 7 August. Section 19 of the Act states: 
In making any proposed distribution of a State into Divisions, the Distribution Commissioners shall give - 
I emphasise the words 'shall give'; it does not say may give'-  due consideration, in relation to each proposed Division, to- 
community of interests within the Division, including economic, social and regional interests; 
means of communication and travel within the Division; 
the trend of population changes within the State; 
the physical features of the Division; and 
existing boundaries of Divisions and Subdivisions, 
I do not believe that the present proposals fulfil the conditions demanded in section 19 of the Act. 
Let me examine several of these instructions to the Commissioners to ascertain how well they have been considered. Section 19(a) refers to community of interests within a division. I remind the Senate that we have in Bathurst and in Orange in New South Wales a single designated growth area. It is reasonable to say that Bathurst and Orange have a community of interests. It is reasonable to say that the proposals which sought to place them together were reasonable proposals which fulfilled the conditions set down in section 19 (a) that the Commissioners shall give consideration to a community of interests. This was not done in the proposals before us. Secondly, we find that Oaks Flat has been moved from the seat of Cunningham to the seat of Macarthur. The seat of Cunningham is part of the Wollongong conurbation. The seat of Macarthur is predominantly a rural seat soon to be won by the Liberal Party, I hope. We have here in these proposals an attempt to move a part of what is essentially suburban Wollongong into rural Macarthur. There is no community of interests and no account was taken of objections against these proposals. 
If we look at section 19 (b), which insists that the Commissioners shall take account of means of communication and travel within a division, we find some other shortcomings in the proposals before us. I would direct the attention of the Senate first to the seat of Bradfield. It has been proposed that the portion of the suburb of Killarney Heights at present in the seat of Bradfield should be transferred to the seat of Warringah. It will make no difference as to who holds those seats but it will make a lot of difference to the people of Killarney Heights because for the honourable member for Warringah  (Mr MacKellar)  to travel from the areas in Mosman and around Middle Harbour where his seat is situated into the proposed Killarney Heights subdivision he will have to do so by travelling through the seat of Mackellar. There is no possible way for him to pass from his present seat of Warringah into the proposed new Killarney Heights subdivision except by traversing another electorate. 
Because it is not in keeping with the requirements that note shall be taken of the means of communication and travel within a division. There was no need to separate these places. This is the kind of Labor Party thinking that would have had us join the divisions of North Sydney and Sydney together. After all, the Labor Party has said that it is only a small harbour and there is a great community of interest and there are no travel difficulties there. 
If honourable senators want another example I will refer them to the situation proposed for Maitland. There is the single city of Maitland which at the present time is in one electorate. It has been proposed that the city of Maitland should be split. It has been proposed that East Maitland should be taken out of Paterson and put into the seat of Lyne and that the rest of Maitland should remain in the Paterson electorate. This is ridiculous and makes no sense. 
If we look at section 19(c) of the Commonwealth Electoral Act we see it insists that the trend of population changes shall be taken into account. I believe that this is where this proposal has its greatest failing. The Commissioners are required to give due consideration to trends in population changes. The permissible limits, as a result of the Joint Sitting of Parliament, are for a division to have 10 per cent more or less electors than the quota; that is to say that there is a possible variation in numbers of 20 per cent, from a division that might be 10 per cent above quota to a division that might be 10 per cent below quota. But the Commissioners have chosen not to exercise this latitude. In fact they have provided for variations from only 4.4 per cent below quota to 4.6 per cent above quota. They have used only 9 per cent of the permissible 20 per cent variation. The effect of this is going to be that seats are very rapidly going to become unequal. 
For example, the seat of Robertson is at present 63 per cent above quota and is enlarging quickly. The Commissioners, however, have decided to make it only 1.2 per cent under quota and within a couple of years it will be too large again. Commonsense would demand that Robertson be made a small seat. I remind the Senate that when a redistribution was carried out in New South Wales last year the smallest seat created in the State was that of Mount Druitt, a safe Labor seat. It was made the smallest seat for a very good reason- the population in the area was increasing very rapidly and it would quickly come up to and exceed the quota. 
For another example take the seat of Sydney which was 1 1 per cent below the quota on the present boundaries. The Commissioners have only taken it 3 per cent above the quota and because of this it will rapidly again sink below the quota. If the Labor Party wants to make such a song and dance about equality of divisions let it make some real effort to so arrange the divisions that they maintain a parity of size, not to do it in such a way that they will very rapidly move apart again. On the projected population movements, by 1981 the seat of Robertson, under the proposed boundaries, would have over 101 000 voters. Under the proposed boundary changes which we are considering the seat of Sydney in 1981, only 6 years away, will have 577000 voters. The Commissioners have failed to exercise the requirements under section 19(c) that the trend of population changes within the State shall be given due consideration. 
Of course, the Labor Party proposals to the Commissioners equally ignored these factors. The Labor Party proposed, as I mentioned before, that the seat of Sydney should include the present area held by  Mr Cope  and should jump the Harbour Bridge and take in a large wedge of North Sydney. The Labor Party obviously could not care less about the requirements of section 1 9 which provides for community of interest, means of communication and trends of population. The fact that its submission to the Commissioners took no account of these things probably is the reason why it does not understand our objections today. 
This redistribution does not meet the requirements of justice, nor does it meet the requirements of section 19 of the Commonwealth Electoral Act. It does not hold out any opportunity for the Liberal-Country Parties to win a majority of seats in the House of Representatives, commensurate with the popular vote, lt makes it virtually impossible for the non-Labor parties to get more than 23 seats even if their vote goes to 52 per cent of the popular vote. We reject the proposed boundaries. We reject the proposed division of New South Wales. We demand a better redistribution proposal and suggest that it takes place after the next census. 
I present the following petition from 196 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble Petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
1 ) That Parliament should reject the Bill currently before it to establish an Australian Government Insurance Office. ' 
That while there is a need to establish in Australia a Natural Disaster Fund to provide compensation for property damage and other losses resulting from disasters such as earthquakes, floods and cyclones, such a Fund can be established, as in other countries, using the medium of the existing private enterprise insurance offices. 
That a plan for such a Fund was submitted to the Treasury in October 1974. 
That no reasons for the establishment of an Australian Government Insurance Office (other than the desire to provide non-commercial disaster insurance and Australian Government competition with private enterprise) have been given by the Government. 
That there is already intense competition between the existing 45 life assurance offices and between over 260 general insurance companies now operating in Australia, and that further competition  from  a Government Office would only be harmful. 
That the insurance industry is already faced with 
the effects of inflation, 
b ) increased taxation on life assurance offices, 
the effects of recent natural disasters, 
other legislative measures already in train or in prospect by the Government, e.g. the National Compensation Bill, a National Superannuation Plan and improved Commonwealth Public Service Superannuation. 
That as taxpayers your petitioners are greatly concerned at the huge costs (far more than the $2 million initial capital and loan funds which it is proposed will be allocated) of establishing an Australian Government Insurance Office. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the House will reject the Bill. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
I should like the petition read but as it exceeds 250 words in length I ask that leave be given for the petition to be read by the  Clerk. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Housing and Construction. Does the Defence Service Homes Act require that the applicant for a loan under this Act must be in occupation of the home in question at the time of settlement? Do some churches require their ministers to reside on church property? If so, does this mean that ministers of religion who are veterans are thus excluded during the period of their ministry from acquiring homes under the Act? In the light of assurances given earlier today to  Senator Drake-  . Brockman, will the Minister undertake to include this anomaly with that raised by  Senator DrakeBrockman  for the Minister's attention? 
asked the PostmasterGeneral, upon notice: 
1 ) Is a new post office being provided for Blacktown to be sited in the Westpoint Shopping Centre. 
Will it replace the existing post office in Flushcomb Road; if so, what is the date proposed for the opening of the new post office and the closing of the existing facility. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
1 ) Following Cyclone Tracy, for what period of time was adequate communication cutoff between Darwin and the major cities of Australia. 
By what means was radio communication initially reestablished. 
How soon after the cyclone was a military communication system in operation in Darwin. 
Is the Minister satisfied with the ability of the defence  forces  to establish communication quickly and effectively under adverse field conditions such as existed under Cyclone Tracy, or has the Cyclone demonstrated inadequacy in material and capacity to respond, which will require urgent attention and rectification. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
During the four weeks preceding 1 May 1975, how many Australians were evacuated from Saigon by RAAF aircraft. 
What was the capacity of these aeroplanes in numbers of people who could have been accommodated. 
How many Vietnamese citizens were carried from Saigon by RAAF aircraft during the 4 week period. 
How many Vietnamese have been allowed to enter Australia and take up residence since 1 April 1975. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
How is it intended to register, for purposes of the Health Insurance Act, those Australian adults who are not on the Electoral Roll or who do not receive Child Endowment. 
How many such Australians are there. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
Did the Minister, in a press release dated 16 April 1975, state that in States which entered the Medibank Hospital Plan, people would be automatically covered for the cost of standard ward care; if so, will this promise of cover for costs of standard ward care extend to patients in standard ward beds in public hospitals run under the State health systems. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Minerals and Energy, upon notice: 
1 ) Did the Minister state in the House of Representatives on 2 December 1974 that Mary Kathleen Uranium Ltd would be an 'extremely profitable' exercise for the original shareholders and for the Government; if so, on what evidence did he base that statement. 
On the best estimate, will there be no return in the form of a dividend for four years, then two cents per 25c share in 1 979, and then an average of four or five cents per share in 1980-84. 
3 ) Does this average 2½ cents per share per year. 
Is the worst estimate for a return2½ cents per share for two years only. 
Does the Minister possess estimates of profitability not contained in the recent letter of offer from Mary Kathleen Uranium Ltd to shareholders. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Minerals and Energy, upon notice: 
1 ) Did the Australian Government underwrite a recent share issue by Mary Kathleen Uranium Ltd. 
Does the Government, as underwriters, take any responsibility for the preparation of the prospectus which accompanied the offer of shares. 
Did the prospectus materially understate the potential profitability of company contracts, especially in view of an announcement on 3 December 1974 of an 80 per cent price increase on all existing contracts. 
Will the Government make an early statement on its part in the preparation of a prospectus which may have reduced the equity of individual Australians in Mary 
Kathleen Uranium Ltd, since trading in shares of that Company was suspended on the morning of 3 December 1 974 on the Melbourne Stock Exchange. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
For how many years and on whose instructions has it been the practice in the Australian Capital Territory not to prosecute people for possession and use of cannabis derivatives. 
asked the PostmasterGeneral, upon notice: 
Did a  Mr David  Ditchburn, a recent appointee to the Films Board of Review, incur debts in excess of $ 1,000 under two account names with the Postmaster-General's Department; if so, was this matter investigated by the PostmasterGeneral 's Department and subsequently referred to the Commonwealth Police Force for further action. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Minerals and Energy, upon notice: 
Did the Minister state in answer to Question (vide House of Representatives' Hansard, 2 December 1974 p. 4330) relating to the re-opening of the Mary Kathleen uranium mine that 'we have been able to renegotiate the original contracts . . . ' 
With whom were the contracts renegotiated and at what price. 
Did the Minister also state that Mary Kathleen Uranium Ltd's mine is to be reopened and that the Company would receive $100m from sales of about 5500 tons under old contracts. 
Did the Minister further say that from the residue of a further 2500 short tons of uranium, a yield of a further $50m would result. 
Has the Minister already approved further export contracts for the 2500 additional tons; if so, what is the average price per ton. 
How does this enable the assessment of $50m gross. 
How does the price for this uranium compare with the contract price for the original 5500 tons. 
When were such additional contracts approved. 
When were any shareholders told of such contracts. 
10) If no contracts have been negotiated for the sale of residue of the uranium referred to in the Minister's answer, how did the Minister arrive at the figure of $50m. 
1 1 ) Is the Minister prepared to approve any contracts if they are negotiated. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security. I remind the Minister that many medical services are rendered by doctors employed on salaries by welfare agencies, many of which are in financial difficulties. These agencies include the Spastic Centre, the Family Planning Associations and the Red Cross blood banks. Will Medibank refunds of 85 per cent of scheduled fees be available to these organisations in respect of services rendered by such salaried doctors or will it be necessary to dismiss the doctors and then allow them to resume practise on a fee for service basis in order to generate health insurance benefit payments? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
Does the booklet 'Medibank and you' state at page 9,  Whoever you are, wherever you live, you will be free to go to any medical practitioner and you will receive Medibank benefit payments for the services the doctor provides'; if so, is the statement accurate in its claim of universal entitlement. 
Does this apply unreservedly to those persons with entitlements to benefits under the Repatriation Act; if not, is the statement misleading to the extent that Repatriation patients may not have freedom to attend any medical practitioner and to receive Medibank benefits for the services provided. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
Does the booklet 'Medibank and you' state on page 1 0, ' Everyone in Australia, whether a new arrival, a visitor or a resident, will be eligible for Medibank medical benefits '. 
Are those persons in receipt of Repatriation medical entitlements eligible for Medibank medical benefits, or are they compelled to use existing Repatriation arrangements. 
If there is such a limitation of entitlement, is the booklet misleading to that extent. 
I present the following petition from 602 citizens of Australia: 
The humble Petition of undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth that the establishment of an Australian Government Insurance Office will: 
Nationalise the Insurance Industry. 
Create hundreds of public service jobs and cause serious unemployment in the private insurance industry throughout Australia. 
Add to the taxpayers burden. 
Your Petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Senate rejects completely the Australian Government Insurance Office Bill 1975. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I present the following petition from 23 citizens of Australia: 
The humble Petition of undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth that the establishment of an Australian Government Insurance Office will: 
Shrink the flow of funds to the private sector. 
Add to the taxpayers burden. 
Trade unfairly. 
Your Petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Senate rejects completely the Australian Government Insurance Office Bill 1975. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
Has the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs become aware of newspaper reports which have appeared in the Launceston Press relating to the possible misapplication of moneys allocated for the construction of a dam and for other projects for the benefit of the local community of Cape Barren Island? Has the Minister checked the accuracy of these newspaper reports, and is he in a position to give assurances that neither his Department nor any department of the Tasmanian Government has wasted or misapplied Aboriginal grant money in the northeast of Tasmania? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) How is a patient permanently institutionalised in a New South Wales public psychiatric hospital able to benefit under the Medibank scheme. 
If such patients on present plans are not to have entitlements to Medibank benefits, is not the booklet misleading in making these particular claims for all Australians. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
Have some voluntary health insurance funds sought permission to insure for the actual gap between the real fee charged by doctors and the Medibank benefit payable under the new health insurance proposals. 
Has such permission been granted; if not, why has permission been refused. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
How is it intended to identify all children entitled to health insurance cover so that health insurance cards for them can be prepared. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) Have claim forms been designed and prepared for use in the Medibank health insurance scheme. 
Has a decision been taken that 59 million of the forms should be printed. 
Do these forms include a space for the number of the cheque issued in payment for the service. 
Do the claim forms used by the present health insurance funds include a space for such information. 
Is such information important in the reconciliation of accounts following payment for benefits. 
How is it intended to reconcile payments by Medibank if the cheque number is not shown on the form. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) Will patients in standard ward beds in public psychiatric hospitals not attract benefits under arrangements being proposed for that part of the Medibank Scheme affecting hospital care. 
Do such patients constitute 26 per cent of all those in public beds in Australia; if not, what percentage do they represent, 
Will the Minister confirm that there was an undertaking to these patients given in the White Paper produced by the Government prior to the introduction of the Scheme, promising that they would not be discriminated against in relation to access to medical benefits. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Did  Mr Ray  Piesse, Director of the National Acoustic Laboratories, address a meeting of the Forum for Deaf Education and Welfare held in Sydney on Tuesday, 8 April 1 975. 
At that meeting, did  Mr Piesse  state in a paper which he delivered thtat there were grave deficiencies in the service presently offered by the National Acoustic Laboratories for children with hearing problems. 
Did the areas of concern include testing of hearing, the working relationship between audiologists and teachers, training programs for audiologists and teachers, parent education, the selection and fitting of suitable aids, the need for improved ear mould making techniques, the need for more effective checking and maintenance of children's aids. 
Did  Mr Piesse  state that at least 2 years would be required to remedy these deficiencies in the Acoustic Laboratory services. 
Does this indicate the urgent need for available resources to be concentrated in up-grading and improving the standard of child hearing care in Australia. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
Have voluntary health insurance funds proposed a new benefits scale of medical insurance which would cover the gap between doctors' actual fees and the rebate to be paid under the Government's health insurance program. 
Has the Government refused to approve such proposals; if so, why. 
If the Government has not approved proposals to insure against the entire gap between benefit level and actual fees, what has been the reason. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
Does the booklet 'Medibank and you' indicate on page 1 1 that extra hospital charges will be payable for treatment as a private patient. 
Is such treatment defined as 'that is, in other than a standard ward'. 
Will those persons who opt for private treatment in hospitals in the Australian Capital Territory be charged $20 extra per day, even if they are in standard wards; if so, does this indicate that extra charges for private patients in the Australian Capital Territory will apply even if patients are treated in a standard ward. 
To what extent, is the booklet misleading. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) Are the costs of the medical portion of the Medibank program which have been given by the Minister's Department worked out on an accrual, or a cash pay-out basis. 
If these are on an actual cash pay-out basis, what is the average time expected to elapse between the date of service and the date the Medibank benefit will be paid. 
What is the estimated cost of paying Medibank medical benefits in the six months from 1 July 1975 to 31 December 1975, split by the ten parts of the medical benefits schedule. 
What is the estimated increase in utilisation of services per head of population for each part of the medical benefits schedule in the first six months. 
What allowance has been made for the difference in consulting time scales recommended by the Australian Medical Association and allowed for benefit in the medical benefits schedule. 
Specifically, what allowance in cost has been made for general practitioners who charge for a long consultation (Items 25 and 26) when a consultation has in fact lasted between 15 and 20 minutes. 
What is the estimated cost of paying Medibank benefits in the six months from 1 January 1976 to 30 June 1 976, split by the ten parts of the medical benefits schedule. 
What increase in utilisation per head of population is used in the costings from 1 January 1976 to 30 June 1976, split by each part of the medical benefits schedule. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) Are many medical services rendered by salaried doctors employed by welfare agencies, many of which are in financial difficulty, for example, the Spastic Centre, the Family Planning Association and Red Cross Blood Banks. 
Will Medibank refunds for 85 per cent of scheduled fees be available to these organisations for services rendered by such salaried doctors, or will it be necessary to dismiss the doctors and then allow them to resume practice on a feeforservice basis in order to generate health insurance benefit payments. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) Is the Minister aware that the Australian Society for Inter-Country Aid- Children, known as ASIAC, has a medical team of thirteen personnel presently working among refugees in Guam. 
Is the Minister further aware of a request made by  Mr Michael  Darby of that Society that the Australian Government assist with transport to Guam of a team of volunteers to replace those already there. 
What plans has the Australian Government to assist volunteers from ASIAC and other humanitarian organisations with transport to and from Guam so as to maintain an Australian presence. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) What will be the purpose of the Pensioner Medical Service entitlement card after 1 July 197S. 
) For what purpose is it intended, and why was it necessary to state in the booklet ' Medibank and You ' that the Pensioner Medical Service entitlement card issued at the beginning of 197S will continue to be used. 
My question which is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate follows the answer that he gave to a question asked by  Senator Greenwood  in which he indicated that only one person has authority to investigate the availability of funds overseas. Who is the person who has that authority? Is it a  Mr Khemlani  or, if not, who is the person? What written authorities were given to this person? 
The Urban and Regional Development (Financial Assistance) Bill 1975 is a composite measure with two main sets of proposals. One set of proposals relates to an adjustment of the terms of loans made under clause 12 (4) of the AlburyWodonga Area Development Agreement and enables the deferment of repayment by New South Wales and Victoria of loans made to the growth areas where the growth centre program is generating insufficient income to cover repayments. The Opposition appreciates the legal doubts that arose as to whether or not the arrangements infringed the provisions of the Urban and Regional Development (Financial Assistance) Act. We appreciate the need for that part of this particular Bill. We also appreciate the provisions in the Bill to adjust other terms and conditions of loans made to the States. We are interested that the opportunity now exists for loans of longer than the previous maximum period to become available- longer than 40 years for sewerage works and longer than 30 years for other kinds of work. I reiterate the interest of the shadow Minister in the House of Representatives who said that the Senate should be kept fully informed of the conditions of these loans as and when they are made. 
The second part of this measure, however, provides'- I use the inverted commas because we are not quite sure whether it is in the form of loans or grants- funds for instance for flood mitigation works in Brisbane. I would like to address just a few remarks to that subject. I remind the Senate that, following the floods which occured on Australia Day 1974, a decision was reached that flood mitigation works were necessary in Brisbane. According to the 'Courier Mail' of 6 December 1974, the Government intimated that it would give up to $lm to help with these flood mitigation works. I further remind the Senate that the project in question is one to raise the level of a dam on Breakfast Creek by some 20 feet to provide some flood mitigation for Breakfast Creek and Enoggera Creek. The cost of this project, which has been let to Thiess Brothers Pty Ltd, is $2,812,000. I simply remind the Senate that on other flood mitigation projects- for example, the one relating to Seymour- the Federal Government has generally taken up to 40 per cent of the cost. Forty per cent of the cost of this project would be $1,250,000. I will be interested to know whether the grant of $450,000 provided for in this Bill represents the entire contribution of the Australian Government or whether it is the first of several contributions to bring its total contribution up to 40 percent of$2.8m 
From reading the second reading speech of the former Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Cavanagh)  at no stage was it clear whether the assistance was to be a loan or a grant. There is a very big difference. For example, when we discussed the sewerage grants program last year we were talking about money being available at the long term bond rate which, according to the latest figures I have, is 9.5 per cent. It would be gratifying to know that this money is being given to Queensland as a grant. I hope that the Minister will advise us of that. My understanding is that no final agreement has yet been signed with the Queensland Government. That Government is very concerned that there should be an agreement. It is possible that this will be in the form of a grant. Opposition Senators have no desire to hold up this legislation. We wish the Bill a speedy passage. We hope that the Minister can fill us in on the very few details which we have requested. 
I second the amendment. In rising to support  Senator Missen  's amendment I would like to remind the Senate that we are considering a motion which would allow the reassembly of the Senate before the normal time and which would allow the Senate to do any or all of the things within its power, including the summoning of persons.  Senator Hall  is aware of that. We have been and we are aware of that option and that possibility. We have neither discarded nor accepted the use of that very grave power by the Senate. 
Before  Senator Hall  seeks to impress us all with his usual sanctimonious righteousness I would like to mention that some of us have some very real reservations about the use of the power which he is saying should be brought in. I would remind honourable senators of the BrowneFitzpatrick case, and I would remind them of the very real disquiet which many Australians hadand I was one of them- at that time. I do not deny and have never denied the right of the Parliament to bring people before the Bar of the House. I do not deny the right now, but I would say that at that time I was worried and I was concerned. I have no desire now or ever to give anyone cause to say that the Senate is acting in a way which is abrogating the rights of any citizen. It may be that in calling people before the Bar of the Senate that would not happen, but many people may see that as happening. I would be very upset if in causing the Senate to reassemble we were obliged to use that power. There are some doubts about whether such a move could be guaranteed to be as effective as we would want. I will not canvass that issue, but past experience shows that it is a practice that governments might refuse to allow certain people to reassemble. 

 Senator Withers' amendment is reasonable and broad in its scope.  Senator Missen  's amendment keeps that breadth. If  Senator Hall  is sincere he cannot object to what  Senator Missen  proposes.  Senator Missen  's amendment will maintain the right to call people before the Bar of the Senate and it will maintain the kind of flexibility which we are seeking. We are as concerned as  Senator Hall  is about the issue raised by the Government's efforts to raise overseas loans. We are concerned to retain the power to get the Senate to reassemble and we are not prepared to have ourselves limited in the way  Senator Hall  wants, with his usual assumption that he is the only person who knows how things can be done or what is best for the country. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
1 ) Is the recommending of medical fees for doctors by the Australian Medical Association likely to be in contravention of the Trade Practices Act. 
Is the use by individual doctors of a Government list of recommended fees likely to be in contravention of the provisions of the Trade Practices Act. 
What steps is the Government taking to protect the legitimate rights of professional groupings of self-employed persons whose right of professional association has been severely limited by the new legislation. 
To how many professional groupings of self-employed persons has authorisation been given, under the terms of the Trade Practices Act, to allow them to continue to advise their members. 
What are the names of these associations. 
asked the Minister for Police and Customs, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the Australian Government announced its intention to incorporate the Police Forces of the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory into a National Police Force. 
Did the Australian Capital Territory Legislative Assembly on 2 1 April 1973 pass a motion protesting against the Government's proposals. 
Was this motion passed unanimously and supported by the Liberal, Labor and Independent Members of the Assembly. 
Is the Legislative Assembly for the Northern Territory also adamantly opposed to the incorporation of the Territory's Police Force into a National Police Force. 
Does the Government intend to ignore these expressions of protest made by the elected Assemblies of the two Territories in this matter. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1 ) Is there at present under consideration by the Department of Transport an application from an operator wishing to operate an air service from Sydney to Lord Howe Island. 
Does this or any other application envisage the purchase of Rockwell 690 turbo-prop aeroplanes to operate this service. 
Has a feasibility study been carried out or is one intended to be carried out prior to final consideration being given to applications for licence to service the route to and from Lord Howe Island. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1 ) On what basis are the number of non-smoking seats in aeroplanes determined. 
Will the Government take steps as part of its effort to contain the incidence of smoking in Australia to increase markedly the number of non-smoking seats available in aeroplanes. 
Is a majority of seats in many American airlines designated non-smoking. 
Does the Minister look forward to a day when smokers in Australian society will be seen as the exception and nonsmokers as the healthier majority. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Is the Minister aware of claims made by Sydney anaesthetists that nurses risk miscarriages and malformed babies if they work in operating theatres and are exposed to anaesthetic gases while pregnant. 
What measures have been taken in the Northern Territory and the Australian Capital Territory to investigate the implications of this claim for Government controlled hospitals. 
What plans have been made to issue appropriate warnings to nurses and what new procedures have been laid down to protect nursing staff who might be working in operating theatres during the early stages of pregnancy. 
I would like to add a little to what  Senator Webster  has said about Statutory Rules 
No. 135, which relates to the designation of certain hospitals by the Health Insurance Commission and proscribes them so that Medibank benefits will not be payable to patients in those hospitals. I understand that the Government had a certain intention in bringing in those statutory rules. I would like to make it clear that 2 bodies have expressed considerable concern that the regulations may go further than the department intended. There is the opinion of counsel- at least 2 lots of counsel- that these regulations may have the effect of denying Medibank benefits for care given in intermediate and private beds in the hospitals named. There is no doubt that the spirit of the legislation was that Medibank benefits should be claimable by patients in intermediate and private beds. We are concerned that this might not be the case. I inform the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Wheeldon)  that we have today dispatched a telegram to his Department informing him of the concern felt by the Health and Welfare Committee of the Opposition Parties about the possibility that the regulation may have the effect of excluding from benefits private and intermediate patients who might rightfully think they are entitled to this cover for their medical care. We are extremely anxious that the Minister expedites an answer to our telegram, certainly before the Parliament resumes in August. 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
1 ) As Community Video Resource Centres make it possible for members of the public to make video tapes on community based projects and that community groups wishing to keep a tape for later use can do this on payment of $12.00 towards the cost of the tape, with whom does the copyright for the tapes remain. 
Will the Minister agree that community groups using the video resource centres and willing to pay for their tapes should be allowed to keep the copyright and thus keep their entitlement to performing rights for any tapes with entertainment value. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security. Did the Prime Minister announce at the end of June that the 
Social Welfare Commission is to be abolished? Does the disestablishment of the Commission require special legislation for its achievement? Did the Public Service Board move unilaterally and without proper approval to dismember the Social Welfare Commission in advance of parliamentary authorisation? Will the Minister assure the Senate that no attempt will be made by the Public Service Board, by the Department of Social Security or by any other body by administrative means to destroy the Social Welfare Commission as a working body in advance of the enactment of appropriate legislation? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Media, upon notice: 
In the various Australian Government Publishing Service's Sales Centres, are publications frequently packed in specially printed plastic carrying bags printed by Protopak for the Minister's Department; if so, how many of these bags are produced and at what cost. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Was a warning issued in the 'Adverse Drug Reactions Bulletin' No. 5 in April 1975 by the Australian Drug Evaluation Committee concerning the risk associated with the use of the drug Stilboestrol. 
Did the report allude to an association between maternal treatment with Stilboestrol and the development of cancer of the vagina in young female offspring. 
Have specific recommendations been received from the Australian Drug Evaluation Committee as to measures which should be taken to recognise and deal with this adverse drug reaction. 
When were the recommendations received from the Australian Drug Evaluation Committee. 
What action has the Department taken on the recommendations of the Australian Drug Evaluation Committee on this matter. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Did  Mr Gamal  El-Surani, a senior Palestine Liberation Organisation official, who is at present visiting Australia, state in a press conference on Sunday, 8 June 1975, that he felt sure the Australian Government would give approval for the Palestine Liberation Organisation to open a diplomatic office in Australia soon. 
Is there any basis of fact in  Mr El-Surani  's claim that the terrorist organisation, the Palestine Liberation Organisation, will be able to open an office in Australia. 
Is there any truth in the claim that this will be a diplomatic office. 
Does the Australian Government recognise the Palestine Liberation Organisation as the representative ofthe disparate groups of refugees in the Middle East. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. In drawing to the attention of the Minister the textual disparities between the Treasurer's printed Budget Speech and the Minister's printed speech presented in the Senate last night, I ask: What was the reason for the Minister's printed speech containing on page 6 only 3 paragraphs on education outlays when that presented in another place contained on pages 7 and 8 ten paragraphs, including very important references to altered funding arrangements for tertiary institutions and commissions? ls it proper to leave such matters of importance out of the Budget speech presented in this place? Was it done deliberately or was it a matter of inadvertence? Will the Minister agree that we should have heard in this chamber that part of the Treasurer's speech which indicated proposed abandonment of normal triennial funding arrangements for the financing of education? 
I rise to raise briefly a question that has been of concern and distress to some of my constituents and which they want placed on public record to correct a misunderstanding. The matter has been brought to the attention of  Senator Wheeldon,  who assured me that he would be in the House to respond during the adjournment debate tonight. 
Last Saturday the Australian Broadcasting Commission ran a program called Innovations at 8 a.m. on which were discussed matters concerning the National Acoustic Laboratories, the testing of hearing, some limitations and some criticisms of the Laboratories. The Minister for Health  (Dr Everingham)  took part. Some of the criticisms concerned an investigation being carried out in Australia at the present time into the needs of hearing, the testing of hearing and the prescribing of hearing aids. It concerned a working party which has been set up in the Department of Health from within the Department to examine some of the matters. This working party has carried out a study. It consisted of the First Assistant  Deputy  Director, a clerical assistant and some representatives from the National Acoustic Laboratories. There were no representatives from the industry or from the professions involved in audiology. 
The report has gone to the Director-General of Health and to the Minister for Health and at the present time is awaiting Cabinet attention. I understand that people in the industry welcome the concept of the investigation but have criticisms about the way in which it was set up and the way in which the report is being handled. Those are the facts surrounding the program which was run, on which  Dr Everingham  spoke and answered some of the criticisms. In speaking on the program the Minister had 2 things to say: First, that he would like to have heard from audiologists and others in the profession, and second, that he had not heard from people in the profession and that no one seemed to be worried. It was on this point that my constituents raised their concern. 
I have heard the tape of the relevant part of the Minister's statement and I have the transcript in front of me. It is worth quoting exactly what the Minister said in response to a question from the interviewer. Referring to one of his critics, he said: 
He wants the ear, nose and throat specialists, the audiologists and a number of other independent organisations to be represented on this body. Well, why aren't they asking for an independent body? It seems to me they're quite content. 
The Minister was in fact referring to the study which is being conducted, which contained no representatives from the people who carry out the testing of hearing or the prescribing of hearing aids. Unfortunately the Minister was not correct in making the assertion either than he has not heard from the industry or that it is not concerned. I have here a letter written by a group of clinical audiologists. I believe that the letter is in the Minister's possession at present. I seek leave to have the letter incorporated in  Hansard. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Davidson)-  Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows)- 
Room 7, 6th Floor, The North Shore Medical Centre, 66 Pacific Highway, ST LEONARDS, N.S.W. 2065. 23rd April, 1975. 
The Minister for Health, Parliament House, CANBERRA, A.C.T. 2600 
I present the following petition from 1 7 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble Petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
1 ) That Parliament should reject the Bill currently before it to establish an Australian Government Insurance Office. 
That while there is a need to establish in Australia a Natural Disaster Fund to provide compensation for property damage and other losses resulting from disasters such as earthquakes, floods and cyclones, such a Fund can be established, as in other countries, using the medium of the existing private enterprise insurance offices. 
That a plan for such a Fund was submitted to the Treasury in October 1974. 
That no reasons for the establishment of an Australian Government Insurance Office other than the desire to provide non-commercial disaster insurance and Australian Government competition with private enterprise have been given by the Government. 
That there is already intense competition between the existing 45 life assurance offices and between over 260 general insurance companies now operating in Australia, and that further competition from a Government Office would only bc harmful. 
That the insurance industry is already faced with 
a ) the effects of inflation, 
b ) increased taxation on life assurance offices, 
the effects of recent natural disasters, 
other legislative measures already in train or in prospect by the Government, e.g. The National Compensation Bill, National Superannuation Plan. 
That as taxpayers your petitioners are greatly concerned at the huge costs (far more than the $2m initial capital and loan funds which it is proposed will be allocated) of establishing an Australian Government Insurance Office. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the House will reject the Bill. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
As the petition exceeds 250 words I ask that leave be given for the petition to be read by the  Clerk. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Services and Property, upon notice: 
In relation to the electoral maps submitted by various interested parties which were attached as appendices to Volume II of the Redistribution Papers for New South Wales and Victoria. 
why were these not clearly identified on the maps themselves as to their origin; 
b ) ho w many such maps were produced; and 
what was the cost of the production of these maps. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
Are State Priority Committees of the Australian Schools Commission instructed as to special factors which should be considered in either approving or rejecting applications for capital assistance. 
Do these factors ever (a) include assessments of the viability of a school to the year 2000, and (b) include the level of fees. 
Is approval ever withheld from a school because fees are said to be too low. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
Did the previous Minister for Social Security, in a press release dated 16 April 1975, state that 'in States which entered the Medibank Hospital Plan, people would be automatically covered for the cost of standard ward care'; if so, will this promise of cover for standard ward care extend to patients in standard ward beds in public psychiatric hospitals run by the State Health systems. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
What action is open to the parents and council of a school should a State Priority Committee of the Australian Schools Commission neither reject nor approve an application for capital assistance for a building grant, but continually defer the application. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education, upon notice: 
Has Yimbilliko School applied for building grants from the Australian Schools Commission; if so, what has been the outcome of that application. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security. In view of the Government's Budget proposal that pensions should be adjusted in future on the basis of alterations in the consumer price index rather than by movements in average weekly earnings, will the consumer price index be discounted for the effects of the indirect taxes imposed by the Budget before pensions are adjusted? Will pensioners receive larger adjustments in pensions under the new formula, or is this a device to reduce the increase in pensions which runaway inflation makes necessary? 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the Minister received from the Director-General of Social Security his report on 'The Operations of the Registered Medical and Hospital Benefit Organisations' for the year ended June 30 1 974; if so, when was the report received by him. 
If not, as the Director-General is required under section 76a-( 1 ) of the National Health Act to furnish him with the report 'as soon as practicable after the thirtieth day of June', would he ascertain why the report has not been received almost a year later. 
If the report has been received, why has it been withheld from the Parliament and why has the Minister breached the requirements of section 76a-(4) of the Act that the report should be tabled within 15 days of its receipt by the Minister. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the attention of the Minister been drawn to an article entitled 'Oral Contraceptives and Congenital Limb.Reducation Defects' which appeared in the June 197S issue of the journal 'Current Therapeutics '. 
Does this article quote evidence that there is a significantly greater chance of children being born with limb defects to mothers who have had hormonal preparation at the commencement of their pregnancy. 
In the light of the evidence presented, does the Minister believe that the prescription of such preparations by medical practitioners needs to be reviewed, and that in association with this, more educational information needs to be provided for women who are using oral contraceptives. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Did a recent Adverse Drug Reactions Bulletin (No. 6), dated 1 May 1975, point out that aplastic anaemia is still occurring following the use of chloramphenicol. 
Did the Bulletin further point out that 40 per cent of the cases reported were fatal and that in all four of these episodes, infection was minor and treatment with chloramphenicol probably not indicated. 
Were seven out of the ten episodes of aplastic anaemia in patients who had minor infection and in whom the drug should not have been used. 
What further action is planned by the Committee to limit the use of chloramphenicol for trivial infections. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) Did the previous Minister state on 4 December 1974 in the Senate, in relation to the health situation among Aboriginal children in Wilcannia, New South Wales, that pathological tests showed that the children were suffering from measles; if so, was this same statement also contained in the previous Minister's press release of 3 December 1 974. 
What pathological tests are available in Wilcannia to demonstrate the diagnosis of measles. 
What routine tests are available in any hospital to demonstrate the diagnosis of measles. 
What pathological tests were done in Wilcannia to establish the diagnosis of measles in these Aboriginal children. 
I present the following petition from 432 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned students of Macquarie University, North Ryde, New South Wales and citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That many areas of the Sydney region are unable to receive any of the broadcasts of ABC radio station 2JJ, and that other areas receive poor quality broadcasts from the same, because the equipment used by that station is too lowpowered to provide the service and coverage desired by many citizens of the city. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, will do all in its power to bring to the attention of the Government this matter, that by legislation, regulation or administrative fiat this matter may be speedily attended to. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
 Petition received and read. 
I present the following petition from 53 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Senators in Parliament assembled: The humble Petition of undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth that the establishment of an Australian Government Insurance Office will: 
1 ) Lead to Nationalisation of the Insurance Industry 
Have a serious effect on the private sector of the economy 
3 ) Cause unemployment in the Insurance Industry. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Senate rejects completely the Australian Government Insurance Office Bill 1975. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I present the following petition from 9 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Senators in Parliament assembled: The humble Petition of undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth that the establishment of an Australian Government Insurance Office will: 
1 ) Further shrink the flow of funds available for finance for private enterprise in Australia. 
Will eventually lead to nationalisation of much of private enterprise in Australia. 
Cause serious unemployment in the private insurance industry throughout Australia. 
Your Petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Senate rejects completely the Australian Government Insurance Office Bill 1975. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
The Postmaster-General will be aware that I have made a number of representations regarding postal and telecommunication services for the population of Lord Howe Island. I remind the Minister that mail services to the island are in the hands of a north coast charter airline operating out of Port Macquarie and that another airline is operating directly between Sydney and Lord Howe Island but does not carry mail. Is the Minister aware of continuing concern expressed by the island's elected committee about the irregularity of mail services under present arrangements? Will he give consideration to allowing mail to leave Lord Howe Island on each day that an air service is available, whether this be by the north coast airline or the Sydney based airline? 
I did not wish to prolong the second reading debate by speaking then and I will be brief now. After the last rise in the fees that we are discussing, an alteration was made to the pharmaceutical benefits schedule to remove those items the cost of which was less than the fee to be charged. The last fee was $1. There was a number of pharmaceutical benefits items whose cost was less than $1 which were then removed from the schedule. If that is not done now the situation will arise where the new fee of $1.50 will exceed the cost of quite a number of items. I have the pharmaceutical benefits schedules here. On a brief cursory perusal this morning, I have found a number of items the cost of which is between $1 and $1.50. For example, the cost of all kinds of thyroid extract is between $ 1 and $ 1 .30. Are they now to be removed from the list of benefit items? If they are not there could be a financial anomaly. If that happens, what is the situation for pensioners who have to pay a different charge? I understand that you remove the items if they are general benefit items because it costs the members of the general public more if they have to pay $1.50 than if they buy the drug as a non-benefit item. But the situation for pensioners is a little more complicated. I would be grateful if the Minister could clarify those points. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Health aware of the expression of fears that it may be impossible to maintain adequate medical staffing in the Darwin Hospital? Has a resignation reduced the hospital medical staff to 14 doctors, and will 3 further resignations take effect within the next week or so? What steps are planned to ensure that a shortage of trained medical personnel does not add to the already formidable problems facing the residents of Darwin. 
asked the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
1 ) How many Chilean refugees have entered Australia in the past 12 months. 
Were all these immigrants in possession of completed entry forms and had all the necessary formalities been observed before they came to Australia. 
Is the Acting AttorneyGeneral aware of reports that a pastoral letter has been issued by the Most Reverend Thomas Cahill to all Catholics in the diocese of Canberra drawing attention to the proposals to legalise incest in the Australian Capital Territory between relatives over the age of 1 8 years? Will he agree that the concern of the Archbishop is proper and reasonable? Will the Minister give an assurance that the Government does not intend to make incest legal? 
In discussing the Budget Papers for 1975-76 the Senate in fact is examining Labor's second last Budget before an election must be held. It is an admission of failure and a totally destructive document. It is a cowardly evasion of the responsibilities which this Government has for the twin evils of inflation and unemployment, both of which it has created and for both of which it is responsible. The Budget represents a betrayal on the part of Labor. I remind honourable senators that the Prime Minister,  Mr Whitlam,  when speaking last year to the Australian Labor Party Regional Conference in Townsville after the presentation of his Budget had this to say: 
I have long held the view that the Budget is not just an economic document but a declaration of the Government's view of the kind of society we want and the kind of people we are. 
He went on to say: 
Nothing we have done has so clearly demonstrated, so clearly symbolised, this Government's philosophy and concerns, its priorities and aspirations. 
What have those been in the past year? They have been a rising rate of inflation and a whole group of people unemployed. This culminated with the Minister for Labor and Immigration  (Senator James McClelland)  telling us in the Senate on 27 August that the nation is now in a state of deep recession. Those were the Minister's words and we were not in that state of deep recession a year ago when the Prime Minister told us that his Budget was a statement of the direction he wanted the nation to take. That is the direction it has taken. The 1974-75 Budget failed to solve these problems. It is a failure for the Government and it has led to a lot of continuing uncertainty for Australia and for all Australians. 
So we come to the present Budget. We learned from the Prime Minister before the Budget was brought in that it was going to be the most thoroughly and carefully prepared Budget Australia had ever had. That was the Prime Minister's boast. If that is what this Budget represents then it is a hoax, it is dishonest, it is deceptive and discriminatory. The Treasurer  (Mr Hayden)  correctly identified high inflation and high unemployment as prime problems for Australia at the present time and we agree with him. Neither high inflation nor high unemployment was present in this country 3 years ago. They are both present now. Unemployment was not high one year ago. In fact, in the Budget Speech one year ago the then Treasurer,  Mr Crean,  told us that no Labor Government could tolerate a situation where we had 4 per cent, 5 per cent or even higher levels of unemployment. Yet unemployment is sitting at this moment at closer to 5 per cent than to 4 per cent- another impossibility' which Labor said could not happen but which has come to pass and for which the people of Australia have to pay. 
I remember that during the election last year following the double dissolution I had to fight against dishonest advertisements which were placed by the Prime Minister, stating that only he had reduced inflation by one-third. That was his claim. It was a false claim and it was proven to be false and dishonest soon after the election. It is still dishonest to say that this Government has any plans to reduce or control inflation. It has no better plans now than it had in May 1974 when it misled the Australian people and produced advertisements which were clearly untrue and misleading. They sought re-election on these advertisements. The Prime Minister has not reduced inflation and inflation in Australia certainly is not an accidental event. It is something which the Labor Party has made inevitable by the kind of policies it has followed. It has produced inflation. It has nurtured it and sustained it and this Budget does the same. The Government share of the gross domestic product is too large. Its expenditures are too great. It is too profligate. It lacks control over expenditure. It has increased its own spending by 23 per cent and predicted an inflation rate of 20 per cent, which is an increase. It shows no sign of reducing inflation when this is obviously a major national priority. 
The Government may think that inflation in its hands is, shall I say, merely a drop in the buck. But I say that what we are facing is being broke with a lot of money in our pockets. We are all going to suffer for this. Businesses are suffering, producers, employers and pensioners are suffering, wage earners are suffering, the independent aged- the people who tried to care for themselvesare suffering. These people write and tell us that they cannot cope with inflation running as it is under a Labor Government. Yet this Budget does not attack inflation. The Government is just going to get fat on an increased share of the national product while the whole nation suffers and the weak receive less. The Treasurer understood this because in his own Budget Speech he said at page 3: 
More inflation simply leads to more unemployment. 
This is the Government that predicts an increasing rate of inflation and that clearly expects, in terms of its own statement, that we will have more unemployment and more hardship in this country. 
I had the pleasure recently of travelling to Launceston to take part in a by-election there. The visiting mainlanders were sent out doorknocking not a bad thing for them to do. I was sent to an area called Mayfield which has been a very strong Labor sub-division. Whilst I was door knocking there the people told me they were all going to vote for  Mr Newman.  I knew that one of 2 things was the case: Either they were telling me lies or we were going to get a landslide win. I asked the people what made them so certain that they were going to vote Liberal and they told me that they were worried about their jobs. At house after house I heard the same story: We are worried about our employment; we are worried about the situation at Coats Patons (Australia) Limited; we are worried about the situation at Repco Limited; we are worried about the opportunities to remain in employment. The people of Australia will not be fooled. They know what unemployment means. They know what lies ahead of them if this Labor Government goes on. It is Australians who want the right to work who will tip this Government out just as they tipped out the Labor Party in the Bass by-election, and they will reject the Prime Minister nationwide the same as they rejected him in the electorate of Bass when he went down to lend his support, the same as when he went to lend his support in the last Queensland State election when his Party did so well. The only election Labor has done well in was the South 
Australian election in which the Prime Minister was not allowed to appear. I think that he should not be living it up at the moment travelling the world. He should be getting back here worrying about unemployment and helping Australians to get off the dole and to get back to work when they want to do so. The Treasurer himself had something to say about unemployment in his Budget Speech. He had all the homilies in it. He said: 
To reduce unemployment lastingly, recovery in the private sector is essential. 
Well, if that is the Treasurer's prescription, what did he do to help the private sector? He did precious little. He did almost nothing. The private sector does not believe that the proposals of the Labor Party are going to help it. The private sector does believe that the proposals of  Mr Malcolm  Fraser are going to help it and it is enthusiastically endorsing the alternative Budget and the alternative economic policy put down by the coalition Leader in another place last week. There is bitterness amongst traditional Labor voters. It is interesting that the gallup polls at the present time show support for the Labor Party as below 40 per cent. If there is one issue that is keeping support so low, if there is one issue that took Labor's vote down to 38 per cent in Bass it is the issue of the right to work, the issue of unemployment and the fact that Australians feel cheated. 
If this Budget does not grapple with the 2 main problems, unemployment and inflation, it creates its own problems because it is a very destructive budget. It sets out to destroy a number of bodies which have been yielding valuable service in Australia. It sets out to disrupt programs which have been running well and it seems to be an act of blind destruction by a dying government.  Senator Guilfoyle  talks about the effects that are going to be felt in the field of education in which the Government has blithely abandoned the triennial funding program. It is worth while spending a little time now looking at some of the things the Government is going to do, some of the programs it is cutting and some of the organisations it is going to hurt. 
I would like to start off by just talking briefly about Medibank. I can believe that Medibank, which has become the law of Australia, could be introduced by a Labor government but there is no rational reason why it has to be introduced all at once as it has been. Surely if the Government believes it has a mandate it still also has a mandate for economic responsibility. There was no reason why the Medibank program could not have been brought in in a staged fashion. There is no reason why it could not have come in over a period of two or three years. There is no reason why the medical side of Medibank could not have been brought in and then two or three years later the hospital side phased in. But no, this Government, faced with severe economic problems, has undertaken to spend an additional $ 1,100m according to its costing- its costing will be a gross underestimate- just to add to our problems and to make it quite certain that many other programs, education being one of them, are going to have to be abandoned or truncated, and all this in a country in which our July deficit was $800m compared to $180m one year ago. It is a Government that is actually running out of ready cash because it is spending so fast. I know that the operation of Medibank in New South Wales is already characterised by very slow payments. There is no 5-day turnaround. It is 4 weeks, 5 weeks, 6 weeks and 7 weeks before money is coming back and we suspect one of the reasons is that this Government has no ready cash and is delaying on its Medibank obligations as one rather cheap method of trying to make ends meet. 
I was aware that  Senator Wheeldon  spoke at the annual meeting of the Australian Council of Social Service held one week ago. He made it clear in the speech he gave there that the Government is still seriously talking about introducing its national compensation scheme in the near future. For goodness' sake, whatever the merits or the demerits of the scheme- we have never really debated them in the Senatesurely economic sense demands that this scheme cannot be introduced now. It is another example of an expensive program which we cannot afford at this stage. At least in respect of the national compensation scheme the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation  (Senator Wheeldon)  did suggest that it be brought in in stages. What a pity that Medibank was not proposed to be introduced in exactly the same way. 
Moving on to the question of pensions, we come to one of the really nasty parts of the Budget. The Government has elected to destroy some of the value of the pension increases. It has decided that pension rises from now on shall be not on the basis of increases in average weekly earnings but on the basis of alterations in the consumer price index.  Senator Mcintosh  was kind enough in his brief address to inform the Senate that the consumer price index has increased at a much slower rate than have average weekly earnings. So the new Government policy is going to mean that the pensioners are going to get less money than they would have got and the pensioners are the people who are suffering most in a time of high inflation. If honourable senators examine the Henderson report which came into the Senate last week, if they examine who are the people who make up the groups in poverty in Australia, they will find that the aged and the single parent family- in other words, people on pensions- are those who make up the largest groups in poverty. It is said that money is quite a good start in the therapy of poverty. Here we have a situation in which the Government is proposing that the rises it gives to pensioners are going to be less than they would otherwise have been. 
The proportion of the rise in the pension will vary in the following way: Under the present formula whereby pensions are adjusted to average weekly earnings, pensions could have been expected last year to go up 27 per cent. In the last year, had we been using the consumer price index as the Government now proposes, pensions would have gone up 1 6.9 per cent. The pensioners would have got less. What it means is that pensioners in Australia can now look forward to only two-thirds of the incremental rise that they would have got under the Government's old formula. What is interesting is that this represents a betrayal by the Government of a firm promise which was made before it came to government and before the 1974 election. It represents an abandonment of a group in society that is vulnerable and which does not deserve this kind of treatment. They are the group most vulnerable, the greatest group in poverty, and under this proposal that is where they shall stay. 
If I talk about this Budget as being a destructive document and if I talk about the things the Government has done to destroy agencies, what it has done to medical research in Australia cannot pass unnoticed. Medical research in this country has always been modest in amount. We have always spent less on research but we have managed to produce far more than our share of Nobel laureates. We have produced our share of advances in world medicine and the amount of research we have conducted has helped to keep our own graduates in Australia to provide care for our own population. We find that this Government, which seems to find it possible to increase from $1.7m to $8.3m the amount it will spend on hearing aids and appliances, cutting medical research from $8m to $4m. It has cut $4m off a very modest medical research budget. At the same time, it has moved into the appliance area, which I should have thought was of a much lower order of priority. Why has it done that? Goodness only knows. I think it will emerge that this Government has made a mistake. I think it will emerge that it has been careless, and I hope that we will see an adjustment made to the Budget figures to give medical research more of a place in the sun, at least to bring it back to the $8m. If that happens it will suffer only in the fact that its grant will be discounted by inflation and fewer people will have to be sacked. 
As things stand now, our small medical research establishment is faced with mass sackings, the closing down of units, the breaking up of teams, the abandonment of on-going research projects and the destruction of research that has been carried at a standard that has earned approval and commendation around the world. The destruction goes further than that; it goes to the Australian Council of Social Service, and that is almost incomprehensible. Here we have a Council which is actually a service delivery agency, bringing together many bodies to work out how they can best help society. They are the welfare professionals, the people who traditionally have spent their time actually in the field delivering service. We find that their grant has been reduced by half. It has been reduced by $85,000, while the grant in the line above that in the Estimates for some kind of university research has been increased by $85,000. 
I think ACOSS deserves a better fate, but it is not the only body to suffer. The Brotherhood of St Laurence, whose only crime is that it really helps people in poverty, which, as  Senator Melzer  would know, is running an excellent income maintenance project in Fitzroy, has had its grants cut out entirely. The International Social Service organisation is a body whose only crime is that it provides liaison for migrants who require social services. Migrants may be going back to Italy or Greece and may need help and that body will arrange for their welfare benefits to be dealt with. It has had its grant removed. All those grants have been removed, yet simply by doing without the increased allocation for nearing aids we could have given all of them their money and had some left over. There seems to be a misallocation of money evident all the way through this Budget. The Government also seems to find it possible to allocate from this Budget $231,000 for studies in recreation. There is no place for studies in recreation when we have to sack the staff of the Council of Social Services in Victoria and the Council of Social Services in New South Wales. Recreation is of a lower order of priority. It is better to keep the Brotherhood of St Laurence funded, it is better to keep the International Social Service going and do without grants for studies in recreation. But that is the way of this Government- no rationality, no sense, totally incomprehensible, totally irrational. 
It gives to those who talk and it takes away from those who are delivering services. I have given you the facts from the Estimates,  Senator McClelland,  and they are facts which you cannot refute. Bodies like the Social Welfare Commission which actually do a job in correlating and evaluating welfare have been threatened with disestablishment. Here we have a Government that wants to destroy, and it wants to destroy all those bodies that seem to operate away from the centre, all those bodies that operate at a State level, all those bodies that operate at a local level. They are the ones whose grants have been cut. They are the ones that have been hit, and it is the bodies that can be funded centrally or operated centrally that seem to be carrying on. There is no good sense in what has happened to the Council of Social Services, there is no good sense in what happened to the Brotherhood of St Laurence, there is no good sense in what happened to International Social Service. I would rather do without the studies in recreation, thank you, if that is the choice given to us. It is simply a question of re-ordering our priorities. I am not asking the Government to spend more in aggregate; I am asking it to rearrange what it has done. I am asking it to hold back on some part of its Medibank program. 

 - Senator McClelland asks what part. Before the honourable senator came into the chamber I had explained this at some length, and for those who keep the House the information is readily available. We could delay the purchase of a drug company for which we intend to pay $8.3m. We cannot afford the drug company this year. If the Labor Government wants to buy the Fawnmac group of companies then it should do so, but it should do it next year or the year after when it can afford it. That $8. 3m would have been much better used for some of the bodies that have been cruelly hit and cruelly treated by this Government. 
-The shares in Wambo Copper, that is right. That is the same kind of thing and  Senator Durack  draws attention to it. 
Of course, this Government does find itself capable of some quite remarkable items of expenditure if it wants to. We have just finished a year in which the Government managed to spend $800,000 for the Department of the Media on a publicity program for the machinery of government. We could have done without that and kept some of our other programs going. The Government now tells us that it intends to spend a further $200,000 from the current Budget on publicity for the machinery of government. Let the Department of the Media give up this little propaganda exercise and put that money back into something that will help people. 
What about last year when the Government managed to put $200,000 into a contribution towards preserving a temple at Borobudur. I am sure the temple at Borobudur deserves preservation, but does it have to be done at the expense of the pensioners of this country getting the rise in their pensions which they were promised by people like  Senator Poyser,  our Victorian Labor senator who interjects. He is in the Government that promised people pension rises by average weekly earnings. Let him keep his promise and stop spending money on the preservation of temples. Let him stop spending $2,000 on providing muzakpiped music- for the Department of Manufacturing Industry. Muzak, I ask you! The Government is spending $2,000 on piped music, but the pensioners cannot have their money because  Senator Poyser  would rather have the piped music. He would rather have $7,000 spent on the hire of indoor plants for the Department of Overseas Trade. And so it goes on: $800,000 for a trade display in Peking; $lm for applied ecology; $50,000 to the Department of the Media to provide envelopes for publications which we do not want; $ 1 30,000 just to publicise the Department of the Media. The money is there. The money can be properly used without destroying half our programs. It is just that the Labor Party does not want to do that. The Opposition has an alternative program, and my leader presented it last week in another place. I should remind the Senate that that program will be well received. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  in speaking last year after his own Budget had been presented had the gall to say: 
Imagine what would have happened if there had been a Liberal-Country Party Budget. . . . 
He was talking about the Budget he had brought down. He said: 
There would have been no room for doubt or speculation then. We all know what their Budget would have done. How easy, how simple- how savage - 
I do not have the Whitlam flair, but the words are just as nasty-  that Budget would have been! Back to Draconian measures and conventional remedies- massive unemployment, bankrupt businesses - 
These are the words of your Prime Minister,  Senator, your  leader.  bankrupt businesses, idle factories, indiscriminate monetary restrictions. 
That is what the Prime Minister said last year and that is what he has given us. Those who read todays  Australian  would have seen that 3000 firms closed this year. In Victoria so far 1 1 79 companies have been removed from the State Corporate Affairs Commission register this year, which is more than the number removed for the whole of last year. In New South Wales 878 companies have been wound up. In Queensland 719 companies have been forced to close. The Victorian Chamber of Manufactures knows where to put the blame. It puts the blame on the Government because of the impact of the tariff cuts, the inability of companies to pass on the cost rises, industrial disputes, the high cost of raising finance, the difficulty in obtaining finance and the loss of incentives. All are gifts from a grateful Labor Government, all leading to the closure of firms and to unemployment and inflation, the very things the Prime Minister decried last year. 
I return to our program. We have a program to stimulate the private sector. We propose to implement the Mathews Committee report. We propose to implement the provision for personal income tax indexation and the company tax proposals. We intend to provide $500m for the reduction of income tax receipts in 1975-76. In the first year we intend to provide a 40 per cent investment allowance to supersede the accelerated depreciation allowance, and for 5 years thereafter a 20 per cent allowance each year. We intend to suspend for the present the quarterly payment of company tax. We intend to suspend the beef export levy, to reintroduce the superphosphate levy and to give beef producers and other rural people access to the welfare payments to which they are denied now. It is a funny thing that this Government has had the report of the Henderson Commission for some months. It knows that people in the rural areas are poor and constitute a poverty group but it has not let them get into the welfare system so they can receive the welfare benefits to which they are entitled.  Mr Fraser  will do so. We will cut government spending. We will get the country back on to a proper course. 
Never let those of us who had to fight the election in 1972 forget what  Senator James  McClelland 's Party said in the little document it put out headed  Economics; It's Time.  This is Labor economics. Labor gave us a diagnosis of the nation as it was in 1972. It is worth looking back on. It makes wonderful reading. It states: 
Australia was first called 'the lucky country' back when wool and wheat were prosperous. We were so lucky that, even when wool and wheat struck trouble, we discovered that our country was a bonanza of minerals: Iron, coal, bauxite, uranium, copper . . . You name it, we 've got it. 
That was under a Liberal Party government, as  Senator Missen  said. The document continued: 
With this immense natural wealth, and our small population, we  couldn't  go wrong, could we? 
The London  Economist  had this to say. It is from Labor's election manifesto. It stated: 
Given anything like competent economic management . . . 
I draw to the attention of the Senate the words competent economic management'-  the Australians will be able to manage a growth rate of at least S per cent. 
They cannot under Labor. I return to this document that Labor hawked around the community as part of its sales gimmick- the quick sale trick. It is too late after one has signed on the dotted line. The document continues: 
We find people everywhere being hurt, having it really hard, without ever knowing why. Why, in the 'lucky country', are the sick, the old, the poor, the breadwinners on low incomes, the one-man farms and businesses being steadily driven to the wall? 
Those people did not know anything then. They had not suffered 3 years of hard labour. I return to the document 
Why has our rate of inflation grown so fast that the interest rate on money we save no longer even covers the loss from inflation? Why is everyone on a fixed income feeling the pinch? 
We did not know we were alive until the Labor Party came to office. Labor really showed us what inflation was, really showed us how our savings could be eroded and really showed us how people could go to the wall when a Labor economy was allowed to operate. The document stated one other thing that is worth quoting: 
Governments are only people. But if the people who make up Governments lose their way, become confused, forget what they're there for; if they become tired, and dispirited and leaderless, then they cease to be a Government. They become a rabble. 
I suppose that is about as good a description of the present Labor Government as one could ever get. I look forward with pleasure to a Senate campaign in New South Wales in which with any luck the Labor team, perhaps led by a Minister, will set out to see what it can do. At present, according to the polls, it holds 37 or 38 per cent of the vote. As leader of the Liberal-National Country Party team, with my colleague  Senator Doug  Scott, I will bring into this Parliament a new senator named Misha Lajovic, a migrant. 

 - Senator Melzer would not know him, but the Liberal Party of Australia is the Party that is bringing into this Parliament for the first time a person who came to this country from a non-English speaking country. He will come to this place after being 25 years in Australia. I am waiting for the Labor Party to show its democracy. Misha Lajovic won the Liberal Party preselection the hard way, after a 14-hour ballot. He will come into the Senate and, because we will give the Labor Party such a walloping in the half Senate election, we will bring in also a fourth candidate. I do not know yet who that candidate is. When he is preselected we will bring him in too, because with 57 per cent of the formal vote we can win 4 seats in New South Wales. It is budgets like this one which will spell doom for Labor and will make a victory for us inevitable. This is a very bad Budget. It is a Budget which does nothing for Australia. It betrays the weak. It is central control under the guise of social welfare, and anything that is not centrally controlled has been hit. It is financing the purchase of the nation by increased personal taxation, and the take on personal tax has gone up to over $8 billion. It is a game in which the Labor Government is legislating to break, to injure, to buy, to circumvent, to bypass, to coerce, to do anything as long as it gets control, destroys the private sector and brings in the democratic socialism of which  Senator Wheeldon  is so proud. The amendment moved by my Leader is a moderate and proper amendment. It points out that the Senate is of the opinion that the Budget fails to attack Australia's economic crisis for 5 very good reasons. I support all of them. I support the amendment. I condemn the Budget. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Webster)-  No point of order is involved.  Senator Baume  did not say that he was quoting something that  Senator James  McClelland said. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT- I heard the statement, and he did not say that. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  I listened very closely to  Senator Baume  's speech.  Senator Poyser  may not have heard it but  Senator Baume  referred to  Senator James  McClelland 's Party. He quoted from the document and indicated that it was a Labor Party document. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  Order!  Senator, you  will have to move that the document be tabled. If you wish to do that you may proceed. 
Motion (by  Senator Poyser)  proposed: 
That the document quoted from by  Senator Baume  during his speech be laid upon the table. 
I am perfectly happy to - 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT- I believe that a seconder is required, but undoubtedly we have one. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT- It has been moved and seconded that a document be tabled. 
If it will enlighten the members of the Labor Party to read their manifesto again, I will be delighted to table the document. I ask only that they read it. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT- Order ! The document has been tabled. 
asked the PostmasterGeneral, upon notice: 
1 ) Was application made for the installation of a telephone in the home of  Mrs Sheila  Smith in Namatjira Avenue, Dareton, in November 1974. 
Has the telephone been connected; if not, what has delayed the installation. 
Has approval been given for the installation as requested. 
In view of the particular problems in that area, could consideration be given to installing a pay telephone in one of the homes rather than in a conventional telephone box in the street. 
Is Namatjira Avenue approximately11/2 miles from the township of Dareton, cut-off, and poorly serviced by public transport and is the nearest medical attention effectively in Mildura. 
Do these facts or physical isolation make the provision of a telephone for this community of several hundred people an urgent necessity. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) How much money was paid to architects,  Mr David  Grieve,  Mr John  Chappel and  Mr Sandy  McLeay in relation to housing projects at Nepabunna, Port Mackay, Port Pearce, Amata and Indulkana. 
What was the final cost per house in each of these areas. 
Thank you,  Mr President.  This document then sets out historical facts concerning the Baltic states question, and I am grateful to the Senate for allowing its incorporation in Hansard. I only wish to say further that the 
Leader of my Party has spoken on the question of the de jure recognition of Soviet incorporation of the Baltic states and has made it clear that on our return to government instructions will be issued to our Ambassador to the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics not to visit the Baltic states and that recognition will again be given in this country to the honorary Consul for Latvia; these 2 actions effectively being ones that will reverse the de jure recognition that has taken place. 
My question, addressed to the Minister for Labor and Immigration, relates to the entry into this country of refugees from East Timor, an area where several diseases, including in particular malaria and amoebic dysentery and amoebiasis are endemic. Will the Government give an assurance that it will screen refugees for any transmissible infectious diseases such as malaria and amoebiasis, both of which can occur in Australia, especially since these refugees may have been at greater than usual risk during the period of turmoil that preceded their escape to Australia? 
During the Bass by-election campaign an unfortunate clash occurred between a school teacher, a pupil and the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam).  Since that time there has been considerable interest in the facts and the history behind that fight that they had. There has come into my possession a letter which sets out the facts and the history concerning the Baltic states. The letter contains 1 9 paragraphs. It is my intention to make it known to the Senate to assist with our general understanding of the history surrounding this unhappy matter. The letter was written by a  Mr Tom  McGlynn, the school teacher involved in the incident to which I referred. The letter is dated 8 July 1975. The address is Post Office Box 933, Launceston, Tasmania 7250. It is headed  'Mr Whitlam  and the Baltic States Question'. I quote the letter: 
I refer to your recent letter or telegram or to a statement attributed to you in the Press. I should like to thank all those  who have supported me though unfortunately I cannot write to you all . . . 
May I speak to the point of order? 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Mulvihill)-  Yes. 
Most of this letter concerns facts of history or the interpretation of history as seen by  Mr McGlynn. 
I am just putting this for the assistance of the Acting  Deputy President.  There are several paragraphs which relate to the events that took place on 26 June. The paragraphs are separate and can be separated by me. My view is that the letter may be properly quoted. I seek your ruling,  Mr Acting Deputy President. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT- In view of the confusion, I think I will exercise my plenary powers and declare the sitting of the Senate suspended until 2.15 p.m. 

 Sitting suspended from 12.58 to 2.1 5 p.m. 


 - Mr President,I thank the Senate and I thank  Senator Everett.  If the Senate is agreeable I am prepared to move that the document be incorporated in  Hansard,  but that is a matter for some guidance. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the number of second division officers employed in the Department of Social Security. 
How many of these officers have held their present position for 
less than one year, 
between one and two years, and 
for more than two years. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) Did the Minister or his predecessor make any commitments prior to the 1972 General Election promising that a Labor Government would not take away any benefits already enjoyed by blind people. 
Are there many blind pensioners who, since 1972, have lost their entitlement to pensioner medical services and to a pensioner medical service card. 
Have such pensioners now lost their eligibility for concessions in matters of transport, council rates, dental services and the like. 
How many such blind people are there who have lost these entitlements. 
Have TPI Pensioners in similar financial circumstances been allowed to retain their pensioner medical service cards and the consequential fringe benefits; if so, why are blind pensioners being singled out for punitive action. 
I ask the Minister representing the Prime Minister: Did the  Australian  newspaper of 8 September 1975 report the Prime Minister as having said to a Victorian Labor Party seminar that the Liberal Party discriminated against Jews, Catholics and migrants? Are there not Liberal Party senators of both religious faiths to which the statement referred? Is the Minister not aware that  Mr Misha  Lajovic, who migrated in 1950 from Slovenia to Australia, is a Liberal Senate candidate for New South Wales and does he not occupy a position which is likely to ensure his election? Do these facts detailing the breadth of representation in the parliamentary Liberal Party and of the Party's candidates not emphasise the untruth of the Prime Minister's assertion? 
asked the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation, upon notice: 
What evaluation procedures are carried out to determine in social as well as vocational terms the efficacy of rehabilitation services provided by the Department of Repatriation and Compensation. 
asked the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation, upon notice: 
What is the average bed capacity in each of the major repatriation general hospitals in Australia for each of the past five years. 
What has been the average daily bed occupancy in each of the major repatriation general hospitals in Australia for each of the past five years. 
What is the potential unused bed capacity available in repatriation general hospitals. 
I present the following pet  ition from 256 citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the Honourable the  President  and members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully showeth: 
On the day of remembrance of the deportations without trial of the inhabitants of the Baltic countries, we, the undersigned ask the Senate to request the Government to revoke de jure recognition of the unlawful annexation of the Baltic States of Estonia, Latvia, and Lithuania by the Soviet Union. 
According to the Charter of the United Nations the Baltic peoples are entitled to self-determination and any foreign occupation of these countries is unlawful and thus should not be recognised in law. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
How many prescriptions for rauwolfia drugs have been written as pharmaceutical benefits for each of the months available since those for which information was given in reply to Senate Question No. 453. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Following the announcement by the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories Commission that production of human tetanus immunoglobulin (a safe product) has now reached the level where it is possible to discontinue the use of equine tetanus antitoxin (a non-safe product), is it the intention of the Government to make equine tetanus antitoxin completely unavailable. 
Does the deletion of equine tetanus antitoxin from the schedule of pharmaceutical benefits mean that the product can no longer be purchased. 
If this is not the case, will the Minister consider having equine tetanus antitoxin made completely unavailable in view of its known record in causing occasional serious allergic and anaphylactic reactions. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What is the number of second division officers employed in the Department of Health. 
How many of these officers have held their present position for (a) less than one year, (b) between one and two years, and (c) for more than two years. 
-Did the PostmasterGeneral receive recently from me photocopies of a pamphlet on Medibank from the Socialist Party of Australia- whatever that is- and an envelope in which the pamphlet was posted marked 'On  Her  Majesty's Service', bearing no stamp and having as a return address the Revenue Section of the Postmaster-General's 
Department with a box number in Sydney? Can he yet inform me how government envelopes were used without postage for transmission of what was to me offensive political material? What steps are being taken to investigate the incident, to apprehend the person, and to prevent further occurrences? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the attention of the Minister been drawn to an article, 'Carcinogenicity and Mutagenicity tests of some hair colourants and constituents', appearing in 'Nature 'Vol. 255. June 5, 1975, at page 506. 
Will the Minister have this article brought to the attention of the appropriate expert committee with a view to ensuring that the findings contained in the article indicate no hazard to the population of Australia. 
Will the Minister report at the earliest opportunity what the expert committee advise and what measures should be taken with regard to warning labels or other appropriate measures. 

 Senator WHEELDON-The Minister for Health has provided the following answer to the honourable senator's question: 
1) Yes. I have also noted a letter from  Dr D.  G. McPhee and  Dr D.  M. Podger of the Department of Genetics and Human Variation, La Trobe University, concerning tests which have been carried out on hair dyes in Australia. Further information is being sought on this matter from the United States and the United Kingdom. 
This matter is being examined by the Poisons Schedule Sub-committee of the National Health and Medical Research Council. The sub-committee has previously considered the possibility of skin irritation and eye damage resulting from hair dyes and has recommended a warning in this regard which has been incorporated in the Uniform Poisons Standard of NH&amp; MRC. 
Yes. 
Behavioural Disturbances and Learning Disabilities (Question No. 674)  Senator Baume  asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) ls the Minister aware of reported associations between synthetic food colourings and flavours and behavioural disturbances and learning disabilities in adults and children such as were reviewed in 'Chemtech'. May 1975 and in prior publications. 
What action is the Government taking as a result of these reports. 
asked the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
Will the Minister give details of (a) the numbers of people approved for re-training under the National Employment and Training Scheme; (b) the total number approved in each week of the Scheme's operation; and (c) the distribution of approvals in total by Local Government areas. 
asked the Minister for the Media, upon notice: 
1 ) Does any group of people which shares a common language, common traditions, common culture and the common ethic qualify for recognition as a special ethnic group in relation to access radio. 
Was it for such groups that ethnic access radio was planned. 
Do the hundred thousand Macedonians living in Australia not qualify as a separate ethnic group according to that definition. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Has the Government claimed that hospital treatment in standard wards will be free in those hospitals systems participating in the hospital side of the Government's health insurance scheme. 
Did the Minister announce that Canberra residents treated in standard ward beds by doctors of their own choice will pay a hospital surcharge of $20 a day for accommodation and that free standard ward care will be available only to those patients treated by salaried doctors; if so, is this proposed surcharge a punitive imposition designed to discourage participation of non-salaried doctors in the hospital care of Canberra residents. 
I present the following petition from 69 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled the Petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the decisions of the Australian Government- 
To depart from its 1972 election promise that basic pensions would be related to average weekly earnings and never be allowed to fall below 25 per cent thereof, and 
b ) To increase postage costs and the costs of installation and annual rental of telephones, will seriously add to the economic burdens now borne by those citizens who are wholly or mainly dependent on their pensions. 
Your petitioners are impelled by these facts to call upon the Australian Government as a matter of urgency to review the abovementioned decisions (a) and (b), and to determine- 
That pensions be related to average earnings as promised by the Prime Minister in his 1972 policy speech, and 
That no charge be made for installation or rental on the telephones of those pensioners entitled to a P.M.S. card. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
The speech which we have just heard is one which would be best forgotten, and best forgotten quickly. All the irrelevancies, inaccuracies, hatreds, and obloquy do no service to the senator who made the speech. It was almost a word salad, it was so incomprehensible. It made a very small contribution to a serious attempt to solve some of Australia's problems today. The 3 Bills which we are discussing are related to the raising of excise. The Customs Tariff (Coal Export Duty) Bill 1975 relates to the raising of charges on the export of coal and the Excise Tariff Bill 1975 relates to the raising of charges on tobacco products and alcohol. The Customs Bill (No. 2) 1975 is the third Bill. I wish to speak briefly to the first Bill. It is a further example of the damage which  Mr Connor  can wreak if he tries. He has set out to impose a levy, payable from 19 August, on exports of coal, including steaming coal. We very quickly saw the damage this would do to areas of New South Wales, my home State, where the mining of steaming coal is one of the main sources of employment. New South Wales is a great coal mining State. We have large reserves and large future hopes for our coal mining industry.  Senator Carrick  set out some of the facts about mining in New South Wales.  Senator Keeffe  chose to cast doubt upon those facts. He may care to know that they were derived basically from publications of the Joint Coal Board.  His  objections are entirely without foundation. 
Steaming coal in New South Wales is mined on the western fields, particularly in the area of Lithgow. That is a city which has little reason to love the Labor Government. There are 2 industries in Lithgow. There is the coal mining industry and the small arms factory. The winding down of defence procurement has had the effect of reducing employment opportunity in the small arms factory. We see a shameful neglect of Lithgow and prospects for further unemployment in the most important town in the seat of Macquarie. The Mayor of Lithgow, Alderman Gillard, has spoken to me on a number of occasions since this legislation came in and he is concerned at what it threatens for his own town. I was able to visit Newcastle recently and to talk to people there who are associated with the mining of the kind of coal which in the Bill before us is to attract an export levy of $2 a tonne. The concern in Newcastle was again for employment. 
If this export levy were carried through it would lead to widespread unemployment in the areas of New South Wales where jobs are already at a premium. We have experience of the contribution made by the Government's beef export levy to the downturn in the beef export industry in Australia. We do not want any more experiences along the same line. 
The western coalfields of New South Wales are not booming. Employment in the coalfields has dropped from 3000 in 1952 to approximately 450 people in 1973. At the same time the demand for coking coal has gone up throughout the rest of New South Wales, but in the western fields where steaming coal is mined employment has been static or dropping. The oil crisis in 1973 had the effect of making steaming coal once again competitive in a limited way. The demand for the coal from the western field did go up slightly but it has been possible to find only one large long term customer. That customer is the Central Electricity Generating Board of Britain and it is buying coal from the western field at prices which, even without this export levy, are only just competitive. Of the 4 companies in the western field, two are producing steaming coal which is being taken to Britain. One company hopes to supply 1.5 million tonnes of steaming coal a year to the Central Electricity Generating Board in Britain until 1982. That represents a very considerable export opportunity and a very considerable employment opportunity. We knew these facts; the Government should have known them. The Government should have known that the price of our coal is only just competitive with coal from Great Britain, Canada and Poland and with oil from the Arabian countries. The price that we have been obtaining for our steaming coal- $16 a tonne f.o.b.- cannot be increased. We have only one customer. That customer has other sources of supply. There is no way that we can pass on the increase in price. The price is $ 1 6 a tonne and the Government proposes to impose a $2 a tonne export levy. 
It rectified it but the Government should never have introduced the levy. It is a further example,  Senator Cavanagh,  of the inefficiency and ineptitude of your Government. We knew what this levy would mean and the Government has come to recognise how inappropriate it was. The Government has come to realise what damage it has threatened to the people of Lithgow and to the people in Newcastle. Contrary to what  Senator Keeffe  said, the real danger is to jobs and to employment in a nation which is already facing record unemployment. There is no way that the western fields could have absorbed this price increase and continued to operate. That the Government has had to come back with a proposed amendment to remove this levy before the Bill has even gone through is a measure of the incompetence of the Government and a measure of the failure of the Government to consult adequately before it brought in the first proposition. 
The Government is going to remove a portion of the levy applying to steaming coal. It should never have introduced the levy. 
The other levy remains,  Senator Wright;  you are quite right. We are concerned that extra job opportunities should be created in Lithgow. We are concerned that the promise of extra employment may be lost if this levy goes through. We are delighted that the Government has listened to representations but I repeat once again that this Bill should never have been introduced in the form in which it was introduced and the levy on steaming coal should never have been entertained. 
The other Bills being debated in this cognate fashion concern excise duties upon tobacco products and beer and potable spirits. The Government aims to raise the excise on beer and potable spirits and on tobacco products to fund its other spending programs. It is not often that I rise to support a member of this Government but I rise today partly as a doctor as well as a senator for New South Wales to support some of the things which  Dr Everingham,  the Minister for Health, has been saying for a considerable period of time. I want to support him on some of the facts surrounding smoking and its dangers. I want to support him on some of the dangers surrounding the use and abuse of alcohol in our society and to relate those to the Government's cynical action in increasing this excise at the same time as it cut out almost completely the amount of money which it is going to provide for anti-smoking programs, for drug education or for the care of people who cannot cope with those 2 drugs of abuse. We are dealing with blood money and with a government that will take money and will prevent people from having a fair go at getting education or assistance in coping with smoking. 
I start off by setting out briefly some of the facts about alcohol. After heart disease and cancer, alcohol is the next most common cause of death, sickness and suffering in Australia. A proper measurement of the suffering caused by alcohol goes far beyond this, taking into account the disruption of family life and altered relationships, child abuse, beatings and other kinds of morbidity. I remind the Senate that in the 10-year period to December 1972, 820 000 people were injured and 33 000 people were killed in road accidents. I remind the Senate that alcohol was responsible for half the deaths on our roads and at least half the injuries. I remind the Senate that according to figures released by  Dr Everingham,  perhaps 5 per cent of the male population, perhaps one in twenty Australians, drinks excessively and could be classed as having an alcohol problem. 
The rate of alcohol consumption in Australia is rising steadily and it has increased at a far more rapid rate than has the population. We know that the alcohol problems in society are related directly to the average intake of alcohol. Professor Hetzel from Monash University has written an excellent book,  Health in Australian Society  and has given figures and graphs to prove that as average intake of alcohol goes up the incidence of alcoholism rises; that is to say, we are all more likely to become alcoholic or have an alcohol problem as drinking patterns change in Australia. 
I drink regularly. I enjoy drinking. I enjoy drinking wines, spirits and beer but I can control my drinking. Many Australians cannot and we have a responsibility to try to take some account of the morbidity and mortality from alcohol abuse in our society, especially if we know that most alcoholics go undetected, that many of the problems in the workforce are due to alcoholism, and that terms of sickness absence from work, alcoholism is a major factor and is of great cost to our society. 
Perhaps there is, but we are still faced with the fact that alcohol is a drug of addiction used in our society and we must seek to mitigate its effect. The most significant aspect of the problem may be stated as follows: The number of heavy drinkers relates directly to the average level of consumption in our society. If a government wants to do anything to control the amount of heavy drinking or the rate of alcoholism it has to do something to control the average rate of consumption in our society.  Senator Keeffe  made some comment that the increased excise will be helpful because it will make alcohol more expensive. It will have very little effect upon controlling the average alcohol intake in society. We have to do a lot more. We have a Government that is prepared to take a large slice in terms of excise. I would expect that Government to be prepared to return part of that money in the form of expenditure on educational programs and programs for treatment. It has shown no inclination so to do. I remind the Senate that we have received reports of a survey carried out in Sydney recently showing that more than 9 per cent of the 12 to 17-year-olds now claim that they get very drunk more than once a month; yet we are doing nothing as a national government. The Government is doing nothing with the money that it is going to claim and collect to help to educate the young people or to mitigate the effects of alcohol. 
What about the problems of smoking? What do we have in that respect? We know that the Government proposes in these Bills to increase the excise on tobacco products. For the past 20 years we have known that there is a relationship between lung cancer and smoking. For the past 10 years we have known from what has been said by the United States Surgeon-General that there is very good evidence linking a whole series of diseases with smoking. In the past 10 years we have seen mounted a program of public education. We have seen a lot more information gathered and we now know that millions of people have stopped smoking. It may be of interest to know that in my own profession many doctors have stopped smoking. It is now the rule rather than the exception for doctors to be non smokers. We as a profession have been convinced by the evidence relating to the morbidity from smoking and we have cut down our use of tobacco. The public is starting to follow. Many other people have not started smoking as a result of the information that has been disseminated and of the efforts that have been made to continue anti-smoking programs. We know that those who have stopped smoking have improved their health statistics, have had the death rates amongst them lowered and have shown benefits. 
In 1 974 a report was published by the United States Department of Health, Education and Welfare entitled 'The Health Consequences of Smoking'. The Department has reviewed the evidence available linking smoking with a whole series of diseases and has made the following observations: Cigarettes are the major risk factor for coronary artery disease- heart attacks- and 50 per cent of the annual deaths in our society are due to coronary artery disease. Smokers run twice the risk of contracting coronary artery disease and it is the greatest of all the known risk factors. It is absolute hypocrisy to mount programs to cut down the intake of cholesterol or to have weight reduction programs when the main risk factor is tobacco and we know it. Smokers die younger than non smokers. If they cease smoking they can reduce their risk. We can all reduce the risk of contracting coronary heart disease. 
Cigarettes and cigarette smoking increase the risk of suffering strokes and increase the risk of contracting peripheral vascular disease. Cigarettes are the major cause of lung cancer, which is the most common form of cancer occurring in males between the ages of 35 and 74, and the more cigarettes smoked the greater the risk. We are now finding that women who started smoking some decades later than men are starting to show the same increase in relation to the risk of lung cancer. Smokers run approximately 15 times as much risk of lung cancer as non smokers. Heavy smokers run anything up to 25 times the risk-. We know that cigarettes and cigarette smoking are causing an increase in the mortality from obstructive lung diseasesemphysema and bronchitis- and heavy smokers run a very much higher risk. We know that if one stops smoking one's risk drops. We know that cigarettes cause increased post-operative complications and that they cause increased collapses of the lung. We know that cigarettes are associated with oral cancer, oesophageal cancer, cancer of the pancreas and cancer of the larynx. When we surveyed doctors who stopped smoking after 1951- about 50 per cent of all doctors stopped smoking- we found that the death rates among doctors had fallen, particularly the death rates from cigarette-related diseases. The evidence is overwhelming. 
I shall now relate those remarks back to the Bill. The excise proposals for alcohol are designed to yield an extra $245 m this year. The excise proposals in relation to tobacco are designed to yield an extra $7 5 m this year. Those are very large amounts of money. They amount to $374m in a full year. We are using the desire of people for these habituating drugs to increase the general revenue. I accept that the costs which smoking brings about and the cost which the abuse of alcohol brings about should to some extent rest upon those who smoke and drink. But some of the money should go back into programs that are designed to educate and to care for those who are going to suffer. 
What has happened in the present Budget in relation to the allocations for anti-smoking programs? If we go to the Particulars of Proposed Expenditure for the Department of Health we find under division 325.3.09 that the appropriation for anti-smoking education has been decreased from $319,000 to $75,000. Similarly we find that there has been a decrease in Appropriation Bill (No. 2). The effect in relation to anti-smoking education has been to cut the allocation from $500,000 last year to $100,000 this year. We have a Government which should know what are the effects of smoking on the health of our society and which is prepared to take an extra $75m in excise but which is not even willing to give any of it back in terms of money for education. 
In the same way what do we find if we look at what is happening to the program in relation to drug education? The drug education program has been held steady at $750,000 in a situation in which the Labor Government has given us inflation rates of 15 per cent to 20 per cent. That steady allocation is a reduction in real terms. At the same time the Government stands to gain $245 m extra in its excise on alcohol. The people who are concerned to do something about drug abuse, about the problems of smoking and about the social effects of the abuse of alcohol would like to use some of that money on constructive programs. Is the Government so disinterested in preventive health care that it actually slashes the allocations for those health programs that can help to mitigate a few of the social effects of these drugs? 
These Bills are a disgrace. We are seeing blood money- I call it blood money- being collected. The Government wants its extra share but it wants to make sure that it makes it that much harder for the Australian community to have the information it requires to stop smoking or not to start smoking. The Government is going to make it that much harder for the members of the Australian community to know where they can go for assistance if they have an alcohol problem. The Government is going to make it harder for industry to know how to go about starting in-service help for those people on the shop floor who are alcoholics. These kinds of programs could mean less suffering, less morbidity and less family disruption and these are the programs that are affected. It is part of the Government's Budget that all the preventive programs- all the programs directed towards education and towards good community preventive care- have been slashed. These excise rises on tobacco and alcohol are something of which the Government should be ashamed. It is not too late for the Government to look again at the amount it is likely to derive from the excise on tobacco and alcohol and to determine that some small percentageone half of one per cent of the extra excise would do- should be put back to serve society. 
The Minister for Health,  Dr Everingham,  has frequently spoken to the Australian nation about the problems that these drugs are causing. As a casualty officer I have had to treat car crash victimsthe people who would not have been in that situation if some drunken driven had not hit into them. I do not think it is unreasonable to demand that society take some interest in making available resources for education and for extra institutional help. Until these Bills are matched by some commitment from the Government to provide something extra for anti-smoking programs, for support for the Australian Council on Smoking and Health and for drug education programs and unless we have a program to give help for alcoholics in industry, I think the Government must accept the fact that it is taking blood money from the victims in Australian society who will die and suffer on the roads and in the hospitals from tobacco and alcohol abuse in the years ahead. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Is the Minister aware of the expression of fears that it may be impossible to maintain adequate medical staffing in the Darwin Hospital. 
Has a resignation reduced the Hospital's medical staff to 14 doctors and will 3 further resignations take effect over the next week. 
What steps are planned so as to ensure that a shortage of trained medical personnel does not add to the already formidable problems facing the residents of Darwin. 
Is the Minister for Labor and Immigration aware of a recent survey among 66 architectural firms in Sydney indicating that 322 of their 800 architects and draftsmen face dismissal before Christmas because of current restricted work load and almost no forward contracts? In view of the known relationships whereby each hour spent at a drafting board multiplies into approximately 20 hours employment on site and approximately 100 hours total employment in the building and associated industries, and in view of the fact that the conditions in architecture give early warning of general building conditions I ask: What is known of employment prospects in the building and associated industries in the months ahead? Is progressive massive unemployment imminent in these industries? What plans does the Government have to reduce the impact and suffering such unemployment will cause? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Does all promotional literature to be issued with drugs for human use require approval of the Therapeutic Goods Branch of the Department of Health before printing and distribution. 
What staff exists in the Branch to examine and approve material. 
What is the average delay involved in obtaining such approval. 
Does the cost of printing necessary enclosures often exceed the cost of the medication. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Is the Minister aware of recent publications relating to biological reactivity of polyvinyl chloride and its associated monomer vinyl chloride monomer. 
Is the Minister also aware of recent experiments which show that polyvinyl chloride dust has a haemolytic potential which can be minimised by washing procedures added to the processing of polyvinyl chloride. 
What steps have been taken to inform industry of these hazards and of any recommended steps which should be taken. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Social Security, concerns proposed payments under hospital Medibank to visiting medical officers. The Minister will be aware that many visiting medical officers do not intend to accept money for services even if it is offered. I ask: Would such refusal to accept payment represent a publicspirited gesture on the part of those doctors and would it assist in holding down the costs of the scheme? Will the Minister give an assurance that the Government will not insist on paying those visiting medical officers anxious to continue working without fee? Will the Minister dismiss as inaccurate the rumour circulating now that even if doctors return cheques to the Government they will be expected to pay tax on notional fees which they would have received had they accepted payment under the hospital Medibank scheme? 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
Did the Minister admit in the Senate on 4 September 1975 that he knew little of financial problems facing the Canadian Health Insurance Scheme; if so, will he undertake to acquaint himself with the present and projected state of health insurance finances in Canada and make the information known to the Senate. 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs aware of continuing representations from the Oenpelli Aboriginal Council regarding disturbances, which are worsening in severity, in Oenpelli? Is he aware of the contribution which alcohol is thought to make to these problems? Has the community asked for police to be stationed at Oenpelli and has this request not been granted to date? Has the Council appealed particularly for police to be at Oenpelli on and immediately after each pay day? What real plans has the Government to minimise the ravages of alcoholism on Aboriginal communities such as Oenpelli where work absences are up, wages received are down, school absence has increased, violence is increasing and community morale is being destroyed? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Health: Has his attention been drawn to a letter from a research officer at the Australian National University to a patient who had sought psychiatric advice in the Australian Capital Territory, and to a letter from  Dr Peter  Hughes of the Australian Capital Territory Legislative Assembly relating to this matter? Does it appear that the name of the patient could have been supplied to the research unit at the Australian National University by the Australian Capital Territory Psychiatric Services? How was the name of the patient made available to the research unit concerned? Since this on face value could indicate gross disregard for the confidentiality of medical records in the Australian Capital Territory and of information about the identity of Australian Capital Territory residents seeking psychiatric advice, will the Minister as a matter of urgency and preferably before the estimates for Australian Capital Territory Health Services are examined tomorrow, obtain clarification of these matters and of procedures existing to protect confidentiality of records and the identity of patients in the Australian Capital Territory? 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Were refugees who come to this country from Chile required to sign a declaration that they would not engage in any political activity in Australia. 
I preface my question to the Minister for Social Security by reminding him that inflation continues to erode the value of pensions and ask: Is the Minister aware of rumours that the Government, perhaps because of a lack of ready money, does not now intend to increase pensions from 1 November, as promised? Will he deny those rumours and indicate when the Bills to authorise the new pension rates will come into the Senate to enable the new rates to apply from 1 November? 
-The Senate is debating the Loan Bill 1975. 1 must say at the outset that I was grateful for the care with which  Senator Walsh  considered the very excellent contribution of my colleague,  Senator Carrick.  I am glad that  Senator Walsh  is impressed by  Senator Carrick  's contribution. If catharsis is said to be good for paranoid and disturbed people, then so be it. Many of us here feel genuine sorrow for  Senator Walsh,  for his bitter negativism, for the uniform mediocrity of his contributions in this place, for his paranoia towards the National Country Party, for the meanness of mind and for the obvious unhappiness he brings to the chamber. I think he is likely to be no more successful here than he was as a farmer.  His  attack on  Senator Carrick  tonight has probably been beneficial. It has probably made  Senator Walsh  feel important. It has probably made him feel fulfilled and perhaps it has rid him of some of his worst aggressive tendencies. However, his speech lacked in content what it made up in spite. 
The Loan Bill was introduced into the House of Representatives on 20 August and reached this place on 27 August.  Senator Wriedt,  in introducing the Bill gave it a second reading of exactly 3 minutes. He described it as 'a machinery measure', nothing more than that. He described it as just a machinery measure which we should pass and which really we should not examine too closely. But it was only when we came to examine this Bill, when we came to look at what it was proposing, that its ramifications became obvious to us. The further one goes in the examination of this Bill, the more and more interesting it becomes. Of course it deals with loans- loans by a government caught already in the mire of corruption. Its loans activities are responsible already for the disgrace and dismissal of a Treasurer and  Deputy  Prime Minister, for the demise of  Mr Cameron  and now for the disgrace and removal of  Mr Connor. 
As  Senator Sir Magnus  Cormack, reminds me, for the translation of  Senator Murphy-  a translation to happier and safer fields. This question of loans is no routine matter. It is at the very heart of this Government's incompetence and dishonesty. We are in duty bound to examine this Bill closely as to what it seeks, what it is likely to achieve and the kind of price we are likely to pay for it. 
The Minister's second reading speech set out the purpose of the Bill- the funding of the deficit in the Consolidated Revenue Fund. The figures set out in paper No. 4 which accompanied the Budget illustrate to us that the estimated total expenditure from the Consolidated Revenue Fund will be $20,203,436,000. Total receipts of the Fund will be $19,051,313,000 which will leave a difference, that is to say a deficit in the Consolidated Revenue Fund, which will have to be funded in some way. This Bill seeks to provide that funding. It is to be funded by a charge on the Loan Fund. The amount is described in a footnote to the table on page 10 of Budget paper No. 4 as 'a residual balancing item'. That is the point that is interesting because the Bill, as it is drawn up, provides that the amount that can be raised by way of loan can vary depending upon the size of the residual balancing item that is required. The amount will be only the amount which the Government has stated if the receipts in the Consolidated Revenue Fund are as the Government has stated. I ask you,  Mr Acting Deputy  President: What is ever as this Government has stated? It will be the right balancing item only if the expenditure from the Consolidated Revenue Fund is as the Government has stated. Again, I ask: Where in this Government's record is any evidence that things are ever what the Government says they are. 
The amount sought under this Bill from the Loan Fund will be used, as it were, to reduce the expenditure side of the Consolidated Revenue Fund by transferring part of defence expenditure to the Loan Fund. The amount sought for expenditure on defence at present is $ 1 ,790m although it could rise if the Government sought extra defence appropriations in the supplementary appropriation Bills next year. The plan at present is for the Government to transfer $1,152,123,000 of defence expenditure to the Loan Fund by means of this Loan Bill. But there is nothing fixed about these estimates for the Consolidated Revenue Fund. The receipts are expected to be $ 19,000m. But these can vary. We already have evidence from the present Treasurer that they are likely to vary. He has already given an indication that revenue from pay-as-you-earn taxation collections is likely to be less than was estimated and that the expenditure is likely to be greater than that set out. In fact, the Bill authorises any amount of transfer- any amount of loan raising under this Bill for the gap- provided it does not exceed the total amount set down for expenditure on defence. Of course, this manoeuvre is possible because clause 3(8) of the financial agreement allows the Government to borrow for defence purposes without seeking the approval of the Loan Council. The whole purpose of this manoeuvre is for the Government to fund the deficit in its Consolidated Revenue account without going to the Loan Council and without involving the States which it so dislikes. 
Clearly, this Bill- this so-called machinery measure- represents a vital part of the Labor Budget strategy and has to be looked at in that way. It is part of the Budget and part of the consideration of the Budget. It can be understood only if we examine this Government's capacity to control its receipts, to make sure that it complies with the Estimates and to control its expenditure in line with the Estimates which we have been examining in our Senate Estimates Committees. It seems, as I have said, that already receipts in the Budget have been maximised, that expenditure has been minimised and that the Government has sought artificially to show the smallest possible deficit as a going in position for the beginning of the financial year. Our job is to examine just how far from reality this is likely to be. The Budget deficit, in fact, will be enormous. Last year's deficit, estimated originally at $570m ended up as a mammoth $2,567m, the worst Budget deficit that any of us can remember, not just by a few million dollars but by an order of magnitude. 
I will illustrate just how great the Budget deficit was last year. In 12 years the total deficit of the Liberal-Country Party Government was $4,253m. That represents an average deficit of $3 54m a year; no more. How does that compare with this Government's deficit? Last year, the Government made a massive and fictitious under-estimate of its deficit. We want to know whether we are facing the same situation for 1 975-76. If we also look at how the Loan Bill has been applied in previous years, we will see that under Liberal-Country Party governments our total raisings for defence purposes using the device of the Loan Fund was $ 1,062m. That represents an average of about $90m a year, compared with more than $ 1 billion which this spendthrift, reckless Government is seeking now- a government described today by one of the newspapers in the words, 'Government totters'. How right that seems to be. It totters. Is it going? Of course, we are concerned. 
We are asked to approve $ 1,100m to fill the fictitious gap- a gap which we know will be greater than that with each month that passes. Of course, we are concerned and we should be concerned. It would be recreant and irresponsible of an Opposition had we passed this Bill without proper examination, without proper questioning and without proper probing. We have expressed our concern and will continue to express it by means of questions- questions asked first by my colleague,  Senator Cotton,  in opening the debate for the Opposition and by  Senator Carrick.  They were questions which were sharp enough to drive  Senator Walsh  almost to a paroxysm of impotent anguish. They were questions designed to elicit the real story of this Loan Bill, the real amount of the deficit, the real needs for this loan borrowing and of the magnitude of the amount of money sought. We have sought to try to understand the Government's strategy and its understanding of its own actions. 
Questions on the Loan Bill were raised first by  Mr Lynch  in the House of Representatives to add to the 3 minute ministerial second reading speech given there, a 3 minute speech which was considered to be all that Parliament deserved or all that Parliament was going to receive.  Mr Lynch  received no adequate answers to his questions. The  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Crean),  replying on behalf of the Treasurer, did not answer him properly. It is up to the Senate, where there has been responsible review of legislation, to take a closer, calmer and deeper look at this Bill and to get the answers to the questions. My colleague,  Senator Cotton,  first asked 10 questions concerning the purposes for which these loans were wanted. He asked them at the very first opportunity- on 28 August 1975 when the Bill first reached the Senate. He asked the questions in opening for the Opposition in the second reading debate. He received some answers on 2 September and he then asked some further questions. I remind the Senate that one of  Senator 
Cotton's questions, question 7, as reported on page 366 of Senate  Hansard  of 28 August 1975 asked, among other things for: 
Net drawings under overseas credit arrangements. 
It asked as well about the net proceeds of other overseas borrowings; questions which today and yesterday in Australia seemed very appropriate and almost prophetic.  Senator Cotton  asked further questions on 10 September when the debate was resumed. One of those questions, question 14, is reported on page 697 of Senate  Hansard  as follows: 
What would happen if the domestic market cannot finance the$2,800m deficit? 
That, too, is a probing and appropriate question, the value of which has been shown by subsequent events, by the discomfiture of the Government, by its disarray and by the disgrace which has fallen upon yet another of its Ministers.  Senator Carrick  followed up with similar questions on 1 October. I remind the Senate that  Senator Carrick  asked 2 questions of which we should not lose sight. The first question was: 
Will the Minister reaffirm the statement of the Treasurer, as recorded on page 419 of the Senate  Hansard  of 2 September, that 'Present plans envisage that only small amounts will be raised overseas in 1975-76. Small refinancing loans to cover maturing debts are planned together with a borrowing of about $50m for on-lending to the AIDC which is provided for in the Budget"? 
There we had  Senator Carrick  asking whether that in fact was an accurate answer to the question asked? How does the answer look today? How does the answer look to this Government? How does it look to the new Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Senator Wriedt)? Senator Carrick  's second question was: 
Will the Minister affirm that current activities in the money markets of Europe, and indeed of the world purporting to be directed towards the raising of substantial loans reputedly in units of $ 1 ,000m for Australia have no stimulus or support from the Commonwealth Government? 

 Senator Carrick scored a bull's eye. No wonder the Government and  Senator Walsh  want to try to belittle the contribution. No wonder they dislike it; it hurt.  Senator Carrick  asked the very question that today's events and this week's events have shown up. 

 - Senator Mulvihill has now sat in the party room not with one but with 2 Ministers who have been sacked for lying to the Parliament and he should be ashamed of having shared their company. 
I want to carry on by examining what is going to happen as the year progresses with this Government's Budget in terms of the size of its deficit. I am concerned and have been concerned that the Budget has been grossly and deliberately understated. The receipts side of the Consolidated Revenue Fund, for example, shows all the expected increases in income. For example, the Government has shown that an extra $120m is expected from the duty on coal exports. That is an amount which is now known to be an overestimate because we all know that the Government changed its plans for the imposition of a coal export levy when the foolishness of those plans was revealed in this place. So that is an overestimate on the receipt side of the Consolidated Revenue Fund. The Government has already shown that it expects to receive an extra $680m from the excise on beer, spirits and tobacco. It has also shown that it expects to receive an extra $2, 600m from pay-as-you-earn income tax. Of course, that may not be possible if half a million or more Australians have no jobs and no income and therefore no capacity to pay income tax. That is likely to be an overestimate. 
The expenditure side of the Consolidated Revenue Fund is equally interesting because the Government has gone to some lengths to underestimate- quite coldly and deliberatelythe magnitude of its expenses in a number of departments. I have the privilege of being a member of Estimates Committee D and have had the privilege of examining the estimates of expenditure for 3 departments in the last week or so. They are: the Department of Social Security, whose estimates the Committee examined for about 2 'A days; the Department of Repatriation, which came very well prepared and whose estimates were dealt with quickly; and the Department of Health, whose estimates went through in about half a day. The estimates of the Department of Social Security were a source of considerable interest. I remind the Senate that my colleague  Senator Carrick  has already drawn attention in his speech to the underestimate in the salaries item shown in Appropriation Bill (No. 1) 1975-76 and in the Particulars of Proposed Expenditure which the Committee examined. The salaries to be paid for the people who work for the Department of Social Security are far in excess and will be far in excess of what was shown in the estimates because the Government took the figures only to the end of May. 
If we go to the estimates for the Health Insurance Commission- that creation of a modern  Utopia;  the Government's panacea for all ills- we find that the Government has grossly underestimated the size of its commitment to the Health Insurance Commission. I am not talking just about the money that is to be paid out for the medical or hospital side of Medibank. Let us look at the salaries. We were told that the Health Insurance Commission was to have 3500 permanent and 200 temporary employees and that the salary estimate for them was $25.5m. The new estimates, which were given in response to a question asked in this chamber on 7 October and which were confirmed in the meeting of Estimates Committee D on 7 October, indicate that the Commission now expects to have 3500 permanent and 700 temporary employees and that it is looking to a salary estimate of almost $3 lm. In one small commission in one department an extra expenditure of $6m is involved. Receipts are maximised and expenditure is minimised; that is the Government's trick. Let us look at the allowance of $8 1 7,000 for overtime. The departmental officers told us quite cheerfully that that was an underestimate. Of course it is an underestimate. Overtime payments on the basis of a  pro rata  amount per month are already running ahead of what was estimated in May. 
That is not where the matter ends. It is not just the $66m estimate for the salaries for the Department of Social Security that is not enough. What about the question of postage? The Department of Social Security has allowed $8.8m for postage but has not costed in the recent increases in postage rates- for example, the increase from 10c to 18c in postage for a letter. The expenditure side of the Consolidated Revenue Fund bears no relationship to the reality of today far less than to the reality of next June. There are many other examples in this Government's Estimates which have convinced us that it is grossly underestimating and that it is going to face a deficit far greater than it will admit and far greater than it had realised. I mention Medibank itself, the unknown cost of hospital and medical Medibank based on best guess estimates. The Government admits that it will have large cost increases in the next year. The only estimate the Government made of the amount it should provide for hospital Medibank was after it asked the States what their operating costs would be, divided them by two and accepted that as its share. The Government will not know the real figures until the year ends. 
There is no way in which the Consolidated Revenue Fund will end up with a gap as narrow as the Government has pretended and that is clear to all of us. It should be clear to everyone that the document represents another deception by a government that lives by deception. We can ask: What is the real deficit? Will it please reveal itself? Will it please stand up? Will it be $3 billion or $4 billion or $6 billion?  Mr Hayden  told us in his Budget that if we cannot control inflation we will not control unemployment and if we cannot control the supply of money we cannot control inflation. A deficit, increasing to the levels I am suggesting it might, will carry with it inevitably enormous inflation and increasing unemployment and that is what this kind of Budget and this kind of deficit means for Australians who work for a living and who fear for their jobs. 
What does the Government itself have to say about the projected size of its deficit? From this morning's  Sydney Morning Herald I learned  that the Government's borrowings from the Reserve Bank have probably topped $ 1,000m, most of it obtained recently. It appears that all this massive deficit has been run up in the last month and that the Government's deficit to this moment is already somewhere over $ 1,800m. It is trying to pretend to us at the end of its first quarter that it is still aiming for a deficit for the financial year as small as $2,700m. The Government is not coming clean on this matter, the same as it did not come clean on the loans affair and the same as it has not come clean on a whole range of things from the day it took office. Perhaps it would have been better if we had been given the truth about what we face as a result of this Budget and if we were spared the kind of inanities such as when  Mr Hayden  appears in the House of Representatives and tells us that a bigger deficit in fact will mean that things are getting better because it will mean that people are earning less and paying less tax. That is nonsense. We want a control of expenditure. We want a true statement of receipts. They are the things we want and we want to know more than we have been told. We want to know how this deficit will be funded, how this Government proposes to balance its books and how it proposes, for example, to balance the Consolidated Revenue Fund. 
Let me point out that if the balancing item required for the Consolidated Revenue Fund exceeds the total amount available for expenditure under the Defence appropriation this Bill will not have served its purpose. I have suggested that we are almost certainly going to see a situation where the gap to be funded is far in excess of the figure indicated. Will we have to see other loan Bills, different mechanisms? What will this Government do to balance the Consolidated Revenue Fund and to let us know what it is doing to this country? There is grave disquiet already in this country about the economic and commercial future of Australia. Every day that this Labor Government stays in office more companies fail, more people lose their jobs, inflation creeps along, unemployment gallops- 
Speaking to the point of order, the Bill relates to the funding of the deficit in the Consolidated Revenue Fund and I have been addressing myself to the disquiet about the way in which that deficit will be funded. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) Of money appropriated for expenditure on Aboriginal housing in the years 1973-74 and 1974-75, how much remained unexpended at the end of the year in each State. 
What was the cause of under expenditure. 
What is the assessed unfulfilled need for Aboriginal housing in each State at the present time. 
I present the following petition from 1 7 citizens of Australia: 
To the honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That whereas the natural environment of Fraser Island is so outstanding that it should be identified as part of the World Natural Heritage, and whereas the Island should be conserved for the enjoyment of this and future generations, 
Your petitioners humbly pray that the members, in Parliament assembled, will take the most urgent steps to ensure: 
.  that the Australian Government uses its constitutional powers to prohibit the export of any mineral sands from Fraser Island, 
that the Australian Government uses its constitutional authority to assist the Queensland Government and any other properly constituted body to develop and conserve the recreational, educational and scientific potentials of the natural environment of Fraser Island for the long term benefit of the people of Australia. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 

 - Mr Acting Deputy President, in addressing myself to the Loan Bill yesterday I was concerned to demonstrate a number of points which I will briefly recapitulate. Firstly, I demonstrated that the amount of money sought for the Loan Bill was for the purpose of balancing the Consolidated Revenue Fund. Secondly, I indicated that receipts into the Fund for the present financial year had been maximised and overstated at $ 1 9,000m. Thirdly, I pointed out that expenditures from the Fund had been understated and minimised at $20,000m. Fourthly, I said that as a consequence of this the deficiency in the Fund requiring funding by the device of the Loan Bill will exceed the estimated $1,1 00 m and is likely to exceed it by a very large amount. Fifthly, I illustrated that the Treasurer  (Mr Hayden)  has now agreed that there has been very gross understatement of the Budget deficit expected for this year, a deficit which will not be $2,700m but which already, by the end of the first quarter, is in excess of $ 1, 800m. Sixthly, I had pointed out that although this Bill authorises only the application of loan moneys for purposes related to defence expenditure, the Appropriation Bills now before us contain provision for expenditure of up to $ 1,790m on defence and so the Government could conceivably, using the mechanism of this Bill, apply any amount of money up to almost $ 1,800m for the purposes of balancing the Consolidated Revenue Fund. When, inevitably, Additional Estimates are presented the Government could apply much more money because there would be a very large deficiency in the Consolidated Revenue Fund, and it is a deficiency which is widening. In speaking yesterday, the final point I made was that the larger deficit will aggravate inflationary pressures and as the Treasurer told us so naively in his Budget Speech, more inflation means more unemployment. 1 carry on by stating that this Loan Bill is of very great importance to the States. There is only one available pool of loan money; there is only one pie which can be divided. If the Government wants to take a greater slice for its own purposes, that will mean that less money is available for the States, less money is available for local government and less money is available for the other arms of government which have legitimate calls upon loan funds. Only one amount of loan money is available. The sharing of that available pool is properly the function of the Loan Council. That is what the Loan Council is all about. That is why the Loan Council exists. The Government's effort to raise large and unstated amounts of money through mechanism of this Loan Bill is, to say the least, disturbing. 
The purpose of this Bill is to allow the Loan Council to be by-passed, to allow the voice of the States to be ignored, to allow State cautions and worries to be overridden and to allow State fears about Government financing to be laughed at. The Australian Government is seeking more than its fair share of available loan money and the States, local government and semigovernment bodies will, as a consequence, get less. I think the Government wants this money for purposes which are closely related to its general financial irresponsibility. I think we are entitled to draw these points to the Government's attention. 
The Bill actually is open ended. Once again I draw the attention of the Senate to clause 3 of the Bill which, in defining the amount of money which may be borrowed, expresses it in terms of the size of the deficit in the Consolidated Revenue Fund- not as a definite amount of money but as an amount which represents the difference between receipts into that fund and expenditures from it, limited of course, to the amount that can be applied for defence expenditure. 
With this Government, all open ended commitments are dangerous because this Government is totally irresponsible. All open ended commitments for this Government are inappropriate. I must illustrate how irresponsible the Government is by referring briefly to some of the recent events. 
The Government has undertaken loan raisings of the kind that it would undertake when this BUI is passed. It has undertaken loan raisings in the last year. What has been the effect of these loan raisings? What is the standing of the Government led by  Mr Whitlam  as a result of his forays into international loan raising? This Government is characterised by nepotism, by internecine strife, rocked by continuing scandal by fratricide as Minister after Minister is destroyed by incompetence, and by Ministers who mislead the Parliament.  Senator Grimes,  who is seeking to interject, seems to forget just how bad the deceptions have been. I remind him that in May  Mr Lynch  directed a question in the other place to the then Minister for Minerals and Energy,  Mr Connor. Mr Lynch  asked  Mr Connor: 
With whom was the Minister negotiating to raise a $2,000m loan in the Middle East? Who was the person who received a letter on official notepaper and copy of an Executive Council minute authorising him to act on Australia's behalf to raise funds internationally? Was this gentleman offered a commission . . . 
The answer given by  Mr Connor  at that stage is worthy of note. He stated: 
The question is largely a figment of the honourable gentleman's imagination. 
This is the answer given by the then Minister for Minerals and Energy. He goes on to show why it is a figment of  Mr Lynch  's imagination. He states further: 
At no time has any mandate been given to any individual to enter into negotiations and with authority to act on behalf of the Government of Australia. 
This is a Government whose Ministers will get up in the Parliament and will mislead the Parliament on matters relating to the raising of loans. 
That appeared on page 2650  of Hansard of 22  May 1975. 
I would say the Minister's actions during the past few months have been consistent with the answer he gave to that question. But this Government has had to seek the resignation in disgrace of several of its Ministersresignations dragged out reluctantly from Ministers who, far from adhering to the principles of parliamentary and ministerial responsibility, had to have their commissions withdrawn and who have resigned only when absolutely forced to the brink. They are Ministers who have expressed no remorse for what they have done and no remorse for having lied to the Parliament and the people of Australia. This Government makes Tammany Hall at its worst resemble the happy country of Shangrila. The Government's standing is important in the raising of loans and the standing of a national government is important in negotiations. This Government has no probity, it has no credibility and it has no standing.  Mr Khemlani,  by means of his statutory declaration and by means of the telexes which he has released, has shown up this Government. He has shown up its Ministers as people who have no regard for truth, and no regard for Parliament. There has been a systematic deception of Parliament which has been cold, emotionless and quite deliberate. 
The issues in this Loan Bill are issues involving the credibility of this Government, its honesty in matters concerning government finance, its deception of the Parliament and the people and its capacity to raise large amounts of money in a world in which it now stands discredited. 
Australia today faces a constitutional crisis. It is a crisis of confidence in the Government, a lack of confidence in its honesty, a doubt about its capacity and considerable concern about its purpose. Throughout this country today Australians are demanding honest, competent, effective and balanced leadership. They are not getting it from the Whitlam Government and they have not been getting it ever since 1972. There is not a newspaper editorial in the country today which is not calling for the removal of the Whitlam Government. The Australian people will not find what they want from the remnants of the Whitlam team, reduced as it is by continuing disgrace and removal of its Ministers. 
I will finish my contribution to this Bill by reminding the Senate of the words used by Oliver Cromwell, the Lord Protector of England when he dismissed the Long Parliament. The words are as follows: 'You have sat too long here for any good you have been doing. Depart, I say, and let us have done with you. In the name of God, go'. 
I direct a question to the Manager of Government Business in the Senate. I draw his attention to page 21 15 of yesterday's House of Representatives  Hansard  and to the refusal of an Australian Labor Party Minister in that place to agree to the attempts by a concerned Liberal-National Country Party Opposition to expedite the passage of the Social Services Bill (No. 3) through that chamber of Parliament. Does the Government intend to hold up these Bills which authorise the payment of pensions at a higher rate from 4 November? If not, will the Government agree now to accommodate any Opposition moves to expedite passage of these Bills, which are not part of" the Budget, when they reach the Senate? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Minerals and Energy. Does the Government accept that  Mr Khemlani  is a person of good character? Does the Government now have any reason to doubt  Mr Khemlani  's honesty or bona fides? 
My question which is directed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs concerns the intergovernmental oceanographic conference to be held in November in Paris. Can the Minister give assurances to the Senate that the Australian delegation to that intergovernmental oceanographic conference will vote against any motion to expel Israel and against any motion to admit the Palestine Liberation Organisation to the conference? 
The Senate is debating the National Health Bill (No. 3). I am grateful to  Senator Grimes  for his contribution to the debate. He has revealed the motive that drives many members of the Government Party. That motive is a hatred of the pharmaceutical companies and a dislike of profits that they make within the law. Before contributing to the debate, I wish to state a couple of personal facts which should be made clear. During my career I have enjoyed personal support from pharmaceutical companies on at least 2 occasions. In 1963 I had a fellowship awarded by the Smith and Nephew Company, which is a pharmaceutical company. I want to place that on record so that no one in some smart way brings it out later. Between 1965 and 1967 I was the Roche research fellow of the Royal Australasian College of Physicians. I won both these positions in competition and they enabled me to advance my career. Both of them were provided by the generosity of drug companies. Those matters should be known and should be on record. Incidentally, I am waiting now to publish a paper about diazepam which, as  Senator Grimes  will know, is  Valium,  to demonstrate that this drug is effective for a whole variety of minor disorders. I might say that it is one of the few drugs for which there is some proof of efficacy. 
The alleged purpose of this Bill is to give to the Government right of access to information from the drug companies to allow the Government to make some judgment as to their profitability and from that point to make some judgment as to the prices which it should allow for the cost of drugs available as pharmaceutical benefits. Throughout the Government's propaganda campaign over the last 3 years we find the recurring theme: It promises to reduce the price of pharmaceutical goods. This Bill is put up as part of that program which the Government hopes to advance. The Minister for Social Security  (Senator Wheeldon)  stated in his second reading speech that the Department of Health depends on negotiations to try to achieve fair and reasonable prices. He implies that the prices now achieved are something other than fair and reasonable. This is nonsense, as I hope to demonstrate in my contribution to the debate. 
First, I would question the need for the Bill; second, I would assert that the Government already has considerable information regarding the cost of drugs in this country. The Government knows the costs of drugs overseas.  Senator Sheil  has pointed this out already. The Government knows the costs of the capsules and tablets. It knows the costs of packaging. It knows the cost of wages. It knows the rates which have to be paid on property. It knows the costs of power. It knows the cost of transport and it knows many of the other costs. One wonders why it wants this extra information and what it hopes to achieve. The annual returns of pharmaceutical companies are lodged with company registrars and are available. We have to ask ourselves what the Government is seeking, what it really wants and what is it really trying to do. 
I want to develop the argument first that the pharmaceutical industry throughout the world has been one of the major benefactors of mankind and possibly has done more for mankind in this century than any other group. It is the pharmaceutical industry which has developed the drugs which have meant so much to mankind.  Sir Derrick  Dunlop, a person of whom even  Senator Grimes  would know, an eminent man, a doyen - 
I point out for  Senator Devitt  's edification that this is not the gentleman to whom he refers. I refer to a Scottish physician of great eminence, one of the doyens of physicians in the world, a man - 
Yes, a doyen, and I use the term correctly. He is a man whose career spans the era before the explosive production of new drugs, a man who has seen the position from both sides.  Sir Derrick  Dunlop, in delivering an address in Sydney in 1966, had something to say about the advances that have occurred and the reasons for these advances. He remembered the times when he started to practise that very few effective drugs were available. He lists the way that he tried to practise medicine then. He said there were a few drugs for comfort and almost nothing for cure. He points out that since the 1 930s things have changed.  Sir Derrick  Dunlop says: 
And now how different everything is; since 1 930 the mortality from gastro-intestinal infections, the chief cause of infantile deaths, has fallen over 80 per cent,, and that from pulmonary infections by nearly 70 per cent, while the mortality from tuberculosis, meningococcal infections, mastoiditis and venereal disease all show similar or greater declines. 
He goes on to list the very great advances that have occurred in the treatment of diseases, all due to the production of new pharmaceuticals in the last few years. 

 - Senator Melzer who interjects forgets that aspirin was developed at the end of the last century. If she is generous, she will recognise that the thalidomide disaster, disaster though it is, has to be set on the scale on the other side against the advances which the drug companies have led for the benefit of mankind.  Mr President,  I would remind you that since 1940 we have seen the development of all the antibiotics. We have seen the development of the penicillins, the broad spectrum antibiotics and the synthetic penicillins. Not one of those drugs has been developed by a government drug industry. We have seen the development of the anti-histamines, of the corticosteroids- cortisone as we know it- of the anticholinergic drugs which are used in the treatment of ulcers. We have seen the development of the antithyroid drugs and the vaccines for the prevention of measles and polio. We have seen the development of antirheumatic drugs, antimalarial drugs and antidepressant drugs. We have seen the development of the anovulents- in other words, the pill, which has been a great boon in terms of contraception. Each one of these drugs has been produced by the pharmaceutical industry. Not one of those drugs has come from a government industry. They have all been products of the private pharmaceutical industry.  Sir Derrick  Dunlop pointed out that Professor Chain, the man who developed penicillin, had reviewed the 66 most valuable compounds introduced to medicine since the introduction of aspirin in 1899. 1 point out to  Senator Melzer  that aspirin was introduced in 1899.  His  analysis showed that only nine of those came from universities and research institutes and that the rest came from private pharmaceutical companies working for profit and giving in return great benefits for mankind. 
Let us examine some of the benefits to humanity which have been the result of the development of these drugs. The average life expectancy, which was 55 to 59 years at the turn of the century, is now over 70 years as a result particularly of the development of pharmaceuticals. The rate of deaths before the age of 35 years has dropped from one in four to one in twenty. The chance of living beyond the age of 35 years has gone up from 55.8 per cent in 1 90 1 to something over 90 per cent in 1975. Those are real advances. The number of days lost per sickness episode has dropped from eight in 1952 to four now. 
Let us look at the effects on specific diseases. The number of tuberculosis deaths has dropped from 50 per 100 000 people in 1930 to less than two per 100 000 people today. That is a tremendous advance and a tremendous boon to mankind. The number of whooping cough deaths, polio deaths and diphtheria deaths has dropped from the quite significant figure of 60 per 100 000 people in the year 1930 to a figure now which is too low to be measured. We can no longer develop accurate mortality figures for diphtheria, polio and whooping cough because the development of drugs through the private pharmaceutical industry has had an enormous effect upon the health of Australians, particularly the children. Let us look at the number of patients admitted to hospital in Victoria for rheumatic fever. Over 1 1 000 people were admitted in 1960. Fewer than 5000 were admitted in 1968. The discharge rate for psychiatric patients has increased remarkably since the development of the anti-depressant drugs and the number of deaths during pregnancy and childbirth has dropped from 20 per 100 000 people in 1930 to less than one per 100 000 people in 1969. The drug companies have given a heritage to mankind. 

 Sir Ernst Chain, a man who helped to develop penicillin; a man from the Department of Biochemistry at the Imperial College of Science and Technology, London; a man who does not work for a drug company- was in Australia recently. He delivered the presidential address to Section 6 of the Forty-sixth ANZAAS Congress in Canberra in January of this year. He stated clearly his view of what the drug companies have done. It is worth placing it on the record in the present atmosphere in which it is almost impossible to make a speech in this Parliament without an attempt being made to interfere, to interrupt and to denigrate these companies.  Sir Ernst  Chain said:   . . the large majority of pharmaceutical discoveries of therapeutic importance, in the fields of analgesics, anaesthetics, vitamins, the sympathomimetics and parasympathomimetics, the polypeptide and steroid hormones, the sulphonamides, the antibiotics, the anti-parasite drugs, such as antimalarials, the  antitrypanosome  and  anti-kala azar  drugs were developed in the laboratories of the pharmaceutical industry . . . though some of the initial observations came from academic laboratories in the faculties of science and medicine. 
Most of them came from the pharmaceutical industry; none of them came from government.  Sir Ernst  Chain went on to comment further. I will quote his second comment because it is something that supporters of the Government should understand. It is his belief that we will look back on this century and remember this era of drug discovery. He said:   . . the next generation will look upon this century nostalgically as the golden age of therapeutics. 
In that address he discussed the development of drugs and he paid proper tribute to what the pharmaceutical industry has done and what its discoveries have meant to mankind. It does us no harm to place that on record, to recognise it and to acknowledge it. 
The Union of Soviet Socialist Republics has a nationalised drug industry. It has produced not a single drug of therapeutic importance since the October Revolution. If one looks at the state owned industries one will find that they have produced almost no major drugs. 

 - Senator Mulvihill, almost all new drugs and almost all major drugs have been produced by the free enterprise, profitmaking pharmaceutical companies. The socialist model is noteworthy for its total failure to innovate or advance in this field. I will give an example. In 1973-74, 37 new drugs were introduced. Of those, 35 were developed by 26 different pharmaceutical companies. During that period no new drugs came from socialist countries, except for one drug that came from Sweden, where the initial work had been done by private industry before the Government took over. 
Let us remember that the successful treatment of tuberculosis in Britain saved the United Kingdom economy £55m annually at a time when the total drug bill for the United Kingdom was f 100m. By the treatment of one disease, by the reduction in the number of work absences, by the reduction in mortality and by the reduction in pension requirements the British economy was able to save f 55m at a time when its total expenditure on drugs was f 100m. I ask: What industry can match those statistics? What industry has a record of such service to mankind? It has been unequalled this century and history will remember it. It has all been done through private enterprise. 
The next point I wish to make concerns the Government's assertion that in some way this Bill will help it to control the prices of pharmaceuticals. That is worth examining. We already use the provisions that exist in other countries to control the price of drugs and we use them effectively. For example, we know that in the United Kingdom there is a voluntary price regulation scheme. Our drugs compare well in price with drugs in the United Kingdom. The United Kingdom negotiates price changes not on the basis of drug by drug but on the basis of total profitability for the pharmaceutical company based on an annual overall return on the capital employed. That is Great Britain's way of doing it and our drug prices compare well with its drug prices. New Zealand has a Prices Act and has a scheme that seeks to control the price of pharmaceuticals; yet without such a scheme and without the provisions of this Bill our prices compare well with those of New Zealand. 
Drug costs before the introduction of Medibank in this country represented about 10 per cent of our total expenditure under the national health scheme and of that 10 per cent the companies received half. There has been considerable upward pressure on the prices of drugs in the last few years and not all of it from the drug companies. More prescriptions have been written. Let us not forget that in 1949-50 an average of 6 prescriptions was written per 100 000 people. Under the pharmaceutical benefits scheme 660 prescriptions per 100 000 people were written in 1 973-74. Of course when there is a hundredfold increase in the number of prescriptions there will be some increase in the price with it. In 1948-49 there was a total of 280 000 prescriptions under the pharmaceutical benefits scheme. In 1973-74, there were 59 million prescriptions for pharmaceutical benefit purposes. Of course that exerts an upward effect on the total price of pharmaceutical benefits. Our population is increasing in age and with increasing age there is a different disease pattern. This different disease pattern carries with it a requirement, well recognised, for more drugs and a greater range of drugs. There is an increasing share of costs now going to pharmacists. More expensive drugs are being produced and listed under the pharmaceutical benefits scheme which is adding to costs. As the patient contribution rises, cheap drugs are being delisted and as cheap drugs are delisted, the average cost per prescription will rise. Let us not forget that drugs like anovulents, commonly known as the pill, once they are prescribed as pharmaceutical benefits are drugs which are very widely used. Naturally there will be increased costs to the pharmaceutical benefits scheme. 
It is worth examining what are the most frequently used drugs. If we look at the annual report of the Department of Health for 1973-74, we will find that the most frequently prescribed drugs on the pharmaceutical benefits scheme were analgesics, the pill, broad spectrum antibiotics and penicillin. Those 4 drugs were far and away the mostfequently prescribed and the most used. One might say that they headed the charts. Yet on investigation, honourable senators will find some remarkable things about the costs of drugs. In 1972-73, the broad spectrum antibiotics cost us $2 1.7m. In 1973-74 they cost us less- $20.6m. That is not an upward pressure on prices. The price of the broad spectrum antibiotics, in fact, came down in that year. It is a miracle in a period of socialist inflation. It indicates some kind of effective cost control at a time when costs in the economy were running wild. 
If we look further over a 3-year period at the cost of pharmaceutical benefits for nonpensioners which is met by payments from the National Welfare Fund- this information is contained in an attachment to the Budget Papers- we find that in 1973-74 the cost was $15 1.5 m and in the next year it was $18 1.6m. The estimates for 1975-76 provide for an allocation of $ 179.5m. The Government has estimated a lower expenditure this financial year on pharmaceutical products for non-pensioners from the National Welfare Fund. So we have to examine closely the assertion that there is an urgent need for further controls on drug prices. 
I next remind the Senate of the House of Representatives Select Committee on Pharmaceutical Benefits of 1971.I draw the attention of the Senate particularly to paragraphs 154 and 155 of the report which that Committee issued. Paragraph 154 states: 
The Department of Health accepts the fact that the situation is highly competitive and could give no evidence of collusive practices in Australia. Overseas ownership of Australian firms could permit some price controlling but it would be difficult to show that cartels are operating against fair and reasonable pricing. 
Paragraph 155, which is also germane, states: 
Statistical data supplied by the Department of Health showed that major manufacturers tend to concentrate their output in certain types of drugs and to supply large proportions of the market for that product. 
I draw the attention of honourable senators particularly to the last sentence of this paragraph which states: 
In this way economies of scale are achieved. 
The only other comment from that particular House of Representatives Committee report which deserves our attention is the final sentence in paragraph 1 59 which states: 
In general, Australian prices compared favourably with overseas prices. 
So what is it we are trying to say? The evidence that I have given demonstrates that drug prices in Australia have started to fall. I can add to that evidence with some more information. I have a table entitled 'Price History Index of the Top Selling Prescription Medicines in Australia', a copy of which has been made available to the Minister for Social Security and Minister for Repatriation and Compensation  (Senator Wheeldon).  I seek leave to have the table incorporated in  Hansard. 
I present the following petition from 105 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled, the petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the decisions of the Australian Government- 
to depart from its 1972 election promise that basic pensions would be related to average weekly earnings and never be allowed to fall below 25 per cent thereof, and 
to increase postage costs and the costs of installation and annual rental of telephones, will seriously add to the economic burdens now borne by those citizens who are wholly or mainly dependent on their pensions. 
Your petitioners are impelled by these facts to call upon the Australian Government as a matter of urgency to review the abovementioned decisions (a) and (b), and to determine- 
that pensions be related to average earnings as promised by the Prime Minister in his 1972 Policy Speech, and 
that no charge be made for installation or rental on the telephones of those pensioners entitled to a PMS card. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I present the following pet  ition from 68 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate of the Commonwealth of Australia in Parliament assembled the Petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That, in the matter of the approval by the Senate of Bills for Supply to the Australian Government, certain decisions and declared intentions of Senators of the parties of the Opposition in Parliament are placing in jeopardy the welfare and basic human rights of those citizens who are aged or disabled and thereby dependent upon pensions payable by the Australian Government. 
Your petitioners are impelled by these facts to call upon all Honourable Senators to forthwith determine as a matter ofurgency that approval of the Bills for Supply be no longer delayed in order that the Government shall continue to adequately provide for the welfare rights of Australian citizens. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
1 ) When did the Committee of Inquiry on Privacy last meet. 
2 ) When is it anticipated that it will next meet. 
3 ) On how many Bills has it advised the Government. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. Did the Supply Bills that were passed in the Senate several months ago provide for sufficient Supply to allow Government services to continue to 30 November? Did they also include a record amount of $240m for emergency needs in the Advance to the Treasurer? If inflation is 'controlled', why does the Government now claim that Supply will run out in the first week of November? 
Is the Minister representing the Minister for the Media aware that a statement claiming damages for defamation was issued out of the Supreme Court of New South Wales on 15 October against a  Mr Takis  Kaldis, an employee of ethnic radio station 2EA, and against the Commonwealth of Australia? Has the Minister become aware that this action arises out of a broadcast made over 2EA by  Mr Kaldis  who is an employee of that station? I ask the Minister what procedures exist to monitor material transmitted over ethnic radio to protect the interests of all migrants? Will the Minister cause an investigation to be made into the program objected to and will he ensure that in future adequate supervision of scripts is exercised in advance of their transmission? 
Has the attention of the Minister representing the Minister for the Media been drawn to the behaviour of commentators on radio station 2JJ in Sydney on Saturday 25 October, and specifically to their call for 'a day of anger' and for listeners to call in to support the Whitlam Labor Government? Further, did the station advertise on 23 October details of rallies to be held by the Australian Labor Party in Sydney on that weekend and also give incorrect information about a Liberal Party rally to be held the following day? Did the commentators make a series of very specific, personally offensive remarks about the Leader of the Opposition? Were all callers required to notify the switchboard operator of who they were and of what comments they wished to make? Is the Minister aware that several Liberal supporters complained that when they told the switchboard operator they wished to comment in favour of the Liberal position they were not put through to air and were excluded from making any broadcasting comment? Is the Minister also aware that on at least one occasion when a person did manage to make some comment unfavourable to the Government that person was cut off the air in mid-sentence? Does it appear that the staff of radio station 2JJ is using the money of the Australian taxpayers to operate the station as a formal means of broadcasting political advertisements and propaganda for the Australian Labor Party? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. Was  Mr Hawke,  the  President  of the Australian Labor Party, given a complete set of Budget papers when he was briefed by  Mr Hayden  in advance of the presentation of the 1975-76 Budget? Did  Mr Hawke,  who was not subject to the normal Budget security, get an advance copy of the Budget Speech, Budget Papers or both? Is this the first time that the head of a government's political organisation has been privileged in this fashion? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security. Did not Supply Bill (No. 2), which contained appropriations for government expenditure to 30 November, seek more than double the amount provided for the preceding year? Did not Supply Bill (No. 1 ) seek 1  (h  times what had been sought for the previous year? Did not the Government assert that these amounts would be sufficient to make all payments until 30 November? Did not the Bills contain $240 m in the Advance to the Treasurer? On what grounds can the Minister possibly claim that insufficient money is available at this moment to meet all proper commitments such as those adverted to by  Senator Rae? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Have new guidelines been laid down for advertisements of therapeutic goods on radio and television. 
When did these come into force. 
What consultation took place with the National Medical Media Council prior to the introduction of these regulations. 
Do the regulations involve the obligatory inclusion of a large amount of factual information with each advertisement. 
Will the inclusion of such obligatory information cost approximately $800 extra for each advertisement screened in prime viewing time at current rates. 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Is the Treasurer aware of the stated intention of some visiting medical officers not to accept payments for services they render at hospitals, even if these are offered under the Hospital Medibank Scheme. 
If such doctors refuse to accept salaries will they be expected to pay tax on this money as if they had received it. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Media, upon notice: 
Has there been a recent change in the Department or bodies controlling Ethnic Radio in Australia. 
Has this involved change of control to bring Ethnic Radio under the control of the Minister for the Media. 
If there has been a change of control, why was this brought about. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Housing and Construction, upon notice: 
1 ) Did the Department hire a machine from Mai Armstrong Plant Hire Pty Ltd of 224 Toongabbie Road, Girraween, New South Wales, on Wednesday, 12 February 1975. 
Did the Department thereby incur a debt and has it received an invoice for $82.00. 
) Does that invoice remain unpaid; if so, for what reason has the invoice not been paid. 
My question is directed to you,  Mr President.  I refer you to yesterday's Senate  Hansard  at page 1802 where under the heading 'Answers to Questions' there appears the statement: 'The following answers to questions were circulated.' I also refer you to page 1 804 where there is an answer to question No. 850 standing in my name and to page 1803 where question No. 846 appears in  Senator Durack  's name. No answer to question No. 850 was circulated to me on or before yesterday's date and 1 am led to understand by  Senator Durack  that no answer to his question was circulated to him until this morning. On reaching the Senate this morning I found an answer to question No. 850 on my desk. Since the right of senators, should they wish, to have a question on notice read in the Senate demands that the answers be circulated before they appear in  Hansard,  would you undertake to examine the situation and report to the Senate on the practice being followed and how it might be tightened? 
The Senate is in a cognate debate considering the Income Tax Assessment Bill (No. 2) 1975, the Income Tax Bill 1975 and the Income Tax (International Agreements) Bill 1975. The Bills deal with the raising of revenue through taxation, with the deductions to be allowed to individuals and the ways in which company taxes are to be raised. The Bills are wide in scope and I think that it would be profitable to concentrate in my contribution on those provisions which relate to the raising of personal income tax. It is necessary first to comment on a few things said by  Senator Gietzelt  in his contribution which he just made. There was a considerable lack of detail and documentary support for many of the things he asserted. I am not in the position to deny some of the things he said. But it would have been good if he had provided tables and figures to back up some of his arguments. When he talked about substantial benefits to the community, I hope to be able to demonstrate that these substantial benefits will be provided by way of increased tax to be paid by many Australians, particularly by the poor, the weak and the aged. It is difficult for such people to see any substantial benefits flowing to them. They will be worse off under the Income Tax Bills which we are now considering. 

 Senator Gietzelt offered a few comments on the federalism policy of the Opposition. He admitted that he did not understand this policy. That may be. The State Premiers certainly understand it. The Premiers of the non-Labor States and the leaders of the non-socialist parties in the other 2 States have all enthusiastically endorsed the policy with its provisions for income tax sharing and for guaranteed finances for State and local government. It is quite unreal for people to argue that this policy will result in double taxation. It will have no such effect.  Senator Gietzelt  should not have asserted that it would result in something which was clearly not stated in the policy. If we examine the trend of personal income tax raisings in Australia since 1954-55, we discover that while average earnings have increased the amount of tax raised as a percentage of earnings has increased even faster. The marginal tax rate has increased very quickly. I have a table which I have previously made available to  Senator Wriedt,  to which he had no objection. I seek leave to have the table incorporated in  Hansard. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Webster)-  Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The table read as follows)- 

<graphic href="066232197511060_35_0.jpg"></graphic>

-I thank the Senate. This table shows that average earnings in Australia have risen from less than $1,800 in 1954-55 to more than $7,500 in 1974-75. The amount of taxation expressed as a percentage of earnings has risen from 5 per cent of earnings 20 years ago to almost 17 per cent of earnings now. Australians have been paying a greater percentage of their earnings in tax. Their marginal tax rate has gone up to 38 per cent- 38c in the dollar. 
For each year over 20 years. The table will appear in  Hansard.  I draw attention to the comparison that can be made between the tax rates and the taxation on individuals in the last Budget introduced by a Liberal-National Country Party government, the Budget of 1972-73. In that year the tax on average earnings was $743 for a man with a wife and 2 dependent children. Today that person on average earnings will be paying over $ 1 , 200 in tax. The Labor Party, as a government, has proved to be a rapacious tax gathering government. We are told in this Bill that the Government proposes to restructure the taxation rates. 
It is interesting to note the admission of the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Senator Wriedt)  in his second reading speech and the memoranda which accompanied the Bills. The memoranda state: 
The new rates will be higher on so much of taxable income as is no greater than $6,000. 
I was immediately impelled to ask the question: Who are these people whose taxable income is no higher than $6,000? Who are the people who, on the Government's own admission, are going to be worse off under this new provision? It is very hard to get exact figures. The Legislative Research Service was able to tell me only that it guessed that about 55 per cent of taxpayers have an income which is below $6,000. About 55 per cent of taxpayers are the people who, on the Government's own admission, may have to pay more tax under this provision. If that is the case it is very hard to justify these proposals as any kind of saving to the low income earners in Australia. I sought more information on exactly how many people were involved. I refer to the paper on the new personal income tax which accompanied the Budget Papers. On page 6 of that document is a graph which shows the number of taxpayers in each income group. It is very hard to make an accurate extrapolation, but it would appear that in 1975-76 1 100 000 taxpayers will earn less than $5,000 a year. There are probably another one million taxpayers who will earn less than $6,000 a year. It is hard to be exact from this table, but the figures indicate that approximately 2 million Australian taxpayers earn less than $6,000 per year. These are the people of whom it is said in the Minister's second reading speech that generally tax rates will be higher on so much of income as is less than $6,000. Let us be quite clear on this. There is no tax saving for certain groups of Australians. They are faced with an increased load, on the Government's own admission. Let us examine what is going to happen this year. 
I turn to Budget Paper No. 4 which states that the Consolidated Revenue Account anticipates increased receipts by virtue of pay-as-you-earn taxation and taxation from individuals of over $2,600m, which is an enormous increase in taxation. Taxation receipts during this financial year will rise by 34 per cent and receipts from payasyouearn taxation will rise by 45 per cent. It is very hard to tell people that there is any kind of taxation saving to them if we are taking from them an extra $2,600m. Between 1972 and 1975 we have had 3 Labor Budgets, I think. We have certainly had 2 formal budgets and a mini budget. Personal income tax has risen by 140 per cent during this time. People in receipt of wages and salaries have had taken from them over the last few years an ever increasing percentage of their pay as taxation. Pay-as-you-earn deductions have increased at a rate twice that of the increase in average weekly earnings. 
In presenting tables and comparisons the Government has sought to show the tax rates for the last year and the tax rates for the present year for people earning the same salary. This is an invalid and corrupt comparison. Salaries will not remain static. The Government's policy recognises this. Provision is made for a rise in salaries, and estimates are given that they may well rise by 20 per cent or 22 per cent. The figure mentioned in the Budget Papers is a rise of 22 per cent. To work out what is going to happen for any individual taxpayer, we need to examine the income last year and the equivalent income in the current year in terms of its purchasing power. I take the Government's own estimate of what the inflation rate will be and what the rate of salary increase will be. This was the figure given in the Budget Papers. A salary of $5,000 last year will become a salary of $6,100 in the current financial year. If we compare the tax payable on these 2 amounts we find that the taxpayer will pay more tax. He will pay considerably more tax than he paid last year. I take the example of a low income earner who was earning $5,000 last year. Let us say that he is a man with no children.  His  tax last year would have been $550. It will almost double to $1,055 in the present year. For a taxpayer whose only increase in salary will be an increase allowed to keep him at constant purchasing power the figure will double from $550 to $1,055. That rise will take the average tax rate for his earnings from 1 1 per cent to 1 7.3 per cent. 
Take a taxpayer with a wife and 2 dependent children who .is on the same income.  His  tax will rise from $217 to $305, again a significant rise in tax. He will have gained nothing in real purchasing power. He will have had a rise only in terms of indexation, in terms of the Budget rises to which the Government has already drawn attention. The Government had the effrontery in the 
Budget Speech, when referring to the taxation adjustment, to state: 
This will protect low income earners from the impact of the higher marginal rates at low income levels. 
It will not and it does not protect low income earners. In fact, they will pay more tax. The people at that kind of income level are the poor and needy in our community. The Government is playing a cruel trick on these people. I ask honourable senators to look at some of the other measures in these Bills which will affect low income earners. The age rebate, which has been referred to by several speakers in this debatethe rebate allowed to aged persons who are men aged 65 years or more and women aged 60 years or more and the wives of some of these personshas been abolished. This also will have an effect on the amount of tax that people will pay. Again it is an allowance that has been taken away from low income earners. It is an allowance that will be missed by these people. This will have the effect of increasing their tax payments. 
This is the Government which imposed the surcharge on tax in respect of property last year. The Government, having recognised that that tax was utterly negative, destructive, improper and inappropriate, has now decided to remove it. It is removing the age rebate. It has told us in the explanatory memoranda that it does not matter and that the taxpayers will not be any worse off. In a moment I will examine that to see whether people will be worse off. On the new scales, low income earners in Australia will pay more tax. They will be the aged, especially the single aged and the aged who have no dependants. They will pay more tax. The pensioners will pay more tax. With the abolition of the age rebate, they will be worse off even if they are allowed the rebate of $540 to which other honourable senators have referred. I have had another table prepared and it has been shown to  Senator Wriedt.  It shows the effects of the new tax rates on pensioners or persons over 65 years with no dependants or with a dependent wife. I seek leave to have this table incorporated in  Hansard. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Webster)-  Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The table read as follows)- 

<graphic href="066232197511060_36_3.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="066232197511060_37_4.jpg"></graphic>

The table shows the position of people on low incomes, people earning between $60 and $90 a week-$60, $70, $80 and $90 a week. They are the low income earners in our society. The table makes allowance for the effect of the loss of the age rebate. The table makes allowance for the rebate which they will be given. The last 3 columns of the table show the amount of tax paid last year, the amount of tax to be paid this year and the amount of tax increase. Significantly, every one of the pensioners in those groups- whether they receive $60 a week, $70 a week, $80 a week or $90 a week and whether they are single or have a wife paying tax- will pay more tax. For example, the tax paid by a person earning $60 a week and having had some considerable deductions, will increase from $9 in the last tax year to $162 this year. That is scant justice for- pensioners in those circumstances. In the same way, pensioners on $70 a week will see their tax go up by anything from $82 to $303. The rises in each case is significant. I was unable to demonstrate one instance in which taxpayers in these circumstances would gain any benefit or any relief. 
Let us be clear about this matter. In each case we have made allowance for the concessional rebate of $540 which the Government has so generously made available to them. The Government has given, in the examples which it published, carefully distorted examples. For example, in looking at the 1974-75 examples it carefully arranged to overstate the amount of tax to be paid last year by understating the average deduction situation. I did not list, in the examples which were given on Budget night and soon after, the kind of person who had deductions other than just dependant deductions. Most Australians have other deductions. They were not shown in the examples we were given. The facts are quite simple. The low income earners will pay more. They will be worse off if they are on a constant income, as I have just shown in the table which I have had incorporated, and they will be worse off if their income rises in accordance with the indexation guidelines. Let us consider the income earners who perhaps are not quite so far towards the lower end of the scale and whose incomes range between, say, $5,700 and $7,000 a year. It is a group that is getting close to the average earnings. We can tabulate the effects of the new tax scales on people who have no dependants or those who have a dependant wife. I have prepared another table which I seek leave to have incorporated in  Ilansard. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The table read as follows)- 
Very simply, this table also shows that, between the salary ranges of $5,720 and $7,280 a year, as weekly income rises from $ 1 10 to $ 140 a week all groups of taxpayers will pay more tax. They will be small amounts, but the people will pay more. I have not attempted to give illustrations which involve 2 dependent children. Those examples have been given before and they are the examples used by the Government. For the middle income earners- the person who is earning $ 10,000 a year now and will earn $12,200 a year, using the Government's announced increase in wages- his tax will rise from $2,300 a year to $3,400 a year. He will pay more tax and his average tax rate will rise. The average tax rate and marginal tax rate will rise for that taxpayer. Even the higher income earner, the man who is on $20,000 a year, will find that his tax last year of $7,220 will rise to $9,624 on the income he will recei ve when indexation is applied to the wage he receives.  His  marginal tax rate will be 60 per cent and his average tax rate will increase from 36 per cent to 39 per cent. 
There are many young people in Australiamany single Australians- who are on low incomes. They will all pay more. I refer to the apprentices, the young shop assistants and the students. They are the people who will have to pay more as a result of these Bills. It is difficult to understand how the Government can really claim that it has brought about a sweeping reform that will be welcomed by most Australians. I will be delighted if the Minister can demonstrate to me, during his summing up, how the Australian on a low income will be better off. He will not be better off. The Australian on a low income and the pensioner will be worse off under these scales. What has happened is that the average income earner has been benefited and the low income earner has been hit. In the second reading speech we were told that there would be losers and there would be gainers under the proposed system. We are used to the fact that the losers are usually people at the high end of the scale. This must be a truly remarkable set of taxation reforms and taxation Bills, because the losers are concentrated very heavily in about 2 million taxpayers at the bottom end of the scale. Of course, Ministers of the Crown on $35,000 to $40,000 a year will be all right; any effect on them will be minimal. 

 - Senator Walsh interjects. Had he been present at the beginning of my speech he would be aware that I carefully explained to honourable senators where the figure came from. If he reads  Hansard  tomorrow he will find out. The Liberal and National Country Parties have made it clear that we seek to provide an extra $500m in tax relief- $500m, not just the $205m which this Government is offering in a full tax year. We have made a commitment to tax indexation and have taken some account of the recommendations of the Mathews Committee. I draw the attention of the Senate to paragraph 27 of the Mathews report which says: 
The view is widely held that failure to adjust the progressive income tax schedule for the effects on inflation will lead to acceleration in the rate of wage increases. 
Until there is some basic correction of this type we will find that the tax scales we are looking at will be inflationary and will increase the effects of inflation in our society. 
I would like to offer now a few comments on the tax credit system which the Government has introduced. On superficial examination there is some attraction to a tax credit or tax rebate system on the basis of so many cents in the dollar. I use the word 'superficial' because the individual taxpayer whose salary is increasing in a time of high inflation will, as a result of indexation, lose some of his residual spending power. With a deduction system such as we have been used to, as salaries rise income earners keep an increasing amount of their salary for their own use and though their tax will rise, as I have shown in one of the tables I have presented, the amount of tax they pay will be minimised. Under the proposed tax credit system this will not happen. As wages increase deductions will remain constant, the amount of money remaining for the taxpayer will be less, and the .amount he will pay in tax will go up because it will represent an effective tax rate of 60c in the dollar on every dollar on which he is claiming deductions. This person will find that his tax is increasing at a much faster rate than it might otherwise have done. Tax credits will mean more tax in the long run. They will mean less value to ordinary Australians from concessional deductions. 
The Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Senator Wriedt),  in his second reading speech, constantly spoke of gainers and losers. The gainers will be the privileged groups in Australian society; the losers will be the poor, the working man, the pensioner. The strong unions will gain. When we look at who is going to be pleased with these new tax scales we find that it will only be the strong and militant unions who have been able to keep the salaries and wages of their employees at or above average earnings. The poor Australian, the weak Australian, the pensioner, the single Australian, the person in the lower income group or anyone with a rising income will find little joy in these taxation measures. There is no way in which a government can come before us and tell us it will take an extra $2, 600m from us in tax and then try to pretend that we have in some way seen some kind of taxation reform. The Opposition does not oppose the measures. It simply thinks that they are a sham and that Australians when they look at their pay packets will realise that they have gained nothing and that the Government has continued to increase its overly large share of Australian income tax. 
The Opposition will not object to the Bill to repeal the Cities Commission Act 1972-73. However, I would like to make a few observations on the Bill and on the circumstances surrounding this event. My colleague in another place,  Mr Wilson,  has outlined at some length our views on urban development. The repeal of the Cities Commission Act is one of 3 proposals announced after what might be called one of the many nights of the long knives that have been associated with the last few months. That announcement followed the events of 5 June, the night on which  Mr Cameron  and  Dr Cairns  were demoted. On that night 3 announcements were made by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam).  Those announcements were that the Cities Commission would be abolished, that the Social Welfare Commission would be abolished, and that the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation would have transferred from it to the Department of Minerals and Energy the minerals research laboratories and the solar energy research unit. Those proposals represented a retreat from the open government to which this Government had been committed. 
The Cities Commission first saw the light of day as a child of the McMahon Government when it was called the National Urban and Regional Development Authority, which was set up in the last few months of existence of the last Liberal-Country Party Government. It was actually set up following a statement made by  Mr McMahon  on 19 September 1972. It had no chance to function effectively, and the Labor Government kept the Authority operating after it came into office. Then in 1973 it formed the Cities Commission to carry out certain functions. 
In its 1972 and 1974 policy speeches the Australian Labor Party made some quite interesting promises regarding what it would do for the cities, and the Cities Commission was one of the vehicles by which that was to be achieved. The Cities Commission was charged with a number of functions, including the drawing up of plans for the Albury-Wodonga program, the drawing up of plans for other growth centres, and doing a number of other jobs which are worth referring to later. The Commission was actually created in October 1973 to supplement and expand the work which had been done by the National Urban and Regional Development Authority. It took as one of its first tasks the expansion of activities in Albury-Wodonga- activities which have now come a long way towards fruition and which represent one of the areas initiated by the McMahon Government before it left office. 
The second reading speech which  Senator Cavanagh  delivered in this chamber when introducing this Bill offered the comment that the creation of the Cities Commission had the effect of keeping NURDA in existence with a different name and with a different composition, but with the same functions. So we see the Labor Government here maintaining one of the bodies which we set up, allowing it to do its job and allowing it to carry on. In the short time that it has been in existence the Cities Commission has produced 3 annual reports which in themselves have been significant. For those of us interested in this area they have provided important reading. The Commission has set out a new cities program. It is a pity that that new cities program got such little support from the Labor Government, and it is a pity that the major recommendations in that program have so far not been acted upon. 
The Cities Commission has produced a number of papers, and it is interesting to note that it has not been critical of the Government in the same way perhaps as the other independent Commission referred to in the Press release of 10 June- the Social Welfare Commission. It is interesting to note, however, that both of these Commissions have been set down for disestablishmentthe Cities Commission apparently because its job has finished and the Social Welfare Commission because it dared to be critical of the Labor Government and, of course, because the Social Welfare Commission did a truly surgical job on the Government's half baked proposals contained in the National Compensation Bill. It is worth asking then: Why has the Cities Commission been set down for disestablishment? It is not every day that we see the Government destroying one of the bodies it set up only some 2 years ago. 
The second reading speech is again instructive. The Government's view is clearly that the work load of the Cities Commission has been reduced. Its view clearly is that the Department of Urban and Regional Development has grown in strength and capacity and can now take over the functions of the Cities Commission. What we are seeing then is a transfer of functions from what was an independent body which was able to operate on its own and make recommendations to a Minister outside departmental guidelines to a bureau within the Department and within the bureaucracy. 
It is interesting to look at the question of regionalism and the 2 streams of activity which have come to bear on it- one stream from the Department of Urban and Regional Development and the other stream from the Social Welfare Commission. The Social Welfare Commission, as you know,  Mr President,  has set up the Australian Assistance Plan. Under that Plan were established a number of Regional Councils for Social Development. These councils emphasise local involvement of citizens in decision making and planning and the involvement of citizens in innovation and in the spending of money. The other stream came from the Department of Urban and Regional Development through the Regional Organisation of Councils which operated at a larger level than did the Australian Assistance Plan. Nevertheless, it operated and set up some structures which were able to operate within local communities- structures to do with the dissemination of information, structures to do with the local planning and involvement. 
For a while the Department of Urban and Regional Development actually functioned to help grass roots participation. It is no secret that there has been a battle within the Department of Urban and Regional Development over the last 2 years. It is no secret that a fight has gone on between that group of people who could be called the DURD centralists and that group of people who could be called the devolutionists. It is also no secret that within the Department of Urban and Regional Development the centralists won. Over the last couple of years we have seen a diminution in the number of programs which emphasise local involvement; we have seen a drawing back by DURD towards decision making in Canberra; and we have seen efforts by DURD to centralise decision making and authority. 
We know that the battle has been resolved in favour of the centralists. We are to see the destruction of the Cities Commission, and the decision to phase it out is merely one expression of that resolution. We have seen a reduction in the number of programs run by DURD at grass roots level. The Cities Commission is to be abolished, and interestingly the Department of Urban and Regional Development is now moving to try to influence the Australian Assistance Plan, which is really none of its business, by means of letters which it is writing in an effort to urge the Regional Councils for Social Development to coalesce and to join more closely with the Regional Organisation of Councils which DURD has set up. What we are seeing is the first of a series of moves designed to bring the Regional Councils for Social Development up towards DURD regions and to establish at those regional levels rather tighter and more complex administrative structures than we would like to see. 
I am disappointed that the Labor Government, which genuinely tried initially to set up programs to emphasise local involvement, seems to be moving away from them. I have had letters from presidents of Regional Councils for Social Development expressing their concern at the activities of the Department of Urban and Regional Development and at the letters that they have received urging them to join together so that there will be only one Australian Assistance Plan structure in each DURD region, and urging them to co-ordinate far more closely with the DURD structure and the ROC or the Regional Organisation of Councils. I do not think that in the long term that will aid grass roots participation. I do not think that it will aid the kind of function for which the AAP was established. I do not really think that it will aid any kind of grass roots DURD programs. It is interesting that, when in the examination of the Estimates I tried to raise with the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Wheeldon),  under whose authority the Social Welfare Commission works, the fact that letters had been written to the AAP groups and that letters had come from the Department of Urban and Regional Development, no answer was forthcoming; no comment would be made. It is very difficult to find out exactly what pressures are being brought to bear at present to make a more centralised structure out of the Australian Assistance Plan regions. 
Our worry is that with the destruction of the Cities Commission we will see a loss of a certain degree of independence which that Commission was able to exert; we will see the traditional bureaucratic structures more firmly in charge of the kinds of jobs which the Cities Commission formerly did. The fact that the Department of Urban and Regional Development is now able to take over these functions is not in itself a good reason for giving the functions to the Department. A decision might equally have been made to take the functions away from the Department and keep them with the Cities Commission. But it is for the Government to decide which way it does it. If the Government is moving towards a more centralised way of administration, that is its right. I remind the Senate that the Cities Commission had some achievements and that those achievements were not inconsiderable. It investigated the feasibility of the growth centres. It developed a pilot project for the Holsworthy area. It planned the rehabilitation of the Glebe lands in Sydney, a project in which we have been very interested. The Cities Commission submitted detailed proposals for the urban consequences of the development of the Pilbara region. It had been involved in the production of a plan for Darwin; this happened before cyclone Tracy. The Cities Commission has done quite a few jobs. Some of them have now been translated into programs such as the AlburyWodonga program. 
The Cities Commission's existence may have been short, but its existence has not been without distinction. Perhaps its functions are now being taken over, but we would like to place on record our belief that the Commission has performed a useful role. We record also that it arose out of a structure established by the last Liberal Government and carried on- we acknowledge this- by the Labor Government which followed. We are pleased to see that many of the projects in which the Commission interested itself have now come some of the way towards fruition. We believe that the Cities Commission has had a record of achievement. It is with a slight sense of sorrow that we do not oppose this Bill. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, follows on reports to me from servicemen that they have been warned that they might be sent on leave without pay within a month. I ask the Minister very simply: Was this information passed to servicemen after discussion with and with the specific approval of the Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces, or is the action in fact contrary to views on the need for continuity of defence which have been expressed already by the Commander-in-Chief to senior members of the Government? 
You do not like them either. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. Has installation of an Omega navigation station commenced in eastern Australia? If not, when is construction likely to begin and what is the estimated date of completion? Is it not an essential part of the global atmospheric research project planned on an international basis for 1979? Can the Minister give an assurance that the Omega navigation station planned for Australia will be completed before the commencement of the global atmospheric research project in 1979? Following the recent report of a parliamentary committee, have all impediments to the construction of Omega navigation stations in Australia now been adequately overcome? If not, what impediments remain? 
Has the attention of the Minister for Administrative Services been drawn to an election letter written on 4 December 1975 by a  Mr E.  Costanzo on behalf of the former Minister for Northern Australia,  Mr Paul  Keating? does it appear that the letter, which was written in Italian, was circulated to a large group of Italian speaking voters? Was the letter posted from Parliament House, Canberra, with postage prepaid at public expense? Is it intended that the prepaid postage mail facility should be limited to mail written by senators and members and not to letters written by outsiders on behalf of Labor candidates and distributed  en masse  at public expense? Does the use of envelopes prepaid at Parliament House seem to represent a gross violation of administrative arrangements and a misuse of public moneys? Will the Minister undertake to seek an explanation from  Mr Keating  and to advise the Parliament of the outcome in due course? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. Is the Minister aware that 1976 has been designated International Prevention of Blindness Year? Is the Minister aware that in developed countries the major causes of unnecessary blindness are undetected or inadequately treated diabetes and undetected or inadequately treated glaucoma? What Australian programs have been planned to participate in the events of International Prevention of Blindness Year and what Australian Government support has been provided for the special problems of blindness affecting the Australian nation? 
The Senate is debating the motion for the adoption of the Address-in-Reply.  Mr President,  at the outset I would like to add my congratulations to those of other honourable senators who have already taken part in this debate on the occasion of your becoming  President  of this chamber. It is an event which has given us all a lot of pride and pleasure. I join with my colleagues in wishing you well in your tenure of this high office. I would like also to add my congratulations to  Senator Drake-Brockman  who is the new  Chairman  of Committees. I say to the 3 honourable senators who have made their maiden speeches in this place that I hope their parliamentary careers will be fruitful and enjoyable. I wish the other honourable senators who have yet to make their maiden speeches every success in the weeks to come. 
This debate, particularly the contributions from honourable senators opposite, has been characterised by a sense of retrospect. The Australian Labor Party has been intent on looking backwards at events that have passed. If that is the desire of members of the Labor Party, we are happy to accommodate them. It is probably not in their interests. I remind honourable senators opposite that a very great American Adlai Stevenson, who stood unsuccessfully as his Party's candidate for the presidency of the United States of America, said without bitterness and in a sense of magnanimity after the 1956 elections: 
Take hean- there are things more precious than political victory, there is the right to political contest. 
In some ways the election we had last year is related to that assertion for we had to fight for the right to political contest, which is more precious in the end even than whether one or the other side wins. 
The election was unique. I draw the attention of honourable senators to the assessment of  Mr Whitiam  when he spoke in the House of Representatives on 16 October 1975 and attempted to put in perspective what he saw the confrontation at that time as being all about. I shall quote the words of the man who was then Prime Minister, who with a little foresight could have remained Prime Minister up to the time of a properly called election but who chose another course. He said: 
It is the Senate which is on trial. It is the Senate which will have to submit to the judgment of the people. It is the Senate which has rejected the Budget. It is the Senate which must face the people. 

 Mr Whitlam placed the matter as squarely as that. But what started out as an exercise in the rights of the Senate became very rapidly a confrontation between  Mr Whitlam  and the Senate as to whether our powers would persist or be destroyed. The election not only provided an endorsement for my Leader, the new Prime Minister,  Mr Malcolm  Fraser, my colleagues who formed the caretaker ministry and who now form the Cabinet and Government of this country, and the policies of the coalition parties, but also asserted once again that the Senate has a role, rights and a place in our bicameral system, that the legitimacy of our Constitution overrides the wishes of any Prime Minister and that the Governor-General has and can use the reserve powers which are given to him in the Constitution. 

 Mr Whitlam was sure that the Senate's powers would be destroyed. On 20 October 1 975 he was on a television program,  A Current Affair,  and during that program he said: 
I've never been so certain of anything in my life as I am that the Senate's money power will be broken as a result of this crisis. No future Australian Government will ever be threatened by the Senate again, with a rejection of its Budget or refusal of Supply. Never again. 
That was  Mr Whitlam  's concept of the issue and the confrontation and of what the outcome was likely to be. He was as wrong in that assessment and that prediction as he was in most of the other things which he said at that time and in the weeks that followed. He asserted the absolute supremacy of the House of Representatives in a way never envisaged or intended in our Constitution. He was rejected in this place when the Senate stood firm and that rejection was endorsed by the people of Australia at the election which followed. 
The Senate of the Twenty-Ninth Parliament, of which most people now in the chamber were members, did its duty. It did its duty not only in the legislative sense by passing a whole mass of legislation but also in the constitutional sense and, if I may use the words which are used by the  Clerk  of the Senate in his book, in the institutional sense. 
Let us examine some of the false assertions that have been made by the Labor Party about the Twenty-Ninth Parliament and about the rights of governments generally to an unlimited parliamentary term. It has been said incorrectly that the Senate was more obstructive than the Labor Party could bear. The figures which the members of the Labor Party brought out from time to time indicated that a massive number of Bills had been rejected by the Senate. Honourable senators will remember that we faced a considerable problem last year. Day after day, week after week the same unsatisfactory piece of legislation would be bought up to us simply so that the Labor Party could construct a score board of the number of times that we had voted against it in divisions. I have had prepared from the journals of the Senate a table setting out how many Bills were rejected. This is not some fiction or some phoney table. 
I remind honourable senators that the Twenty-Eighth and the Twenty-Ninth Parliaments were very busy parliaments. I pay tribute to the Labor Party for the amount of legislation which was introduced during those parliaments. I ask the members of the Labor Party to agree that in spite of the fact that the Labor Party did not have a majority in the Senate, more legislation was passed through those 2 parliaments than had ever been passed through any parliament before. More than 200 Bills were passed each year in this place and yet the Labor Party talks about obstruction. I have a table which shows the number of Bills rejected by the Senate between 1901 and 1975. A copy of the table is being distributed in the Senate now. It shows that between 1901 and 1972 a total of 69 Bills was rejected. Between 27 February 1973 and 10 April 1974- that, I believe, was the life of the Twenty-Eighth Parliament- only 13 Bills were rejected. Between 9 July 1974 and 1 1 December 1974, 16 Bills were rejected in the Senate. Between 1 1 February 1975 and the date on which the Parliament was dissolved 15 Bills were rejected. The table includes a list of the number of second and third presentations of Bills which have not been incorporated in the table.  Mr 
President, 1 seek leave to have this table incorporated in  Hansard. 
I present a petition from  Mr D.  Sankey of New South Wales praying that the Senate will grant leave to inspect copies of minute papers and other papers relating to proposed overseas loans tabled on 9 July and 19 August 1975, and that these papers be made available for examination by the Queanbeyan Court. As the petition exceeds 250 words in length, I do not propose to seek leave of the Senate to have it read by the  Clerk. 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of Danny Sankey of 18 Village Lower Road, Vaucluse in the State of New South Wales, Solicitor, respectfully sheweth: 
On 13 December 1974 the Honourable Edward Gough Whitlam QC, then Prime Minister and Minister for Environment, the Honourable Reginald Francis Xavier Connor, the then Minister for Minerals and Energy, The Honourable James Ford Cairns, the then Treasurer, and the Honourable Lionel Keith Murphy Q.C., then  Senator and  Attorney-General of this Commonwealth, purporting to act as and in a meeting of the Commonwealth Executive Council signed and/or caused to be signed a certain Minute Paper headed 'Department of Minerals and Energy' recommending for the approval of  His Excellency  the GovernorGeneral, inter aiia, that in pursuance of Section 61 of the Constitution the Minister for Minerals and Energy be authorised to borrow for temporary purposes a sum in the currency of the United States of America not exceeding the equivalent of $4000m and to determine on behalf of Australia the terms and conditions of the borrowing. 
Your petitioner has been advised that Section 86 of the Commonwealth Crimes Act 1914 as amended provides, inter alia, that a person who conspires with another person to effect a purpose that is unlawful under a law of the Commonwealth or to effect a lawful purpose by means that are unlawful under a law of the Commonwealth shall be guilty of an indictable offence. 
Your petitioner has been further advised that Section 13 of the Commonwealth Crimes Act 1914 as amended provides that unless the contrary intention appears in the Act or Regulation creating the offence, any person may institute proceedings for the commitment to trial of any person in respect of any indictable offence against the law of the Commonwealth and further that no such contrary intention appears in respect of the aforesaid offence under Section 86 of the Commonwealth Crimes Act 1 9 1 4 as amended. 
On or about 20 November 1975 your petitioner commenced proceedings in the Queanbeyan Court of Petty Sessions against the aforesaid four persons alleging, inter alia, a breach of Section 86 ( 1 ) (c) of the Commonwealth Crimes Act 1 9 14 as amended. These proceedings are now part heard and have been adjourned to IS March 1976. 
Your petitioner has been advised that to pursue the said Court proceedings it may be necessary to adduce in evidence: 
copies of the four Minute Papers of the GovernorGeneralinCouncil relating to the proposed overseas loan raisings of US$4000m and US$2000m and approved respectively on 14 December 1974, 7 January 1975, 28 January 1975 and 20 May 1975, all such copy documents having been tabled in the Senate on 9 July 1975; and 
the full list of urgent energy items together with the indicative order of magnitude of cost which were referred to by the then Minister for Minerals and Energy, the Honourable R. F. X. Connor M.P. during the debate in the House of Representatives on 9 July 1975, and which list was laid on the table of the Senate by the Honourable  Senator Wriedt  on 19 August 1975. 
Your petitioner has been further advised that the proper procedure for obtaining the right to use in any Court the aforesaid documents is to petition the Senate and seek its leave so to do. (See  Church of Scientology  v.  Johnson-Smith  (1972) 1 All E.R. 378). 
Your petitioner therefore humbly prays that your honourable Senate will: 
Grant leave to your petitioner and his legal representatives in inspect the aforesaid documents. 
Grant leave to your petitioner and his legal representatives to issue and serve a subpoena for the production at the said Queanbeyan Court of the aforesaid documents, namely: 
copies of the four Minute Papers of the GovernorGeneralinCouncil relating to the proposed overseas loan raisings of US$4000m and US$2000m and approved resectively on 14 December 1974, 7 January 1975, 28 January 1975 and 20 May 1975, all such copy documents having been tabled in the Senate on 9 July 1975; and 
the full list of urgent energy items together with the indicative order of magnitude of cost which were referred to by the then Minister for Minerals and Energy, the Honourable R. F. X. Connor M.P. during the debate in the House of Representatives on 9 July 1 975, which list was laid on the table of the Senate by the Honourable  Senator Wriedt  on 19 August 1975. 
And your petitioner as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received 
I ask the Minister for Social Security: Were any approaches made by letter by officers of the former Department of Urban and Regional Development to regional councils for social development inviting them to consider amalgamation within the regional boundaries set up by the then Department of Urban and Regional Development? Would this have resulted in a reduction in the number of regional councils for social development and also in each regional council serving a much larger population than at present? Has the Department of Social Security or the Social Welfare Commission studied any proposals for amalgamation of regional councils for social development with larger regional boundaries? Has the Department reported to the Minister and will the Minister inform the Senate of any opinion which has been offered from her Department? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, relates to a report in today's newspapers that a  Mr Eddie  Zannaniri has applied to enter Australia to study at a university. Is this the same  Mr Zannaniri  who, as Vice-President of the General Union of Palestinian Students, visited Australia in May 1975? Did he appear on  Monday Conference  on 26 May 1975 as an advocate and apologist for the terrorist organisation, the Palestine Liberation Organisation? Is it a fact that his application to come here is being sought by his fiancee who is an assistant of a  Mr William  Hartley who has extreme views on the Middle East? Is it further true that the application has been actively supported by  Mr Gough  Whitlam, the Leader of the Opposition in another place? Will the Minister assure the Senate that Australia is not about to encourage immigration by terrorists of any kind and that  Mr Zannaniri  's application will be subjected to the closest possible scrutiny? 
-The Senate is debating the National Health Bill which is, in fact, part of the Government's program for economic recovery in this country. It is interesting that the Opposition intends to oppose the Bill while agreeing to many of the clauses. I would have thought it more appropriate for it to support the second reading and to confine its opposition to those parts of the Committee examination which it found difficult or offensive. I should like to congratulate  Senator Grimes  on his first appearance leading for the Opposition, to say how well he speaks in Opposition and that we hope he will long continue to hold the position to which he has now been translated. 
The Bill before us has been made necessary by the economic disarray which we find in Australia. It has been necessary for our Government to examine closely all expenditure and to seek means by which we can cut expenditure to minimise the damage to Australia's economy which is a direct consequence of 3 years' government by  Senator Grimes  ' Party. Had his Government not ignored the effects of its policies on the economy this Bill and the removal of certain benefits would not have been necessary. It is a  pity that we have to examine the removal of certain benefits and propose an increase in the cost of certain pharmaceutical products. But we are looking at savings of more than $8m in the remainder of this financial year and of $36m in a full year. 
The main clause of the Bill to which I intend to direct myself is clause 12 which, as  Senator Grimes  has indicated, concerns the increase in the fee payable by a citizen for part of the pharmaceutical benefit, the fee going up from $1.50 to $2. That clause of the Bill will amend section 84 of the principal Act which deals with this particular matter.  Senator Grimes  has said that he cannot see any purpose in a further increase in the pharmaceutical prescription fee. Inflation is running at between 1 3 per cent and 1 5 per cent at present and since the increase which the Labor Government proposed last year we have had a considerable further inflationary upward pressure in one year, and 15 per cent of $1.50 is approximately 20c. We can already see that part of that increase merely allows for the inflation which the Labor Party brought to this country by its policies. 
I want to examine some of the history of the costing of the pharmaceutical benefits scheme. 
When the Labor Government first came to office  Mr Whitlam  appointed a task force which was instructed to examine the continuing expenditure policies of the previous Liberal-Country Party Government. Item 9 on page 79 of that review concerned an examination of the pharmaceutical benefits scheme. At that time the Labor Party's advisers drew attention to some of the dangers in the pharmaceutical benefits scheme as they saw them. They drew attention to what they considered to be the dangers of over-prescription. They recommended, among other things, the possibility of a higher charge being made for certain drugs which might be prescribed under the scheme. There is no doubt that the Government's review committee examined the possibility of making higher charges on the public for drugs available under the pharmaceutical benefits scheme. It seems to me that the Labor Party is not objecting to the principle that people should pay for drugs, though it did object when the principle was introduced. The Opposition is objecting only to the quantum. I think that  Senator Grimes  is nodding his head in agreement. So, the Labor Party is merely arguing about the amount which is being proposed. 
Honourable senators might care to examine what the effect of the charge has been over the years. I remind the Senate that until 1959- that is to say, for the first 19 years of operation of the scheme- there was no charge at all for drugs prescribed under the scheme. In 1959 a charge for drugs prescribed under the scheme was introduced. During the period that the charge was 50c the cost of drugs went up gradually. During the last year in which 50c was the amount payable- that is, 1970-71- the average cost of a prescription was, in fact, $2.21. Since that time the average cost of a prescription has risen progressively. There have been several jumps in the contribution which the patient or the citizen is expected to make. In 1971-72, for example, when the charge to the member of the public was $1, the average cost of a prescription had gone up to $2.45. In 1974-75 the cost had risen to about $2.80. It was at that stage, in September 1975, that the Labor Government proposed an increase in the patient contribution to $1.50. But since September 1975 the cost of drugs has risen again. The latest figures which I have been able to obtain- they include the December quarter but do not include rises in the cost of prescriptions in the January-February period of this year- show that the average cost of a prescription is now $3.17. That is to say, there has already been a rise of almost 50c per prescription since September 1975. 
The fact is that there is a steady rise in the cost per prescription in keeping with the inflation which we have inherited from a spendthrift and reckless Labor government. This rise is not due to increased profits for drug companies. It is in fact associated with the implementation of some of the findings of the Scott Committee with which, I am sure, honourable senators opposite are familar, since they had the Committee report before them for so long; took so long to act upon it and, in fact, did so little when they did act. There was an increase in the cost of drugs due to adjustments made as a result of the acceptance of some of the findings of the Scott Committee. I say again that the increase in the cost per prescription has been about 50c since September 1975. The only unsatisfactory feature that occurs to me is that the percentage of each prescription cost which is being paid by the citizen has increased steadily. It has increased as a result of measures taken by Liberal-National Country Party and Labor governments. The Labor Government's move last September to increase the prescription cost to $1.50 significantly increased the percentage of the prescription cost borne by the citizen. I think we should keep in mind that there is developing a trend whereby the patient is now responsible for about 60 per cent of the cost of an average prescription. 
The second reading speech of the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  made it clear that eligible pensioners will continue to be able to obtain their drugs free of charge. The only problem I foresee in this area is one to which  Senator Grimes  adverted, that is, if the list of pharmaceutical benefits is pruned considerably special hardship may fall upon pensioners. The reason for this is that certain drugs which appear on the general list and which may have cost less than $2 may be removed now as part of a cost saving program and will not be available to pensioners unless the drugs appear in some form on the list of benefits. I am sure our Government will be interested in looking at this. It might be necessary to examine the list of drugs available to pensioners and perhaps to bring back a group of drugs to be made available to pensioners only. I certainly do not know if what  Senator Grimes  said is correct, but if a further list of drugs is to be removed from today or from next week we would want to know whether this would disadvantage the pensioner population. If they are to continue to be able to obtain drugs free of charge then I hope the list is adequately comprehensive. 
In my period of study overseas- following the time when  Senator Grimes  was a student of mine- I worked in the United States of America and, as I am sure  Senator Grimes  will agree, I was appalled at the complete lack of benefits for people in need in the hospital where I worked. In fact, I can remember purchasing Digoxen to give to a patient who needed the drug. But equally, when I worked in the United Kingdom and when I worked in some of the outpatient departments in our hospitals, I was appalled by the waste of drugs which occurs when they are free at the point of distribution. We have to seek a middle road- I am sure that there is a bipartisan approach here- whereby people make some contribution to the cost of drugs to help cost effectiveness. 
I think  Senator Grimes  has raised a very worthwhile point. Part of the problem of over-prescribing does rest with the medical profession, of which we are both members. I have never moved away from that position. Part of the problem involves educating our profession to an awareness of drug costs as well as an awareness of the needs of their patients. One makes many marginal decisions on whether or not to order a drug. To know whether or not a drug should be given requires the exercise of considerable delicacy. 
I am concerned that 2 things should occur: First of all, I am concerned that the review of the whole pharmaceutical benefits scheme which was promised in another place should go ahead. I was delighted to see the Minister for Health in another place promise that such an inquiry was to be instituted. I hope that that inquiry will consider both the administrative costs of the pharmaceutical benefit scheme and the possible savings in administration. I am not convinced at all that we are making maximum use of the pharmacists. They possess considerable expertise which may help us in controlling some of the administration costs. Secondly, I hope we will review the whole question of the benefits made available to Australian citizens under the scheme and of how these benefits can be extended and protected. After all, administrative costs- I believe $1.3m was the amount- were a factor considered in making the decision to withdraw the special pharmaceutical benefit for those on subsidised health benefit costs. If the previous Labor Government took a decision that it was administratively feasible to use the pharmacists in its Medibank scheme we may find there are ways in which we can achieve administrative savings and not have to affect the benefits available or to increase prices. 
The other thing that I am concerned to know is that there will be continuing consultation between all the provider groups as well as the consumer groups when this kind of decision has to be reviewed in the future or if further decisions have to be made. I have always taken the view that the providers, whether they be the Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association, State Ministers of Health or the Pharmacy Guild, have a lot of expertise which can be brought to bear on the question of the costs of a scheme like the pharmaceutical benefits scheme. In the end, the financial welfare of the patient is often their own welfare. For example, they may have views on the implications of the removal under this Bill of some of the benefits, removals which I consider are mainly machinery matters. 
It has been necessary for the Government to look at all areas of expenditure. We face a financial crisis in this country which will have the gravest implications for every citizen if adequate measures are not taken to control the level of government spending and to slow the rate of inflation. It is unfortunate that in this review the welfare area has had to be considered at all. I believe that the Government has moved carefully in proposing the provisions which appear in this BDI. I believe that those provisions are not unreasonable. I believe that, combined with the Minister's assurance that there is going to be a thorough review of the whole scheme and with an understanding that all affected groups will be consulted, these measures will serve to help the Government's attempt to control inflation and they will help it in its long term objective of assisting those in need in a nation with a stable and secure economy. 
Sitting suspended from 12.42 to 2.1S p.m. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Northern Territory, upon notice: 
1 ) How many Breathalyser Units operate in the Northern Territory. 
What facilities exist for the testing of blood alcohol in persons suspected of being under the influence of alcohol and in charge of motor vehicles. 
What facilities exist for the testing of the blood alcohol of people, drivers, or passengers, or pedestrians, involved in motor car crashes. 
What requirements exist for people involved in motor car crashes to have estimations of blood alcohol. 
What are the available statistics linking high levels of alcohol in the blood with motor vehicle crashes of various kinds, for example, single vehicle crashes, multiple vehicle crashes and crashes involving pedestrians. 
What power does the Commonwealth possess to demand the estimations of blood alcohol and the reporting of these levels in all cases of injury associated with motor vehicle crashes. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
How many Breathalyser Units operate in the Australian Capital Territory. 
What facilities exist for the testing of blood alcohol in persons suspected of being under the influence of alcohol and in charge of motor vehicles. 
What facilities exist for the testing of the blood alcohol of people, drivers, or passengers, or pedestrians, involved in motor car crashes. 
What requirements exist for people involved in motor car crashes to have estimations of blood alcohol. 
What are the available statistics linking high levels of alcohol in the blood with motor vehicle crashes of various kinds, for example, single vehicle crashes, multiple vehicle crashes and crashes involving pedestrians. 
What power does the Commonwealth possess to demand the estimations of blood alcohol and the reporting of these levels in all cases of injury associated with motor vehicle crashes. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Northern Territory, upon notice: 
Who is responsible for cases of child abuse, that is. child bashing or battered babies, which have become known to the authorities in the Northern Territory. 
How many instances of such occurrences have come to the attention of the Department in the Territory during each of the past S years. 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I preface it by reminding the Minister that many Vietnamese who are now living in Australia are without regular news from their families in Vietnam. These people, many of whom are refugees, are unaware whether their families are well, whether they have been ordered not to write, whether they are being reeducated or whether they are in concentration camps. Is the Minister aware that the few letters that have got through have taken up to 10 weeks to do so, irrespective whether they were posted in Saigon or Hanoi? Is any immediate action contemplated by way of representation or negotiation with the new Government of Vietnam which might improve postal communication between that country and Australia? Is it possible to discover the reasons for the loss of communication between Vietnamese in Australia and their relatives in Vietnam? Can the Minister offer any hope that communication will soon be restored to normal? 
-I give notice that, on the next day of sitting,  I  shall move: 
That- 
1 ) A Select Committee be appointed for the purpose of completing the consideration of a matter previously referred to, and considered by, the Legislative and General Purpose Standing Committee on Social Environment, appointed during the previous session, namely, the Environmental Conditions of Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders and the Preservation of their sacred sites, and reporting to the Senate upon that matter. 
The Committee have power to consider the minutes of evidence and records of the former Legislative and General Purpose Standing Committee on Social Environment relating to the matter referred to in paragraph ( 1 ). 
The Committee consists of six senators, three being members of the Government, nominated by the Leader of the Government in the Senate, and three being members of the Opposition, nominated by the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate. 
The Committee elect a Government member as Chairman, who may, from time to time, appoint another member of the Committee to be Deputy-Chairman. The member so appointed shall act as Chairman at any time when there is no 

 Chairman or the  Chairman  is not present at a meeting of the Committee. 
In the event of an equality of voting, the  Chairman,  or the Deputy-Chairman when acting as  Chairman,  shall have a casting vote. 
The quorum of the Committee be three. 
The Committee have power to send for and examine persons, papers and records, to move from place to place, and to meet and transact business in public or private session. 
Committee report to the Senate by 3 1 May 1976. 
The foregoing provisions of this resolution, so far as they are inconsistent with standing orders, have effect notwithstanding anything contained in the Standing Orders. 

 -Mr President, I inform the Senate that General Business notice of motion No. 9 standing in my name on the notice paper for this day is a notice of motion for Wednesday, 1 7 March. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) In view of the evidence that amoxycillin is emerging as an effective alternative treatment for conditions such as typhoid fever, what is the availability of this agent as a pharmaceutical benefit. 
What recommendations have been made by the Pharmaceutical Benefits Advisory Committee regarding future availability of this drug. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
1 ) Does the statutory responsibility relating to cases of child bashing and battered babies in the Australian Capital Territory rest with the Director of Child Welfare in the Department of the Australian Capital Territory. 
How many incidences of child abuse became known to the Director of Child Welfare in the Australian Capital Territory for each of the past 5 years. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Administrative Services, relates to the recent election for 10 senators for New South Wales in which there was an initial count and a recount. Is it a fact that on a recount of almost 2.8 million votes only some 10 000 votes changed hands? Did the majority for the successful candidate for the last Senate seat in New South Wales change only from 800 to some 2000 votes in the recount? Is this not a tribute to officers of the Australian Electoral Office in New South Wales and to the Chief Electoral Officer for the State,  Mr L.  Noble, for the way in which the count and recount were conducted? Is it not a statement of confidence in the system under which Senate ballots are conducted in this country? 
The Senate is debating cognately the Loan Bill 1976 and the Loan Bill (No. 2) 1976. As has been pointed out already, this represents the end of a long saga. I believe I am correct in saying that the predecessor of this Loan Bill 1 976 was introduced in August 1975. Since that time there has been a lot of debate, and many people have contributed to the debate. It is only now that we have the 1976 Loan Bills which, we hope, will be passed without much delay. As has been pointed out, these Bills are part of the normal business of government. What  Senator Wriedt  did not point out is that examination of the Loan Bill in 1975 gave the then Opposition one of its few opportunities to question and to get detailed answers on the financial dealings and plans of the Labor Government. It gave us an opportunity to get detailed information regarding the Government's financial transactions. It was proper and appropriate for us to take whatever time we needed to obtain the information and the answers.  Senator Wriedt  forgets that whatever the Senate does is subject, in the end, to the ultimate sanction of the people voting in an election. The people will pass their judgment on whether one side of the Senate or the other has behaved in a proper and reasonable fashion. He knows very well that there is a political constraint that goes far beyond the question of whether a party has the numbers in the Senate. In the end the Senate is answerable to the people. We know that what we did in 1975 was acceptable; it gained the approval of the electorate. 
These 2 Bills seek to fund the deficit by net borrowings, and it is interesting that in the second reading speech by  Senator Cotton  great emphasis was placed upon the part which the Loan Council will play and on the proper authorities which will be sought from Parliament. In that area alone we see a difference from last year's 
Bill. These Bills are not exactly the same as the Loan Bill that was presented last year. There are differences. The Loan Bill, for example, contains an upper limit, a stated limit to the amount of money that can be borrowed. I believe that the 3 mechanisms proposed to fund the deficit in the Consolidated Revenue Fund are appropriate. There is to be a transfer of $470m from the National Welfare Fund and a transfer of up to $700m- a defined amount of money- to the Loan Fund for defence purposes. I would remind the Senate that in the Bill we discussed last year there was no stated limit and amounts up to $ 1,700m could have been borrowed in this way. Finally, there is provision to borrow through the mechanism of the Loan Council to finance the remaining deficit in the Consolidated Revenue Fund. The Senate will remember that it was a failure to seek proper authority, an intention to by-pass the Loan Council, that got the Labor Party into many of its troubles in 1975. It was in fact contempt for the Loan Council, an attempt to raise $4,000m in such a way as to ignore the Loan Council, that started a train of events which led to the eventual destruction of the government of the day. 
I remember that when the Loan Bill was introduced into the Senate last year we were treated to a 3-minute speech. It could not have been briefer. We were told that the Bill was a machinery measure, and there was almost no intimation in the second reading speech of the contents of the Bill. I should point out that the second reading speech on this occasion covered 10 typewritten quarto pages and contained a wealth of information and detail. It was necessary last year to seek information, as  Senator Wriedt  has acknowledged. Much more information has been provided in this second reading speech, in a comparison with last year's which is quite marked. At that time it took the then Opposition six or seven weeks to obtain the kind of information it wanted, and very revealing information it was. I would remind the Senate that when we considered the Loan Bill last year a number of points were made. The Opposition asserted at that time- in September and October- that the Government's statement of what was likely to be the deficit in the Consolidated Revenue Fund was liable to be grossly inaccurate. We pointed out that the Government had over-estimated and maximised likely receipts by the Consolidated Revenue Fund, and indeed that seems to have been a correct assertion. We pointed out that expenditures from the Consolidated Revenue Fund had been under-estimated by the Government, and grossly underestimated. The Government's figure was $20,000m, and the Opposition's assertion that that figure was an underestimate is likely to prove to be a correct assertion. The Opposition stated that therefore the deficiency in the fund which was being suggested at that time was likely to bear no relation whatsoever to reality, and that has proved to be correct, as I will show in a moment. 
We pointed out that it was possible for the Government to expend anything up to $1.75 billion under the provisions of the Loan Bill 1 975 without any further reference to Parliament and without any reference to the Loan Council and with what we considered would be deleterious effects upon loan raising inside Australia. Even at Budget time last year the Labor Government asserted that its overall Budget deficit would be $2,800m. That is an enormous deficit and on a scale which has not been known in this country. It is unheard of. It is a tragic kind of deficit and, combined with the two other Labor Budgets that had gone before it, will give us a gargantuan national debt of an order which we have not known before. Let us not forget that in 1974-75 the Labor Party told us that there would be a Budget deficit of $750m. Somehow that grew into $2,567m. Could the Opposition be blamed when last year it looked at the Labor Government's estimates, looked at its Budget deficit of $2,800m, and asked: 'What is the truth? Let us look at what the Treasurer,  Mr Hayden,  has put down and then let us ask ourselves what is the real situation going to be. '? 
The reality is proving to be most unpalatable. Not yet at the end of March we are facing already a deficit of $4,500m, a deficit greater than the total deficit incurred in 12 years of Liberal-National Country Party government. In 12 years the accumulated total deficits came to only $4,253m, an average of about $350m a year. We are being told now, near the end of March, that that spendthrift government, which left us a legacy of unemployment and inflation, already has given us a debt which we must service and which is greater than the debt accumulated in 12 years of Liberal-National Country Party government. 
-Thank you,  Senator Missen,  I am grateful. The deficit in the Consolidated Revenue Fund already stands at somewhere around $3,000m. Of course the Opposition last year was entitled to question a 3- minute second reading speech that told us nothing. Of course we wanted further information, and I must acknowledge that that information was forthcoming as a series of questions was asked. But it should have been available when the Senate first considered the Bill. We were looking at a government and judging its stewardship. It was a government suffering from a kind of mania, with aimless activity and aimless spending and no prudence at all in what it was doing. I hope that the raising of money by this Government will at all times follow the proper and established methods. This Government will use proper lending institutions, correct and proper intermediaries and proper procedures. The style of government and the style of loan raisings will be in marked contrast to what we saw last year with the proposed $4,000m loan raising that was going to bypass the Loan Council, and to all the other budgetary activities of the Labor Government. 
These 2 Bills provide for a transfer of $470m from the National Welfare Fund to the Consolidated Revenue Fund; or I should say that the Minister's second reading speech informed us that that mechanism will be used, although the Bills do not specifically provide for it in legislative form. Defence expenditure up to $700m- a defined amount and no more- will be transferred to the Loan Fund and the balance required for the Consolidated Revenue Fund will be financed through the Loan Council in consultation with the States, using the proper procedures. It is not just a question of the amount of money involved, it is a question of the style of government and the style of stewardship. 
The Government intends to narrow the gap between government income and government expenditure. It intends to reduce expenditure. But we are committed to the Hayden Budget. We find that in the months ahead there are expenditures which we cannot touch and which cannot be avoided. We are concerned to see the budget deficit controlled and financed. We are grateful that  Senator Wriedt  has acknowledged that the Opposition will help to give these Bills a speedy passage.  His  complaints really lack any substance.  His  complaints are that we demanded information.  His  complaints are that we exercised our proper role of review and our proper role of restraint last year. The Bills now are ready to be passed by this chamber. I believe they will adequately fund the Consolidated Revenue Fund. I believe they will go a little way towards financing a disastrous situation left to us by the previous Government. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
1 ) Did clause 37 of the Handicapped Persons Assistance Act 1974 which came into force on 1 January 1975 provided for reimbursement of salaries paid for certain approved purposes. 
Have eligible organisations, including at least the Sydney City Mission and the Central Methodist Mission, waited in vain since January for reimbursement for salaries paid. 
Why has this long delay ensued and when will reimbursement of salaries paid in accordance with the provisions of this Act be forthcoming. 
Has the attention of the Minister for Social Security been drawn to an article concerned with Medibank which appeared in the  Australian Financial Review  of 16 March in which it was claimed that fees in private hospitals as compared with fees in public hospitals were 'disproportionately high'? Is it claimed in the article that the cost of a single room in a public hospital is $30 a day? Is the statement misleading in that it grossly underestimates the daily cost of providing public hospital beds? Is not the daily bed cost in Sydney teaching hospitals now of the order of $ 100, not $30 as claimed? Will the Minister agree that the figures demonstrate only that the charges to patients in public hospitals are heavily subsidised and that private hospitals charge fees closer to actual costs? 
-Has the attention of the Minister representing the Minister for the Northern Territory been drawn to a report in the  Australian  newspaper of 16 March that 1 1 per cent of all males 17 years and over in Darwin have been charged with drink-driving offences and that many other drinking drivers escaped detection? Does the Minister agree that alcohol is the major identifiable contributing factor to the road toll throughout Australia and that it is a potentially remediable factor in road deaths and injuries? In answering a previous question from me did the Minister inform me that alcohol was a major factor in Darwin in 1 975 in one-sixth of all crashes and one-quarter of the single vehicle crashes? Did he further inform me that only one of the 4 breathalyser units available in Darwin was in fact operative? Does the Minister agree that there appears to be an urgent need either for more units to be available or for more of the available breathalyser units to be made operative? 
I did not know  Senator Colston  was going to address himself to this subject. I should like just to add a few brief words. There is a general problem that arises with the decision to put drugs on the list of pharmaceutical benefits. 
The Pharmaceutical Benefits Advisory Committee that has been appointed does its best to go through the available knowledge to decide which drugs should be on the list because they are of proven thereapeutic benefit and which should not. A number of drugs have come off the list recently. Looking at the drugs that have been removed, I would have thought that some of them do have some claims to be effective. As a matter of fact I did some of the work on some of the drugs myself. I am most distressed that the letter that came round on these drugs said that there was no available evidence that they are successful. That at least is a judgment upon my past scientific prowess. But 1 accept the fact that this Committee- I know most of the members- is not involved in Government costing; It is merely concerned with trying to find the scientifically correct answers to the question of whether some of these drugs are effective. 
Not necessarily. In the past, most equivalent drugs have been put on. 
But the Committee has been looking for proof that the drugs are effective. What I should like to say to  Senator Colston  is this: What I was hoping he would put up tonight was some evidence or some indication from people who work in the field that these particular products are effective. It is all very easy to put up anecdotal evidence. I do not disagree with the honourable senator's statement that there are some children who may need the drugs. What he did not say is why any older children need to stay on milk substitutes. Milk, after all, is a white fluid designed for the nourishment of baby cattle. It is only incidental that it is used for human nutrition after a certain age. It is not essential. It provides nothing that we cannot do without. Most children can get on perfectly well without milk at all particularly after a certain age. I am not saying that my children do not drink a great amount of milk, but I am suggesting to  Senator Colston  that it is not logically correct to say that it is an essential kind of foodstuff. 
That is a separate issue and I will come back to that. I want to make the point that this Committee has acted, I think, in line with available knowledge, that there is no good evidence that milk or milk substitutes are necessary for older children. This Committee is made up of a number of leading doctors, medical scientists and pharmacists in the country. They have the confidence of the medical profession and of all the helping professions. It will be expensive for families if it is decided that children who suffer from the allergy require to stay on the list. I was interested to know whether  Senator Colston  was going to recommend that the drug should be available for special purpose or on authority only. I did not hear whether it was to be for certain special conditions. What kind of reassessment did he want the Department of Health to make? 
I will say just one more thing about the difficulties of prescribing. I was a specialist in an area where one had to deal with these kinds of dietary problems. It is generally possible, if one investigates these children thoroughly, to know whether this kind of product is needed. I say- I hope that  Senator Grimes  will agree- that medicine as it is practised in the community is extremely difficult and some of these decisions are extremely awkward. I think many doctors, making these decisions in good faith and to the best of their capacity, may have been ordering these products unnecessarily. At least this will be an occasion when the whole question can be reexamined. 
I can appreciate the difficulties that the Pharmaceutical Benefits Advisory Committee faces. I can understand those difficulties. I hope that the Committee keeps the whole matter under continuous review. But I am not prepared to say, on the evidence I have about milk allergy, whether it is to lactose, protein or the penicillin which is sometimes in milk, that there is a good case for these products to continue to be available for older children. I hope that the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle),  when she replies, will tell us that the Pharmaceutical Benefits Advisory Committee will continue to watch the situation. I hope that when we go back to the Committee we can present some good evidence and a good basis for this product going back on the list. Otherwise there is no end to this; no product will come off the list; and we can go on in respect of drug after drug saying: 'Please put it back on the list because we think it will be a good thing'. The list, after all, is for certain specified drugs which are known to be effective. I feel sympathy for the Committee in having to deal with this product. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. What is the present staffing situation with regard to doctors at the Darwin Hospital? Are there shortages of doctors in the Darwin hospital or other Northern Territory hospitals of the critical degree that is known to have existed in mid- 1975? In particular, are there adequate numbers of anaesthetists available to maintain the services of the Northern Territory hospitals? To what extent has the recent pay dispute made it more difficult to recruit doctors for the Northern Territory? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. I draw to the Minister's attention current Press speculation regarding the future independence of the Australian Broadcasting Commission, the Australian Broadcasting Commission's taking advertising and changes in the composition of the Commission. Is the Minister able to comment on the accuracy of these Press reports? Can he give any indication of future intentions regarding the role of the Australian Broadcasting Commission? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
1 ) Does mail sent to Lord Howe Island travel both directly from Sydney and via Port Macquarie. 
Does it take longer for mail to travel to Lord Howe Island via Port Macquarie. 
Is the Minister aware of claims by Islanders that the difference can be anything up to 7 days, and that mail may travel directly to the Island in 3 or 4 days, but takes anything up to 10 days via Port Macquarie. 
Is it now intended that all registered mail and parcels are to be sent through Port Macquarie to Sydney from Lord Howe Island. 
Will this mean that there will be no provision for registered mail and parcels to be sent directly from Lord Howe Island to Sydney via appropriate available aircraft. 
If the passage of mail to and from Lord Howe Island is slower via Port Macquarie, why is this less convenient service maintained. 

 - Mr Acting Deputy President, I rise to respond to some of  Senator McLaren's  comments. One of the principles that I have had since I have been in the Senate is that I never respond to  Senator McLaren's  speeches. On this occasion I depart from that principle. I welcome his concern for health. I was unaware that he was expert in these matters. I was interested to hear him commence his speech, but it quickly became obvious that he did not know what he was talking about. In regard to at least three of the matters that  Senator McLaren  raised there were serious errors of fact and serious errors of logic, and 1 will take just a few minutes to place some of those matters in perspective. 
The honourable senator commenced his speech by drawing attention to the need for more pathology tests. What an over-simplification. I have practised medicine in 3 countries- in Australia, in the United Kingdom and in the United States. The practice of medicine is completely different in each country. In America, where time counts for everything, people use a lot of pathology tests. They say that the high cost of the tests is worth it because they think that they save time. They put a high value on time. Clinical medicine is practised in England. One makes a judgment, and one holds off doing a lot of tests because time is not seen as being the main concern. In this country we have a balanced practice, somewhere between the practices in those other two countries. 
I will tell  Senator McLaren  something about pathology tests and about the fact that more pathology tests can be done in such and such a situation. There is considerable doubt as to how much information one gets from a lot of pathology tests. One of the criticisms which many of us have is that too many tests are done for too little yield. I will give an example. There are the health screening organisations to which people go and have a lot of tests done on themselves. We see reports that so many per cent of people have been found to have some abnormality. I submit that in most of those cases the abnormality does not matter. The information is not useful; it cannot be turned to the advantage of the patient. It is a waste of money and a lot of the money is paid through the health insurance system. If  Senator McLaren  knew something about these tests he would understand that the carrying out of some procedure does not necessarily bring with it any benefit whatever to people. A lot of pathology tests are expensive, a lot of them are dangerous and a lot of them are invasive; that is to say, they require some invasion through the patient's skin. A lot of them do not give results which are worth while. 
One of the problems that we have, particularly in the big teaching hospitals, is that patients are subjected to a whole battery of assaults- it is nothing less than a battery of assaults- for information which too often is wanted by some young academic in training. 
Debate interrupted. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the Minister been made aware of the reappearance of the major English language journal of Chinese Science, Scientia Sinica. 
Has the Minister been made aware of a recent article, Hsiung Yu-Liang et alii asserting that the enzyme trypsin is an effective antidote to the bite of elapid snakes when given subcutaneously. 
What application does this observation have for possible treatment of snake bite in Australia. 
What steps have been taken to set up appropriate experiments to test and extend these potentially important findings. 
The debate on the Dried Vine Fruits Levy Amendment Bill 1976 commenced just before 5 p.m. yesterday. This is one of a series of Bills concerning dried fruits which has been before the Senate but it is different in that it is a Bill which the Senate may not amend. As honourable senators will be aware, under standing order 190 it is quite in order to discuss matters relevant or not relevant to the subject matter of the Bill in the first reading stage. I must say that for 5 or 6 hours so far the Senate has with great gusto been discussing matters not relevant to this Bill. I believe that 6 honourable senators have spoken so far. Some very interesting material has been presented, none of it to do with dried vine fruits in any way. 
I rise to respond to comments made yesterday by  Senator McLaren  in the first reading debate on this Bill. He made a number of points concerning health services and health care delivery in this country.  His  remarks were not really related to dried vine fruits but they were perfectly in order in view of the fact that this is a Bill which the Senate may not amend. Last night I discussed  Senator McLaren's  first point, which was that he felt that unless we had a proliferation of diagnostic services, health care in Australia would suffer. Last night  Senator McLaren  pointed out that Medibank had made diagnostic services readily available for people. He said: 
This has been of great benefit to the underprivileged and to the people on lower income. 
That was part of his basic misconception of the role which diagnostic tests play in medicine. The mere availability of tests is not in itself any indication that they have any effect on health care delivery or health care standards. One of the problems which the Government is facing is that there has been a proliferation and a clear overuse of diagnostic tests with far too little return in the way of improved health care statistics. The fact remains that diagnostic tests have been overused. It did the honourable senator no credit to advance that argument with no evidence to support it, just to give it as an opinion and ask us to accept it as holy writ. 

 Senator McLaren made 2 other points about health care delivery in his contribution last night. He drew to the attention of the Senate certain problems of hospital staffing. He sought to assert, perhaps by implication, that there has been a loss of salaried staff and that under the Australian Labor Party Government efforts were made to retain salaried staff to the benefit of the community and community health. I would like to place on record some of the facts concerning salaried staffing in hospitals, the price the country has had to pay for the Labor Government and what it did to the capacity of hospitals in Australia to function. 
I want to direct attention to hospitals in the Northern Territory. In 1972 the hospitals staff situation in the Northern Territory was adequate. Staff positions were filled. The situation was not perfect but the McMahon Government thought enough of hospital services in the Northern Territory to commission a special report which was presented in the Northern Territory Legislative Council at the end of 1972. It drew attention to what the health services provided and it made recommendations concerning hospital staffing. When it came to power the Whitlam Government had before it a document which should have assisted it to improve and maintain hospital staffing in the Northern Territory. 
I have been a member of 2 Senate Estimates committees, each of which has concerned itself with the question of health services in the Northern Territory. It has become apparent each time the Estimates committee has met that we have been facing an increasingly serious situation in the Northern Territory. It has become apparent that there is inadequate hospital staff. Several days ago I asked a question in the Senate concerning this very point. I was informed by the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  that, of 55 resident medical officer positions available in the Territory, 19 are vacant and cannot be filled. Included in those positions are 3 positions for anaesthetists- the people who give anaesthetics when one needs an operation. Not one of those 3 positions is filled at the present time. 
Let me say again that when my Party left government in 1972 the Northern Territory hospital service was functioning effectively and was staffed. In 1975 when the Australian Labor Party left government almost one-third of the positions were unfilled and unfillable. In regard to the anaesthetists not one position out of the three available was filled. That is the kind of legacy the Fraser Government received from 3 years of Labor rule. We could see it coming. It might interest the Senate to know why this situation occurred, why the staffing situation of one of the only 2 hospital systems under the control of the Federal Government should have gone to pieces. This makes a mockery of what  Senator McLaren  was saying last night. I will tell the Senate what happened. The Commonwealth Medical Officers Association- a proper union body acting on behalf of the medical officers in the 
Territory- put in a log of claims in 1974 and made an application for increased salaries. The Government will not keep doctors in the Northern Territory unless it pays them wages comparable with those paid in the adjoining States and comparable with those for salaried positions elsewhere in Australia. The claim put in by the Commonwealth medical officers in 1974 was delayed. It was not dealt with by the Whitlam Government until April 1975 when the wage index guidelines had been brought in. The doctors then discovered that they were faced with the situation in which they could not receive what every tribunal agreed were the increases to which they were entitled. They had not received those increases because of the great delays. The position then was that the wage fixing tribunals found it impossible under the wage indexation guidelines to grant any increases. The doctors have been faced with the situation in which their increase has to be achieved without destroying wage indexation. This happened because the Australian Labor Government delayed- it took its time and procrastinated- and eventually presented the doctors with a fait accompli saying that there could be no salary rises because wage indexation had been introduced. 
There are very few of these doctors in number, but their importance to the Northern Territory is immense. They provide a resource the Territory needs. If  Senator McLaren  wants us to believe that the Government of which he was a member put a high value on hospital staff and staff salaried positions and if he wants us to believe that these salaried positions are needed to maintain a good standard of health care, let him explain to the Senate why his Government has virtually destroyed one of the hospital systems and has diminished the number of salaried doctors available in the Northern Territory. 
Let me repeat the position in case  Senator McLaren  has not taken in what I have said: None of the 3 positions of anaesthetist is filled. That is his Government's record. Of the 55 positions at the hospital, nineteen are vacant. These are figures given to me last week in the Senate in answer to a question. They are figures which the honourable senator can check. He attempts to interject. He does not like what I say because it hurts and it shows up the shallowness of what he was saying last night. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
Did commentators on Radio Station 2JJ in Sydney on Saturday, 25 October 1975 call for 'A Day of Rage' for listeners to call in to support the Whitlam Labor Government. 
Did Station 2JJ advertise on 23 October 1975 details of the rallies to be held by the Australian Labor Party in Sydney on the following weekend and also give incorrect information about the details of the Liberal Party rally on 26 October 1975. 
Did the commentators make a series of very specific, personally offensive remarks about the then Leader of the Opposition. 
Were all callers required to notify the switchboard of who they were and what comments they wished to make. 
Were several Liberal supporters, when they told the switchboard that they wished to comment in favour of the Liberal Party position, not put through to air. 
Was there any person who did make some comment unfavourable to the previous Government cut off the air in mid-sentence. 
I ask  Senator Greenwood  as Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs: Did an announcement come yesterday from the Prices Justification Tribunal indicating that there was to be an alteration in the retail price of petrol in New South Wales? Is this alteration in fact going to be a reduction in the price of petrol and can the Minister indicate the circumstances surrounding this reduction? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Did the previous Minister's press release of 1 8 October 1975 state that a new code of practice for control of experiments in animals was to be introduced. 
Did the press release state that successful applicants for the National Health and Medical Research Council grants for medical research would have to conform with the code of practice. 
How is such conformity to be policed other than by seeking written assurances from applicants. 
Is it intended that the conditions for experimental animals used by the National Health and Medical Research Council scholars will be regularly inspected; if so, what are the plans for such inspections as regards their extent and frequency. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. I refer to a report that the Bread Carters Union in South Australia has threatened to stop flour and fuel supplies to an Adelaide bakery if it continues to sell bread at reduced prices. Is this not a form of industrial blackmail by the union, and is not the public the eventual victim which will pay more for bread than it needs to do? If it is true that the present Trade Practices Act does not allow action to stop this rip off by the union, will he refer the matter to the Minister with a view to finding mechanisms for making unions as well as private business subject to the consumer protection provisions of the Trade Practices Act? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What evaluation is being made by the Australian Drug Evaluation Committee and what recommendations have been made about the use of Diazepam during pregnancy, in view of two clinical reports establishing a possible association between the use of Diazepam in pregnant women and the birth of children with cleft lip. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What research and development programs are currently under way in the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories relating to new approaches in the treatment of haemophilia, in the preparation of products for the treatment of haemophilia and in increasing the potency of such powers. 
I present the following petition from 43 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth that: 
There is a growing interest and concern in all sections of Australian society for the conservation of the environment, natural and man-made. 
That there are also rapidly growing pressures by powerful forces tending towards the destruction of the Australian heritage. 
That it is therefore urgent to appoint the Australian Heritage Commission, which was approved by both sides of this Parliament and to give the Commission sufficient independent staff, resources and funds. 
That technical assistance grants and administrative support grants to community organisations are needed to partially redress the gross imbalance in technical expertise and resources suffered by community groups in pressing the community's case against the exploiter. 
That a proper balance between the Governments program of public austerity and the need for action in conservation would be a modest increase in the Budget allocations in these areas over that of 1 975-76. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
Omega Station in Australia 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. Does the annual report of the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories Commission for 1974-75 draw attention to serious cost increases which have affected the drug manufacturing operations of the Commission? Are these costs stated to include labour costs such as paid maternity leave, increases in superannuation and wages? If the Commission, which produces drugs for government, is complaining of cost increases, does this not make more credible the claims by the private pharmaceutical industry that it is in a cost squeeze? Does it not re-inforce industry fears that it cannot continue to service the pharmaceutical benefits scheme at present price levels? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Was a press release appearing in the Sydney  Sun  on Friday, 31 October 1975, at page 17, correctlyattributed to  Dr Leigh  Dodson of the National Biological Standards Laboratory. 
Does  Dr Dodson  claim that at least 10 per cent of general use drugs and pharmaceutical products tested by the Australian Government have been found to be defective, commonly failing tests for potency. 
Which drugs and from which manufacturers have been tested and found to be faulty in the past 12 months. 
-Did the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development earlier last month visit the Glebe lands housing estate in Sydney? If so, can he detail what progress is being made with the rehabilitation program being undertaken on the estate under his direction? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the Minister's attention been drawn to the booklet A Woman's Guide to Abortion-Why, How and Where' compiled and produced by the Women's Abortion Action Campaign and the Women's Abortion Action Coalition. 
Does the booklet recommend that paramedical staff should be encouraged to perform abortions. 
Does the booklet state that it opposes restrictions that abortions should only be performed by registered medical practitioners. 
Was this booklet produced with the support of any Federal Government grant; if so, what was the grant and what was the amount of subsidy. 
Has a similar grant been given to organisations wishing to express a contrary point of view; if not, is it intended that this should be done. 
Do the conclusions of the booklet express the views of the Government. 
Has the Government sponsored any studies into the effects, including detrimental effects, of therapeutic abortion; if not, will it do so. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Did the Australian Capital Territory Health Commission discuss at a meeting held on, or about, IS October 197S, the circumstances in which the names and addresses of certain patients were disclosed to a research worker. 
What decisions and recommendations resulted from that meeting. 
Do they differ in any way from the statement released by the then Minister for Social Security and Minister for Repatriation and Compensation to Estimates Committee D in 1975 relating to the same improper release of information. 
I  present the following petition from 958 citizens of Australia: 
To the honourable the  President  and senators in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That we the residents of Eden support the controlled logging of the 'Eden Management Area' for integrated logging. 
That we do so with the addendum that the management of the forest and industry connected with the logging take all care possible with the environment that surrounds Eden, in order to support the principles of conservation and planned management of native forests. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security. I remind the Minister of her re-affirmation, by way of a Press release on 2 April, that $500,000 was allocated for grants in 1975-76 under the special assistance scheme of grants to welfare organisationsknown in the trade, I might add, as the departmental slush fund. Is it not a fact that in the last financial year under a Labor Administration the grant under that item was under-spent by a large amount even though many organisations had applied for money under the scheme and their applications had been received in time? Since eligible organisations are operating now under conditions of financial stringency, will the Minister advise whether any large amounts available under this item remain unspent? Is she able to give an assurance that the available money will not remain unspent at a time when voluntary welfare organisations are in real trouble? 
The Senate is debating the AustraliaJapan Foundation Bill 1976. 1 would like to say initially that this Bill, its passage and its consummation, are a tribute both to  Sir John  Crawford and to Australia's Ambassador to Japan,  His Excellency Mr K.  C. O. Shann, both of whom have worked extremely hard to advance the ideas to allow this Bill to become reality. This foundation was announced in August 1975 and it has been acted on quickly. It represents an initiative of major proportions between 2 countries with a lot in common. These are both countries in Asia which are highly industrialised. They are major trading partners, they share common strategic interests and they are 2 great democracies in an area where democracy is not the common form of government. At the symposium on AustraliaJapan relations a couple of weeks ago the Secretary of the Prime Minister's Department said: 
Improved cultural relations between these 2 countries are no longer an option. They are essential. 
If  Senator Walsh  had wanted to tell us last week that the provisions of this Bill are no panacea he should at least have admitted that the absence of this kind of Foundation would complicate or make more difficult the sorts of objectives which we seek to achieve. In 1972 the Senate Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence brought down its report on Japan.  Senator Sim,  in his most thoughtful contribution to this debate, referred to that report and to the work of that Committee. The report set down clearly that the future stability of relations between Australia and Japan had to be based on cultural and social factors as well as on trade and economic relationships. The kind of stimulus which that Senate Committee report gave is one of the factors leading to the production of this legislation. 
In 1974-75 we saw an increasing amount of expenditure by Australia on Japan. In that financial year Australia spent $1.3m on cultural relationships in general. Of that amount, the largest single allocation was on relationships between Japan and Australia. The amount involved, just over $ 1 14,000 was not large enough. However, it was more than we spent on any other country and after 1 974, after the visit of the then Prime 
Minister,  Mr Tanaka,  the Australian Government and the Japanese Government pledged larger expenditures to improve and expand cultural relationships between the 2 nations. If we examine relations between Australia and Japan we find that they rest on the 1957 commerce agreement and on the Australia-Japan cultural agreement of 1974. We hope that later this year relations will rest on the basic treaty of friendship and co-operation, the new umbrella treaty at present in preparation. It was a matter of some pleasure to see during  Mr Anthony's  very successful visit to Japan some weeks ago that the instruments of ratification of the cultural agreement were exchanged and that the agreement has become operative. 
The Australia- Japan Foundation is separate from the cultural agreement. However, it is supplementary in its activities. It is like contacts between countries to which our Churchill scholars go. We are looking forward to the emergence of this Foundation with its headquarters in Canberra and its office in Tokyo. We only hope that those who already have access to travel grants and money do not turn this Foundation into some kind of extra vehicle for their own enjoyment. Relationships between Australia and Japan have progressed considerably in the last 10 years. For instance, 10 years ago, there was no daily plane flight between the 2 countries. There was no direct air route between the 2 countries. Now one can fly direct to Japan each day. I was in Japan 10 years ago and even then I could notice the acceptance of our country. There are very much closer links today. As of last week it is possible to telephone Japan by direct dialling. As we work together and as our economic relations increase we are finding that there is a greater need to understand and to learn to accept each other. As  Senator Sim  pointed out, this has to include an acceptance of the undesirable features which we find in each other's countries. We have to learn to accept each other, to use a phrase, warts and all. It is just not the kind of politeness found at tea parties. It is a capacity to understand and to work with each other through difficult and uncomfortable situations which we will find becoming more common as we work together more closely. The need for this foundation and understanding rests partly on the fact that relations between Australia and Japan are becoming closer. They will become more enduring and will increase in number and complexity. 

 Senator Button in his rather extemporaneous and cynical presentation talked about trade relations between our 2 countries as being sordid. This was the adjective he used not once but a number of times. He talked about it as a rather sordid relationship. He clearly misunderstands the value of this relationship and his sensibilities seem to have blinded him to the realities of what this means to Australia and Japan. It is true that trade relations are paramount. There is nothing wrong with this. The fact that we have built our relationship on trade has been of benefit to both nations. It is neither dishonourable nor improper. But our increasing trade has meant increasing contact. As trade increases further it must bring with it increasing problems which we must be prepared to resolve. 
The degree of interdependence between Australia and Japan is really quite staggering. The Japanese, for their part, are concerned and worried by their undue dependence on Australia for supplies of some of their most basic commodities. I was in Japan just a few weeks ago. 1 talked to officials of the Atomic Energy Commission and to trade officials. They continued to express their concern that so many of their vital raw products came from Australia. They said that therefore they were very concerned that relations between the 2 countries should be stable and that we should each understand what the other country was saying. From the Japanese point of view, they see themselves as a trading nation. They live on trade. They live on buying and selling. But Japan also has to import 75 per cent of its petroleum and 80 per cent of its energy resources. We need to understand this. We need to understand the uncertainty and insecurity which it brings to the Japanese view of the world. We have to understand that in 1974 Japan imported from Australia 82 per cent of its wool, 48 per cent of its iron ore and 37 per cent of its coking coal. I am delighted, as a senator from a great coal producing State, to know that the Japanese want to import a lot more coal from New South Wales to supplement the 20 million tonnes that they can produce each year for themselves. They do not see themselves as increasing their own domestic production of coal with the capacity they have. 
Japan relies heavily upon Australia. It takes 84 000 tonnes of our beef, even under present restricted conditions. Japan is the largest regular cash customer for our wheat, taking one million tonnes a year. It is a major market for ferrous metals, a major market for uranium and a major market for all our feed grain. It takes 85 per cent of our coal exports. The trade relationship between our 2 countries is a deep one. In 1949-50 Japan took only 5 per cent of our exports. She now takes 28 per cent of our exports worth $2,400m a year. This represents 6 per cent of all 
Japanese imports. In 1949-50 we received from Japan one per cent of our imports. Now 17 per cent of all imports into this country come from Japan. The value of those imports is $1.4 billion and they represent about 10 per cent of the Japanese export market. The joint trade between our 2 countries is the seventh largest intercountry trade in the world. 
The intensity of trade between our 2 nations is very high. In fact, Australia-Japan trade, on a per head of population basis, works out at about $150 a year for each man, woman and child in Australia. That is far ahead of the intensity of trade per head of population between any other 2 countries and certainly between Japan and any of its other trading partners. It is important for us to understand our major trading partner, to understand its character, history and traditions. In Tokyo recently I had an opportunity to speak to a number of Japanese and a number of foreigners. Included among these were 2 bureau chiefs of 2 large American newspapers. They made some points to us which are worth repeating. First of all, they said that Japan is unique as a nation in its character and institutions. It is not a Western country. It has the capacity to absorb and take in many cultures but to change them into its own pattern. It is a nation where relationships are built on obligations rather than on rights. In this country we keep talking about our rights vis-a-vis one another. In Japan, the Japanese will consider obligations one to another. If we do not understand this, we may not understand the situation in which we are dealing with Japanese counterparts. It is a nation where much of the major decision making rests with the 35 to 40 year olds who are not the nominal heads of organisations but who are at a lower managerial level. It is a nation where much of the decision making regarding international trade is made through its great trading companies which speak, as it were, as semi-official government bodies. 
Recently, a seminar to discuss Australia- Japan relations was held in this city, lt attracted a record number of participants. We were told that Japan is a nation with a rather deterministic view of the world which tends to see things as given and which tends to see the responsibility of the Japanese planner as responding to the situation. It is a nation that appears capable of adjusting to any new realities in terms of its national interest and its understanding of what it can and cannot change. Japan wants us to understand these things so that we can understand what the Japanese are saying, They want from Australia in return certainty and predictability. The thing that they were finding most difficult about the Labor Government which preceded our Government was that they could not depend upon the Labor Government. They could not get a sense of predictability as to what was likely to happen in the time ahead. 
One of the problems referred to by many honourable senators during this debate has been the problem of language, the difficulty of understanding each other's language. If English is the  lingua franca  in the world today, it is not surprising that many Japanese are learning English at schools and have quite a good working knowledge of that language. The same situation does not apply with regard to our understanding of the Japanese language, a unique and difficult language. But whereas 10 years ago in this country very few schools were teaching Japanese and there were probably fewer than 100 students of the Japanese language in Australian universities in 1975 there were more than 7000 Australian school students studying the Japanese language. There are 77 high schools teaching the Japanese language now. There are 16 universities and institutes of advanced education teaching it. In addition to training in the Japanese language in this country, already we now have over 300 schools in New South Wales, for example, which are now teaching courses in Asian studies which include courses in Japanese culture. If a person wants to get to interpreter level- to get an advanced knowledge of Japanese- that person will still have to go to Japan to the great language schools in Tokyo or the language school in Yokohama which has trained so many of our own people. This Bill will provide one more way to help to improve our capacity with the Japanese language. 
I was impressed a couple of weeks ago by a statement by  Mr Rowlands  from the Department of Foreign Affairs who in an address that he made on the question of cultural exchange between Australia and Japan said: 
It is obvious enough that two such different countries, possessing such unrelated traditions and histories, and speaking languages which have no linguistic connection, should have at best an imperfect and limited knowledge of each other. There has simply not been the basis for the sort of instinctive understanding of how the other society works and how it goes about its business, how its people think and organise their affairs, which underlies Australia's relations with, for example, Britain, the United States, Canada, New Zealand- or indeed all the other countries that share the European tradition and civilisation to which Australia also belongs. 
He is quite right. He does highlight some of the problems. This Bill and the existence of this Foundation will help at least to make a start in overcoming those problems. 
A journalist working in this country, a  Mrs Robinson,  a Japanese girl who married an Australian, came here 10 years ago. She told the recent Australia-Japan symposium that when she came to this country her parents wept because she was going, as far as they were concerned, to the end of the world, to an uncivilised land. Their understanding has improved sufficiently that they no longer weep. They envy her for various aspects of the life she has here. When she first came to Australia 10 years ago her hostessesthis is her own story- the people who entertained her, asked her such things as whether she knew how to cope with chicken when it was served to her at meals. They no longer ask such questions. On both sides, that kind of understanding of basic courtesies and basic matters has improved a lot. 
I believe it is the lady who lives in Sydney and who writes regularly for one of the Sunday newspapers. I think some honourable senators may be aware of the column she produces. 
The honourable senator may be correct. I cannot answer that. She made the point to the symposium that she wants to see more personal contact for progress between our two nations in the future.  Senator Button,  who took a rather cynical view, said that he really did not believe that we were interested in Japanese culture. Well, he is wrong. Japanese culture is fascinating as is Japanese history. The language is an interesting language. It is strange. It is set in a different framework. But it is wrong for the honourable senator to attempt to give it any value. Things which are different are neither better nor worse. They are things which concern us and about which we would like to know more. 
Clause 5 of the Bill contains a list of the functions of the Foundation. It is a great pleasure to see that these will include the study of the Japanese language, culture and traditions, the social and political institutions, the economic and industrial organisation, the physical features, climate and ecology and that the Foundation will allow for visits between Australia and Japan. 
With regard to cultural exchange, I echo the view put by a recent participant in this seminar in Canberra. He made the point that there was no purpose in limiting cultural exchange to what might be called 'high culture'. There is not much purpose if from Australia we send nothing else but our string quartets and our ballet companies. While these are a valid part of Australian culture they are not all of our culture, which is broad. He hoped that some of our rock groups would go because they represent part of the Australian culture. He hoped that from Japan we would receive not just the No Theatre or the Kabuki, that we would receive also what is contemporary and modern Japanese culture, that we would take a very broad view and that we would learn something about the problems of Japan and the kinds of solutions which Japan is seeking in response to those problems. 
He hoped that we would see the Foundation as operating rather in the way that the British Council operates- non government, rather independent, and taking a broad view of its function. I would find that a most worthwhile suggestion. He would hope- and I would hope- that the recipients of grants would exclude those, including academics generally, who have other access to funds. The people at this symposium, many of them academics, pointed out that they receive salaries and travelling allowances. We hope that people who can make use of the limited funds available to the Foundation will represent the very broadest cross-section of people from our nation. I refer to people who can get to know Japan, get to know some of the ways in which Japan works and how it relates to Australia. 
In summary, this Bill will encourage the exchange of people and ideas, hopefully from many walks of life. It will allow research and comparative studies so that we will understand more about our major trading partner, a nation with whom our ties are becoming closer with the passage of each year. It will provide, we hope, a centre of knowledge on Japan-Australian relations. The cost is modest. My hope is that the size of the amount allocated will grow with time. I hope that the provisions of the excellent report prepared by  Sir John  Crawford will be implemented and that the aims which he sought to have achieved will be realised. I believe that this Bill represents a very fine initiative. It is a worthy venture. It has the support of the Governments of both countries and of all parties in this parliament. Its goals appear to be realistic and practical. I wish it well and commend the motion. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Is the loss of blood clotting activity in the preparation of freeze dried concentrates by the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories in the order of 85 to 90 per cent. 
Is this, rather than technical capacity, the eventual limiting factor in the production of concentrates of antihaemophilic factor for the treatment of haemophilia. 
What research and development programmes are currently under way by Commonwealth Serum Laboratories to examine and overcome inefficiencies in the production of anti-haemophilic concentrates such as those referred to above. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Is hypertension a known factor predisposing to many forms of cardiovascular and cerebrovascular disease. 
Is it known whether early detection and treatment of hypertension could alter costs to the community from cerebrovascular and cardiovascular disease. 
Has the Minister's attention been drawn to a report of mass screenings for hypertension carried out in Copenhagen supermarkets. 
Did reports of this particular study carried out during Heart Week 'in February 1975 by the Danish Hearth Foundation result in the referral of 23 per cent of members of the public to their general practitioners for further evaluation. 
Does it appear that mass screening in supermarkets might be one cheap and effective way of detecting hypertension; if so, what plans does the Commonwealth Government have to encourage such screening in the Territories or in the States. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
To what extent are the factors listed in the article on page 3 17 of the  Lancet  of 16 August 1975, on ill health and child abuse, a true reflection of the factors operating in cases of this problem coming to the attention of the authorities in the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory. 
I rise tonight to advise the Senate of an all-party petition which has been sponsored by the parliamentary group of Amnesty International and which is being forwarded to the leadership of the Union of the Soviet Socialist Republics. It expresses the concern of a large number of parliamentarians about the fate of the members of the Amnesty International group in Moscow. This Parliament has its own group of Amnesty International. Its membership includes a large number of senators from both sides of the chamber, a large number of members of the House of Representatives from both sides of that chamber and members of the parliamentary staff. It is a unique group in the world. This is the only parliament which has its own Amnesty International group. The office bearers and executive represent all party interests. It is parliamentary bipartisanship in action in what it seeks to do. This group concerns itself with issues of human rights. 
I remind the Senate of the functions which Amnesty International seeks to serve. It works for the release of prisoners of conscience- men and women detained anywhere for their beliefs, colour, ethnic origin, religion or languagealways provided that they have neither used nor advocated violence. Amnesty International opposes torture and capital punishment in all cases, without reservation. It advocates fair and prompt trials for all political prisoners. It is independent of all governments, even though members of this Parliament in their individual capacities support the movement. Amnesty Internationa] undertakes a large number of activities in support of human rights. If I may disgress for one moment, I simply remind the Senate that a year ago an Australian Amnesty International mission went to Indonesia, in respect of which concern had been expressed about the rights of prisoners. I had the honour then to be a member of that Amnesty International mission to Indonesia, together with  Mr McGarvie  who was the  President  of the Victorian Bar Council- an eminent counsel from Victoria- and the Rev. Neil Gilmore,  President  of the Australian Council of Churches. We went to Indonesia on behalf of Amnesty International to do what we could to advance the cause of human rights. We went with  Mrs Leonore  Ryan, who is the organising secretary of Amnesty International, and one of the members of the secretariat. 
This parliamentary group is not a normal Amnesty International group. It does not carry out the usual activity of Amnesty International, which is to adopt one, two or three prisoners and to work for their release. It concerns itself in a different way with particular issues. It has taken a special interest in political prisoners who fall within certain categories. These include judges, parliamentarians and journalists. These people are looked upon as being people who have a special responsibility for upholding laws and personal freedoms. The special interest that we take in persons within these categories decides much of the action we take when trying to solve particular problems. We have addressed ourselves to several issues of importance in the last year. I should like to remind the Senate of some of them. We are particularly concerned about parliamentarians who are in prison. I remind the Senate that at the present time we are aware of 1 12 parliamentarians in prison around the world as prisoners of conscience because of their beliefs, for whom we would work. They are our colleagues in other countries, and some of them have been in prison for 1 1 years without trial. They fall within the ambit of activities of Amnesty International. We are not particularly interested in whether the parties they represent or the system they represent are ones which agree with our own philosophy. Thomas Paine, the great American democrat, said: 
He who would guard his own liberty must guard even his enemy from oppression. 
What has this parliamentary group done in the last year? Firstly, more than 90 members of the 29th Parliament signed a petition last year, and those members included members of the Senate and members of the House of Representatives. That particular petition was concerned with a senator from Chile and members of his family who had been arrested and who had not been brought to trial. We had received reports of the arrest, imprisonment and torture of that man. Ninety members of this Parliament signed and forwarded that petition to the  President  of Chile- an appropriate activity- seeking the release of that senator,  Senator George  Montes. 
We have concerned ourselves since then particularly with activities and events inside Russia, because they also form part of our amnesty concern. We have known for some time about problems with civil liberties inside the Soviet Union. One can read  The Gulag Archipelago, Cancer Ward, One day in the Life of Ivan Denisovich,  or one can read some of the official Amnesty publications, particularly  A Chronicle of Current Events,  which is one of the publications of the underground. Those documents have been brought out and published by Amnesty International, and they set out in detail facts about a number of the prisoners of conscience in the Soviet Union. They are named and their situation is given. We are concerned about human rights in the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, and last year 90 members of the Parliament forwarded a petition to  Mr Kosygin,  who was  Chairman  of the Council of Ministers in Moscow. 
I hear an interjection from  Senator O'Byrne.  I assure  Senator O'Byrne  that wherever in the world - 
I have already mentioned Indonesia. Wherever in the world there is a threat to personal liberties Amnesty International will be active, whether it is in Chile, in Indonesia, or anywhere else. Our concern with the situation in Russia has nothing to do with the political system in that country; it has only to do with the people who are under threat. The petition which we sent last year concerned the members of the Amnesty group in Moscow. I ask the Senate to consider what it means to form an Amnesty International group in Moscow in the situation which exists there, to make it known that an Amnesty International group is in existence, and to work for Amnesty International. 
At the time we sent that petition last June we had become aware that 2 members of the Russian Chapter of Amnesty International had been arrested in the previous April. They were  Dr Andrei  Tverdokhlebov, and  Dr Sergei  Kovalev. At the time we sent that petition to  Mr Kosygin  neither of those men had been charged, neither had been brought to trial. We could not find out what had happened to them. We asked the Soviet authorities to decide what crimes they had committed, to bring them to trial, or to release them. 
We have subsequently discovered that  Dr Kovalev  was brought to trial in December. We are led to believe from sources which we understand to be reliable that the trial was conducted not completely in accordance with the established legal code of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. For his activities in working for Amnesty International he has been sentenced to 10 years gaol. We understand also that  Dr 
Tverdokhlebov is soon to be tried. The members of the Amnesty International group pay tribute to the courage of these men, for what they have done, for the work that they are doing on behalf of political prisoners in their own country and in other countries, and for the fact that like other Amnesty International groups, they have taken an interest in political prisoners around the world. 
We are concerned that they should not now be oppressed for their beliefs in this area. Accordingly, we have produced a petition, which has been circulated in this Parliament, to be forwarded on to  Mr Brenzhnev.  Already 122 members of the Thirtieth Parliament- more than twothirds of all the members of the Australian Parliament- have signed this petition. More members have indicated that they wish to sign the petition. It is an expression of bi-partisan support for the principle of human rights and for the desire that these men should get a fair trial. I shall read the petition which is to be forwarded on to  Mr Brezhnev.  It reads as follows: 
To:  His Excellency, Mr L.  I. Brezhnev 
The Australian Parliamentary Group of Amnesty International last year expressed concern at the arrest of two members of the Soviet Group of Amnesty International,  Dr Andrei  Tverdokhlebov the secretary, and  Dr Sergei  Kovalev. 
We were deeply disturbed that  Dr Kovalev  was sentenced last December to ten years imprisonment. From reports we have received the sentence was passed at a trial where many correct procedures were violated. 
We, being members of the Australian Parliament, call on you now to ensure that  Dr  Tverdokhlebov's  imminent trial is conducted openly and fairly. We ask also that permission be given for the observer from Amnesty International to attend the trial. 
We urge you also to cease the present harassment of the  Chairman  of the Soviet Group of Amnesty International,  Dr Valentin  Turchin, and its new secretary,  Mr Vladimir  Albrekht. 
As I have said, already 122 members of this Parliament have signed the petition. We intend to send this petition on. Our last petition was noted around the world. It was reported on the front page of the New York newspapers that members of the Australian Parliament thought the matter important enough to make their views known. I believe that our concern is a worthy one and that the cause of Amnesty International is worthy. I believe that our support for officers of the Soviet Group of Amnesty International in Moscow is necessary and that it is a proper expression of a world-wide human rights movement and concern for human rights. 
We shall forward this petition now to  Mr Brezhnev  and we hope that he and his officials will take notice of it. We hope that this expression of protest will be heeded and understood as being serious and considered. We hope that it will be understood that the petition is sent reluctantly. We shall watch with great care the imminent Moscow trial of  Dr Tverdokhlebov.  I remind the Senate that our view of any society, whether it be Indonesia, Chile or the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, is based to some extent on the impartiality of its justice and of its legal system and by the liberality of its laws and practice. I thank the Senate for the courtesy of hearing this petition. I urge any honourable senators who have not signed it to consider whether the petition warrants their support. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security. While congratulating the Minister for the announcement on 6 April about 6 grants for social welfare, I draw to her attention the fact that the  Australian  of yesterday's date indicated that the grants would be administered by the Department of Social Security because 'the Social Welfare Commission had been abolished'. I also draw to the attention of the Minister her departmental Press release of 6 August which contained the following words: 
Following the abolition of the Commission . . . 
I ask the Minister whether the Social Welfare Commission has been abolished or whether the Government has made any commitment to abolish this body. 
-On behalf of the Joint Committee of Public Accounts I present the 157th report. I seek leave to make a statement in relation to it. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Does about half the plasma received from all donors attending the Red Cross's main collecting Centre in Sydney go into the production of clotting factors for haemophilia. 
Has research into increasing the potency of preparations of cryoprecipitate for use in haemophilic patients been done in the Blood Bank of the Red Cross in Sydney by  Dr Joel  Margolis; if so, is  Dr Margolis  supported only by payment as a sessional medical officer. 
Have his techniques already been put into operation in the Sydney Blood Bank and the Brisbane Blood Bank and are they now being introduced into Melbourne's Blood Bank. 
What benefit is the Nation likely to receive from these advances which will increase the potency of products available for the treatment of haemophilia. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Is cryoprecipitate prepared from blood plasma by conventional methods for treatment of haemophilia, rich in fibrinogen; if so, does this limit its use in patients who may require large amounts of the product. 
What research and development programmes are under way funded by the Federal Government to reduce the content of fibrinogen in cryoprecipitate. 
Have new research developments occurred recently in the laboratories of the Red Cross Blood Banks which will significantly improve the yield of cryoprecipitate from blood plasma by a factor of approximately two times; if so does this represent a potential two-fold increase in the production of anti-haemophilic factors, especially if greater emphasis is given to the use of cryoprecipitate in the treatment of haemophilia. 
What information does the Government have about the production and availability of freeze dried cryoprecipitate for the treatment of haemophilia and what plans does it have to support research and development to make a convenient product available, especially if freeze drying removes fibrinogen from the final product. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the attention of the Minister been drawn to a letter appearing on page 725 of the  Medical Journal of Australia  of 1 November 1975, highlighting some of the addictive dangers of the drug chlormethiazole. 
What restrictions exist on the use and prescribing of chlormethiazole and what information has been given to medical practitioners to alert them to the problem which it might represent. 
I present the following petition from 37 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth that 
There a growing interest and concern in all sections of Australian society for the conservation of the environment, natural and man-made. 
That there are also rapidly growing pressures by powerful forces tending towards the destruction of the Australian heritage. 
That it is therefore urgent to appoint the Australian Heritage Commission, which was approved by both sides of this Parliament and to give the Commission sufficient independent staff, resources and funds. 
That Technical Assistance Grants and Administrative Support Grants to community organisations are needed to partially redress the gross imbalance in technical expertise and resources suffered by community groups in pressing the community's case against the exploiter. 
That a proper balance between the Governments programme of public austerity and the need for action in conservation would be a modest increase in the budget allocations in these areas over that of 1 975-76. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question is directed to the Mininster for Social Security who has referred on several occasions to an income security review being conducted at the present time to cover a broad area of concern in the welfare field. I ask the Minister: Is she able to advise the Senate how the results of this inquiry will be made public? Specifically, is it intended that the result should be presented to Parliament by way of statement or otherwise made available for detailed public examination and debate? 
The Senate is debating in cognate fashion the Social Services Amendment Bill 1976 and the Repatriation Acts Amendment Bill 1976. From what honourable senators have just heard from  Senator Grimes,  they might be forgiven for forgetting that these are Bills which will give away large amounts of money. They are Bills which will make available to pensioners large amounts of money and which will give pensioners very significant rises in the level of their pension. The Bills will hand out benefits to people. If the honourable senator wants to criticise, he might at least combine his criticism with an acknowledgment of the benefits that will flow from these Bills to the very people about whom he spoke. But that would require a generosity of mind and a balanced argument of which I believe he is not capable. 
These Bills give expression to the determination of the Fraser Government to maintain the value of pensions and they will do this. These Bills are in keeping with our undertaking that pensions will rise every 6 months. These Bills actually put into effect what we promised during the general election campaign. The objects of the Bills are laudable and it is the result of an act of hypocrisy that no statement has been made by honourable senators opposite about the benefits that will accrue to people through these Bills which should be attracting bipartisan support and which  Senator Grimes  should be supporting. These Bills will allow more money to be paid to pensioners. I remind honourable senators that it is through pensions that the main workings of the cash transfer system operate. As honourable senators know, we give to people in need 2 kinds of services: We give cash through the cash transfer system and we support the provision of services through other welfare agencies. The pension system is the great cash transfer system operating in Australia. These Bills enable more money to be made available to pensioners- to those in need. 
In Australia it is necessary that our cash transfer system be effective, that it be equitable and that it be adequate. All honourable senators will be aware of the emphasis which the Henderson Commission of Inquiry into Poverty gave to the cash needs of the poor. All honourable senators will be aware that the Henderson Commission identified the undue numbers of aged people among those who exist in poverty in Australia. All honourable senators will be aware also of the emphasis which Professor Henderson and his coworkers placed upon the provision of adequate amounts of cash for these people through the pension system. 
These Bills which the Liberal-National Country Party Government is putting before the 
Senate acknowledge that need. The Bills acknowledge the need to increase pensions with inflation and they give effect to that increase. 
We undertook in our policy statement to increase pensions twice yearly in line with the consumer price index. This rise- the rise which we are seeking to implement now by way of these Bills- takes into account the rises in the CPI for the September and December quarters. The rise takes into account a rise in the CPI for the September quarter of 0.8 per cent and a rise in the CPI in the December quarter of 5.6 per cent, a total rise of 6.4 per cent, which is being passed on as an appropriate increase in pensions to allow for that 6.4 per cent rise in the CPI over 2 three-month periods. The rise in fact gives effect to our promise to introduce a Bill to increase the pension by the 6-monthly rise in the CPI. These Bills are doing this. 
The September and December quarters are the quarters corresponding to the 2 quarters that were included in the equivalent Bill brought in last year by the Labor Government. The Labor Government brought in such a Bill at the same time of the year as this- in the autumn Session of Parliament. That Bill covered the same 2 quarters in order to give effect to a rise in pensions to take some account of rises that had occurred in the cost of living. There is no difference in our time table. The Labor Party cannot claim that we have departed in any way from a program of 6-monthly increases. This will be a 6-monthly rise and in due course the rises in the CPI for the March and June quarters will be incorporated in legislation. 
The rise of $2.50 per week is the full rise which one would expect from the rise in the CPI. It takes the standard rate of pension to $41.25. It is necessary to mention this because  Senator Grimes  did not see fit to emphasise these matters. 
I stand corrected.  Senator Grimes  says that he did mention it but let us mention it again. The rise proposed in this legislation will take the standard rate of pension to $4 1 .25 a week. This is the highest rate at which it has ever stood. When this rise was announced we had available figures for the average weekly earnings to the end of the December quarter. The pension rate would then have equalled 25.2 per cent of the average weekly earnings. I do not know the latest figures for average weekly earnings but this rise still represents a high level of the order which the Labor Party sought to achieve during its period in office. 
These Bills will provide for the outlay of $35.2m this financial year; that is $35.2m in cash for pensioners. The legislation will allow for an extra $232m to be provided in 1976-77 even if there are no further benefit increases. These Bills allow for millions more dollars to be provided for the cash transfer system to help the pensioner population. 
Even more, the Government has combined with this rise in the pension rate provisions to ease the income and property limits on the means test. These are significant initiatives which should be welcomed and acknowledged. 
Having read the second reading speech of the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  we know that some pension will be payable to a single person who receives an income of $102.50 a week. This is a new upper limit. It is a new provision to make available to more people the benefits of the pensions system. Some pension will remain payable to people while their assets, as assessed, do not exceed $53,700. This is a new upper limit. It is providing a further means of bringing more people under the umbrella to gain protection from the pension system. Most aged people will find now that the value of the family house or other assets will not debar them from receiving some pension. Married couples without children will continue to receive some pension until their income reaches $171 a week or until the value of their property reaches $90,000. These provisions are generous. They are the start of the Liberal-National Country Party Government's program of providing pension increases and improvements. 
The Minister for Social Security has gone to some length during the last few weeks to let people know that the Income Security Review Committee is meeting to look at the whole cash transfer system in Australia. This Government is concerned that cash transfer should operate in the best possible way. We are looking to this Commitee to make a basic examination of how the cash transfer works, to examine the findings of Professor Henderson, to identify what we would expect from such a cash transfer system, and to report back to the Government. It is this kind of initiative undertaken by the Fraser Ministry which will give us an opportunity to examine the whole cash transfer system and to determine whether we want to make major alterations to the system to give pensioners an even better deal than they are receiving. Let us riot forget that 1.7 million people will benefit from the provisions of the Social Services Amendment Bill. 
When one looks at the amendment which has been proposed by the Labor Opposition one finds that it deplores the failure of the Government to index dependants' allowances. We learnt one thing from the former Labor Government, that is, that inordinate haste brings about disastrous legislation. Inordinate haste made the Labor Government the laughing stock of the nation. It could not write a Family Law Bill that did not need plugging later. It could not write a Trade Practices Bill that did not require more than 100 amendments in the Senate just to make it workable. When this Government proposes substantive alterations in the law they will be well prepared, and when they come into the Senate they will not embarrass us and the nation like previous Labor Government legislation embarrassed honourable senators opposite. The Government believes in the orderly consideration of legislative change and that contrasts with the policy of the Labor Party. We believe in the orderly consideration of the legislation itself. 
This Government has a 3-year mandate. It has never been suggested that all the Government's legislation has to be introduced by 26 April or 27 April, in the Government's first term. What a ridiculous suggestion. This Government has plenty of time in a busy program to look at its legislative priorities and to introduce the Bills as they are prepared after the proposals leave the departments. We will continue to introduce legislation as it is available. We do not pretend that all our Bills are ready now, that they will be introduced now, or that all our promises can be carried out immediately. At the present time we are giving a full 6-month rise to pensioners to cover the recent rise in the consumer price index. We are honouring our obligation. Opposition senators cannot argue otherwise. We are sticking to the timetable which the Labor Government established during its term of office. This is a generous piece of legislation and it should be acknowledged as such. The Government hopes that it is the beginning of a number of Bills. We hope to do more for pensioners. This Government has time before it. Whatever we do will be done carefully. During the Committee stage of the Social Services Amendment Bill I may wish to intervene and speak on particular clauses, but at this stage I commend the general thrust of the legislation and emphasise the generous nature of the legislation in making available to pensioners much more than they have at the present time. I commend the Bills to the Senate. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Maunsell)-Before  calling  Senator 
McAuliffe, is there a seconder to the amendment moved by  Senator Grimes? 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT- Very well. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Is the Minister aware of recent work on continuing medical education devoted to medical knowledge self assessment programmes. 
Are there any plans to introduce such programmes of self assessment into Australia. 
What pan has the Government played already in the assessment by doctors of their continuing competence to practice at a high level. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What percentage of claims were rejected month by month from the computer used by the Health Insurance Commission for the preparation of Medibank claims, because of incomplete, incorrect or inadequately programmed claims. 
What is the standard of training of claims officers and how is it being upgraded. 
I  present the following petition from 98 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth that: 
There is a growing interest and concern in all sections of Australian society for the conservation of the environment, natural and man-made. 
That there are also rapidly growing pressures by powerful forces tending towards the destruction of the Australian heritage. 
That it is therefore urgent to appoint the Australian Heritage Commission which was approved by both sides of this Parliament and to give the Commission sufficient independent staff, resources and funds. 
That Technical Assistance Grants and Administrative Support Grants to community organisations are needed to partially redress the gross imbalance in technical expertise and resources suffered by community groups in pressing the community's case against the exploiter. 
That a proper balance between the Governments programme of public austerity and the need for action in conservation would be a modest increase in the budget allocations in these areas over that of 1 975-76. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
The Senate is debating the first reading of the Wheat Export Charge Amendment Bill 1976 and in accordance with the provisions of standing order 190 the debate is ranging to matters relevant and not relevant. Many of the honourable senators opposite have decided that they have an interest in the elections in New South Wales and that they wish to speak to matters relating to New South Wales. It is reasonable, therefore, to test part of the record of the party which honourable senators opposite represent and the party which is representing itself as some kind of alternative government for the first State of Australia. Members of the Labor Party have been talking to us tonight about taxation, about all kinds of taxation. Maybe it would be as well to look at personal income tax. Perhaps it would be as well to find what the Labor Party record has been in the field of personal income tax. We will then learn that it is a case, as we have seen tonight, of Satan preaching against sin, for there is a matter which the Labor Party has to answer concerning the amount of personal income tax paid in Australia and a neat little rip-off against the average salary earner and wage earner in this country which the Labor Party introduced during its term of office whereby it takes more tax than necessary from the ordinary wage earner, including the taxpayer of New South Wales, as a compulsory interest free loan equal to about $300m a year. 
I will demonstrate how this has been done and suggest to the Senate that this has been done by the Labor Party while it was in office. This is the same Labor Party as now tries to hoodwink the people of New South Wales and dares to talk about taxation and taxation rates. There are 2 ways by which people pay their personal income tax. They can either pay once a year or they can pay weekly. For these purposes of payment 2 sets of documents exist which give the rates at which the tax must be paid. 
-On the point of order, I submit that the subject which I am discussing now is quite different from the subject of discussion this afternoon. It is totally hypocritical for the  speaker  who preceded me from the other side to discuss the very matters to which  Senator Keeffe  now takes exception. I believe there is no substance in the point of order. 
Thank you,  Mr President.  As I was saying, 2 sets of documents are used to determine the amount of income tax a person pays. People who are self-employed or who pay their tax once a year pay at a rate determined in a book issued by the Taxation Office called  The Income Tax Ready Reckoner.  It is entirely competent for any citizen to get this ready reckoner from the Taxation Office and find how much tax he or she is required to pay each year. I have the current edition for 1975-76 with me. But a person who is a salary or wage earner is required to pay his tax weekly on a pay-as-you-earn basis. In that case he will not use  The Income Tax Ready Reckoner.  He will pay his weekly tax deductions according to a scale contained in another document which is called  Income Tax Instalment Deductions: Rates of Weekly Deductions from Salaries and Wages.  This is based upon the 
Hayden Budget, the Hayden tax scales, the Labor tax proposals. 
One would expect the amount of tax which Australians pay to be the same whether it was deducted weekly or paid annually. One would expect that the tax would be the same. That would be common justice. If a person paid tax in 52 weekly instalments he would expect it to be the same as the yearly tax. It is not the same amount. It is interesting that the Labor Government authorised and issued, before we came in, a tax scale which has now been incorporated into the rates of weekly deductions which takes from the little man more tax than it should, and the little man has no way of avoiding it. If a person's weekly wage is $150 a week the tax works out at $33.20 a week. Over a year, say from 1 January last year, he would pay $1,726 tax. If a person is paying tax on a single annual basis and if we allow the standard deduction which is incorporated into the Labor tax scheme the tax works out at $1,650 per annum- a considerable difference, about $70. A person paying tax weekly would pay more than he should have paid and that would have been by courtesy of the Labor Party program. I have constructed 2 tables which are designed to set out the differences in tax which a person would pay if he paid tax weekly or if he paid tax annually over a number of different salary scales. I have already made the tables available to the Manager of Opposition Business in the Senate  (Senator Douglas McClelland).  I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  the first of the 2 tables. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator DrakeBrockman)  Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted.  (The document read as follows)- 

<graphic href="068232197604281_47_1.jpg"></graphic>

This table sets out in a series of columns the amount of tax a person pays weekly or annually whether he uses the ready reckoner or the weekly instalment plan. The important thing is that it shows, using the current rates, that a person with no dependants paying tax weekly on a salary between $ 100 and $200 a week would be paying somewhere between $60 and $120 extra over a year. That would represent an extra amount of 5 per cent or 6 per cent of his tax. That would mean that if he were just an ordinary Australian he would be making a compulsory loan which the Government organised for him. 
This matter has only just come to our attention. We immediately contacted the Taxation Office to find out its views. The officers acknowledged that the person who paid weekly would actually be worse off than the person who paid annually, but they did not care very much because people would get it back at the end of the year and it was thought that there was extra income which people generally did not declare. But people have to pay 10 per cent interest when they are in arrears with their tax and they are having to make this loan to the Government because of the Hayden tax rates. In fact the amount of extra tax they are likely to pay is even greater because the person who pays annually can claim all of his deductions at the time. The person who claims weekly does not get those deductions week by week. 
I worked out how much extra money it is likely that the Taxation Office would take because of the Labor Party's miscalculations. Were they miscalculations or was it deliberate on the part of the outgoing Government to maximise its tax take? Pay-as-you-earn tax for the current financial year is estimated at $8, 683m; that is shown in Budget Paper No. 4 at page 11. Taking the conservative figure that the tax scales are taking from the small man 5 per cent extra in tax, in one year the Government gains $430m by way of compulsory loan. The next question to be answered is: Has it always been like this? Has the man who pays his tax week by week always been at a disadvantage? I chose for comparison the last year in which the Liberal-National Country Party Government was in office. I worked out how much tax a person paid if he paid tax once a year and how much he paid if he paid each week. I had a second table constructed to set out the figures. I seek leave to incorporate that second table in  Hansard. 
The  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator DrakeBrockman)  Is leave granted? 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT- Leave is not granted. 
I accept that members of the Labor Party do not want the documents incorporated in  Hansard.  They do not like the material contained in them. They do not like what it shows about their taxation practices. They do not like what it shows about what they are doing to the average wage earner in Australia. I shall make clear to honourable senators what is contained in the second table. It sets out the amount of tax paid by a person on a week by week basis. What comes out is a figure which shows that the person who paid his tax week by week under a Liberal Government actually paid less tax over the year than the person who paid his tax in one hit. If a man with no dependants earned $100 a week, he paid $81 less tax when he paid week by week. That money was in his pocket and not in the Government's pocket. 
But the Labor Party changed this. After 3 years of Labor- a little legacy of Labor- the wage earner has less money in his pocket because the Labor Party fiddled the tax scales. It fiddled the tax scales as it fiddled everything else. If a man earned $120 a week he was $92 worse off over a year. If a man with a dependent wife and 2 children under the age of 16 earned $200 a week, and paid his tax weekly, under the figures that operated in 1972-73 he got $122 in his pocket that was not given to the fellow who paid tax once a year. The Labor Party has turned that right around. While the Labor Party has been destroying the economy of this country and while it has been crying crocodile tears about how much it cares, it has been ripping off the pay packets of the little Australians. It has been ripping off the pay packets of the weekly wageearners. It has been ripping off from the pay packets of those who pay their taxes each week extra amounts of money which the average citizen cannot avoid paying. 
This is a legacy of 3 years of Labor Government. This is how the Labor Government managed its affairs and how it treated the ordinary citizen. We knew what the Labor Party was like in the Federal sphere. We always knew what it was like in the Federal sphere. Obviously there are questions that arise now that these facts have been drawn to my attention and now that I have drawn them to the attention of the Senate. It is my hope that they will be made known immediately to the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch).  I hope that he will seek from his officials in the Department of the Treasury an explanation why the rates on the 2 kinds of reckoners do not coincide. 
I suggest that the people of New South Wales think carefully. When we left government we had a system operating that was to the benefit of the man who earned his wages each week, when compared with the richer person who paid his tax once a year. We now have a different system. We now have a system in which the average wage-earner is subsidising the Labor Party budget deficit by means of a compulsory-  (Quorum formed).  I thank  Senator Georges  for drawing attention to the state of the House. I note that none of his colleagues saw fit to come into the chamber and that we have now 4 Labor senators only in the chamber. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT- Order! The point of order is not upheld. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  The point of order is not upheld. 
I was saying, before the point of order - 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  Order! There is no point of order. I call  Senator Baume. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  Order!  Senator Georges,  you are not to talk about the decision I made unless you want to move a motion to disagree with my ruling. You can talk to another point of order. 
The DEPUTY PRESIDENT-  I repeat to the Senate what I said the other evening: There is no requirement in the Standing Orders for the  President  to listen to a full length discussion on a point of order. Once he has heard sufficient to make his decision, then he can make it. If  Senator Georges  wishes to object to the decision I made he can use the procedures of the Senate to do so. I call  Senator Baume. 
I was discussing the rip off that has been occurring by means of a tax mechanism which was altered during the period of the Labor Government and which disadvantages those who pay their tax week by week. I was about to remind the electors of New South Wales that they should consider that the party that engineered this alteration in the tax scales is the party which is now seeking their support in New South Wales. The party of Wran is the party of Whitlam. The party of the federal rip off is the party they should watch very closely in New South Wales. What I have said tonight is factual and exact. These matters have arisen and these changes in the tax scales have occurred. They occurred as a result of Labor Party manipulation and Labor Party Budgets. We saw it happen federally; we saw what it did to the country. I know that the people of New South Wales will not be fooled and they will not let it happen there. 
Earlier tonight during the adjournment debate  Senator Ryan  spoke on the staffing of hospitals in the Australian Capital Territory. She made some comments relating to the replacement of a surgeon who resigned earlier this year from the Woden Hospital. I believe that he was an orthopaedic surgeon. She spoke about the replacement of salaried staff. She made some statements that she thought this man should be replaced by another salaried specialist. She made what I thought was a rather ideological appeal. But she made some very specific statements about initiatives taken or not taken by the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  and about actions which he had or had not taken but which she thought were necessary. Of course, the real issue here is the care people get in Canberra, lt does not matter whether doctors are salaried or private as long as the medical care is there. I am glad that  Senator Ryan  has some concern about health care in the Australian Capital Territory. She may care to acknowledge that following the confrontation which took place 2 years ago in this part of the world the immigration of doctors to the Australian Capital Territory has almost ceased and the medical manpower situation is a lot worse. 
I return to what  Senator Ryan  said tonight. She referred in detail to certain matters. She referred to the activities of the Minister for Health,  Mr Hunt.  She related in detail one matter. She said specifically that the Minister was to be criticised because he had not met with the salaried officers association. I notice that  Senator Ryan  is nodding her head in agreement that she said this and that she stands by it. But it is not true. It is probably as well that the Senate is told that this is not true. If the honourable senator is going to come here and make a case, she might as well be accurate. 
I ask the honourable senator to contain herself in patience. I have come here ready to demonstrate that the Minister met with them. The honourable senator is wrong in what she said about the Minister for Health. I wonder why the honourable senator has not bothered to check what she said. She has acknowledged that she specifically said that the Minister did not meet with people representing salaried medical officers. That is either right or wrong. The honourable senator has made her case and pan of her case is that the Minister did not consult. She wants to come in and make the case out. She should make sure that she is telling the truth. I am sorry, she should make sure that she is accurate. However, I have no doubt that she was inaccurate because she did not check. 
But the matter is very simple. The salaried specialists in the Australian Capital Territory have an association to represent them. I would have thought that the honourable senator would have seen the Press release which the Minister put out on 26 April in which he stated that he would discuss with medical people the question of replacement of doctors in the Australian Capital Territory. He made it clear at that time that he intended to consult widely to find the best answer to this question of staffing in A.C.T. hospitals. 
The honourable senator does not seem to believe me. We had better help her. I have here portion of a letter. The heading on the letter is: 
The  Staff Speciallists  Council A.C.T. Hospitals. 
-The date on the letter is 28 April 1976. 
-Today is 28 April 1976. The honourable senator has said that the Minister has not met with these people. 
The letter is addressed to the Minister for Health, the Honourable R. J. D. Hunt. 

 - Senator, you have come into this place and made statements about our Minister for Health. Your job is to be right. The letter states in the first paragraph: 
Dear  Mr Hunt, 
It was most helpful to have the opportunity to meet with you recently, and to discuss the problems of health care delivery in the A.C.T.- 
That is what it says- 
Since that time certain events have occurred which you are well aware of, and which caused the Staff Specialists' Council some concern. 
That is all I have in my possession. The letter which is from the Staff Specialists Council indicates that it met with the Minister for Health. 
-The Council had met with the Minister recently and it was grateful for the chance to meet with him. Although I do not have the letter I believe it was signed by  Dr Peak  who was a classmate of mine, incidentally, at Medical School. I believe that he is some kind of office bearer in the association. 
It is perfectly simple. Either  Senator Ryan  is correct and the Minister has not been carrying out consultation or she is wrong. I make a point. It appears that the Minister has consulted. It appears that he has every intention of consulting. It appears that he is concerned about health services in the A.C.T. It appears that some of these criticisms are unfair, incorrect, inappropriate and unreasonable. 
If  Senator Ryan  wishes us to take notice of her expressions of concern she should take more care with the details of what she presents. Many of us share her concern about health services in the A.C.T. and throughout Australia. We share her concern that Canberra has not as many doctors as we would like it to have. We are concerned that in the last 2 years so many doctors have decided not to come to Canberra.  Mr Hunt  is a responsible and concerned Minister who, far from refusing to consult, has gone to some pains to make sure he meets the salaried medical officers about whom  Senator Ryan  spoke. Under his stewardship of the portfolio we will see an end to the kind of unnecessary confrontation that has taken place in the Territory and which has soured relations here for 2 years. We will see the resolution of the problems that came about when we saw the salaried medical service imposed, without adequate consultation, by the last Government. By all means let  Senator Ryan  advance the case for what she believes in- a fully salaried service. Let her be factual when in this place she criticises a Minister of the Crown who is not guilty of the things she said but who is consulting and who will resolve this situation. 
I direct a question to the Minister assisting the Prime Minister in Federal Affairs. Has the Fraser Government made a public commitment to introduce a system of indexation of personal income tax? Will this, combined with tax rearrangements under the new federalism, increase or decrease future income tax burdens of individual taxpayers in Australia? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Is there evidence that Chloroform causes hepatomas or other liver tumours in mice. 
Has information of this association been known for almost 30 years. 
Does it also, from recent experiments, appear to cause kidney tumours in rats when fed in large doses. 
Is Chloroform still used extensively as a preservative in compounds mixed by pharmacists. 
In particular, is it still a major constituent in preparations, such as Chlorodyne 
What implications does the recent confirmation of the association between Chloroform feeding and tumours in small animals have for the availability of these compounds in Australia. 
I present the following petition from 3 1 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The Petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth that: 
There is a growing interest and concern in all sections of Australian Society for the conservation of the environment, natural and man-made. 
That there are also rapidly growing pressures by powerful forces tending towards the destruction of the Australian heritage. 
That it is therefore urgent to appoint the Australian Heritage Commission, which was approved by both sides of this Parliament and to give the Commission sufficient independent staff, resources and funds. 
That Technical Assistance Grants and Administrative Support Grants to community organisations are needed to partially redress the gross imbalance in technical expertise and resources suffered by community groups in pressing the community's case against the exploiter. 
That a proper balance between the Governments program of public austerity and the need for action in conservation would be a modest increase in the budget allocations in these areas over that ofl 975-76. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security. I ask: What progress has been made in the national evaluation of the Australian Assistance Plan? Is the Minister in a position to inform the Senate of the outcome of 2 conferences held last weekend in relation to the Plan? Can she advise the Senate of some of the expressions of support for the Australian Assistance Plan made at these conferences? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) How many of the staff of the Health Insurance Commission have medical degrees from Australia or overseas. 
What positions do they occupy in the Commission and at what salary range are they paid. 
Are the best uses being made of the qualifications of these people. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What promotions were either approved or effected in the Chatswood Office of the Health insurance Commission in the three weeks before and the three weeks after 1 1 November 1975. 
Has the attention of the Minister for Social Security been drawn to a report in the Sydney  Daily Telegraph  of 3 May 1976 in which the vice-president of the South Coast Trades and Labour Council confirmed that his Council would place a black ban on the construction of a 60-bed private hospital in Wollongong? Can the Minister indicate whether the people of Wollongong and the Illawarra region are likely to be the main losers from any action of this kind? Is there known to be any labour dispute in the area, or does this seem to be a political decision based on an ideological objection to the provision of choice for consumers of medical care? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice: 
Are persons receiving housing loans from the Commonwealth Savings Bank required by that Bank to insure the property with the Commonwealth Savings Banks of Australia Insurance Scheme. 
Why is the Commonwealth Savings Bank of Australia allowed to require insurance with a particular organisation when other banks, building societies and finance companies are not allowed to do so. 
Is the Commonwealth Savings Bank exempted from the provisions of the Trade Practices Act. 
If the Bank has been exempted, is such exemption on a temporary or permanent basis and how was it granted. 
Do the provisions of the Trade Practices Act extend to the activities of statutory bodies. 
I address my question to the Minister for Social Security. It relates to the question put earlier by  Senator Brown.  My question concerns the apparent anomalies between provisions for widows pensions payable to divorced women under sections of the Social Services Act and provisions under the Family Law Act. I ask the Minister whether, as reported in today's Press, two committees of Government members have been asked to examine this situation? I ask the Minister further: What brief has been given to the committees? Can the Minister confirm not only that the Government is concerned about any hardship that divorced women may be under but also that it is determined to assess and resolve any anomalies which it might have inherited in this regard from the Twentyninth Parliament? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the Minister's attention been drawn to a report from the National Health and Medical Research Council indicating that there are excessive levels of vinyl chloride monomer in some vegetable oils marketed in plastic containers. 
Has the Minister's attention also been drawn to comments by medical authorities, including  Dr D.  McPhee of Latrobe University expressing his concern as a geneticist about these findings. 
What steps have been taken by the Department of Health to acquaint the manufacturers of containers of the danger and to insist upon modifications to packaging that will adequately protect the health of present and future Australians. 
Does at least one major manufacturer already plan to market some vegetable oils in cans. 
Will vegetable oils marketed in cans be free of any known mutagenic or other health risk. 
I present the following petition from 36 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled, the Petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth- 
That distress is being caused to social security recipients by the delay in adjusting pensions to the Consumer Prices Index months after prices of goods and services have risen, and that medications which were formerly pharmaceutical benefits must now be paid for. 
Additionally, that State housing authorities' waiting lists for low rental dwellings for pensioners grow ever longer, and the cost of funerals increase ever greater. 
Your petitioners call on the Australian Government as a matter or urgency to- 
Adjust social security payments instantly and automatically when the quarterly Consumer Prices Index is announced. 
Restore pharmaceutical benefits deleted from the free list. 
Update the State Grants (Dwellings for Pensioners) Act of 1 974, eroded by inflation, to increase grants to overcome the backlog. 
Update Funeral Benefit to 60 per cent of reasonable cost of funeral. (This benefit was 200 shillings, 20 dollars, when introduced in 1943. lt was seven times the 1943 pension of 27 shillings a week). 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-I present the following petition from 24 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth that 
There is a growing interest and concern in all sections of Australian society for the conservation of the environment, natural and man-made. 
That there are also rapidly growing pressures by powerful forces tending towards the destruction of the Australian heritage. 
That it is therefore urgent to appoint the Australian Heritage Commission, which was approved by both sides of this Parliament and to give the Commission sufficient independant staff, resources and funds. 
That Technical Assistance Grants and Administrative Support Grants to community organisations are needed to partially redress the gross imbalance in technical expertise and resources suffered by community groups in pressing the community's case against the exploiter. 
That a proper balance between the Governments programme of public austerity and the need for action in conservation would be a modest increase in the budget allocations in these areas over that of 1 975-76. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. I refer to recent attempts to persuade the Government to move away from its stated intention to restrict cigarette advertising on television and radio. I ask whether the Minister is able to give an assurance that the legislation, which is a potentially important public health measure, will still be introduced and that all advertising of cigarettes will cease on television and radio as planned later this year. 

 -Mr President, on behalf of the Joint Committee of Public Accounts I present the one hundred and fifty-eighth and the one hundred and fifty-ninth reports. I seek leave to make a statement. 
-I bring up the report of Estimates Committee E, together with the  Hansard  record of the evidence taken. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Was Amaranth, the most common red food colouring in both the United States and the United Kingdom, banned in January 1976 in the United States market. 
Is this food colouring substance available, or has it been available for use in Australia, and what is the present position concerning the availability of any food colouring agents about which any doubt as to their safety exists. 
What are the present red colouring agents available for food which are known to be safe for human use. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Social Security, relates to the Government's announced intention to make financial assistance available by way of family allowances on a scale of generosity not previously seen in Australia. I ask the Minister: Will these measures direct cash resources to families in greatest need, as recommended by Professor Henderson in the report of the Commission of Inquiry into Poverty? Is it not a fact that this will be the first major initiative by any government to recognise in an economic sense the major productive nature of the role of home makers in Australia? Is this not one of the most radical redistributive welfare programs ever promised for this country? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for National Resources, upon notice: 
Has the Minister become aware of a new process for concentrating and consolidating radioactive wastes using inorganic cation exchange materials. 
Is the Minister aware of the process developed by Sandia Laboratories; if so, is the new process likely to have advantages for Australia in disposing of radioactive residues which require special disposal. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Has the Minister's attention been drawn to a further report in the  Lancet  of 25 October 1975, relating exposure to anaesthetic agents in women working in operating theatres to an increased risk of abortion approximately 1 58 to 270 per cent greater than occurs in controls. 
What implications will these results have for women working in hospitals under Commonwealth control. 
What steps have been taken to make all staff working in operating theatres aware of this increased risk to any foetus which they might be carrying. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
Did the Sydney City Mission expend before 13 December 1974 moneys on equipment which came into the category or approved equipment under the provision of the Handicapped Persons Assistance Act 1974. 
Did the provisions of this Act come into operation from 1 January 1975 after the Act had received the Royal Assent on 9 December 1974. 
Was the Sydney City Mission subsequently advised that no reimbursement was possible for equipment purchased before 9 December 1974. 
Was such advice contrary to clause 38 of the Handicapped Persons Assistance Act. 
Will the Government re-assess its liability to reimburse the Sydney City Mission foi the equipment mentioned in part one of this question. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security. By way of preface, I remind the Minister that last Friday she made public the intention of the Government to give $5m in 1976-77 for the continuation of the Australian Assistance Plan. Are these cash grants the only continuing support planned for the Australian Assistance Plan? If other support is planned, what are the extra provisions being made by the Government to assist the continuation of the Australian Assistance Plan and the involvement of citizens in their own communities? 

 -Mr President, on behalf of the Senate Standing Committee on Social Welfare I present a report on the outstanding references of the former Senate Standing Committee on Health and Welfare. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 

 - Mr President, I seek leave to make a brief statement relating to the report. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Industry and Commerce and concerns the Jackson report on manufacturing industry. I ask the Minister whether this report was in 4 volumes of which only volume 1 has so far been published. Is volume 1 in fact a summary report? Does volume 2 contain extensive economic data and do volumes 3 and 4 contain the report of various consultants relevant to the Committee's work? Is the Minister able to give an assurance that volumes 2, 3 and 4 will be published at the earliest opportunity? Is he able to give an indication of when that might be? If it is not likely to be in the near future, is he in a position to give any indication of the reasons for the publication of this important material being held up? 
I wish to take up a point made by  Senator Keeffe.  Let me make it quite clear that last year when we were considering the Estimates it was pointed out specifically to those honourable senators who were members of Estimates Committees that they had to be able to relate their questions to specific items as they appeared in the Estimates. After all, when we are considering the Additional Estimates, it is quite clear that certain items will not appear if no extra appropriation is being sought. I would not like it to be thought or even suggested that there has been some movement away from what was the established practice. I have had some concern about the issues raised earlier by  Senator Georges  but I think that is another question. On this specific matter I think there is no question that past practice is being followed. I cannot accept the assertion made by  Senator Keeffe. 
Minister in a position to reply? 
Included in the considerations of Estimates Committee E were the Northern Territory health services, and I thank the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  for the care she gave to obtaining answers to a number of questions. 
Division 330, subdivision 3, Department of Health, is the one to which I am addressing myself specifically. One of the problems about the Northern Territory is that it is an area for which the Government has direct responsibility. It is therefore an area to which I always direct a certain amount of attention in relation to health services. As the Minister has been kind enough to make clear to me in answers to questions throughout the year, the Government has inherited a very bad situation from the last Government with regard to staffing in the' Northern Territory health services. I would remind the Committee that there has been a very grave shortage of medical personnel. In answer to a question about doctors which I asked in March of this year, the Minister pointed out that in an establishment of 55 medical staff in Darwin there were 19 vacancies. That points up the very serious situation which exists in the health services available to the citizens of the Northern Territory. 
My concern arises because such a situation affects the right to medical care of the people who live in the Territory, who have already had enough to put up with from natural disasters in the last year or two. 
The provision of health services in the Northern Territory depends on a lot more than doctors. 
It depends on a whole range of health personnel, as well as physical resources, but it is the health personnel about whom I am concerned at the present time. The Estimates Committee addressed itself particularly to division 330, subdivision 3, item 03, which provides for grants for the employment of nursing staff. 
One of the questions that arises every time we examine the Northern Territory situation is that the salaries paid there, following the anomalous situation that was allowed to develop when wage indexation was introduced, have not been competitive with salaries paid in other parts of Australia. One of the reasons why doctors cannot be attracted to the Northern Territory is that the salaries are not up to the standard that obtains south, east or west. 
When the committee reached this item relating to the employment of nursing staff, the obvious question to ask was what are the salaries of nursing staff in the Northern Territory and whether they are competitive with salaries payable, say, in Queensland or Western Australia. I think it is important that the answer the Minister obtained is made known to this Committee. At page 9 of the report of Senate Estimates Committee E it is indicated from extra information provided by the Department of Health that it is not only medical salaries that are not competitive. The salaries of nursing staff are not up to the salaries payable in the adjoining States, that being another problem which this Government inherited from its predecessor. The salaries in question have been set out and I think they should be placed on record. For a trained nursing sister, who is the backbone of a health service in an area like the Northern Territory, the upper limit in the Northern Territory of $8,219 is only just above the lowest limit of salary paid to the same person in Western Australia. Again, the Queensland salaries run to an upper limit which is some $300 or $400 above those paid in the Northern Territory. The salary range for a sister in the Northern Territory is $6,988 to $8,219. When that is compared with the salary range in Western Australia, an adjacent area, of $8,039 to $9,161, it is no wonder that we have inherited a situation which makes it difficult to attract the people we want into the Northern Territory. 
I appreciate the difficulties the Government has, committed as it is to wage indexation. With arbitral bodies operating within the wage indexation guidelines, the Government has found it difficult to upgrade the salaries paid. I am aware of the very strenuous efforts that have been made in some cases to seek work value studies to try to do something about the non-alignment of salaries in the Northern Territory health services. I urge the Minister, who has been very kind in helping me with information about medical salaries and about the steps being taken to upgrade them, to draw to the attention of her colleague the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  the salary differential which applies to nurses. I also urge the Minister to seek some early way of making nurses salaries in the Northern Territory at least competitive with those which apply in Queensland and Western Australia. 
In joining in this brief debate on the Public Accounts Committee Amendment Bill 1976I speak as a member of the Public Accounts Committee who is very junior in service on that Committee. It is a pleasure to see in the Senate tonight certain honourable senators who have had long service on the Public Accounts Committee and who have been very senior members of it, one at least having been  Chairman  of that Committee. It is desired, however, that I should briefly make a couple of points that are of relevance at the present time. 
The Committee was interested in the report that was brought into the Senate yesterday, which made certain suggestions as to the possible future role of the Public Accounts Committee. Doubtless that report will be discussed in due course and the members of the Public Accounts Committee will have a view to express. There are those who feel that the Public Accounts Committee has a real value for the Parliament and the people. We would not like people lightly to accept that the Public Accounts Committee should disappear or should be radically altered without considerable thought. 

 Senator Wriedt has stated, I agree with him,that this Bill in itself is a minor one. It seeks to make the  Chairman  of the new Expenditure Committee  ex officio  a member of the Public Accounts Committee. To that proposition there can be no valid objection. It is also intended that the  Chairman  of the Public Accounts Committee should be  ex officio  a member of the Expenditure Committee, although this does not require an amendment of the Act. There are several other minor and consequential amendments. The Public Accounts Committee Act comes up for discussion in the Parliament only very infrequently. So, on an occasion such as this it is worth making a couple of points. This is an extremely hard working Committee. I am informed that since 1 March 1973 the Committee has held over 170 meetings, including over 60 public meetings, and that during this time it has considered a vast amount of material. The reports of the Public Accounts Committee are the most frequently sought reports from any committee of the Parliament within the Commonwealth Public Service. 
We acknowledge the broader issues that may arise from the consideration by the Joint Committee on the Parliamentary Committee System as to what the future role of the Public Accounts Committee might be. We wish to state also that we ourselves are constantly examining the Public Accounts Committee Act. There may be instances in which we would like to propose certain other amendments. The Committee was anxious that we should place on record the fact that, while we heartily endorse the present changes to the Act, we see this as a particular action to meet the requirements of the new House of Representatives Standing Committee on Expenditure. In no way does it take the place of our own Committee's review of the Public Accounts Committee Act, a review that we are carrying out at the present time; nor does it preclude our seeking further amendments should we think it desirable. 
Finally, I place on the record the fact that we see the present action not as one of the major revisions of the Public Accounts Committee Act which may appear from time to time but as something which has been done to suit the convenience of the Government in getting its new Expenditure Committee under way. We would be grateful if the Senate took note of this point. We emphasise that the present amendment is a minor one to which we have no objection but which in no way precludes a possible desire on the pan of the Public Accounts Committee to seek further amendments to its Act in due course. 
-On behalf of the Joint Committee of Public Accounts, I present the 160th report. I seek leave to make a statement. 
I present the following petition from 48 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That since the Australian Assistance Plan is Railway possible for citizens to help themselves, thereby ensuring est possible use of limited Government resources, as shown by the stimulus and support given to community groups through the Australian Assistance Plan in the Albury Wodonga Region. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate in Parliament will take immediate steps to continue the Australian Assistance Plan as recommended in the Report tabled by the Honourable the Minister for Social Security,  Senator Margaret  Guilfoyle in Parliament on the 4th of March, 1 976. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That there be referred to the Senate Standing Committee on Social Welfare the following matter: Evaluation of the adequacy of Australian health and welfare services with particular reference to- 
1 ) standards of performance and provision of health and welfare services; 
the pattern of current practice in the provision of such services in terms of need and demand; 
mechanisms for evaluation of the effectiveness and efficiency of health and welfare services; and 
requirements for ongoing evaluation as an integral part of the development of health and welfare programs. 
Standing Committee on Regulations and Ordinances 
My question which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health, who is responsible for quarantine matters, concerns the presence of the oriental fruit fly in Australia. I remind the Minister that the fly was identified last year and it was thought that it had only recently been introduced. I also remind the Minister that surveys have revealed that it is spread widely throughout the Northern Territory. I ask the Minister: What is the current view of the length of time that the oriental fruit fly has been in Australia? Specifically, is there evidence which indicates that it may have been here for some years without having been recognised previously? Finally, what is the present state of programs designed to eradicate this serious pest. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice: 
How many people identified as being of Croatian origin have in each of the past seven years- 
applied for Australian citizenship, 
been granted Australian citizenship, 
had their application for Australian citizenship deferred, and 
been refused Australian citizenship. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice: 
How many people identified as being of Croatian origin have in each of the past seven years- 
a ) applied to migrate to Australia, 
been approved for migration to Australia, and 
had applications to migrate to Australia refused or deferred. 
I rise to respond again to what  Senator Cameron  said, because what he said is the exact reverse of the truth. The funds will not be making the running. The Government will be setting the levels, as the Minister has said, and the funds will have to go to the Minister at every stage to get approval for the rates that they wish to set. The Government will be setting what it considers to be a fair and reasonable level, and if the funds are not competitive that is their problem. There is no truth at all in the statements that the funds will put their rates up 3 times a year. They will not. The funds will put their rates up only when they can get approval of the Minister to a set of proposals. 
-That is not so. The funds will have to go to the Minister. The Government will make its own decision on when it puts up the cost of this Medibank package. If the funds do not remain competitive, that is. their problem. Our concern is to make sure that the Government package offered is a fair and reasonable one. It is not right for  Senator Cameron  to make a suggestion which is 180 degrees removed from the truth. 
Bill agreed to. 
Bill reported without amendment; report adopted. 
The Senate is debating cognately 6 Bills, namely, the Health Insurance Levy Assessment Bill, Health Insurance Levy Bill, Income Tax (International Agreements) Amendments Bill, Health Insurance Amendment Bill, National Health Amendment Bill and Health Insurance Commission Amendment Bill, which together form the basis of the Government's new proposals for health insurance. These proposals have been the subject of much abuse, much deliberate misunderstanding and much deliberate confusion. The kind of speech which we have just heard for  Senator Grimes  has made no attempt to put to the people of Australia the real facts about the Government's program. It has sought to confuse and to make more difficult for the people the understanding of what is proposed. 
We have heard that the levy proposal is wrong. We have heard that the levy level is wrong. We have heard that the option of increased choice is wrong. We have heard Australian Labor Party people say in true socialist style that they believe that the private beds in the great public hospitals should continue to be subsidised by the wage earners of Australia. They oppose any attempt to bring the fees for those beds up to realistic levels. 
We have been told by  Mr Whitlam  in speeches in another place that we are dismantling Medibank. We are told by  Mr Whitlam  that we will make it too expensive for many taxpayers to remain in the scheme. All this is incorrect. It is untrue. We have had some criticisms of Medibank which have been nothing short of disgraceful. The new Minister for Health in New South Wales,  Mr Stewart,  actually went so far as to say that people in New South Wales would now be forced to carry the full burden for heavy costs of health care without any Federal financial assistance. That is just not true. The same Minister in a Press release, cynically designed to confuse Australians, claimed that only the indigent, the pensioners and the elderly would be able to remain in Medibank. That is not true.  Mr President,  I remind you that by way of interjection I invited  Senator Grimes  to indicate what he would do in relation to Medibank. He made it clear that he would stay in. So can every Australian. No Australian will need to leave the Medibank system if he or she does not want to. What is being proposed by a series of socialist spokesmen is a load of nonsense designed to confuse the people of Australia. 
It is reasonable to examine the essence of Medibank. What is Medibank? What is the Medibank program? If we are to be accused of dismantling the program we believe that we should set out what is the core of Medibank. I believe it is not as  Senator Grimes  stated. The core of Medibank is that every Australian should have health insurance cover. That cover should be universal and automatic. Every Australian in need should be relieved of any financial barriers in seeking care. Every Australian should have the right to a bed in a standard ward. Those are the features of Medibank. That is the core of Medibank. It is the automatic enrolment which made it attractive. It is the automatic enrolment which provides the only social equality which the scheme really has. I remind honourable senators that we can look to no less a spokesman than  Senator Douglas  McClelland. When introducing the Bills in this place on 1 1 December 1973 to set up the Medibank program the honourable senator attempted to set out what constituted this program. At that time he was describing the features and he stated:   social equity, universal coverage and cost efficiency which form the Government's intentions in this legislation are central to our - 
That is the Labor Government of the day-  whole philosophy of social progress.  Further on  Senator Douglas  McClelland stated: 
The program will enable all residents of Australia to be automatically covered by medical and hospital benefits. Pensioners at present eligible for general practitioner consultation services under the pensioner medical service will have their eligibility extended to a full range of medical services, including specialist services. ... All other residents will be entitled to receive medical benefits which will total at least 85 per cent of the cost of medical services for which doctors charge the appropriate fees. 
These are the core elements of Medibank. The social goals for which the Medibank program was designed were to give universal cover to Australians, to make sure there was automatic cover, to make sure the poor were protected, to make sure that individuals got beds in standard wards. These are features which are being retained. No Australian will be left without health insurance cover. We are retaining universal cover. As  Senator Grimes  has so eloquently pointed out, it does not matter whether one gets cover from the Government or from a private fund. They are both providers of services. There is no difference. We are retaining the universal health insurance cover for all people in Australia. So how can honourable senators opposite say that we are dismantling Medibank from that point of view? We are retaining automatic cover so that Australians will be automatically in Medibank unless they take deliberate and affirmative action to have themselves enrolled outside. So those Australians who do not get on well with bureaucracy and government will still be protected. The poor and the disadvantaged will automatically be enrolled in Medibank. The Australian Labor Party knows that. But it insists on putting up a fiction that in some way Medibank is being dismantled. That aspect of Medibank is not being disbanded. 
The poor will be protected. No levy will be paid by families earning less than a bit over $4,000 a year. No levy will be paid by the poor of Australia. The very idea of a levy relating to income- a levy which the Labor Party supportedwas to make sure that the poorer Australians paid less. We will retain the right to standard ward accommodation for every Australian.  Senator Grimes  told us a few minutes ago that he is staying in Medibank. If  Senator Grimes  on his parliamentary salary does not have to get out of Medibank, what is his justification for alleging that anyone will have to get out? The fact is that every Australian can stay in Medibank. It is a fiction to pretend that anyone in this country will be forced anywhere by what we do. There is a wealth of difference between the restoration of choice and the introduction of compulsion. Compulsion, if I may say so, is basically a feature of the policies of honourable senators opposite while choice is something which characterises our programs. Let us not forget that the Medibank program is not a perfect program. I remind honourable senators opposite that a member of their Party, the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman),  when speaking in a debate in another place on 3 1 July 1974 had this to say about the Medibank program: 
I think it will be a significant improvement but I certainly do not feel that it will be the cure-all of the difficulties . . . 
We all know that the honourable member for Prospect has never ceased to speak his mind about health insurance matters and to criticise the Medibank program when he wishes to do so. The Medibank program has other disadvantages, and we alluded to them before the last federal election. I remind honourable senators that on 2 September 1975 the honourable member for Hotham,  Mr Chipp,  who was then our spokesman on matters affecting Medibank, issued a Press release concerning Medibank. Since this Press release outlines some of our policy approach I intend to read it. It is a very short Press release. It states: 
Medibank is now a fact of life. 
The Opposition parties accept that the Government has enacted the laws to establish it. It is now in operation. 
Our concern that it will provide a lesser health service at greater costs remain. 
In government we will preserve the beneficial qualities of the scheme and enact reforms to overcome its weaknesses. 
That is what was stated in our Press release and that is exactly what we are proceeding to do at present. We are concerned about the costs of the previous Government's health insurance program and the future cost implications of it. We are concerned about the total failure of anything in the previous Government's program to put a brake upon the escalation of medical costs. We are concerned because the previous Government's program does nothing to encourage user or provider restriction on services. There is no involvement of those who receive services in cost or quality control. We believe that our programs will help to bring some cost control into Medibank. 
Since there has been some claims that we have abandoned our policy commitments I remind honourable senators of what we promised. During the recent federal election campaign we made it clear that our first commitment was to fighting inflation and to righting the economic ills which afflicted this country as a result of 3 years of socialist irresponsibility. The people endorsed our decision that the fight against inflation was the first fight to be undertaken. We made it clear before the election that in order to win the fight against inflation we would need to cut government expenditure in all sectors except education. Medibank, as it was set up, has been too open ended. There has been no possibility of cost control in Medibank, and it is completely in keeping with our promise to control inflation that we have had to examine Medibank. In his policy speech on 27 November 1975 the Prime Minister,  Mr Malcolm  Fraser, said: 
We will maintain Medibank, and ensure that the standard of health care does not decline. 
In the pamphlet which summarises our election pledges again we said: 
Medibank will be retained. 
That is our position. It is a position which we have held consistently, and the present program honours that commitment to the full. The Health Insurance Commission remains; the core of Medibank remains. Medibank has not been destroyed. We have sought to do more than just retain Medibank. We have sought to give back to the Australian people some of the things they have lost. We have sought to create a better scheme. We need to look now to some of the questions of compulsion and choice which the Labor Party refuses to face. As Liberals we believe in choice. In looking at Medibank we have had to set the right that we believe people have to choose or not to choose to be involved in a program, against the needs of society for an effective health insurance program. 
Some people from our side of politics would say that we have not gone far enough because they want to retain the right to carry their own medical costs in their entirety. I appreciate the point of view they put forward but, on balance, I believe that this is an instance where we must put the total needs of society first and where the question of compulsion on all Australians to have some form of health insurance cover, as was proposed in Medibank and as we promised to maintain, must take precedence. We have decided that all Australians should have some health insurance cover. We have moved away from the position where those of our friends and other citizens who wish to opt out of health insurance entirely should have that right. They no longer have that option open to them. Given that compulsion in health insurance, we can ask the question: Need there necessarily be uniformity? Need there necessarily be everyone in the same program, operating through the same computers? There is no philosophical reason why it is necessary. 
The advantages of Medibank relate to the existence of insurance cover and to the fact that that cover should be automatic. It is totally irrelevant and unimportant whether that cover is provided through the Health Insurance Commission or by some other insuring agency. Our concern is to see that all Australians are covered by health insurance and we have taken steps to ensure that those who want to provide their health insurance cover outside the Health Insurance Commission should have the option to do so, provided the voluntary funds can offer some suitable package. I am not particularly worried about what tariff the funds charge for this cover. It is of no importance. If they offer prices that are too high, the Austraiian people will not avail themselves of that cover. In offering a choice this is exactly what we are doing. We are saying to people: 'There is a government scheme and here is what it will cost'. We are creating an opportunity for the voluntary health organisations to put up a scheme and we do not care what they are going to charge. It does not matter. If they charge too much, no Australian will use their programs. If they charge at a competitive rate, some Australians will use their programs. It is a matter of no concern to us. We want the Australian people to have the choice of going to the Health Insurance Commission if they so wish or of going to the funds if they so wish. Because we have imposed a Medibank premium, because we have created a Medibank package which even the wealthiest can buy at a cost of only about $300 a year - 
-About $300 a year. We have ensured that no Australian, not even  Senator Grimes,  has to get out of Medibank if he or she wishes to remain in it. No Australian family will pay more than $300 a year to remain in Medibank. Anyone who says that people are being forced out of Medibank is deliberately muddying the water and deliberately misstating the truth. The fact is that Australians will make their own choice, depending on what they want to pay and on what they see as best. Many Australians like the Medibank scheme and will stay in it, while others find Medibank obnoxious and will opt out. That is their choice. I have never understood why we should be so keen on seeing public resources used to pay the health care costs of those who wish and are able to pay for themselves. If I wish to pay for my own health costs and if those costs are no longer concessional deductions against my income tax, this represents a choice on my part as to how I will use extra disposable income in my possession. Why it should cause howls of rage from the socialists is more than I can understand. After all, the extra cost is not in terms of health care. It is in terms of accommodation which some people want and in terms of choice of their own doctor instead of the very excellent salaried staff at many of the great hospitals in this country. I am delighted that we have a scheme under which those who are better off and those who want to exercise choice are able to do so and, if they wish, are able to bear some of the cost themselves. This is entirely proper and entirely healthy. 
Our new scheme will still ensure that every Australian will retain an automatic right to be covered under Medibank. It will ensure that no Australian family will need to pay more than about $300 a year for a total Medibank cover. We will ensure that low income earners will be heavily subsidised. I am sure that  Senator Georges  would find that acceptable. We will ensure that pensioners and those people with dependants earning under $4,100 a year will pay nothing for medical cover. We will ensure that standard ward accommodation will remain available to all Australians as part of the Medibank program. If we look back at the 1 974 debates on the subject, we will see that this is what the Australian Labor Party was seeking. These are the features which made up their social package of Medibank. We are retaining the features. In retaining them, we are retaining Medibank. Because of the Medibank premium and because no Australian has to leave it, it is a mockery and a distortion of the truth to try to claim otherwise. I believe that those who are attempting to confuse the argument are doing so in a cynical disregard of the best interests of the average Australian citizen. They are determined to confuse and frighten people when there is a program being offered which is clear, simple and just. 
I am reminded that in April 1974 a program similar to the one we are offering now- an optional program- was proposed. It was a dual system of national health insurance with the Government helping an insurance commission to offer one package and the private funds offering the other. This was proposed in 1974. It was proposed, would honourable senators believe, by a  Dr John  Deeble. He was one of the 2 architects of the health insurance program which this Government introduced. I refer honourable senators opposite to the report in the  Sydney 

 Morning Herald of 4 April 1974 which set out what  Dr Deeble  proposed. He proposed what we are now offering. He had his fingers smacked by the Government of the day which did not like choice and which did not want anyone of  Dr Deeble  's eminence and sense proposing any alternatives. 
Let us not forget that when we introduced our new program a couple of weeks ago support was expressed for it. I remind those honourable senators who watch television and listen to the radio that among those who found our program acceptable was  Dr Scotton  who expressed qualified support for it. So we have Scotton and Deeble, the architects of the health insurance commission, expressing their support for the options we are putting forward. We have taken great care in proposing our alterations to Medibank to avoid removing the core which was the essence of the Medibank program and which gave protection to a small number of Australians who were in special need. 
It makes me wonder when I read in the daily Press that the unions will take a hard line on Medibank. I ask: A hard line on what? Is it to make sure that every Australian retains a universal entitlement to health care? Is that what the unions want? That is what we have now. Is it to make sure that the low income earners will be protected? If that is what the unions want, that is what we are getting now. Is it to make sure that standard ward bed entitlements in hospitals will remain. That is what we have now. Of course, what is happening is that certain of the radical unions are just attaching themselves to a slogan for their own purposes which have nothing to do with Medibank and which have nothing to do with the interests of the Australian people. The objections are largely ideological. 
I believe that it is equitable in present circumstances and with the present cost increases ahead of us to look at a separate levy. As the members of the Australian Labor Party pointed out to us on a number of occasions in the past, it will identify the health cost to taxpayers. It will reduce the drain on the public sector in the provision of health care. I must say that when I and others opposed the introduction of the tax levy in 1974 we did so as part of a total program of opposition to the attempts of the Labor Government at that time to steamroller Medibank over us, as we thought then, to prevent many Australians having any choice at all. I believe in retrospect that we may have been wrong. I hope that the Labor Party will acknowledge now that it should support the imposition of a health insurance levy as it did 2 years ago. I hope that it will recognise that Australians want a choice, just as they have wanted it throughout, and that 70 per cent of Australians have kept themselves insured up until now for private hospital and for intermediate ward cover and will continue to do so. 
The only other major point to be made is that the program we have advanced is the first one which offers any prospect of cost control in health care. Unless the voluntary health funds can offer packages which are competitive with those offered under the government scheme, people will not buy them. The main elements in making those packages competitive are the fees charged by doctors and the fees charged by hospitals. The medical profession has a real stake in examining its fee structure because those costs will flow through now to the largely unsubsidised insurance which those people using the voluntary funds will be purchasing. The debate in Australia has been about health insurance. But our main concern has remained the quality , of health care. The real concerns are questions of accessibility, access and comprehensiveness of care. The question of quality care will be resolved by a number of things apart from health insurance. But this is at least a start. 
I remind honourable senators opposite that one of their colleagues,  Senator James  McClelland, writes a column for the  Australian  newspaper each week which is entitled 'Politicsa personal viewpoint'. This week the honourable senator drew to our attention some thoughts on parliamentary debate. He said: 
Intelligent and discriminating electors are not as rare as some politicians imagine. To such electors nothing in the behaviour of politicians is so tedious as their knee-jerk condemnation of everything what their opponents say and do. 
I endorse that statement by  Senator James  McClelland as I endorse this next statement which he made: 
So once more, I enter a modest plea, addressed particularly to the politicians of both sides, to raise the level of debate. If each side, like kids in the schoolyard, keeps screaming at the other side ' It 's all your fault! ' they will merely reinforce a growing tendency among many voters to say: 'A plague on both your Houses.' 
The health insurance program which we have proposed is just, fair, comprehensive and above all retains the core of the Labor Medibank program because we promised that it would. The Australian public is entitled to understand that. I hope that our colleagues opposite in their contributions to this debate will concentrate specifically on those aspects of the program which have given them concern. But let us not pretend that we have in any way destroyed Medibank. What we have done is to retain Medibank. We have increased the choice open to 
Australians. We have increased the options open to them. Perhaps we have loosened the grip of government on the health insurance care of all Australians. 
The Social Services Amendment Bill (No. 2) deals with the new system of family allowances. I appreciate  Senator Grimes'  concern that in any program there should be a balance between cash and the provision of services. Nevertheless, I suggest that it is only occasionally in the life of any government, and not too frequently in the life of any country, that there is a major revolutionary change in the way in which welfare services are provided. We have in this measure a social welfare concept of major importance and innovation. I am pleased to see that I am to be followed in the debate by  Senator Coleman.  I mention, as I am sure she will mention, that we have in this measure one of the first and most major efforts to redistribute cash resources in favour of women in Australian society. In fact, this is a major measure. It is appropriate on such occasions to recognise the advance being instituted and the new possibilities which it creates for welfare in this country. 
This Bill is radical in concept and in its intentions. It is a major endeavour of which my Government will be proud. I would be proud to be a member of any party which introduced this measure. It is a major innovation which will assist families and the poor. The Bill is allegedly about child endowment but of course it is about a lot more than that, as  Senator Grimes  has already indicated. It is a Bill about allowances to families. A number of very important reports on welfare services and poverty have been produced in this country. I instance the Henderson Commission of Inquiry into Poverty, the research papers which were commissioned by the Henderson Commission, the various reports of the councils of social services, the reports of the archbishops and the landmark report of the Archbishop of Sydney in 1972. This led to the establishment of the Henderson Commission. Of course, there are reports like those produced for the former Department of Urban and Regional Development by Le Breton which dealt with urban poverty in various aspects. 
This Bill is about income maintenance. It has, as the main part of its proposal, the maintenance and preservation of cash resources for poor families. In this country we already have some categorical forms of a guaranteed minimum income.  Senator Grimes  talked about income security in general. We have guaranteed minimum income programs for everyone over the age of 70 years. It may not be an entirely adequate program. However, it is a categorical guaranteed minimum income program. Another guaranteed minimum income which we have had in this country for some years has been our child endowment program. We can argue about quantum, but there is no doubt that there has been provision for the payment of allowances in respect of all children in this country for some time. What has emerged is the fact that the child endowment which is paid may not be effective in achieving what it is meant to do. 
I turn to the main report of the Henderson Commission of Inquiry into Poverty which, in its way, is an outstanding landmark report. This is the first time in Australia that we have really identified the scope and extent of poverty, deprivation and need. The report has given to all governments an opportunity to establish a benchmark against which they can set their programs and plot their future courses. This extremely important report has made a number of observations about poverty and families. I refer honourable senators to pages 208 to 210 of the main report where the following general propositions were established: That there is a relationship between poverty and the size of families, and it is important that we should understand this; and that there is no relationship between poverty and the earning capacity, the single wage of the heads of families. That is to say, the breadwinner of a large family tends to earn in general terms the same as the breadwinner of a small family. It merely shows that the resources, the wages, the cash available to large families is inadequate for their needs and that the size of a family tends to be the determinant of poverty in that family. If these are facts we have to recognise them. Then we have to tailor our programs to meet those recognised facts. 
Professor Henderson and his group pointed out that child endowment or family allowances are more useful to poor families than to wealthy families; that the allowances are more critical in providing the cash resources available to poor families; and that the provision of family allowances is the appropriate way to increase the cash resources of poor families. The rebates or concessions which are being abolished of course are of more value to wealthy families who can gain more from the rebate system. If poverty and its alleviation is what we are about, we have to look at a system which will place less emphasis and reliance on rebates and more emphasis and reliance on endowment. This is exactly what is proposed in this measure. We know that a child allowance or endowment is paid irrespective of the income of the family. It is not subject to a means test. That makes it different from pension arrangements; it makes it more suitable for the propositions that we have before us. 
If we examine the report of the Henderson Commission and some of the papers that come from it we see that a number of common threads emerge. Looking first at the papers we find in many of them the recommendation that some form of income security on a national level is a worthy objective at which we should aim. I refer, for example, to the paper entitled  Resources for Poor Families: An Experimental Income Supplement Scheme.  That paper contained the recommendation that a guaranteed minimum income should be established in Australia, and that the payments made should be simple and non discretionary. Of course, what is proposed in this Bill would meet those particular demands. Next I look at the paper entitled  Chronic Poverty: City and Country Families  which refers to a guaranteed family income as being one means of alleviating the poverty which is recognised in the paper. Then I look at the paper entitled  Poverty Among Aboriginal Families in Adelaide.  In that paper it is recommended that there should be an increase in child endowment which would make an attack on the problem which is measured and recognised in that paper. Through many of these papers the quest for income security and family cash support runs as a common thread. Finally, I look at a paper entitled  Poverty- An Urban Paper,  which was prepared by Peter Le Breton for me for the Department of Urban and Regional Development. We find in that paper a recommendation that asks that public expenditure should be based on social equity; that it should aim to achieve something which is equitable, which will achieve some worthwhile social aim rather than something in narrow efficiency terms. I am sure that very few honourable senators would disagree with that recommendation. 
If we then look at the whole question of family allowances we find that the Party which I represent and the Coalition Parties in general have a fairly proud record in this regard. It was  Mr Menzies,  as he then was, who in 1941 introduced child endowment for the first time, but at that stage it was payable only in respect of second and subsequent children. Although the level of child endowment was increased, it was not until 1950, when  Mr Menzies  was again Prime Minister and in order to honour an election pledge, that any endowment was introduced in respect of the first child. So again it has been the Liberal and National Country Parties side of politics which not only introduced but also extended child endowment. In 1964  Mr Menzies'  Government increase the rates of child endowment in respect of third and subsequent children. In 1967 a government of our persuasion again increased the rates of child endowment, but this time in respect of fourth and subsequent children. There was a further increase in child endowment in 1971. But from 1950 onwards there has been no change in the structure of the child endowment scheme. This Bill looks at the general and social purposes of family allowances to determine whether they are adequate and what kind of changes are needed. 
It has already been pointed out by  Senator Grimes-  I agree with what he said- that a major recommendation of the Henderson Commission related to alterations in child endowment. It placed great stress upon the social good that would flow from those alterations. It also recommended the abolition of the concessional tax rebates allowable in respect of children. We are now taking up these Henderson Commission proposals.  Senator Grimes  also pointed out that we are varying slightly the exact rates of child endowment which were recommended by the Henderson Commission. Nevertheless, cash will be mobilised into families. This is the first occasion for some considerable time when families as such have been favoured in welfare matters. We have taken the view that child endowment will flow to family units. It will provide cash for them. It will help to support them. The giving of assistance to families in this way is a high priority matter and one which I am glad our Government has taken up. 
Another important provision in this Bill seeks to amend another part of the principal Act to raise the age of a dependent child who is a student from 21 years to 25 years. Again it is a provision that will help to put cash into the hands of families in need. 
This Bill, by favouring large families- Professor Henderson has told us that they are the families who often are poor- seeks to redistribute income in 2 ways. It will redistribute it from the richer families who previously had the benefit of the rebate towards the poorer families who require cash assistance. It will also enable a redistribution of income within families by giving money to women. This Bill will, in an economic sense, work towards the liberation of women in a way which has not been tried in Australia previously. We have implemented proposals from the Henderson Commission in a way that the Labor Party did not implement them and I do not believe could have implemented them. The proposals have gained widespread support. I note, for example, that the Australian Council of Social Service has put out a Press release in which it says: 
The Government's proposed action in changing the amount and structure for family allowances is a forward step towards social justice in Australia. 
If it is fair that we should take criticism from the Council when it thinks we do not measure up, it is also fair that we should be allowed to receive praise if the Council believes that some action which we have taken is socially just. I was pleased to see that  Senator James  McClelland stated in his column in the  Australian  newspaper this week that he also approved of these measures. He also thought they were socially just and would assist people in need in this country. 
The only other point that I wish to make is that this Bill is the first that I have seen which gives recognition in any major way to the economically productive role of the homemaker. There has been an artificial division in this country. We have considered small businesses, for example, to be economically productive. I do not deny that they are. But at the same time we have denied that family enterprise has any productive value. We have had some artificial view to the effect that a laundry, a restaurant or a boarding house may each be economically productive and should be recognised as such. They may attract various government benefits by way of the taxation laws. But if a person runs a house, which is at the same time a laundry, a restaurant, a hostel and a whole lot of other things - 
Yes, and a whole lot of other things, that person is not seen as providing any productive enterprise and is discriminated against in taxation terms. This Bill gives recognition to the productive nature of home making. I would refer  Senator Georges  and other honourable senators to the written works of Patricia Apps in the University of Sydney who has explored this matter in depth and who has shown quite clearly that the preservation of, and caring for, the family is productive in economic terms and should be seen as productive. It is because of the taxation disadvantage which many families suffer that they have been driven out of the inner cities. They cannot compete in terms of buying properties and homes or in caring for themselves because they are discriminated against in a taxation sense. 
The other advantage of the Bill is that women will receive a direct and major benefit from these proposals. I believe that the poor are victims of a structure and a system in society as much as they are victims of any failings which they personally may have. I believe that it is necessary in our social thinking to recognise that we must do something to attack structural defects and not to blame people if they are poor. I believe that Professor Henderson has given us facts and a basis upon which we can work and in respect of which we hope we can be effective in what we may do. 
I believe that this Bill contains measures of great importance. They are measures of which we are proud. It is very fashionable to label people. It is fashionable to call our present Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  an extreme conservative. It is fashionable to describe our Government as a high tory Government. Yet, this is the most radical income redistribution in this country in a quarter of a century. It is scarcely the program of a very conservative government. 
It is in fact a radical program. I take up  Senator Missen  's interjection. The Government is not a conservative government. It is a progressive Government. This and other legislation go to make this point. This legislation, within the framework of Liberal philosophy, is radical liberalism at work. I put it to honourable senators opposite that it does not matter from which side of the Parliament these measures come. They are measures which we will all support and which we will all endorse. They are measures by which we will give to women something which has been too long denied. They are measures which will give to families something which they will need. They are measures which will fit into the general framework which the inquiry into poverty set as being necessary for the alleviation of this condition in Australia. 
I hope that this Bill represents the first of a number of steps which our Government will take to alleviate poverty and to try to attack some of the problems which the commission of inquiry into povery recommended to aid the poor, to improve the status of women and to sustain families. In the same way as a Liberal government introduced child endowment and extended that benefit, including the way we are extending it now, which has not previously been done, I hope that this is just the first of numerous measures which our Government will introduce. I hope that it will continue to direct its social welfare concern towards people in need. I commend the Bill. 
My question follows on that asked by  Senator Colston.  It is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health and it relates to influenza vaccine. Would the Minister not agree that there is now widespread opinion amongst doctors that places doubt upon the wholesale use of flu vaccine in Australia? Would the Minister agree that the demand for flu vaccine in Australia at present is probably excessive and unwarranted? Would she agree that the value of flu vaccine is probably confined to particular groups in the community, including the aged and those with certain heart and lung diseases? Would she agree that there is considerable doubt in Australia as to the place of mass vaccination of the Australian Community against influenza? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, concerns widespread publicity given today to a report from the Senate Standing Committee on Science and the Environment concerning the effects of supersonic aircraft on the ozone layer. I ask the Minister: Will he arrange to have this matter referred to the Minister for Transport for report and is he able to give the Senate any information relating to the matter? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security and Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Child Care Matters. Is the Minister aware that adolescent and teenage Australians are included in very few 
Government programs of assistance and community development? With the announcement of new arrangements related to child care, some community groups have expressed concern that the situation in relation to adolescents may continue. Will the Minister undertake to examine areas of special un-met need affecting teenage and adolescent Australians as a first step towards possible initiatives which might help meet some of the problems of those groups? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
With whom does the copyright of videotaped material recorded on Australian Government equipment supplied through the Community Video Resources Centres remain, in those cases where the tapes are not purchased by the people making the tape. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
Has the Department of Defence investigated possible savings in freight charges by using 'free freight' available on service vessels and aircraft; if so, what has been the outcome of such assessments. 
To what extent is 'free freight' being used in order to minimise unnecessary expenditure by the Department. 
What plans are in hand to increase the use of 'free freight' transport of stores and equipment by the Defence Forces using its own ships and planes on routine flights or patrols. 
I present the following petition from 28 1 citizens of the Commonwealth: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members ofthe Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition ofthe undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully showeth: 
Having learned of the unjust and harsh incarceration in Vladimir prison by the Soviet Authorities of a prisoner of conscience of Latvian nationality Gunars Rode, we the undersigned Australian citizens respectfully petition the Australian Senate and through it the Australian Government to use all its diplomatic resources and influence to secure the release of the said prisoner of conscience in order that he may enjoy the human rights as set out in the United Nations Charter, and as agreed to by all signatories of the European Security and Co-operation Conference in Helsinki. 
This petition is submitted because great anxiety is felt for Gunars Rode, as it is known that to obtain the very minimum of the abovementioned human rights, in March of this year he commenced a hunger strike and his fate since then is unknown. 
We further feel great concern for the numerous prisoners of conscience of many nationalities kept in Soviet prisons, labour camps and so-called mental institutions and pray for their well being and release. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I refer the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs to the gallant and effective rescue from Entebbe Airport in Uganda on 4 July of 100 hostages held after a hijack by Palestinian terrorists. The Minister undoubtedly is aware that many countries, including our close neighbour New Zealand, offered statements of congratulations to Israel for the courageous and effective way in which that nation ensured the rescue and safety of the hostages. Is the Minister able to assure the Senate that there are no reservations in this country as to the appropriateness, the gallantry or the necessity for the rescue by Israel of these innocent victims of international hijack? 
I present the following petition from 58 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
The proposed legislation amending the Health Insurance Act 1973-75 leaves Medibank contributors disadvantaged with regard to cover for hospital treatment. 
Your petitioners humbly pray that the proposed legislation be amended to allow Medibank to compete on equal terms with the private health insurance organisations. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I preface my question, which is directed to the Minister for Social Security, by reminding the Minister that in response to 2 written questions on notice, neither of which was directed to her, I was informed that child abuse is almost unknown, officially at least, in the Northern Territory and the Australian Capital Territory, these being the 2 parts of Australia for which direct Commonwealth responsibility exists. The Minister would probably agree that any assessment suggesting that child abuse is rare is likely to be an under-assessment. The Minister has announced also that the new Office of Child Care will include within its ambit projects in connection with the prevention of child abuse. I therefore ask the Minister: Will special attention be given to the education of those departments and officials in the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory who apparently either do not know of child abuse or else do not understand the need for proper community monitoring to detect the true incidence of the abuse by adults of defenceless children? 
In view of recent violent demonstrations against the Governor-General and the Prime Minister, and following  Senator Carrick  's statement that no Australian is above the law, I ask the Minister representing the Prime Minister whether he can assure us that the Governor-General and the Prime Minister will continue to accept invitations to any part of Australia whether or not violence is threatened by any extremist minority group. Will the Minister advise whether his Government is influenced by violent demonstrations in its consideration of policy for all Australians? 
The Senate is considering the Social Welfare Commission (Repeal) Bill 1976. At the outset I congratulate  Senator Grimes  for the candour with which he spoke and for some of the things he said. I am reminded that he was a member of the Senate Standing Committee on Constitutional and Legal Affairs and that the consideration by that Committee of the clauses of the National Compensation Bill last year probably saw the Social Welfare Commission functioning at its finest hour because it was the evidence and contribution of the Social Welfare Commission which more than anything else demonstrated the shortcomings in the proposed legislation and which led to its being withdrawn. It may also have had a considerable part to play in the precipitate decision by the then Prime Minister to announce that the Commission was to be abolished. In his chapter entitled  Health and Welfare Services  in the book  Towards a New Australia under a Labor Government,  Bill Hayden- then in Opposition- wrote: 
The administration of Labor's comprehensive health and welfare program will require the setting up of new organisations. First, a Social Security Commission as an independent public authority will be charged with the administration of the social security program . . . 
It was out of this idea that we had the development and formation of the Social Welfare Commission. The body was, in fact, established in the middle of 1973. If one looks at the  Hansard  report of the debates at that time, one sees that it attracted bipartisan support with speakers from both sides of the Parliament hailing the formation of this body and encouraging its objects. In his second reading speech,  Mr Hayden  was filled with great zeal about the future role which the Commission would play. He described its concept as most exciting. He emphasised that it would be independent, flexible, autonomous and that it would decentralise power. He thought these features would make it attractive as part of a comprehensive planning program. He received support from all pans of the community and from both sides of the Parliament. 
The role of the Social Welfare Commission was stated some time after its formation by the  Chairman, Mrs Marie  Coleman, when she addressed the Australian and New Zealand Association for the Advancement of Science Congress on 23 January 1 975. At that time, she said: 
It is processes of this kind which confirm me in the view I held long before taking up my present appointment, that it is far easier to preserve one s reputation, professionally speaking, by remaining as an outside administrator or an academically based evaluator of Government policy than by taking the plunge and becoming part of the policy formulation process. 
I think she must have been able to see the future a little.  Mrs Coleman  continued: 
The Government has created the Social Welfare Commission as an advisory body. It has no executive function insofar as it does not administer service delivery programs or the funding of service delivery programs. Rather, it makes recommendations to the Government about programs which it expects to be administered by other Australian Government authorities although it is the function of the Commission to monitor and evaluate those programs . . . 
It was this evaluation process, as much as anything, which brought the Commission into conflict with Government.  Mrs Coleman,  when speaking at the opening of the Commission, also quoted the words of the then Prime Minister,  Mr Whitlam: 
We are concerned about the social needs of Australia . . . 
These are  Mr Whitlam  's words-  we have not sought from you a political program . . . 
That is what  Mr Whitlam  said when giving his instructions to the Social Welfare Commission-  . . we do want to know what are the needs and what means you recommend to meet them, given the social and political circumstances ... we will not hide your recommendations but our decisions must be based on practicalities, as must yours. 
Looking at what the Social Welfare Commission was able to achieve in less than 2 1/2 years, it had an impressive record of achievement and especially tonight when we are debating the motion that the establishment Bill should be repealed, it is worth listing some of the achievements of the Social Welfare Commission. It produced a large number of quite innovative reports to help those people involved in service planning and delivery to understand better the issue of the day and to plan better the kinds of programs appropriate to Australia. The Commission brought out the report on aged persons housing, it brought out a project report entitled  Children, Parents and Community Emergency Relief,  and the very important discussion papers Nos 1 and 2 which dealt with the Australian Assistance Plan. It produced a paper entitled  Evaluation of Raising the Standing Rate of Pension to One-Quarter of Average Earnings.  It brought out a paper entitled  Community Development and Community Development Training  and papers on family welfare, participation and participation patterns in Australia and regional funding. It brought out a paper on the proceedings of a conference on the rights of a child and progress reports on the Australian Assistance Plan as well as a paper on income security issues. Finally it brought out the evaluation reports on the Australian Assistance Plan. These publications which the Social Welfare Commission has either produced or commissioned through outside workers have opened up large areas for debate within the welfare area in Australia. Sometimes it has not been too kind about formal government policies when it has come to examine them. 
We then come to what the Social Welfare Commission achieved, not in terms of reports or papers but in terms of structures. The list is also impressive. First there was the development and funding of the Australian Assistance Plan to which  Senator Grimes  already has referred. I had the honour at the invitation of the Minister to chair the national evaluation of the Australian Assistance Plan in Canberra on 1 and 2 May last and was able to see there the very impressive job which the regional councils have done. As a member of a regional council I am an unashamed protagonist of the Australian Assistance Plan. I do not believe it is doomed. I still hold hopes that it will continue and I am gratified by the increased allocations for it in the Budget this year. I am impressed whenever I talk to people who tell me their politics are on the left that they tend to see the Australian Assistance Plan as a middle class plot and when I speak to people whose politics perhaps are the other way that they tend to see it as a socialist plot. It seems to me that many people were fearful of this program which gave the grass roots community a chance to participate in its own program. I simply interpolate in this debate on the Social Welfare Commission that I believe in the Australian Assistance Plan and hope from the announcement the Minister has made that it can continue. 
Looking further at the achievements of the Social Welfare Commission there was the establishment of social welfare research grants and these have led to the commissioning of a large number of papers. There was the development of social policy planning units in co-operation with the States. There was a recognition and formalising of government support for councils of social service. There were changed criteria for approvals and changed administrative practices relating to the aged persons housing program and new emphasis was placed on child care. It was the work of bodies like the Social Welfare Commission which led to the formation of the Children's Commission and from the Children's Commission to the new Office of Child Care. To a large extent the Social Welfare Commission developed a coherent social welfare program and this program did not run entirely parallel to the grandiose designs of  Mr Whitlam  because the Social Welfare Commission put its emphasis more upon the welfare of the most needy whereas  Mr Whitlam  's program often had more of a universalist bias. 
The major article in the  Financial Review  of 6 June 1975 described the Social Welfare Commission as 'a major critic' of the Government's policies, especially as they related to the proposals of the Whitlam Government to develop a quite impractical national compensation scheme. It was very interesting to watch the co-operative effort of the Senate Standing Committee and the Social Welfare Commission in the critical examination of that legislation. I remind the Senate that the original decision to abolish the Social Welfare Commission was made by the former Prime Minister,  Mr Whitlam.  It was announced with the Cabinet reshuffle of 5 June 1975. It is reported in the  Canberra Times  of 13 June that  Mrs Coleman  was not consulted about the decision to abolish the Commission. It is reported in the same newspaper that  Mr Hayden  was not consulted and that  Senator Wheeldon  was not consulted. These reports are also contained in the Daily Telegraph of 9 June. It is also reported in the  Daily Telegraph  that the Director-General of the day was unable to communicate this decision to  Mrs Coleman  before it became public. 
The Prime Minister,  Mr Fraser,  has made it clear that he believes it more appropriate for bodies doing such jobs as that done by the Social Welfare Commission to be directly answerable to the Minister. He believes that in the end Ministers of State must accept responsibility for what is done and that this is more easily achieved if bodies like the Social Welfare Commission are integrated with departments. As a matter of policy he wants advice, and good advice, available to the ministry and I welcome the fact that  Mrs Coleman,  the only permanent head with the 
Social Welfare Commission, has been offered and has accepted a senior position within the Department of Social Security in charge of the new Office of Child Care. I find the abolition of the Social Welfare Commission a matter of regret and I know that many of my colleagues feel the same way. We accept, however, the logic and validity of the Government's proposition and view. 
When one comes to examine decision making in government, how decisions are made and how they can be influenced, one is drawn sadly perhaps to the realisation that often it is more difficult to influence government policy making from outside, and that there are some advantages to those people developing policy advice who have access to the Minister. This fact does not in any way diminish my commitment to the kind of goals for which the Social Welfare Commission stood or for the kind of advice it was prepared to offer. I hope that the Social Welfare Research Group which will operate within the University of New South Wales and report to the Minister for Social Security will be as effective as the Social Welfare Commission has been in offering critical advice on such a wide ranging group of issues. One of the matters which the Social Welfare Commission raised was the question of the evaluation of programs. I simply draw to the attention of honourable senators that there is an increasing concern about evaluations of health and welfare programs in Australia and a reference was given by the Senate to one of the standing committees for evaluation of health and welfare programs. I hope that in the work of that committee we can profit from the kind of approach and system of operation which was established by the Social Welfare Commission. I believe that that body's record was one of achievement, that it was progressive in its approach and that the enterprises which it started and the documents which it produced have been of benefit to Australia. I hope that the practices and the impetus which derived from the Social Welfare Commission will not be lost with its abolition. 
The Senate is debating the Aged Persons Hostels Bill 1976. To be old in Australia at present is generally to be frail or ill, to be poor and to be alone. The Henderson Commission of Inquiry into Poverty has derived the kind of data which makes it quite clear that aged persons do not have the resources to care for themselves in terms of money, they do not have the family support and their health is inevitably going downhill. It is to this kind of question that we address ourselves when we look at aged persons' welfare housing.  Senator Grimes  has already referred to the report of the Social Welfare Commission entitled  Care of the Aged in Australia  which made a number of recommendations relating to aged persons' welfare housing. It also made a number of recommendations which were designed to make it easier for people to function independently in the community. A large number of recommendations had to do with domiciliary support, rent rebate programs, community health programs and home repair programs. In the midst of the recommendations was a realisation that in looking at old people extra resources had to be provided for them to obtain housing assistance for some kind of institutional care. The great need in Australia at present is for both funding and increased provision of aged persons' welfare housing. 
The present Bill addresses itself principally to the provision of one kind of housing, though it does contain some funding components which will be of great value. It is inescapable now that the extended family has gone in Australia; if it has not gone it is rapidly disappearing. The normal way of life no longer provides for a 3- generation family. It is no longer the norm that the generation of working adults are prepared to care for the aged in their own homes with their own children. The fact is that it is not an easy thing to do. Modern housing is not large. It is not designed to provide for multi-generational living. Problems occur when the very young and the very old are put together. It is becoming easier in this country to look at the alternative ways of disposing- I use the term advisedly- of the elderly into what almost could be called a ghetto- isolated areas where aged people can live almost in quarantine from society because they present problems about which many young Australians do not want to know. 
It is good that we have started to develop domiciliary care programs. The programs are progressing. They are having some effect but they are not always appropriate. At present they are quite inadequate in the breadth of cover they give and they do not always address themselves to some of the problems of aged persons' housing. A problem that is worrying the Council of the Aged is the single person living in a large house which is no longer appropriate. The Council has said that we should be looking at programs that would make it easy for people in this kind of housing- the Council has statistics; the numbers run into hundreds of thousands- to move into more appropriate and simpler housing which they can manage and at the same time get some benefit from giving up their own housing to give to society extra housing for families which is needed at present. Our new community attitudes in Australia make institutional care acceptable where it was not acceptable as a norm 50 years ago. We have to accept that, and the kinds of programs that have evolved from government in the last 15 or 20 years have increasingly recognised that it is a proper role of government to provide support for aged persons' welfare housing. 

 Senator Grimes has asked the question: Are the programs always appropriate and are they working? It is a very reasonable question and I think we should examine it further. Some of the aged persons' welfare housing is situated in isolated areas. Much of the aged persons' welfare housing which has been built by charities in the great cities, including the conurbation in which I live, has been placed at the periphery of the city. It has been placed where land could be purchased at a price which the charity or group could afford. It is often in a site totally inappropriate for the people who will serve as the clients. It means that automatically the people are physically isolated from services, particularly community services. They are away from community facilities. They are away from medical services and shops. They are isolated from their families. The development on the outskirts of the great cities has been one of the problems we have had to face. 
We have had another problem with the development of aged persons' welfare housing. A series of programs has certainly provided housing places for people who need them but we have no evidence of uniform availability of aged persons' welfare housing to all the potential clients. I am told that it is not good enough to measure what one's programs have done; one also has to look at what they have not done. One has to examine the area of unmet need. Often it will be discovered that the programs, far from being satisfactory, are basically totally inadequate. The best example I can think of is the Commonwealth Rehabilitation Training Scheme. The yearly report covering the scheme outlines quite justly the achievements of the clients who attended the scheme that year. It is only when one discovers that the scheme takes only 6 per cent or 7 per cent of those who apply for rehabilitation training that one realises how totally inadequate the cover is in terms of the problem presented. So I would like to know whether we have information not only in terms of total unmet need but also in terms of distribution of aged persons' welfare housing in different areas of the community. 
It is not easy to build aged persons welfare housing even with matching government subsidy. A matching subsidy involves someone having the initial ceiling amount of money to attract the government contribution. It is easier for the middle class areas in our cities to provide that kind of resource. It is easier for the established charities. It is more difficult,  Mr Acting Deputy President-  and we both come from the same city- for a Mount Druitt community to provide the basic amount of money needed to start a welfare housing project than it is for an established charity or for people somewhere on the North Shore. This may mean that the clientele who gain access to available aged persons welfare housing are not always those who might be judged as the most needy. This is not saying that those who live on the North Shore and use these facilities do not deserve them. 

 - Senator Keeffe raises the question of rural or non-metropolitan Australia. I think it is fair to say that the problems I raise when I talk about deprived areas on the outskirts of cities apply with even greater force to areas in non-metropolitan Australia where the problems continue. 
We do not know who constitute the clientele of aged persons welfare housing. There are some very extensive housing projects to the north west of Sydney. I do not know whether their clientele come from that area, whether they have been transported from other areas of Sydney or whether they have been transported from areas out in the remote parts of New South Wales. Until I have that kind of information and until I have some kind of data base on which to work I cannot really judge whether the aged persons welfare housing projects have really been successful in the social sense. Given that they are supposed to help those in need, I do not know whether they are doing so. I know that the people who are in these homes are benefiting. I do not know who are the people who need them but who cannot yet get access. 
I was talking about some of the problems of aged persons welfare housing and I remind the Senate that the problem of maintenance of projects once established is a continuing problem and one that is assuming even greater importance. We need to evaluate the programs that we have been running. If the Social Welfare Commission taught us one thing during its life it is that evaluation is not only a good idea but also it is essential. I give notice now that if there is one thing that our Senate Standing Committee on Social Welfare will examine it is programs like the aged persons welfare housing program to determine what goal the scheme thinks it is serving and to what extent these schemes are serving those programs. After all, the programs have evolved over many years. They are the programs of governments of all parties. One is not being partisan when one asks whether the programs are working. It is a matter of national importance that we know whether our welfare dollar is achieving anything and whether we are gaining anything for it. 
I want to know who are the clientele using these homes. I want to know whether it is a fact, as has often been alleged, that in the western suburbs of Melbourne, which is an area of great need, very few aged persons welfare housing projects have been started. I want to know to what extent projects have been started in the western suburbs of Sydney as opposed perhaps to projects started in some of the more affluent areas. I want to know who make up the people occupying the beds. 
Having said that I want to make it clear that the projects which have been built and which are operating at the present time are serving a very real need for the many people who use them. If we are to have institutional programs of care for our aged Australians it is important that the programs be integrated. It is no good providing some form of subsidised housing suitable for those who are independent and can look after themselves if we provide nothing for these people to go to when they ceased to be independent. 
It is generally agreed that 3 types of housing are necessary- independent units, hostel accommodation for those who are frail and nursing home accommodation for those who need nursing care. The best kinds of developments seem to include all 3 kinds of housing. They might contain in one complex independent units, some hostel accommodation for those who are frail but still can lead some independent life and also nursing home accommodation for those whose disability is greater. If we believe in integrated programs it is important that we encourage the development of hostels. The Bill now before the Senate seeks to make it easier for us to increase the availability of hostels for aged persons. 
We see a progression of need and presently we see a great need for better integration of services than we have had to date. I note from the second reading speech that the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  specifically hoped that the provisions of this Bill would enable the building of hostel type accommodation catering specifically for the frail aged and those in greatest need of accommodation because of advanced age and limited finance. The program which this Bill sets out to achieve is a finite program. The commitment to provide hostels on a subsidised basis was finite when it was introduced. We know exactly how many hostels remain to be built from the original allocation. It is the intention of this legislation that they will be built for they are part of the development of properly integrated aged persons housing projects. 
Approvals given to eligible organisations under the provisions of this Bill will allow those organisations 12 months to commence building from the time they are told that they have a grant. Because of this it will be possible for organisations to get their plans prepared and buildings started. On the question of funding aged persons welfare housing, the Government and the Minister for Social Security have gone a long way to bringing some rationality and help to the building of various kinds of units. It is well known that building costs have been rising steeply and that the increase in building costs has exceeded the rate of inflation. It is better economics for an organisation to build this year and get its grant next year because even if it has to service the money for the 12 months that elapse it is cheaper to build than to wait for 12 months and then to build. 
Before organisations can start building they need some kind of insurance that money will come through. I am very pleased to support the kind of initiative which the Fraser Government has put forward, namely the promise of a triennial funding program- a program which will indicate in advance the amounts of money that will be available for the provision of aged persons welfare housing. The program is for $225m. An amount of $45m is to be allocated for this financial year and $90m is to be allocated for each of the succeeding years. But what is more important is that the advance information that grants will be made available will be given as soon as possible. When those announcements are made organisations will be able to proceed immediately to build, secure in the knowledge that their grant has been promised within the triennium. These organisations can move in to get their buildings started and provide the resources for the aged persons who will use their building. They can do so secure in the knowledge that their money will come through this financial year, next financial year or the following financial year depending upon the information they get from the Department. 
More than that, the Government has decided to increase the amount for each unit. It now works on a cost basis of more than $15,000 per bed. That is the kind of level of subsidy on which it will work. There will be upgradings of this level as there are movements in building costs. It makes the matching funds more realistic in terms of the job that the organisations have to do. Since it is cheaper to build now and borrow money than it is to wait one year, this will be a very real help to those organisations and to those groups trying to provide aged persons welfare housing. It will provide 15 000 new places for the frail aged in Australia. This is a program which is being supported by both sides of the Senate; and so it should be. It is a program of compassion and need. It is part of an integrated housing program. The only thing that remains is that we need to know a little more exactly what we are gaining in terms of the considerations I mentioned earlier to the Senate. I believe this is an appropriate measure which should enjoy the support of all honourable senators. 
Has the Minister for Social Security become aware of Press reports that some officers of her Department might refuse to answer or deal with mail? What action has she been able to take to investigate the accuracy of these Press claims? With whom does responsibility rest for ensuring that departmental officers perform duties allotted to them? Is it a fact that it is the public- often those people in need of help- who are likely to suffer if officers in her Department refuse to perform their allotted duties? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister assisting the Prime Minister in Federal Affairs, relates to promises made during the recent election campaign in New South Wales in relation to imposts by way of taxes upon the people of New South Wales. I ask: Did  Mr Wran,  in election campaign speeches on the new federalism, give to the people of New South Wales any undertaking that municipal and shire rates would not be increased in New South Wales if he became Premier? 
My question, addressed to the Minister for Administrative Services, relates to the report of the Committee of Inquiry on Museums and National Collections in Australia which recommended that a site near Black Mountain be set aside for a national museum of Australia. Is the Minister able to advise whether the Government has yet been able to act on those recommendations of the Pigott Committee that seek a site in Canberra for a national museum of Australia? 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Has recent evidence appeared indicating that the 'pill' should not be used by women where elective surgery is planned. 
Does it appear that other methods of contraception should be used for 6 weeks before an operation wherever this can be foreseen. 
What steps are being undertaken to draw these conclusions to the attention of medical practitioners and of women generally. 
I present the following petition from 539 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Ethnic Radio Hour in N.S.W. broadcast in Croatian is controlled and run by members of the Yugoslav community and that the Australian-Croatian ethnic community is given no say. 
That Australian passports have been denied to some Australian citizens of Croatian origin without explanation or possibility of appeal. 
That discrimination has been exercised in the granting of citizenship privileges to migrants of Croatian origin. 
That discrimination is being exercised by the Australian Parliament in the negation and non-recognition of Croatian nationality. 
That discrimination is being exercised by the Australian Government in Ethnic Schools and University courses when it permits only the teaching of Serbo-Croat and not of the Croatian language as an alternative. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Federal Government will consider these facts in the light of justice toward a people who came as strangers to this land, and that appropriate action will be taken to remedy the present situation. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I present two petitions from 65 and 46 citizens of Australia respectively as follows: 
To the Honourable  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth that: 
Concerned at the record number of building workers registered for unemployment benefits in New South Wales; 
Aware of the Australian Bureau of Statistics Report for New South Wales revealing a drastic fall off in both commencements and approvals for future commencements, of building projects this year as compared to previous years; 
Alarmed at the fact that 1568 building apprentices were registered for unemployment benefit payments during the month of July in New South Wales; 
Conscious of the fact that most of the unemployed apprentices will never be able to complete their training (thus creating a continuing problem for the industry, and indeed the community as a whole) unless immediate urgent measures are provided for in the Federal Government 's Budget; 
We the undersigned citizens of New South Wales in the Commonwealth of Australia by this our humble petition respectfully request that Members of the Senate insist that the 1976-77 Budget provides specific measures to lift building activity particularly welfare housing, schools, hospitals and other public buildings above the present dangerously low level; 
We request that the Budget be returned to the House of Representatives with instructions from the Senate to include such measures. 
I draw to the attention of the Minister representing the Minister for Health the announcement yesterday that medical practitioners have agreed to limit fee increases for 1 977 and that they have agreed to reduce fees for pathology services. Can the Minister assure the Senate that those using medical services or pathology services will still be fully entitled to all the rebates and allowances they presently enjoy? Will the Minister inform the Senate whether it is a fact that it will be the doctors and not the patients who will be affected by any decision to limit or reduce fees? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. I remind the Minister of concern expressed in Canberra last week by building workers about the levels of employment in their industry, especially in New South Wales. I ask: Is it a fact, as these workers claim to me, that the lead time and duration of major building projects is usually measured in years and particularly that decisions to commence projects take several years to flow through? Can the Minister recall that a  Mr Mundey  and his militant union boasted that they, on their own, over the past few years had prevented the commencement or completion of up to $300m worth of building activity in New South Wales. Is it possible for the Minister to state the degree to which the present employment difficulties in the industry in New South Wales are a legacy of the actions of  Mr Mundey  several years ago? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
Do estimated defence outlays for 1976-77, shown in the Table on page 29 of Statement 3 attached to Budget Paper No. 1, indicate similar total manpower costs for civilian and for Air Force personnel. 
Does the Table further show that whereas the estimated wage rise for Air Force personnel in 1976-77 is $ 12.3m, and that for civilian personnel it is $22m. 
What is the reason for the difference which could, superficially at least, indicate an inadequate provision for wage rises for Air Force personnel this financial year. 
I present the following petition from 560 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
1 ) That the Ethnic Radio Hour in New South Wales broadcast in Croatian is controlled and run by members of the Yugoslav community and that the Australian-Croatian ethnic community is given no say. 
That Australian passports have been denied to some Australian citizens of Croatian origin without explanation or possibility of appeal. 
That discrimination has been exercised in the granting of citizenship privileges to migrants of Croatian origin. 
That discrimination is being exercised by the Australian Parliament in the negation and non-recognition of Croatian nationality. 
That discrimination is being exercised by the Australian Government in ethnic schools and university courses when it permits only the teaching of Serbo-Croat and not of the Croatian language as an alternative. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Federal Government will consider these facts in the light of justice toward a people who came as strangers to this land, and that appropriate action will be taken to remedy the present situation. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question which is directed to the Minister for Social Security relates to the Australian Assistance Plan. I remind the Minister that there are 3 regional councils for social development in the Northern Territoryan area that has no State government of its own. Can the Minister indicate how the decision regarding the future of the regional councils in the Northern Territory will be made? Specifically, can she inform me what role in that decision will be taken by the Federal Government, the Department of Social Security, the Department of the Northern Territory or the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly? 
The Senate is debating a matter of urgency advanced by the Opposition, asserting that the Government in some way has failed the nation and failed the Australian Broadcasting Commission. The terms of this motion were, as is usual, fairly vague and we waited with interest to hear what  Senator Button  would say when he opened the debate for the Opposition. 
It seems to me that the Government's job is to provide funds for the Australian Broadcasting Commission, to make sure that it is adequately protected under its Act and to allow its commissioners to do their jobs. 

 Senator Button did not set out to show that we had failed in any of these areas but rather set out, as other speakers on the Opposition side set out, to intimidate the commissioners in doing their job. They set out to put to them a view on what their proper role should be and they set out on a character assassination of the  Chairman  of the Australian Broadcasting Commission. 

 Senator Button's arguments fell into 3 groups. He had some arguments about the budget of the Commission but he then went on to say that the  Chairman  of the Australian Broadcasting Commission,  Sir Henry  Bland, had himself defended the Commission after cuts were made. He told us that the ABC in some way had been affected and harmed because there had been some cartoons and editorials in the newspapers. He went on to devote most of his time to an attack not on the Government but on  Sir Henry  Bland himself, a man who has been an eminent public servant and a man who only recently took over as  Chairman  of the ABC. He put the point of view that because  Sir Henry  Bland had spent much of his life in the Public Service he was disqualified in some way from serving as  Chairman  of the ABC. He told us that he had had no experience except in the Public Service. Of course, that is not true. Any honourable senator opposite who cared to consult the latest edition of  Who's Who  and read the entry against the name of this very distinguished Australian would see that his career spans a wide range of activities and a wide range of public services over a considerable period of time. 
This attack has been an attack for the jugular vein, not the jugular vein of this Government or of the Commission but that of the  Chairman  of the Commission. It has been nothing more nor less than an attack under the protection of parliamentary privilege upon a man outside the Parliament who cannot properly defend himself. It is something of which the Labor Party and Labor Party senators should be ashamed. 
They have attempted to relate some of their arguments to one particular television program. I had the misfortune to waste some time viewing this program but I have no desire to express a view on how the Australian Broadcasting Commission should organise or reorganise its programs or on whether this program should continue or not continue. That is the Commission's job; it is its decision. I do not intend to be a party to what some Labor senators have been doing in implying that the  Chairman  has been remiss in any way in setting out to do his job in association with the other commissioners. 
I hear the ex-President of the Senate,  Senator O  'Byrne, allege that he is a Liberal supporter. 
He describes  Sir Henry  Bland as a spiv. I think that that attack from  Senator O'Byrne  is something of which he and his Party should be ashamed. It reflects upon them and not upon the eminent public servant who has no way of responding or replying to the attack. I am also aware that  Senator Georges  said, by way of an interjection- I use his wordsthat it was the incompetence of the appointee to which he objected. 

 - Mr Deputy President, I am sickened by the kind of interjections I hear. They bring into the open the attitudes which the Labor Party has towards the Commission. The clear argument is that in some way they want the Government to intervene, to exert some kind of pressure, but we believe in the independence of the ABC and we do not see any reason why we should move in to insist that the commissioners do or do not take any course of action. 
We are talking about the  Chairman  of the Australian Broadcasting Commission and I am reminded that only on 23 March last, the Leader of the Opposition in another place,  Mr Whitlam,  criticised us and said that we had failed the ABC. I will read his words. He said:   the Government has refused to appoint a new Chairman of the ABC . . . 
He went on to say: 
The absence of an independent Chairman . . . has left the ABC dangerously vulnerable. 
We have appointed a-Chairman and we expect that  Chairman  to get on and do his job. He will do the job as he sees fit and in his own way. We do not think it proper for the Australian Labor Party and for senators like  Senator Justin  O'Byrne to speak in the Senate and to attempt to denigrate this man or to attempt to intimidate or to indicate to other commissioners how they should or should not act when in due course they hold their meeting and make their decisions on the affairs of the Commission. 
I remember the first political letter that I ever wrote in anger. I wrote to a very distinguished Australian, a very fine parliamentarian,  Mr Harry  Turner, the former honourable member for Bradfield. That letter referred to the ABC and in it I expressed my concern that the ABC should be independent. Everyone on this side of Parliament holds the very strong opinion that the ABC should be and should remain independent. The response I got from  Mr Harry  Turner, who is known to many honourable senators here, indicated his belief that this was something that the Liberal Government would always protect and ensure. It remains my view. I am grateful that  Senator Button  reminded us of the provisions of section 59 of the Broadcasting and Television Act of 1942 which sets out exactly the functions of the ABC. 
I am also reminded that the Labor Party attempts to create stereotypes. It attempts to suggest that in some way we on this side of the Parliament do not care for the ABC or its activities. That is totally erroneous. A few months ago I was invited to the University of Sydney to take part in one of the Union Night debates. The subject for debate on that night was 'that station 2 JJ should disconnect'. It caused no small amount of consternation when I insisted that I be allowed to speak against that motion and in support of 2JJ. Although I do not approve of some of the things that it does, and I do not approve of some of the things that have been made clear in this debate, I believe in the independence of the ABC. I believe in the proper role of a station like 2JJ. I believe it is a matter for the commissioners of the ABC to set down and to implement the ways in which their programs and their stations will behave. 
There is no truth in the rumour that we on this side of the Parliament wish to do anything to injure the ABC or to injure its independence or integrity. Today it was quite disappointing to listen to  Senator Button  who was leading for his side. He advanced no argument to show that this Government had done any of the things set out in the motion. In fact this Government has done the opposite. I believe there is no known instance of a Liberal Government having directed the ABC to alter or cancel a program and I believe it is our policy not so to do. That is not the case with the Australian Labor Party. I refer the Senate to a speech made by the Honourable  Dr Moss  Cass in the House of Representatives on 23 March. He had this to say: 
. when we tried to encourage the development of a broader service by the ABC, catering to a wider range of minority interests than it had been able to cater to previously . . . 

 Dr Cass made no secret of the fact that when he was Minister he took a view on the kind of programming and the kind of services which the 
ABC should offer. That is not our way of doing things. That is a function for the commissioners. However, the ABC staff is not independent of its management. It is not independent of the Commission. The commissioners are properly appointed and are responsible for the running of their programs and for the conduct of the Commission. 
If someone wishes to argue that the ABC is not perfect he may do so. The former Prime Minister,  Mr E.  G. Whitlam, certainly produced some evidence in the House of Representatives earlier this year from some eminent Australians who sent out in a letter that it was their belief that the ABC was not perfect. That is not the argument today. The argument is what our Government is doing. Our policy is clearly stated. Our platform sets out clearly that freedom of expression for the Press, radio and television, and freedom from government or political interference, are fundamental. We believe that the Australian Broadcasting Commission- we have said it in printshould be independent of political control. This is a view which we hold, which the Labor Party did not hold and did not practise when it was in government. 
We have conditions of financial stringency in Australia at present. Is there any suggestion that the ABC should be different from any other statutory authority, that it should be treated differently from other departments of State, that we should establish staff ceilings for others but not for the ABC? Is it honestly suggested that while every other service department takes cuts in its budget the ABC should be excluded? That is not so. The ABC has no open cheque. The Government set the total budget for the ABC. We did not play any part in how the ABC managed that budget. That has been a matter for the commissioners. We issued no instruction. It is up to the ABC to use that money in accordance with its charter. 
No one suggests that the ABC is perfect. No one suggests that it cannot be improved or changed. No one suggests that it should be given unlimited access to the public purse. Those last 3 statements are direct quotes from a speech made by  Mr E.  G. Whitlam just a few months ago. He meant them then. We know that they are still true today. Today there has been one of the most cowardly, inappropriate and unnecessary attacks on a public servant that there has been for many years.  Sir Henry  Bland is  Chairman  of the ABC. He will meet in due course with his other commissioners. They will carry out the business of the ABC as they see fit. They will do so free from instruction or control from our Government. I hope they will be able to do it without the hints of coercion or the standover tactics that we heard this afternoon when Labor  speaker  after Labor  speaker  set out what he believed to be the way the Commission should act. I believe that they have attempted to impose a point of view. They have attempted to suggest to the commissioners how they should resolve some of the present issues. They act as if they believe that in some way it is a role of government to intervene in the present troubles which the ABC has. Let us be quite clear. If they want us to intervene, it is they who are suggesting that the independence and the integrity of the ABC be breached. Let the commissioners make their own decisions, undeterred by the tawdry attempts in this place today to frighten the commissioners. I would not have the position any other way. Neither would the great mass of Australians.  (Quorum formed.) 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security. I draw her attention to page 215 of the report of the AuditorGeneral which was tabled in the Parliament yesterday, where the Auditor-General refers to frauds perpetrated by beneficiaries'. He says that these are predominantly in relation to the unemployment benefit. He makes the observation that there has been a large increase in the number of frauds. Since the account of the Auditor-General lacks detail and since we are anxious to avoid any hasty or intemperate judgment, I ask the Minister whether she will arrange for more information to be made available to honourable senators on the numbers and types of these frauds? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What action has been taken to inform the appropriate personnel in hospitals under Commonwealth control of the possible risks associated with volatile anaesthetics and pregnancy, as set out in the answer to Senate Question No. 4 1 . 
-Will the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs confirm that refugees from Vietnam recently have arrived in ports around the Gulf of Siam and are not allowed to land at those ports? Is there any information on whether these refugees are without supplies of food or medical attention? Can the Minister advise whether Australia has extended, or intends to extend, to some of these refugees the asylum it offered 22 others from Vietnam who recently were allowed to come here after fleeing from that country by ship? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Do only three of the State Governments allow charges, on private patients in standard wards, for physiotherapy rendered by private practice physiotherapists for patients who are privately insured against medical costs. If so, is this in any instance due to differing interpretations of the CommonwealthState Medibank agreements in different States. If so, how is this matter interpreted in the different States and what can he done to seek some uniformity in interpretation, if necessary by modification of the agreements made between the Commonwealth and the States. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Science, concerns the eclipse of the sun soon to occur in Australia. I ask the Minister: Is he aware of the occurrence of permanent and serious damage to the sight of numbers of people who have viewed past eclipses? If so, has the Commonwealth Government any plans for action or advice to prevent or to minimise the unnecessary incidence of eclipse blindness in Australia on the occasion of the coming eclipse? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Science. I remind him of a question by  Senator Button  2 days ago seeking the current rate of conversion between millimetres and inches, and of other questions today relating to other metric measurements. Will the Minister agree that speculation on conversion rates has generally been considered to be highly irresponsible, whether it applies to millimetres, joules, ergs, dynes or dollars? Nevertheless, will he agree that the current and official conversion rate of 25.4 millimetres to the inch remains and that any speculation that the parity could alter is, to borrow a current phrase, 'just not on '? 
As I understand the intention of the Opposition, it is to have the clause relating to the reinsurance pool removed. I regard this action as one more attempt on its part to try to destroy the private health funds. One of the conditions applied to the activities of the private health funds at the moment is that they shall apply a community rating; that they shall allow anyone to take out insurance with them. 

 - Senator Grimes would know, if he read carefully, that the funds are going to be able at a later date to place entry requirements. If this carries through, the chronically ill eventually could be excluded from the right to have private insurance if it proved impossible for the private insurers to carry their costs. There is a small group of people with catastrophic illnesses for whom there is no way to provide, actuarially, private insurance. The Government recognised this by the provision of a special account in years gone by. The reinsurance pool being established now will enable these people to take out private insurance and thus enable part of their cost to be met from the private sector. The alternative is for all these people to be a complete charge on standard Medibank and be a further charge solely upon the public purse. The reason why this problem becomes important is that the public hospital sector, as it is set up in this country, does not have the capacity to otter everyone facilities. Let me develop that point. In certain areas in the city in which I live, areas which  Senator Grimes  would know well, there are no public hospital beds, or very few. 
There are not enough public hospital beds. It is a fiction to say, as the Labor Party has said for years, that we all have a right to a standard ward bed, because those beds do not exist. For some time I was admitting officer at one of the large public hospitals in Sydney; that is to say, I was the non-admitting officer. My job was to keep people out of an institution that had more occupants than it could cope with. To use the jargon of the social scientists, there was a large area of unmet need with which the public hospital sector could not cope. What I am developing is the view that is taken by 70 per cent of Australians- that to hold insurance for something more than standard ward cover is not an option but a necessity. If you have a stroke in one of the large cities you may well find that your local public hospital, anxious as it may be to help, simply does not have the space or resources to offer you assistance. If my daughter gets appendicitis tomorrow it may be that the local teaching hospital does not have a bed for her and if someone has an urgent illness it will not wait. Extra insurance is a necessity and not an option. That is how many of us view it who live in the areas where the number of public beds does not allow us to depend upon standard Medibank. 
The reinsurance pool will allow us to continue to have that access to some of the good facilities that exist in the private sector, to have access to hospitals like the Sydney Adventist Hospital where people get medical care of the highest quality. But people require health insurance cover to help meet that cost. If the Labor Party had its way and the reinsurance pool were abolished, eventually all these patients would become a total charge upon standard Medibank. Through this proposed arrangement the cost is to be shared. I think the Labor Party argument is hollow and without merit. 
-The Senate is debating the Health Insurance Levy Assessment Bill (No. 2) and the Health Insurance Levy Bill (No. 2) and the amendment which has been moved to that Bill to preserve the  status quo.  It was interesting to listen to  Senator Grimes.  I did so with considerable pleasure. Since we have changed sides in this chamber he proceeds me in debate rather than follows me. It was interesting to hear him arguing so forcefully for the course which his Party now advocates. I am reminded that it is people such, as  Senator Grimes  who state with some pride that they have helped put their Party in the position in which it is today. Earlier today  Senator Brown  emphasised that the issue is an ideological one. Perhaps he was right. He stated that he had always been against the levy.  Senator Grimes  stated that he had been in favour of a health insurance levy. We are led to believe that the kind of levy which ' we are seeking to introduce was endorsed, at least in principle, by  Mr Hawke  in the last few months. He proposed a levy, although he argued about the quantum of it. Today we are hearing a shallow argument from the Australian Labor Party in an attempt to say to people: 'We do not want you to have to pay, and we will use any argument to oppose that'. 
We on this side believe that Churchill's words are correct Socialism as practised by members of the Opposition and as preached by members of the Opposition is 'the philosophy of failure, the creed of ignorance and the gospel of envy'. In this debate in the last couple of days all those features have been brought out; because the Labor Party scheme was a failure to the nation. The arguments of honourable senators opposite have not displayed a deep or penetrating knowledge. They have done their best to denigrate those who provide health care and those who provide insurance against the cost of health care. 
The 2 Bills seek to impose a levy upon income, to amend the levy arrangements previously announced, to make them simpler, to set the ceilings for the levy and to identify the exemptions from the levy, either total exemptions or partial exemptions. This debate really complements those which took place earlier this year when the issue of a' health insurance levy was debated and resolved in the Senate. The Government, as it promised, after 20 May has taken the opportunity of consulting those who will be involved in a health insurance levy. We have consulted with those who will have to pay the levy.  Senator Grimes  has drawn attention to the fact that the Combined Pensioners Association is one of the bodies with which we have consulted. We have consulted with the Australian Council of Trade Unions and the trade union movement. We have consulted with the health funds which have to administer the levy. 
We have consulted with community groups through parliamentarians and we have consulted with the government departments which are responsible for the collection of the levy. The scheme, as it emerges now, is fairer and will operate better. That is what this new legislation does; it improves and simplifies the levy arrangements. 
The new scheme also enables me to exercise my choice to leave Medibank and to join one of the private funds. I have chosen to join one of the friendly society funds, namely, the Grand United Order of Oddfellows, because I believe that many of us on this side of the Parliament need to show that we believe in the operation of the free market system by supporting free enterprise groups such as the Grand United Order of Oddfellows which are trying to offer, through the services of the friendly societies - 

 - Senator O'Byrne may sneer, if he wishes to, at anything that is not state run.  Senator O'Byrne  last week called an eminent Australian a Liberal spiv. By his behaviour here he does not dignify the office which he once held in the Senate. I am happy to get out of Medibank, and it is these Bills which enable me to do so. 
I remind the Senate that health costs are considerable and that each Australian will see his or her family doctor on an average of about 40 times between birth and adulthood. I remind the Senate, because we have been mighty short on facts in the last couple of days, that well over 90 per cent of all individual services rendered in this country are rendered at the level of primary care. In a few moments, when I come back to identify costs, honourable senators will find that probably only half the costs of health care are attributable to services rendered at the level of primary care. It is the cheapest part of our health care systems, service for service. Half our costs in Australia are related to hospital services. 
Honourable senators who wish to attack the medical profession should recognise the very considerable contribution to the load on costs in this country made by hospitals. That does not apply only to this country, as many honourable senators would be aware. In August this yearabout 3 weeks ago- the United States Department of Health, Education and Welfare published a document entitled  Forward Planning for Health, Fiscal Years 1978 to 1982.  In it the Department set out to identify the reasons why health care is becoming more expensive. At page 30 of the article we find the statement that in the past decade daily hospital costs in the United States went from $US41 to SUS136. It parallels the experience in this country, where the bed cost in a Sydney teaching hospital is now more than $100 per patient per day. In the specialist wings of some of the hospitals, such as the cardiothoracic units, that cost can be of the order of $300 or $400 per person per day. This is the area in which costs are rising most rapidly. The United States investigators have identified the American experience further, as follows: 
During fiscal year 1976, while the increase in the Consumer Price Index for all other items was S.7 per cent, the increases in medical care, physician services, and hospital services were 9.3 per cent, 1 1.6 per cent, and 12.2 per cent, respectively. 
The United States has a very considerable problem in determining how it is going to contain the rising hospital costs in that country, and we share that problem. It is not enough for any honourable senator to try to analyse the cost structure of health care in Australia and very conveniently to forget the considerable contribution to expenses from the public hospital sector and the private hospital sector. 
If honourable senators opposite wish to attack the kind of medical system under which we operate, if they wish to allege that the rise in costs is due to our fee for service system, at least they should recognise that there is no perfect method of paying for health services or private medical services. There are 3 generally accepted methods of payment- a fee for service system, a sessional payment or salaried service system, and a capitation or prepayment system. Each of them has advantages to the community and each of them has disadvantages. Even in Great Britain, where every effort has been made to prevent the private practice of medicine, more than 5 million people have thought it worth while to insure themselves privately and to pay for their medical care. As I say, each of the systems has disadvantages and each has advantages. I would not like to have any scheme under which we sought to establish one of those systems as the only method of payment. 
I remind the Senate that the health centres program to which  Senator Grimes  referred was an initiative of the McMahon Liberal Government. It was our Government that commissioned Llewellyn-Da vies Kinhill Pty Ltd to bring in a report. It was our Government that commenced the construction of health centres, just as it was a Liberal government in New South Wales that built the health centre at Mount Druitt. If the Australian Labor Party picked up that program and carried it on, we applaud it; but let honourable senators opposite not pretend that it was their vision or their initiative. We started it in part of our search for a pluralistic solution to the problems of health care. The discussion today is about the new Medibank financing arrangements. We have heard a lot of comment from  Senator Grimes  about what various newspapers have said. Obviously he did not read the Sydney  Daily Telegraph- not  of 2 months ago and not of 5 weeks ago, but of 2 days ago- of 2 1 September. It had this to say: 
A carefully orchestrated campaign during and after the latest Federal election has harped on cruel cutbacks to social services the Fraser Government allegedly planned. 
Neither Prime Minister  Mr Fraser  nor any of his ministers has done or said anything to suggest that they were bent on pulling down our social services structure. 
There have been changes to Medibank. 
But the system certainly has not been destroyed and the changes have introduced competition into the medical benefits 'industry ' which can only be for the public good. 
That is from a newspaper in my own city which over recent years has not made a practice of supporting our side. I am appalled by the repeated allegations that the private health insurance funds are inefficient; that they are unduly expensive; and that their cost structure does not compare with that of Medibank. 
It is worth reminding  Senator Brown  who impressed me with the vehemence of his outburst against the private funds that he was making a false comparison. When one is being logical it is customary to compare like with like. We know the management costs of Medibank and of the private funds. We know that they are almost the same. We can only make a comparison, if we wish, between the management costs of Medibank as a percentage of the money paid out and the management costs of the private funds as a percentage of the money paid out. That is the only fair comparison. 
Honourable senators may not be aware that that is the comparison which the Australian Labor Party does not make. It may interest honourable senators to know that the management costs for Medibank as they appear in Appropriation Bill (No. 1), division 327, subdivision 1, are $58,747,000. That is how much money has been allowed for the Health Insurance Commission. One might ask: Against that $5 8m how much does it cost to administer the private health funds? That information is available from a document which was tabled in the Senate about a week ago. The document is the 'Report on the Operations of the Registered Medical and Hospital Funds'. It shows all the management expenses for the last full year before Medibank. If we add up all the management expenses from all the funds the figure comes to $64m. So there we have it. 
This year Medibank is asking for $58m. The funds, 2 years ago, used $64m. If we add a component for inflation we will be making a comparison between $58m and, maybe, $70m. One fund is asking for $58m and many funds, between them, are spending $70m or so. To say in a comparison that the management expenses of Medibank are one-third of those of the private funds is to be misleading and dishonest. It is not so. It is time that that untruth was placed to rest. 
One fund which is likely to hold half the population is asking for $57m and the other funds which provide an alternative at competitive rates will spend on their management expenses not far above $64m. 
We are dealing with the health insurance levy legislation which sets out to impose a levy of 2.5 per cent on taxable incomes. The amount received this year will be less than in a full year's operation. The Bill sets out the ceilings of the levy, the exemptions and the many combinations. 
It is said that when a matter is described in politics as a matter of principle that is usually because it involves money. Of course, honourable senators opposite have probably called this a matter of great principle because a lot of money is involved. It is worth looking at what this money is and what the results of the levy will be. Before I do that I cannot help remarking on the very cursory argument put by  Senator Grimes  in favour of his party's assertion that Medibank should be funded out of general taxation revenue.  Senator Grimes  went to some pains to tell us that his personal belief was that a levy was the appropriate way to fund health insurance. He said that today. He let us know the sympathy he had for a levy. But the levy we are talking about is the Labor Party levy which honourable senators opposite supported so enthusiastically 2 years ago. It is the levy which, in principle,  Mr Hawke  espoused a few weeks ago. It seems that only the parliamentary Labor Party does not like the levy now, having supported it so enthusiastically for more than 2 years. 
I remember that before Medibank became a reality we opposed  in globo  the Medibank program and the Medibank apparatus. At that time we opposed the levy because it was part of the apparatus and of the program.  Senator Steele  Hall quite correctly drew to our attention the fact that if we were unsuccessful in preventing the introduction of Medibank we might regret that there was no levy. Of course,  Senator Steele  Hall was correct. But let us be clear on this matter. Since we introduced the idea of a modified Medibank and the Medibank levy we have had  Mr Hawke  and the Australian Council of Trade Unions putting proposals to our Government which supported the levy, though they have argued with the level. One wonders who speaks for the Labor movement in Australia today. Is it this miserable rump of an Opposition or is it the trade union movement? Is it the  de facto  leader of the Labor movement,  Mr Hawke,  or the discredited man in the other place who scarcely raises his head above the trenches, the man whose response to out Budget was described so well by the  Australian Financial Review  as: Labor's backward grand vision'? Is it the man who is so obsessed by his own failure that he cannot give any future or forward direction to his party? In fact, for most Australians  Mr Hawke  provides a more rational and responsible leader. 
Although  Mr Hawke  proposes a different levy level, he is in favour of a levy. However,  Mr Hawke  's levy would not operate quite as justly as ours.  Mr Hawke  wanted the levy to apply to all income levels and to all wage earners. The effect of this would have been that every 2-income family in Australia would have paid the full levy no matter what total effect that had on the family earnings. Our Government has seen fit to limit the levy's upper limit to protect 2-income families.  Mr Hawke  would have had them paying to the sky with no remittance for a family rate. Every 2-income family in Australia should ponder the fact that had  Mr Hawke  had his way their levy would have been higher. With inflation it would have gone higher still on an automatic basis. 
We can ask why a levy is necessary, why we need a levy to help pay for the cost of health care in this country? The answer is: For the same reason  Senator Grimes  so ably advanced 2 years ago. We want some involvement by the consumers of health care so that they will appreciate the cost of providing health care. We do not ask that they provide all the cost. Let us. be quite clear. Health care costs for medical and hospital services in this country are quite astronomical. Many countries have tried to provide for these costs out of general revenue but they have found the burden intolerable. 
I remind the Senate that in New Zealand they had a scheme under which originally, most of the costs of consultations was provided out of general revenue. Now New Zealand has a scheme where only a minority part of the medical fees is provided because the Government could not afford to carry on. In Canada, where the Government funded a Medibank-style system for medical costs, the Government has found the costs intolerable and has given notice that it intends to withdraw. 
Medibank was based on the Canadian system, as  Senator Messner  so correctly advises me. We now know that in Canada it would not work and that the country would have faced bankruptcy had it continued with the system. In Great Britain, where the hospital services were funded out of revenue in the same way as they are in this country, the costs have become too great for the country to bear comfortably. I return to the United States document  Forward Plan for Health,  issued last month by the United States Departments of Health, Education and Welfare. Talking about the United States experience, the following statement appears: 
It has by now become obvious that the only significant constraint on today 's health care delivery system has nothing to do with technology, logistics, or resources: it is economic. If we were willing and able to put an unlimited amount of funds at the disposal of a national health insurance system, we could meet virtually every conceivable need and demand for health services. 
But that is only if they put a limitless amount of money at the disposal of the system. The Americans go on to say: 
It now appears that our economy is unable to afford such increases over a prolonged period, and unless costs are contained we will face severe restrictions in health care delivery and /or other public services- restrictions our nation should not tolerate. Unfortunately, this situation is already occurring. 
The Americans go on to point out: 
During calendar year 1975, 20 States, because of rising costs coupled with budgetary restrictions, were forced to make cutbacks in their Medicaid programs, reducing, restricting or eliminating coverage, reimbursement and /or eligibility. 
There we have it. In which countries with systems akin to ours have we seen a system funded out of general revenue able to operate? It is not in Canada, not in the United States, not in Great Britain and not in New Zealand, because the calls on the public purse are unlimited. 
All that we want to do is involve people to a small extent, as the Labor Party so eloquently argued in the past and as  Mr Hawke  still proposes, in sharing some of the costs of their health care. The total cost of medical and hospital services in this country for the current financial year is estimated to be $3,300m while the rest of the appropriation for the Department of Health is of the order of $3, 100m. This means that all the expenditure on health services other than the costs of medical and hospital benefits will be * $3, 100m. So we are looking at the financing of an amount greater than this simply for our hospital and medical services. 
Let us be quite clear. The levy will return only $1 of every $9 spent. The levy will raise less than $400m. The Commonwealth will continue to pay the lion's share. In fact it will pay more than $ 1, 100m this year and in so doing will cover the costs of those who are in need or those who are poor. The States will share through the hospital cost sharing system to the extent of $840m and those of us who decide to insure privately will contribute $985m. The levy payers will pay less than $400m or less than $ 1 of every $9 spent. However, they will have some involvement in understanding just how painful it is for the national economy to bear the burden of hospital and medical costs and their continuous and endless escalation. Seventy per cent of Australians have indicated that they wish to carry on with private insurance. The percentage may vary after 1 October. 
It is my concern that people should have a choice, and through the levy arrangements and through the arrangements made for alternative means for paying for health care we now have the choice. 
Part of this legislation provides for exemptions from the levy. I am reminded that Aristotle said that injustice arises when equals are treated unequally and also when unequals are treated equally, and it would be quite unthinkable for a Liberal Government to impose on those in need the requirement to pay the levy. They are not equal in terms of economic capacity to many others in society and they should not have to bear the same levy load. 
Our arrangements have ensured that those in need, the poorer members of our society, will be spared. Let us be quite clear that the very poor will pay nothing and will be covered. They will have all the benefits and all the entitlements to Medibank that they have now. Those who are poor will pay either nothing or very little. They will have a large entitlement to subsidy. It is the higher income earners who will pay most and any argument which alleges that the rich will pay less than the poor is untrue. The rich will pay more, the poor will pay less, in line with the principles of our progressive tax system. We will carry on with our program to spare those in need from the requirement to pay levies and imposts of this kind. 
The ceiling will help those Australians who have more than one income in the family. As you know,  Mr President,  it is often the families who are battlers who have two people working and who will be most appreciative of the levy ceiling which will ensure that from the combined income no more than $300 will have to be paid by way of health insurance levy if they wish to stay with Medibank. Our arrangements have ensured that no Australian has to leave Medibank, that no Australian will be harmed by the levy. Our arrangements have ensured that social justice will continue to be done. 
We are asked continually by the Labor Party why we do not leave Medibank alone because it was a social program. It was nothing of the kind. In the Fabian lectures which  Mr Whitlam  gave before he was Prime Minister in 1972, under the heading 'Labor in Power- What is the Difference' he had this to say about Medibank: 
The major act of nationalisation in a traditional sense, to be undertaken by a Labor Government in the next term, will be through the establishment of a single health fund, administered by a health insurance commission, with contributions made according to each taxpayer's means and treatment accorded to each patient 's needs. 
So  Mr Whitlam  set down before he came into office that Medibank was primarily his Government's first socialist program. This is why the Labor Party is so sensitive about it. It is not concerned just with questions of social justice. It does not want its socialist monument interfered with. What the Labor Party does not realise is that there is nothing magical about socialist programs and nothing magical about nationalisation. 
I am reminded that  Mr Whitlam  himself, in that same series of lectures, gave us the answer when he said: 
Few modern socialists would now maintain that nationalisation is the sole, or most effective, method of achieving democratic socialist objectives. 
He went on to say: 
For the community, it has proved little more than state capitalism, and for employees, a substitution of one remote employer by another equally remote, and one not always or necessarily more responsive to their claims or aspirations. 
I see Medibank as basically a form of state capitalismanother Post Office. I accept  Mr Whitlam  's criticism that it is nothing more than state capitalism as remote and as unresponsive to people's needs as any other monopolistic enterprise. 
The health insurance levy will help each of us to identify the fact that health care is expensive, and as that levy rises, if it rises, we will be aware that the cost of health care is rising. The exemptions from the levy will ensure that those who are poorer or in need will be spared the cost of the levy. The various ceiling or exemption provisions will allow people to limit their costs; and they will allow me- and people like me- to exercise my choice to be free of Medibank, to be free of a socialist experiment and to return to support the free enterprise system of health insurance in which I believe. 
I was shocked by the attack that has been made on  Senator Carrick  not only by  Senator Ryan  but also by  Senator Douglas  McClelland of whom I would have thought better. I have read the article written by Professor Manning Clark and I am shocked by what he has said. I should like to place on record what I find offensive in what he has done. 
It will not take very long, senator.  Senator Ryan  made clear that Professor Manning Clark is a man of impeccable academic background, presumably a man of standards and a man who works against the historical background of his craft and who is a living representative of all that history has thought to have taught us. He is the embodiment of the standards of the historians which means that he will write history without fear and will advocate that it continue to be so written. In his article in  Meanjin,  we find this man's prediction, this professor's prediction, that history will be distorted and that he does not mind that one little bit. What is said by Professor Manning Clark in the article referred to - 
For the benefit of  Senator Georges  who is a slow reader and who needs assistance, it is page 2 1 8. At page 2 1 8 it will be seen that Professor Manning Clark says: 
So perhaps one should add that the history of mankind is written by the victors. As it seems now quite certain that 1973 was an aberration, a temporary halt in the people's march to  victory,  the Government-General and his beneficiaries can expect little mercy from the historians of the people. It may be that in one hundred years' dme some research worker in the early days of the ' People 's Government ' will come across Kerr's letter to Whitlam of 1 1 November 197S and see that there was a teeny-weeny case for Kerr. But, if one may judge from what happens to historians in the People's democracies of today, that historian would not be given the paper on which to write his defence, let alone the opportunity to publish it. 
He concluded by saying: 
The people's historians judge their opponents harshly. So there is no hope for the Governor-General from them. 
What he says is that he does not care what the truth is. He does not care that some injustice will emerge. He sees a situation where a distorted history will be written. I am offended that a man of his eminence should write this and should accept it without protest. I am surprised that someone with the academic background of  Senator Ryan  should come in here and not understand that that is the thing that we find offensive. It is not a question of who publishes  Meanjin;  there is no objection to anyone writing an article. Nor should there be any objection to those who find it offensive getting up and criticising it. What we are criticising is not that the professor has written an article, not that he has not supported us, but it is my view that, in anticipating and encouraging a distorted view of history, Professor Manning Clark has debased his craft, and in so doing he deserves the condemnation that he received yesterday. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. The Minister will be aware that there is yet another strike in the oil refining industry in New South Wales. Can he advise whether this industrial disturbance is based upon some issue of wages or upon some issue of work conditions or safety? If it is not, can he explain to the people of New South Wales the basis on which they have been threatened with loss of jobs, extra costs and extensive community disruption? 
-The Senate is debating the Handicapped Persons Assistance Amendment Bill and it may be important at the beginning to take up some of the points that  Senator Grimes  was making regarding assessment of what we are doing in the whole welfare area. As he put it, we should know whether we are getting value for our efforts. I thoroughly endorse his concern that we should know with any of the programs operating in this country, no matter how worthy the client group, what the programs are supposed to be doing and whether they are doing that job. I notice that the main report of the Commission of Inquiry into Poverty had among its recommendations that an assessment should be carried out, and that there should be federal funding of State governments to evaluate services.  Senator Grimes  was making an important point in emphasising that we want evaluation of every program and want to know what is the purpose of any change. I believe that this Government is moving towards that objective. 
The Henderson Commission of Inquiry also made a recommendation that pensions should be adequate for specific disability groups and this Bill which deals with handicapped persons fits exactly the area about which Professor Henderson was writing. The Bill seeks to increase the benefit payable to handicapped children. It increases the benefit payable to organisations caring for the children. This kind of benefit has an interesting history. In 1968 it was first instituted by the Liberal-Country Party Government of the day. It was not then payable under the Act which we are amending tonight. It was payable under the National Health Act, and  Senator Grimes  has pointed out that in 1974 that Act was changed and a separate Handicapped Persons Assistance Act passed. The Henderson  Commission in its  reports designed to alleviate poverty and to make agencies more effective recommended that there should be loans to nonprofit agencies to provide subsidised accommodation. This Bill goes further. The existing Act provides grants for organisations and provides assistance. The money is payable to non-profit organisations which are providing residential accommodation and training for certain groups of handicapped people and there are quite substantial increases proposed in this Bill for those organisations- $3.50 to $5, as  Senator Grimes  has mentioned- payable from 1 November 1976. They will apply to 86 institutions caring for more than 1400 children. 
Also this year the Fraser Government is providing an increase in the handicapped children's allowance of 50 per cent, an increase which was acknowledged by  Senator Grimes  in his contribution, from $ 10 to $ 1 5 a week. This is further evidence of the importance we place on trying to support groups with demonstrated need. 
Let us look at what this program has achieved. Of the $30m made available for capital expenditure on new projects this year, $27m is to go on projects already approved and $3m on new projects. We anticipate that next year there will be expenditure of a further $10m and in 1978-79 of a further $20m, a very considerable capital outlay. 
All this is part of a concern of the Fraser Government to assist those in need, and in a year in which we have emphasised financial stringency and the need for restraint, we have still found it possible to assist, in not one but in many areas, groups in need and people in need. I am sure that no one in the Senate would want it otherwise. This is consistent with the stated policy of the Liberal and National Country Parties. Spending in our Budget on social services and welfare has been increased by 23 per cent, almost a quarter more than it was in 1975-76. It is a very generous increase. It indicated that the Fraser Government in its dealings with those in need is a compassionate and a caring Government. We have introduced the family allowances scheme this year- a significant and important reform. As announced in the Budget Speech and subsequently we will be replacing the means test with a simplified incomes test. We have announced that pension rates are to be adjusted automatically. We have announced that there is to be a housing voucher experiment designed to assist those in need. We have announced today that students in need will have increased allowances under the Tertiary Education Assistance scheme. We have announced the expenditure of more than $14m during this year on rehabilitation programs. 
Throughout this year of stringency, throughout this year of financial hardship, it has been possible for this Government to identify areas of need and to offer real assistance to the groups in those areas. I hope that with the easing of financial stringency in the next few years it will be possible to increase our activities even further and to take account of even more of the recommendations of the Henderson Commission and of many of the other welfare reports which have emerged. Again I would like to take up and agree with a point that  Senator Grimes  made in his speech. We do have in this country now a data base, a set of facts which we did not have several years ago. We have a set of facts which gives us some idea of the dimensions of poverty and the dimensions of need. It is now possible for us, working from these basic documents to construct programs to meet some of these acknowledged needs. 
This Bill, which amends the Handicapped Persons Assistance Act, is merely one such initiative. It is consistent with our overall program to identify those in special need and to give them real assistance. It is part of our program to protect the poor and to protect the weak. It is entirely consistent with our whole approach to welfare and our style of government. I would hope that the Senate would acknowledge that this is a Bill which deserves commendation from both sides. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Industry and Commerce. I refer him to the fact that the growth of wine sales in Australia last year, as revealed in the interim annual report of the Australian Wine Board, was only 5 per cent and that some concern was expressed about this. In view of published figures showing that each Australian consumes annually more that 140 litres of beer and more than 1 1 litres of wine, and in view of current concern about the abuse of alcohol, would the Minister not agree that many Australians will see the stabilisation of sales and consumption as a source of comfort and reassurance rather than one for concern, and that we need to work to encourage a whole series of measures to help to limit the ever-increasing rate of increase in the levels of alcohol consumption which has been apparent in the last 10 years. 
My question to the Minister representing the Minister for Health relates to the continuing unacceptably high loss of trained women graduates and diplomates from the health professions. I remind the Minister that only 50 per cent of nurses are in practice 5 years after graduation while similar drop-out rates apply to other women health professionals. Is the Minister aware of the scheme started in New South Wales by the former Liberal Government to offer flexible working hours for up to 20 women medical graduates to be retained in practice on a part-time basis? Since this arrangement is a start towards better retention schemes for women and is consonant with views expressed by the Women's Electoral Lobby and other women's groups, I ask whether in the Australian Capital Territory or the Northern territory there are any similar schemes in the helping professions such as medicine, nursing, social work or physiotherapy offering flexible part-time employment to the pool of trained women whose skills at present are lost to society? If so, can the Minister outline the schemes? Can she also indicate the extent to which the Commonwealth is moving to expand or extend such employment opportunities in the States? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) How many deaths from tetanus are known to have occurred in Aborigines in each of the past five years. 
How many total cases of tetanus are known to have occurred in Aborigines in each of the past five years. 
What is the available information as to the extent of immunisation of Aborigines against tetanus, either partial immunisation or full conventional immunisation 
Has the Minister for Social Security seen a simple new ready reckoner setting out the pension entitlements of pensioners in receipt of age, widow, invalid or supporting mothers' pensions? Since pension entitlements will rise significantly in November and since the means test is to be replaced by a less restrictive income test, will the Minister agree that a need exists for clarity of the new entitlements and conditions? Accordingly, if the new ready reckoner, which seems to be clear and simple, is accurate, will the Government ensure that it is made available for wide and early distribution to ensure that pensioners know and understand the extent to which they will benefit from the Government's new arrangements? 
My question, addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, concerns the sites of Omega stations. Is the Minister able to inform the Senate where in the world Omega stations, either completed installations or installations in progress of construction, are situated? Can he say anything about the existing or proposed network of Omega stations? 
I present the following petition from 17 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth: That the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Bill 1976, does not satisfy the Aboriginal needs for land in the Northern Territory. Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament, assembled should: 
Extend the freeze on European claims to the unalienated Crown Lands of the Northern Territory until 12 months after the passage of the Bill; and to provide for speedy lodging and heating of Aboriginal Claims. The hearing of the Aboriginal Claims have been postponed as a result of Government decisions, Aboriginals should not be penalised. 
Amend the Bill to ensure: 
The removal of all powers to pass Land Rights Legislation from the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly, particularly its control over sacred sites, entry permits, control over the seas adjoining Aboriginal land, the fishing rights of non-Aborigines, the right of Aborigines to enter pastoral stations and control of wildlife on Aboriginal land. 
The control of Aborigines of all roads passing through Aboriginal lands. 
The restoration of the Aboriginal Land Commissioner's powers to hear claims based on need as well as traditional claims lodged by Aborigines. 
The restoration of all powers vested in Land Councils and the Land Commissioner in the 1975 Land Rights Bill. 
A provision that any Government decision to over-ride Aboriginal objections to mining on the basis of national interest itself be reviewed by both houses of parliament. 
A provision that land-owning groups of Aborigines may apply to form separate trusts if they wish. 
The removal of artificial barriers to traditional owners imposed by the Territory Borders on all tribes so affected. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
As the petition exceeds 250 words, under the Sessional Order, it is not able to be read to the Senate, but the full text of the Petition will be incorporated in  Hansard. 
Petition received. 
I refer the Minister for Science to recent announcements by the Minister for Health implicating a bird, the nankeen night heron, as a possible carrier of Australian encephalitis. Can the Minister indicate to the Senate the areas in which this bird is found? Is there any evidence to indicate its capacity to travel? Is it known whether the bird acts as a passive reservoir for the virus or whether this impressively named bird acutally plays a role in the active dissemination of this very serious disease? 
-On behalf of the Public Accounts Committee I present the 161st report of the Committee. I seek leave to have a statement incorporated in Hansard. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Federal Affairs, concerns federalism. Has the Minister been able to test the attitude of the new Labor Government in New South Wales to federalism as a concept? Is he able to tell the Senate whether Ministers of the New South Wales Labor Government have expressed their own views of a federalist nature, favouring, for example, the rights of States in a devolutionary model as against the centralist, socialist model beloved by  Mr Whitlam  and the Federal Australian Labor Party? 
I was stimulated to join this debate by the words of  Senator Walsh.  I believe he raised 2 separate issues. One of them concerned the substance of some newspaper articles which related to a certain situation in one State. I do not wish to involve myself in that. The honourable senator then moved on to some aspects of the way in which we should treat certain people who may wish to come to Australia as refugees. I believe he was less than generous in some of the things he said about people who may look to this country for assistance and succour sometime in the near future. 
I have never supported the action of the Rhodesian separatists. I have never supported the policies which have been followed. I have been public about this and it has not won me any friends among certain people who would have expected me to come out and support what the Rhodesians were doing. I will not support a regime anywhere which is racist in any way or which undertakes actions with which I do not agree. But I cannot forget that there are in Rhodesia second and third generation peoplethe grandchildren of original settlers- who have had no say in what has happened and who, through no fault of their own, find a situation has developed over which they have had no control, which has had its own momentum and which they are unable to stop. 
I am sensitive on the subject of refugees. I cannot forget that in 1938 there was a refugee problem. I cannot forget that in 1938 there was a conference at a town called Evian and that Australia was one of the few nations in the world willing to give entry permits to the refugees of those days. Maybe it was to only 10,000 refugees but most countries would not take anyone. Australia would. We established then the kind of honourable tradition in matters of refugees of which I am very proud. I know may people who have left South Africa. The people who have left South Africa in the past are generally not people who have admired certain of the domestic policies of that country. Many of the people who wish to leave southern Africa now wish to do so because they are not happy with what has gone on and what is continuing to happen. 
In spite of my background I took it upon myself to approach the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  early this year and to beg him to recognise that in the Lebanon there was a refugee situation of major proportions and that our response should be, as it has been, to recognise the reality and to open this country again to people who may need to come here.  Senator Coleman  has just raised another aspect of the same matter. I make the point that I do not want  Senator Walsh,  in making his political debating points, to set out to raise a barrier against the entry of people from any country who wish to come here for the kind of life we can provide. I do not think that is good enough. He may have made some valid points in other parts of his argument. I hope that in considering what has been said the Minister does not lose sight of the fact that in the next few years we could be seeing an ugly situation developing in South Africa. It could be a situation to which the traditions of our country apply. These have been to admit refugees, to recognise people's needs and not to turn people away because we do not happen to approve of some of the national policies which may have applied, but to make them welcome if they wish to come here. 
Black or white,  Senator Georges.  I am trying to say that the essential fact is whether they need the chance to enter this country. I think  Senator Walsh  did not make that point clear. I would not want anyone to think that honourable senators wanted to close our borders and wanted to make Australia an island on this issue when it has never been one. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. Has the attention of the Minister been drawn to a report of a study by Professor Hollows on the disastrous state of the general health and the incidence of eye disease in Australian Aborigines in Central Australia? Since the data confirm the detailed findings contained in the report of the Senate Select Committee inquiring into the environmental conditions of Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders, I ask: Can the Minister indicate what action is proposed to deal with the problem. What decisions have been made in relation to the measures proposed by the Senate Select Committee to improve the general health and the vision of Australian Aborigines? 
My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. I remind the Minister that during the adjournment debate last night  Senator Walsh  referred to the citizens of Rhodesia as 'potential fomenters of revolution' and asked about Rhodesian citizens in the following rhetorical questions: 
Are they not, in  Sir Charles  ' terms - 
That is  Sir Charles  Court-  guilty of treason? Are they not the people who defied the Crown; the people who placed the Governor of Rhodesia, the Queens's representative, under house arrest? 
I ask whether this blunt, if unsympathetic, evaluation by a senator of the Australian Labor Party makes clear the absolute impropriety of attempting to bypass or ignore the Crown or the Queen 's representative and whether it indicates an implicit acceptance by the Labor Party of the possession by the Crown of reserve powers, including particularly the power to dismiss a Government behaving illegally? 
-I present the report of Estimates Committee D, together with the  Hansard  record of the Committee 's proceedings. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
Has the Minister for Education been made aware of alleged proposals that in order to avoid the conditions applying to the award of Tertiary Education Assistance Scheme allowances students should consider entering into marriages of convenience? Can the Minister identify the source of these suggestions? Can he advise the Senate whether or not there has been any fundamental change in the policy of the Government which would make such a course of action either desirable or necessary? 
The Senate is debating a group of Bills. They are the Social Services Amendment Bill (No. 3) 1976, the National Health Amendment Bill (No. 3) 1976, the Health Insurance Amendment Bill (No. 3) 1976, and the Repatriation Acts Amendment Bill (No. 2) 1976. All of them give effect to policies which give to people, which give increased benefits and which create a new and better system of welfare. I listened with interest to  Senator Grimes,  rather more than usually turgid address for some acknowledgement that the Bills were in fact Bills which conferred on people new benefits. It was 38 minutes from the time he began his speech, almost in his peroration, that he finally acknowledged that someone was going to benefit. To listen to the honourable senator speak one would have thought that these Bills removed or diminished in some way benefits which people had or entitlements which they possessed. 
The amendment which has been moved is almost the ultimate in the kind of hypocrisy we have come to expect from the Australian Labor Party since it left government. I remind the honourable senator that he was a supporter of a government that remained in office for 3 years and had in its possession some of main welfare reports, but did nothing about them. The record is there. The present Government promised that it would implement these reports, and it is doing so. The total welfare payments this year will be 32 per cent higher than they were last year- an enormous increase that receives no acknowledgement from the members of the Labor Party, who mouth their dedication to welfare but who have no intention of acknowledging when any advances are made to this nation 's system. 
This series of Bills gives to people in need. The Bills assist those who require help. They will be a real help to many Australians and they will ease the burden for many people in our community. I remind the Senate that they will provide a number of new social security programs giving effect to the Government's desires to assist people to help themselves. Let us just put the record down. These Bills will increase the standard and married rates of pensions and benefits. Why was this not acknowledged by the spokesman for the Labor Party? The Bills will provide for the automatic adjustment of pensions twice yearly. They will allow for the introduction of a income test to replace the existing test on income and means. They will allow for an increase in the rate of the handicapped child's allowance and they will benefit a large number of Australians who depend upon pensions and benefits. Many Australians will be grateful for what they provide. 
The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in his policy speech promised that we would 'preserve the real value of pensions'. This is what we are setting out to do. The Bills give effect to this promise. The total payment in benefits last year was $4, 148m, and this year we have provided $5,389m, an increase of $ 1,241m- and no word of acknowledgment and no indication that the Labor Party recognises the benefits that will flow to people, because the Labor Party does not wish to let the people of Australia know that there has been a real improvement and a real increase in benefits. 
Let us look first at one of the really major elements of this legislation- the provision of automatic adjustments in the rate of pensions. It is worthwhile recalling the enthusiasm with which  Senator Grimes  addressed the Senate on 27 April and drew to its attention that he was upset about the Government's failure to implement automatic adjustments. Let me point out that it is a very convenient fallacy to approach our Government in the first April of its term when it had been in office for 3 months and to try and castigate it for not having implemented its entire 3-year welfare program. In April  Senator Grimes  drew attention to the promises that were made by our spokesman when we were in opposition. I will quote some of what  Senator Grimes  said. He pointed out that in November 1975  Mr Chipp  was caretaker Minister for Social Security.  Senator Grimes  would know that in fact  Mr Chipp  was Minister for Social Security in the caretaker Government, but that might be a small subtlety. He pointed out what  Mr Chipp  said at that time. He said that it was quoted in many newspapers. He quoted from  Mr Chipp  's Press statement as follows: 
Pensioners would get automatic twice-yearly increases in line with the cost of living rises. 
Pensions would be out of the hands of politicians and no longer would be a political football. 
They would be automatic. Legislation will not even have to come to Parliament. 

 Senator Grimes quoted a number of other statements which had been made by LiberalNational Country Party Ministers and spokesmen. He attempted to show that the Government had been recreant because last April the mechanisms for automatic adjustment had not come before the Parliament. For example, he said: 
I think we may well ask: Where is the promised legislation? I do not think it is any wonder that pensioners and their representatives are annoyed and disillusioned. 
The fact of the matter is that the legislation is here now at the first opportune time we have had to introduce it since we took government. We have wasted no time. We are intent upon redeeming our pledges. This is one of the first we intend to redeem. It is our duty to carry out what we promised, to make the adjustment twice yearly and to make it automatic. We have done this within the first year of the Fraser Ministry. I suggest to those who would wish to criticise us that they should recognise the kind of time scale in which we will operate. We have a 3-year mandate, and  Mr Fraser  and his Cabinet will introduce the reforms which have been promised at a rate at which they can. 
It makes a pretty good contrast with what the Labor Party, of which  Senator McLaren  is such a glorious example, failed to do during its term of office. We will keep our promises. I remind the Senate of the policy speech in which we said that we would 'ensure basic level of income security for all through a cash benefits system operated by the Federal Government covering income benefits and emergency cash grants' and that we would adjust automatically pensions and benefits half yearly in line with changes in the CPI'. That is what we are doing. Of course, one can ask: How long was the Labor Government in office? How many opportunities did it have to examine the desirability of introducing this kind of reform? How many Bills did it bring in to make adjustments of pensions automatic? The answer is obvious; it did not even think of these things, because it does not think of very much at all. It is our job to introduce these measures. I would have expected that, in terms of common justice, we would hear the Labor Party express delight in welcoming this very major improvement for pensioners in Australia, this very major initiative which will mean that pension increases will occur automatically twice each year in line with rises in the consumer price index. 
We are also determined in these Bills to move towards a more equitable and simpler form of means test. For some time we have been concerned that the means test as it existed has not operated with complete equity. We have been concerned that there are people in Australia who are in real, demonstrable need and who are unable to get access to the income security system. 
That was highlighted by the Henderson commission of inquiry in its report on rural poverty. I notice that many of my colleagues from the National Country Party are in the chamber. That report of the Henderson commission showed that many primary producers who were in real and undoubted need were unable to take advantage of the social service system because they held large but not income producing assets and were excluded from any forms of benefits or pensions. It is entirely in keeping with what the Henderson commission of inquiry recommended that we should move to make accessible to those people some relief when it is needed. It is not as though we did not indicate that this was going to happen; of course we indicated that it would. It was part of our policy, in the same way as was our promise to make automatic within 6 months increases in the pension. 
I return briefly to the subject of automatic increases in pension. I point out that we will do something that the Labor Party failed to do. During its term in office there was no regularity in pension increases. The rises occurred after  9¥i  months the first time, 6 months the second time, 4 months the third time, 8y4 months the fourth time, a little more than 6 months the fifth time, and so on. We will now make such increases regularly and automatically. Two of the Bills we are discussing introduce minor amendments which are necessary. It we go on to examine the concept of an income test, I would like to say that we are going to build into the system more equity and more rationality. I was quite shocked to hear  Senator Grimes  concentrating his remarks only on what he saw as negative aspects, making no attempt at all to indicate that he understood the extra equity that will flow to a large number of people. Honourable senators will know that Professor Henderson, in his first report which became available during the term of office of the Labor Government, during the term of office of the socialist government which supposedly was working for the benefit of ordinary men, drew attention to the inadequacies, shortcomings and failings of the means test as it existed. He described the existing means test in these terms:   a treatment of assets which is a relic of far less generous days . . . 
He made recommendations which led us inevitably to the conclusion that the system needed to be altered. I believe that it is fair to say that the Bills we have before us now which contain these very major adjustments are the most significant social welfare measures, in the sense of the processes to be followed, since the tapered means test was introduced seven or eight years ago. We are building for the nation a new, more rational and more effective system. I would have thought that this measure would have been welcomed across the country. The Minister has promised that no pensioner will receive less than he could have expected when the increases are introduced in November; no one will lose when the increased rates come in on 25 November this year. 
These Bills provide part of a new system of social welfare. I cannot help observing that what we propose does not quite fit in with  Senator Grimes'  description of us as a conservative government which is intent on denting or blunting welfare. This year we have introduced family allowances, which the Labor Party was reluctant enough to acknowledge. We have introduced personal income tax indexation. We recently introduced a Bill to amend the Handicapped Persons Assistance Act. We introduced a new program of welfare housing for aged persons. These are major expenditure items, all directed towards those who need and use welfare. 
During its term of office the Labor Party had the opportunity to make pension increases automatic, but it did not make that move. It does the Labor Party no good now to oppose our moves in that direction. We have considered the move. We have now proceeded to implement it. I would have expected the Labor Party to acknowledge this move. The amendment moved on behalf of the Labor Party in this area is blatant hypocrisy. The Labor Party did not move to implement Professor Henderson's recommendations, even though it had his report for a considerable period of time. 

 - Senator Mulvihill may care to remember that we have moved to implement some of the Henderson recommendations which the Labor Government had but which it ignored and sat on. This supposedly conservative government in its first year has carried out more radical innovation in the field of welfare than the Labor Government could manage in its entire 3 years in office. The full implications of the family allowance scheme, the income test and the automatic adjustment of pensions will make a major difference. Those innovations have come from a government which is incorrectly labelled by those who not only could not carry out those actions but also frankly do not understand what it is all about even now. We understood the need for family support. We have implemented measures to meet that need; we can do it. The Labor Party showed no understanding of the need to replace the old means test. In spite of all its talk it is not terribly sympathetic towards those who lack an income but who have assets. We do have that appreciation. We understand what Professor Henderson was getting at. We understand the import of his report on rural poverty. The implementation of this income test is one step towards gaining for many Australians benefits to which they are entitled and to which previously they had no access. 
If we compare Australia today with Australia as it was one year ago, we find that pensions are higher than they have ever been, and they are higher because of the initiatives of the Fraser Government. We find that the election promises to make pension rises automatic have come to pass and will soon be a reality. For the first time the income test will replace the means test. I can only conclude with what we have always known to be true, namely, that from the days of Alfred Deakin to the time of the introduction of family allowances, it has always been the Liberal Party which has introduced the major initiatives, that most major welfare benefits in this country have come from our side of politics and will continue to do so. The Liberal philosophy means better welfare; it means better results; it means better protection for the people of Australia. These Bills, which I heartily endorse, are merely part of the framework of effective welfare which we are providing for all Australians. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
How many and what percentage of Australians aged 70 years or more take up the aged pension. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security. Has the report of the task force which has been meeting under the chairmanship of  Mr Bailey  been received? If not, will it be received soon? Do the terms of reference include the activities of the Commonwealth, the States and the voluntary sector in the welfare field? Since all 3 groups have a vital interest in the findings of the task force and since the Commonwealth and the States are likely to have access to the report, can the Minister tell us whether and, if so, how the voluntary sector, which will be the subject of some of the recommendations, will be able to see and comment on the report? 
-I present written answers received by Estimates Committee D since the presentation of the Committee's report. I move: 
That the answers be printed as pan of the report of Estimates Committee D which was presented to the Senate on 2 1 October 1976. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Has recent evidence from Great Britain indicated that the risk from exposure to asbestos may have been underestimated. 
Has a report recently been made public of a study prepared for the Department of Health and the Social Security Standing Medical Advisory Committee which raises new doubts about the safety of white asbestos as well as reemphasising the known dangers of crocidolite, the naturally occuring blue form of asbestos. 
Has an assessment of the significance of this study yet been made in relation to Australia and Australian conditions. If not, what investigation is planned. 
What forms of asbestos are used in industrial processes in Australia and what method of data collection is used in this country to ensure that any diseases related to asbestos exposure are rapidly identified and reported to the Department. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security. I ask the Minister: Is it a fact that the Income Security Review Committee has not yet sought the views of Professor Ronald Henderson in its deliberations? Since Professor Henderson has made quite specific proposals regarding a scheme for income security, will the Minister seek from the Committee an assurance that the views of Professor Henderson will be obtained before the Committee completes its deliberations? 
Can the Minister for Social Security inform the Senate of what instructions are issued by the Department of Social Security in relation to the administration of special benefit? Can the instructions be made available by way of tabling in this place for the information of honourable senators and those concerned with advising potential recipients and the public at large? 

 - Senator Wright has drawn attention to a number of areas of inappropriate expenditure that are of concern. I compliment him on the assistance he has been to those of us who have been concerned about parliamentary scrutiny of expenditure. But I just draw to his attention and the attention of the Committee that the Parliamentary Standing Committee of Public Accounts also has a responsibility in this area. It may be of some interest to honourable senators to know of some of the activities that are taking place in relation to certain matters to which  Senator Wright  referred. He mentioned computers. I cannot predict what the Public Accounts Committee will do in the future- it is not my place- but it is entirely possible that that could be one of the kinds of inquiries which it will want to undertake. I point out to  Senator Wright  that the matters to which he referred in the AuditorGeneral's report are matters which are required to be examined by the Committee of Public Accounts during the next year and the Committee will certainly carry out its duty of examining those matters. It will examine some of them by calling for submissions from departments and some of them by public inquiry. 
Specifically  Senator Wright  drew attention to the Overseas Property Bureau. I remind honourable senators that in the past the Public Accounts Committee has undertaken inquiries in depth into questions of dead rent, to which  Senator Wright  referred, and has published its findings. It has published reports on the question of delayed payment of debts by departments. Many of the inquiries by the Committee of Public Accounts have led to new Treasury regulations and new procedures. It is a Committee which has an impact upon the procedures of the Government. It may be of interest to honourable senators and of interest to  Senator Wright  in particular to know that the concern that he feels for the activities of the Overseas Property Bureau is shared by the Committee of Public Accounts to the extent that the Committee is at the moment in the middle of a public inquiry into the entire affairs of the Overseas Property Bureau. This is a public inquiry, open to the Press and open to all members of Parliament. It has already extended over 2 public hearings and it is going very extensively into the very matters that  Senator Wright  so correctly identified as being of concern to the Parliament and to all members of the Senate. 
I merely emphasise the fact that we have operating twin lines of inquiry. We have  Senator Wright  emphasising the proper role of the Senate Estimates Committees and the proper role of the Parliament. I simply want to set down the fact that there are statutory committees charged specifically with certain tasks which I suppose are moving in parallel. I would say through you,  Mr Chairman,  to  Senator Wright  that his concern in relation to some of the matters is not expressed by him alone. There are committees of the Parliament which are very concerned, for example, about the Overseas Property Bureau and which at present are trying to examine in depth by public inquiry what the Bureau is doing and why certain events have taken place.  Senator Wright  drew attention to some of the more infamous or notorious events which attracted attention to the activities of the Bureau. Like  Senator Wright,  the Public Accounts Committee is concerned to do its duty to work from the Auditor-General's report and to examine some of these matters. I emphasise that not only is there a common concern or commonality of interest but also there is in progress at the moment in a number of areas inquiries of the kind for which  Senator Wright  has called. 
I would like to raise a matter under division 120, subdivision 4, item 09- legal aid- in the estimates for the Department of Aboriginal Affairs. I start by saying that, when one supports a program, that does not mean that one should or can support the deliberate flouting of Treasury Regulations, of budgets and of all management procedures which government lays down for the proper marshalling of its resources. The matter I raise tonight relates to one of the Aboriginal legal aid services in Australia whose behaviour over several years has been quite disgraceful and which has brought the whole Aboriginal legal aid service movement into disrepute. I point out at the beginning that I firmly support Aboriginal advancement and Aboriginal enterprises. I support the legal aid services. I draw attention to the fact that the report of the Senate select committee of which I was a member acknowledged the job which the Aboriginal legal aid services have done and which they continue to do in giving Aboriginal people greater access to equality before the law. The Aboriginal legal aid services have done a lot to equalise opportunities for people for whom the opportunity was not available previously. 
Most of the Aboriginal legal aid services in this country operate efficiently, effectively, honestly and within their budgets; but the Aboriginal legal aid service in New South Wales, which operates in Sydney, has done nothing to make me proud of its operations. I has caused me, as a senator with a duty to the Parliament to examine expenditure of government money, considerable disquiet. The more I have investigated this matter the more disquiet it has caused. The legal aid service in Sydney has ignored ministerial directions not once but many times. It has ignored the budgets which have been set down for it. It has blackmailed successive Ministers and governments. It has ignored Treasury procedures. It has failed to satisfy its own auditors. I believe that it has behaved disgracefully, improperly, illegally, selfishly and in a manner quite destructive to the cause of the Aboriginal people. A history of trouble is associated with this legal aid service. I do not wish anyone to think that I am attacking Aboriginal legal aid. I am not. I am concerned that if this service continues it will bring the whole concept of legal aid for Aboriginal people into disrepute. 
What has happened is that one of the main officers of the service has used a simple form of blackmail. He accuses us of being racist unless we meet his every demand. Early this year at a seminar at Sydney University I had the opportunity to face these claims by him that we are a lot of racists. My response was to invite him publicly to give an undertaking that his service would work within its budgets from then on. He refused to give such an undertaking. 
It is appropriate to go to the Hay Report which examined, among other things, the Aboriginal legal services operating in this country. It expressed concern at some of the Aboriginal aid schemes. I start by quoting paragraph 4.13.7 of the Hay report which sets out the conditions under which these schemes operate. It states: 
Grants to Legal Services are subject to conditions, including the provision of quarterly certified financial returns and audited annual accounts. Councils are required to spend their grants only on those items which were approved, and to incur no new commitment or expenditure without prior consultation with and approval of the Department. The Legal Services have in many cases failed to comply with these conditions. For example, there have been failures to: 
consult with the Department and/or obtain departmental approval before incurring new commitments; and to 
lodge financial returns as required. 
The next 2 paragraphs of the Hay report expand the concerns expressed. Paragraph 4.13.8 states: 
Files examined indicate that even when financial returns were submitted, the Department until 1973 failed to carry out an analysis of them, and that when over-expenditure or over-commitment occurred there were no departmental assessments of the need for, or effectiveness of, the additional services provided. Attempts made by the Department during the period 1973 to 1975 to provide continuous monitoring and review of the quarterly financial situation of the Services were spasmodic and largely ineffective. 
The final paragraph which I will quote from the Hay report, paragraph 4.13.9, states: 
According to the Department's own financial procedures, non-compliance with conditions attached to grants should result in the suspension of grants to the delinquent organisations. However, notwithstanding the failure of the Services to comply with those conditions, the Department continued to provide additional finance to meet over-commitments and over-expenditure. At times the advice to Ministers in support of requests for supplementary finance provided no justification or explanation but simply endorsed the request. Furthermore, the Department did not actively seek to engender a more responsible financial attitude on the part of Services. 
-This is the Department of Aboriginal Affairs, with specific reference to Aboriginal legal services. I am confining my remarks to one Aboriginal legal service which I believe is harming the others. Having expressed this general concern, I indicate that I examined more closely the history of the Legal aid service in Sydney. I did it against the background that there has been a general improvement and that most legal aid services have recognised the need for budgeting and the need to work within their budgets. 
I am indebted to a former Minister for Aboriginal Affairs,  Senator Cavanagh,  who released on 4 November 1974 a Press statement which set out some of the history of the events surrounding the funding and the delinquency of the Aboriginal legal service in Sydney. In April 1973 the Service received $ 10,000 to get it going. In June of that year it received $ 100,000, with no budget at that stage. The budget was to follow. The conditions included the requirement that the Service provide quarterly returns. From the beginning the returns were late coming in. From the beginning the service was not complying with the conditions of its grants. In December 1973 a grant of $262,590 was made. In January 1 974 a letter was sent by the Department setting out conditions under which the legal service in Sydney should operate. These conditions were subsequently ignored. In May 1974, just a few months later, the service was out of money. It had no money left. An overdraft was arranged, and an interim grant of a further $ 104,000 was made. 
In July 1974 the Government was advised that the service had appointed extra staff without authority. The service was forced to go back to its approved staff levels. At that stage it submitted a budget of $ 1.1m for the ensuing year. It was given an interim grant of $91,650. Just a few weeks later, in August 1974, it had run out of money again. It was obvious that the service had disregarded the conditions of its grant. Six days later, still during August, a further $ 100,000 was given to it, to be administered through its auditor's trust account. On 30 September 1974 the auditor sent in a heavily qualified financial return. The auditor said that there was at least $54,000 expended for which he could find inadequate documentation. Honourable senators may remember that for several months there was the continuing saga of what would happen to the legal service in Sydney and what would happen to the unaccounted for $54,000. Gradually accounts were found, documentation was found. The missing amount came down to $8,000. By November 1974 $350,000 had been allocated for new premises in Sydney. 
In November 1974  Senator Cavanagh  said in his Press release that he was not willing to approve funds for outstanding debts until discussions had been carried on and a new proceedings agreed upon. The Aboriginal legal service in Sydney came to Canberra, and there was a demonstration. A demonstration for what? A demonstration for it to be allowed to have unrestricted resources that no other organisation in Australia could have? A demonstration for it to ignore all conditions, for it to be free of all kind of Treasury controls? This is just part of the general blackmail picture which it had used. Its outstanding debts in November 1974 were $44,108. On 8 November 1974  Senator Cavanagh  agreed to fund the service, to keep it going. I emphasise that this is not an attempt to criticise a Minister who, I think, performed with great credit in a very difficult portfolio. This Aboriginal legal service has a bad history. 
The budget this year for Aboriginal legal service was $3,746,000, of which New South Wales was to receive $930,000. With this background, when the consideration of the Estimates began, we explored the question of legal service with more than our usual interest. I refer honourable senators to pages 608 to 6 1 1 of the  Hansard  of Estimates Committees D, E, and F of 14 October.  Senator Brown  stated that the amount did not appear to have increased. He asked how the Government could claim that the same level of services would be kept up.  Mr Malone,  the officer who responded, when speaking about the possible diminution in service, said: 
Not necessarily, because some of the grants that were made last year were to pay debts which the services had run up and which they should not necessarily have this year. 
We asked what was the amount of the debts that were paid last year, what debt level had the Aboriginal legal services run into last year in excess of the budget. The information has subsequently been provided. The amount of unauthorised debts which had to be met by the Department was $293,400. I proceed to the examination which took place then. I asked  Mr Malone  whether organisations which give legal aid received money from the Department with conditions attached, and he agreed to that. I asked him whether they were required to work within their budgets, and he agreed to that. I asked him: 
Do they work within their budgets? 

 Mr Malone was forced to say: 
Most do; one or two do not. 
I asked him: 
Which ones do not? 
It is interesting that  Hansard  does not record pauses or long pauses or very long pauses, but there was a very long pause. It was not our intention to put the officer on the spot so I assisted him by saying: 
Do they include the service in Sydney? 
He was forced to agree that they did. 

 Mr Chairman, I intend to take this matter further. I notice that my time is nearly up. I will resume my seat when the time is finished. It might be possible to get the opportunity to continue now. If not, I will continue later. 
I am most indebted to  Senator Wright  and to the Committee. I will carry on with the facts that emerged. I asked  Mr Malone: 
What steps does the Department take to make organisations receiving funds observe the conditions of their grants? 
The answer came out: 
We have taken every step that we can think of. 
I asked: 
Have you been effective? 

 Mr Malone said: 
Not completely. The one thing which we have not been able to stop is people running up debts. 
I then asked: 
What has been your response when people have run up debts? 

 Mr Malone said: 
We have attempted to find ways of stopping them from running up debts. 
I asked: 
And you paid the money? 

 Mr Malone answered: 
In most cases, yes, because not to pay it would leave solicitors and others with debts for services which they have provided for Aborigines, and it would be unfair for those people to suffer as a result of the misdoings of the legal services. 
That is the answer of an officer trying to be reasonable and to assist the Estimates Committee. I know that he is correct, because I received from my friend the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Baume)  a letter from a firm of solicitors in his electorate- Messrs Johnston, Boylson and Dalley, of Nowra- which in September had more than $1,200 owing to it which had been owing for more than 9 months. The Aboriginal Legal Service had told it that payment was held up because it did not have any money. I went on to ask  Mr Malone  the following question: 
Therefore it has been an effective tactic for organisations to ignore the guidelines and overspend? 
The answer from the officer was: 
I believe  Mr Paul  Coe has a lot to answer for.  Mr Paul  Coe has stated to me that he does not believe in budgets. We have met him. At a meeting at Sydney University I asked him directly whether he was willing to work within budgets. He wanted to accuse us of racism if we did not give him all the money he wanted all the time. The other point that came out of the examination by the Estimates Committee was that when  Mr Malone  was asked about guidelines he offered some comments. Here I will be a little critical of the department. He said. 
. it is a matter for judgment as to the extent to which you should attempt to limit in a very direct sense what the services should do or whether you should leave it up to their independence to use their money in what way they see as the most effective way. 
I must say I cannot really agree with that as a blanket statement. I subsequently learnt that the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  issued a Press release on 13 February this year. In that Press release he alluded to the problems of the Aboriginal Legal Service in Sydney. I will quote a portion of the Press release. It states: 
Turning to the problems of the NSW Aboriginal Legal Service,  Mr Viner  said that this Service alone of the services had serious financial problems. It had not been prepared to respond to budget cuts imposed by the Labor Government and now had debts totalling S 1 76,000. 
The NSW Service estimated it would require at least $330,000 in addition to its budgeted funds of $841,000 to operate for the balance of the financial year. At yesterday's meeting,  Mr Viner  advised the Service that funds of this magnitude were not readily available and he would, in any event, have to consult the Treasurer. 
We know that an amount of $ 1 1 7,499 extra was actually allocated by governments anxious to help and anxious to respond. 
What has happened is that the Aboriginal Legal Service in Sydney has accepted quite literally the promise made by  Mr Whitlam  that every Aboriginal could have access to legal representation in every case. This legal service does not and has never acknowledged the limits of resources. It does not and has never acknowledged the Department's right to limit the available funds. It has never acknowledged the Department's right to impose conditions on its operation. That is to say, it has in the end denied the authority of Parliament to supervise its activities by way of proper financial controls and to determine its budget. 
I believe that the Senate Select Committee on Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders was right earlier this year when it stated: 
Aboriginal legal aid groups have brought major benefits for Aborigines in their relations with the law, where the services for such groups are available. 
Of course I want the service extended. I want it extended very much. I remind the Committee that on 14 October there was a meeting in Canberra of Aboriginal legal aid services. All legal aid services except one attended that meeting and participated. The New South Wales Aboriginal Legal Aid Service did not attend and did not participate. It does not acknowledge its proper relationship with the Department. The Aboriginal legal aid services are too valuable an initiative and too valuable an enterprise to be destroyed or brought into disrepute by one maverick organisation. They are too valuable for one irresponsible officer acting illegally to destroy them. 
I am pro-Aboriginal. I represent this Parliament on the Australian Institute of Aboriginal Studies. I am in my third year in that capacity. I was a member of  Senator Keeffe  's committee when we carried out our major study of the environmental conditions of Aborigines, and when under  Senator Bonner  we completed that study. I believe I am a very ardent supporter of certain current matters affecting Aboriginal welfare and rights; but I am no supporter of rip-offs, because the people who are being ripped off are the Aboriginal people themselves. If there is a fixed 
Budget and one organisation takes from that budget more than its due, the other organisations and other Aborigines have to take less. We have given a total vote. It is not the place of one organisation to use its muscle to increase its own share of moneys at the expense of its fellows. 
The Aboriginal people do not believe in blackmail. They laugh at us if we give in to it. We would gain a lot in terms of the respect of the Aboriginal people if we responded to this legal service in the appropriate way. That response should be in a firm and helpful way and it should involve a resolve that the department should implement its budget and implement the conditions for financial returns. If they are not implemented to cut off the money or to restructure the organisation. As things stand now the Parliament has lost control. I speak tonight to seek from the Minister an assurance that the Government will clean up the situation and that it will not allow the Fraser Government to be held to ransom any longer by one organisation that is bringing a very worthwhile and necessary enterprise and service into disrepute. 
I rise briefly, stimulated by  Senator Coleman's  account of the death of a child in Western Australia. I understand that she was making 2 points. One related to the question of communications which may have prevented the child getting proper treatment. I could not help noticing that she talked of an Aboriginal child dying of gastro enteritis. I simply draw to the attention of the  Senator that  the Senate Select Committee on Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders was concerned with this problem and with the undue contribution it makes to the death of Aboriginal children in Australia who, operating as these children often do on the basis of marginal nutrition, are particularly susceptible to gastro enteritis which plays a disproportionate role in the excess mortality we see among Aboriginal children. The Committee was given evidence by Professor Colin Tatz that the statistics have been so bad and at one time the Department of Health was so alarmed by this illness that it ordered the statistics to be broken into several sub groups, doubtless to get a better appreciation of the different manifestations of the illness. Evidence was also given to the Committee that in the Northern Territory, for example, many admissions of Aboriginal children to hospital are on the basis of gastro enteritis. 
The point I make is that the children die of dehydration.  Senator Coleman  made that point also. Our Committee was concerned with measures taken around the world to try to treat and overcome that problem. I commend to the Senate and to the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  the fact that some developing countries- and one example we were able to find was Swazilandhave been able to develop a very simply and practical measure to try to cope with acute lifethreatening gastro enteritis in infants.  Senator Coleman  is quite right; it is a very serious disease. In Swaziland they have set up a network of 14 tiny clinics, each staffed by a nurse and covering an area within a radius of 20 or 30 miles, and at the clinics fluids can be given by the nurses into the peritoneal cavity and that will save the life of these children. If this is done in developing countriesand as we in this country do not seem to be able to cope with the problem that emerges because we do not have the resource's or the personnal there is no reason why we should not copy what is going on in some of these developing countries. This information is contained in the 
Senate Committee's report. I know that the Government is aware of the report but  Senator Coleman's  speech tonight stimulated me once again to draw this to the attention of the Government. Anything we can do to stop these children dying of dehydration would be a worthwhile initiative. 
-I ask the Minister representing the Attorney-General: How many new civil marriage celebrants have been appointed in each State since the Fraser Government assumed office? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the Minister read a recent  Medical Journal  article on 'Hospital Staffing and Hospital Costs' indicating that costs per bed per day are higher in teaching hospitals than non-teaching hospitals, and that one major factor accounting for this is research undertaken in teaching hospitals. 
Is it part of the agreement for the sharing of hospital costs between the Commonwealth and State governments that research of an informal or unorganised nature such as is referred to in the article should be paid for at Commonwealth expense. 
What steps are being taken to examine the extent of expenditure due to research in teaching hospitals and to contain these costs. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Is the Minister aware of the contents of an article published in the  Lancet  of 3 April 1 976, at page 734, indicating an increased genetic risk to children born of men exposed at their work to vinyl chloride monomer (VCM). 
How many Australian men work in industries where they are exposed to VCM. 
3 ) What steps are being taken to inform them of the possible risk to children born while they are working exposed to VCM. 
What capacity exists for Commonwealth intervention to control occupational safety and to provide counselling for Australian workers whose wives may experience excessive foetal loss or genetic abnormality as a result of exposure to VCM. 
asked the Minister for Science, upon notice: 
Are the commonly used refrigerants and aerosol propellants F-ll (CC1,F) and F-12 (CC12F?) receiving attention as potential dangers to the stratospheric ozone layer. 
Is it claimed that these commonly used refrigerants are at present in the atmosphere solely as a result of human activity. 
Is it also suggested that carbon tetrachloride present in the atmosphere is derived from man-made emissions of this substance. 
What is the present state of knowledge with regard to the threat posed to the atmosphere from man-made pollutants. 
What monitoring of these dangers is taking place in Australia and what Australian information is available to confirm or deny the dangers which some of these substances pose. 
-Is the Minister for Education aware of the generally held view that children with mental deficiency should be treated in special school situations with less ambitious goals, later starting ages and less sensory input than normal children? Is he able to inform the Senate whether he has become aware of any experiments which seriously challenge these beliefs? Can he detail some of the quite incredible educational goals being achieved by certain children with Down's syndrome at a special school in Sydney? Can he advise the Senate whether the unit at Macquarie University which is carrying out this work enjoys funding support from the Department of Education or any other Federal department? 
I present the following petition from 122 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the natural environment of Fraser Island is so outstanding that it should be identified as pan of the World 
Nature Heritage, and whereas the island should be conserved for the enjoyment of this and future generations. 
Your petitioners humbly pray that the Members, in Parliament assembled, will take the most urgent steps to ensure: 
That the Australian Government uses its constitutional powers to prohibit the export of any mineral sands from Fraser Island. 
That the Australian Government uses its constitutional authority to assist the Queensland Government and any other properly constituted body to develop and conserve the recreational, educational and scientific potentials of the natural environment of Fraser Island for the long term benefit of the people of Australia. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Northern Territory, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the programme by which the Commonwealth will be able to reach a decision on the future of regional councils for social development in the Northern Territory. 
Noting that the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly has set up a committee to examine the future of the three regional councils in the Northern Territory, will the Minister advise whether or not the funding of this committee of the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly will be part of the Commonwealth Government's decision-making process. 
When will a decision be made as to the future of regional councils in the Northern Territory, and when will the decision be made public. 
-I present additional written answers received by Estimates Committee D since the presentation of its report on 2 1 October 1976. 1 move: 
That the answers be printed as part of the report of Estimates Committee D presented on 2 1 October 1 976. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I present the following petition from 7 1 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: v/That those who have retired and those who are about to retire, are being severely and adversely affected by inflation and Australian economic circumstances. 
The continuance of the mean's test on pensions causes undue hardship to them. 
We call on the Government to immediately abolish the mean's test on all aged pensions. 
To ensure a pension for all on retirement, and a guarantee that all Australian citizens will retire with dignity. 
Acknowledge that a pension is a ' right and not a charity '. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
Has the attention of the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs been drawn to a newspaper report of 1 1 November of a claim, attributed to an Opposition spokesman, that Aboriginal child mortality will rise within the next year to a level of not less than 100 out of each 1000 Aborigines less than one year old? Can the Minister confirm that Aboriginal infant mortality has fallen over recent years and that it continues to drop? Is she able to suggest any reason for the quite irresponsible claim that the rate would double? Is there any reason to believe that the Aboriginal infant mortality rate will not continue to fall under the generous and sympathetic policies of the present Government? 
-I present the following petition from 22 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth: 
That the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Bill 1976, does not satisfy the Aboriginal needs for land in the Northern Territory. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the Senate, in Parliament assembled, should: 
Extend the freeze on European claims to the unalienated Crown Lands of the Northern Territory until 12 months after the passage of the Bill; and to provide for speedy lodging and heating of Aboriginal claims. The hearing of Aboriginal claims have been postponed as a result of Government decisions, Aboriginals should not be penalised; 
Amend the Bill ensure: 
The removal of all powers to pass Land Rights Legislation from the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly, particularly its control over sacred sites, entry permits, control over the seas adjoining Aboriginal land, the fishing rights of non-Aborigines, the right of Aborigines to enter pastoral stations and control of wildlife on Aboriginal land. 
The control of Aborigines of all roads passing through Aboriginal lands. 
The restoration of the Aboriginal Land Commissioner's powers to hear claims based on need as well as traditional claims lodged by Aborigines. 
The restoration of all powers vested in Lands Councils and the Land Commissioner in the 1975 Land Rights Bill. 
A provision that any Government decision to override Aboriginal objections to mining on the basis of national interest be itself reviewed by both houses of Parliament. 
A provision that land-owning groups of Aborigines may apply to form separate trusts if they wish. 
The removal of artificial barriers to traditional owners imposed by the Territory Borders on all tribes so affected. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
My question, which is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate, arises out of the publication recently of a book by Major-General Alan Stretton, out of claims made in that book which have been widely reported, and out of several detailed letters of protest and rebuttal appearing, for example, in today's Press. Can the Minister advise what actions are proposed to make known the truth of certain specific allegations made by Major-General Stretton? Can the Minister assure the Senate that the Government will acquaint itself as to the correctness or the falsity of the various claims made, that any necessary corrective action within government will be taken, and that any persons falsely or unfairly accused on any matter can have their names cleared? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. Has recent evidence from the Australian Government Analytical Laboratories indicated strains of salmonella not previously known in Australia to be present in samples of frogs' legs imported from India? What is the extent of contamination of imported frogs' legs, and what danger of food poisoning can these represent to the Australian community? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. Are the yellow pages business directory telephone books for Sydney now issued in 4 volumes divided on a geographical basis? If so, do subscribers in any one area receive from Telecom Australia only the directory for their own area? Does that mean that many subscribers do not receive a directory covering the central business district for their city? Will the Minister seek from Telecom a re-examination of the present distribution practice to take into account the undoubted need for businessmen living in one of the suburban business centres to have readily available to them the classified directory for the central business district as well as that for their own suburban area? 
asked the Minister representing the Treasurer, upon notice: 
1 ) What percentage of Australian taxpayers took advantage of the automatic tax rebate in the 197S-76 tax year instead of identifying each claim for a concessional tax rebate. 
If final figures are not available, is the Treasurer able to offer a preliminary assessment of the percentage of people using the automatic deduction mechanism. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) What are the regulations pertaining to the prescribing of amphetamines in the Australian Capital Territory. 
What is the number of prescriptions for these drugs over each of the past five years in the Australian Capital Territory. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health and I preface it by reminding the Minister that new drugs cannot be marketed in Australia until approval is given by the Department of Health. 
Such approval has often been very difficult to obtain because of delays- up to years in some cases- before the Department processes applications. I ask the Minister What is the average delay in processing applications to market new drugs? How many applications now with the Department are of more than 2, 3 and 5 years duration? Has the Australian Medical Association recently investigated the lag in marketing new drugs because of its potential seriousness for patients in Australia? Can the Minister indicate to the Parliament the extent, in terms of more rapid processing, of improvements which resulted from new methods of handling these applications? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. In view of the fact that the latest surveys show that smokers represent a minority of the total community and of each age and sex group measured, I ask the Minister what progress has been made by Qantas towards increasing the amount of non-smoking seating in its aircraft to provide greater consideration for the majority group in Australian society who do not smoke. What is the amount of non-smoking seating, expressed either in numbers of seats or as a percentage of Qantas aircraft, presently flying international routes as our flag carrier? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
What views have been expressed by the National Health and Medical Research Council relating to the intake of compound analgesic and single analgesic preparations to the occurrence of various kinds of kidney disease. 
What recommendations have been made by the Council in relation to these problems and when were these recommendations made. 
Which recommendations made by the Council have been implemented to date. 
Has there been any recent move to invite the Council to make a further statement in view of recent evidence which continues to accumulate. If not, would the Minister undertake such an approach. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the Minister had drawn to his attention evidence that chemicals used in some commercially distributed semipermanent hair dyes can appear in the urine of users. 
Is it known which chemicals these are. 
) Do they represent any danger to women using the hair dyes. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommuncations. Do the advertising restrictions which apply in the electronic media to cigarettes apply with equal force to other tobacco products such as cigars and pipe tobacco? Is snuff advertising, for example, included in the restrictions which have been placed on machine-made cigarettes? 
I preface my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs by reminding him that I have been made aware that it has been difficult for some medical delegations from Taiwan to attend medical congresses in this country. Under what conditions are delegations or groups from Taiwan allowed to enter Australia to attend international scientific or medical congresses? 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Did the National Health and Medical Research Council produce in 1975 an Australian code of safe practice for vinyl chloride manufacture. If so, what steps have been taken to implement this code of practice. 
What is the Commonwealth authority in this area and what monitoring of the efficacy of the code of practice is carried out. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Did the United States Environmental Protection Agency publish in 1973 a report entitled  'Environmental Analysis of the Uranium Fuel Cycle'. 
Did this indicate that mill tailings piles associated with the generation of electricity from uranium contained appreciable amounts of the radioactive decay products of thorium-230: radon-222, together with some short-lived polonium-218 and polonium-2 14, lead-214 and bismuth-214. 
What are the health risks of these decay products of thorium and other radioactive materials. 
Does the Minister have evidence to support the contention of Professor Robert O. Pohl, in  Search  of August 1 976, that there is a significant health risk associated with the presence of these radioactive decay products. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security. I preface it by drawing the Minister's attention to the assertions which have been made that insufficient funds will be allocated to allow for the continued funding of the 75 per cent of the salaries of agreed staffs of pre-schools in New South Wales. Is the Minister able to advise the Senate whether those grave assertions are correct? What is the correct situation at present with regard to the funding of pre-schools in New South Wales? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Health: In what way might present animal quarantine arrangements be able to be liberalised when the proposed high security off-shore animal quarantine station in the Cocos (Keeling) Islands is completed? 
I remind the Minister for Social Security that when I was travelling recently in north Queensland people expressed concern about 2 matters affecting welfare services. I ask the Minister whether she can throw any light on the claim made by citizens of north Queensland that they were not able to place reverse-charge telephone calls to the regional offices in that area. Can the Minister throw light on the concern expressed that in some areas it was not possible, because of delays in the mail, to respond by way of income returns during the periods normally set down? Will the Minister indicate whether appropriate flexibility exists in north Queensland to cope with the special conditions applying there with regard to welfare services? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, relates to the increasing occurrence of diseases due to contamination of food and water taken on to aeroplanes at intermediate airports. Can the Minister give an indication of the procedures and precautions taken and the hygiene standards demanded by Qantas Airways Ltd in arrangements it makes for food and water taken on to flights by Australia's international flag carrier at intermediate ports along its international routes? 
-The National Health Amendment Bill (No. 4) 1976 seeks to resolve an area of difficulty which has arisen over a number of years between the Government and one of the major providers of health care. The Bill represents the success of the process of conciliation. It represents a resolution of the problem which otherwise would have had to be settled in the courts in an adversary manner. 
The speech we have just heard from  Senator Grimes  is important. Not only did he comment upon the provisions of this Bill but he also laid down in terms I have not heard before his proposition that the ideal way for pharmacy to be run is through a different system, in fact, a socialised system of pharmacy. I hope what he said will be brought to the attention of the Pharmacy Guild of Australia. I should like to refer to it a little later. 
The National Health Act is exceedingly complicated. It is an Act which no one, not even you  Mr President,  would want to read ibr light relief. It is exceedingly long and complex. Section 99 provides at the present moment that the Minister may, after consultation with the Pharmacy 
Guild, determine certain things. The crux of the problem has been that the Minister 'shall determine' and that the process of consultation need not be- the Guild says it has not always beensignificant or sufficient. The argument has been that the process of consultation has not always resulted in the views of the Guild being properly considered or heard. 
For some years this problem has been building up. We cannot forget that the pharmacists in this country play a central role in the provision of health services. After all, the receipt of medication is an important process in the cure of many illnesses. It is the final step for many people in the process which begins when, recognising that they are ill, they seek medical care. It demands considerable responsibility and it places a professional role upon pharmacists. I remind the Senate- I am sure my medical colleague,  Senator Grimes,  would bear this outthat surveys have shown that in large teaching hospitals up to 25 per cent of the drugs given to people are incorrect; either the wrong drug or the wrong dose is given. This happens in the best hospitals in this country. It is a fairly world wide trend. 
The process which leads to a person receiving the right medication is not an easy one. Mistakes are frequent and they can be fatal. In many of the teaching hospitals which take the more severe illnesses in our community it is said that up to 20 per cent of the admissions are related to the effects of drug therapy. That professional group in our society responsible for the disbursing of drugs, for handing out drugs for the population, are serving a very important and critical role in health care. The community deserves no less than that this group be properly rewarded, and properly regarded, and that the consultation which takes place with it be adequate. 
It was against this kind of background, dissatisfaction with the process of fee fixing, the feeling that they could not cope with inflationary trends and concern about the quantum of their return that members of the Pharmacy Guild negotiated with successive governments. In 1972 the Guild corresponded with the then Minister for Health, our former colleague  Senator Sir Kenneth  Anderson, as a result of which an agreement was made to set up a new inquiry into chemists' earnings.  Sir Kenneth's  letter to  Mr Russell  of the Pharmacy Guild of Australia of 5 April 1972 set out the conditions for this new inquiry and contained the following sentence: 
This information will be used to determine fair and reasonable remuneration for chemists. 
It was understood by the Pharmacy Guild that the inquiry which was then set up under the chairmanship of  Sir Walter  Scott would, in fact, provide a formula which would be acted on by governments. As you know,  Mr President,  the Government changed and the Whitlam Government came to power and was in office during the time when the Scott inquiry deliberated. I remind the Senate that the report of the Scott inquiry which had been set up in 1972 was handed to the Labor Ministry in May 1975. In a national newsletter of the Pharmacy Guild of Australia of May 1976 which contains an accurate historical account of the events which followed it is stated: 
It was not until July 1975 that the then Minister for Health,  Dr D.  Everingham, advised the Guild of a Cabinet decision to pay chemists 1 1 cents and 22 cents in retrospective payments . . . 
It goes on to say: 
As this decision was not consistent with the amount calculated when applying the recommendations of  Sir Walter  Scott, the Guild called upon the Government to appoint an arbitrator whose decision would be binding on both parties, as provided for in the 1 972 arrangement. 
That agreement was the letter which passed between the Guild and  Sir Kenneth  Anderson which provided for the appointment of an arbitrator under certain conditions. 
It was the Labor Government,  Mr Whitlam  's Government, which refused to act upon the findings of  Sir Walter  Scott and to proceed with the appointment of an arbitrator. The Pharmacy Guild of Australia said: 
In November last year - 
That is, 1975- when no action had been taken by the Whitlam Government, the Guild 's National Council meeting in Canberra decided to proceed with a writ in the High Court. As is well known, on November 11 there was only a caretaker Government. 
The problem that arose did so as a result of the inactivity of the Whitlam Ministry. It was a problem which this legislation now seeks to correct. We have moved to take effective action to overcome the problem. Early this year, as negotiations with the new Government began, we made an initial cash offer which was rejected by the Pharmacy Guild. However, it has been possible since then, by continued negotiation and the continued process of conciliation to reach a position whereby the subsequent action proposed in this legislation completely satisfies the Pharmacy Guild, as a result of which the writ has been withdrawn and we can see now the possibility of continued goodwill between government and this important group of professionals. 
The new arrangements provide for the establishment, as a separate entity, of a new Joint Committee on Pharmaceutical Benefits Pricing Arrangements. The Committee will consist of equal numbers of people from the Pharmacy Guild and the Government. It really does not matter who are the departmental officers sitting because if there is disagreement the ninth member of the Committee, the independent Chairman who shall be a Deputy President of the Australian Conciliation and Arbitration Commission, will make decisions regarding prices, and the Government has agreed to be bound by them. The obvious justice and common sense in this arrangement has appealed to the Pharmacy Guild as it has appealed to the Government. We are moving to a situation now in which the determination of the appropriate remuneration for pharmacists for the benefits they supply will move out of the political arena and away from a political decision by a government under budgetary pressure to be a decision by an independent tribunal which shall take into account a number of conditions set down in the new, quite complicated clauses of the Bill we are considering. The tribunal will be judicial and independent. I believe that this represents a significant advance on any system which has operated up till now in regulating the relationships between the Government and the pharmacists of Australia. 
I cannot leave this matter without reminding the Senate that the pharmacists are a responsible professional group in our society who have played a very significant role in health care.  Senator Grimes  admitted as much by expressing his concern about the maldistribution of available pharmacies so that some areas are not adequately supplied. There are 5500 pharmacists in Australia.  Senator Grimes  suggested that on a population basis we have more pharmacists than do certain other countries. He did not indicate, though, whether he believes that all those other countries have adequate numbers of pharmacists. The honourable senator would do well to indicate to the Senate next time he speaks what he believes to be the optimum number of pharmacists so that we can get a better measure. 
I must point out that the pharmacists of Australia will be very interested to hear the views of  Senator Grimes,  who is one of the Opposition spokesmen, who is a medical practitioner, who has dealt in a professional sense with pharmacists, when he recommends in considering this legislation that the pharmacists of Australia should be nationalised. 

 Senator Grimes suggested that he is dissatisfied with the present system of fee for service payments, and choosing his words very carefully the honourable senator indicated that he was looking to a system of salaried service for pharmacists. I suggest that the Pharmacy Guild of Australia take note of what the Opposition thinks is the most appropriate form of remuneration. The honourable senator stated that he believed a different system of payment might be more appropriate, and very gently moved around to mentioning that he would favour a salaried system. I leave it at that. I hope that the Pharmacy Guild will publicise what the honourable senator said so that everyone will be aware of it and everyone will understand his view of the way in which pharmacists should be paid and of the way in which they might operate. After all, as a doctor, who could know better than  Senator Grimes  what is appropriate for pharmacists in this country. 
This Bill is an appropriate response to a need of the pharmacists, and I was particularly disappointed when looking through the  Hansard  report of the debate which took place on this Bill in another place to read that  Dr Cass,  the Opposition spokesman, said: 
We had not resolved the problem. I admit that. The pharmacists were still unhappy, but at least they were interested in our proposals and we were proceeding with some constructive discussion to try to resolve the problem. 
I simply remind the Senate that so constructive were the proposals of the Labor Government of the day that in November last year the Pharmacy Guild decided to proceed to the issue of a writ against the Whitlam Government for its breach of faith. It is the Fraser Government which has found a conciliatory method of moving through this problem and which has proposed a solution acceptable to both sides. I am hopeful that the passage of this legislation will usher in a new era of co-operation between the Pharmacy Guild of Australia and the governments with which it must deal. I commend the legislation. 
I intervene briefly to say that I clearly understand the difference which  Senator Grimes  makes between the activities of pharmacists in the supply of ethical drugs and their activities in the supply of other services, over the counter services or non-pharmaceutical services. It is easy to understand that difference. However, I also clearly understand the honourable senator to criticise the fee for service system on certain grounds which he thinks are valid and I clearly understood him to suggest that there may be a better method of payment and that that method of payment might include salaried service. 
-For that portion of the pharmacist's activities. I merely make the point that I regard the substitution for fee for service payments of a salary or any other system where the state is paying as effective nationalisation of that part of that person's activities. I believe that it would be so regarded by most professional groups and that it forms the basis of the objections of the profession in which I practised for many years. The moment the state moves in to pay a salary for portion of their activities, most professional men regard it as being effective nationalisation of that portion of their activities. I put it to  Senator Grimes  that if he suggests that a salary should be paid for the dispensing activities it is semantics on his part if he then attempts to deny that that represents the kind of state control which most professionals fear and abhor. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister  for Transport, relates to the several recent episodes of food poisoning on international flightsnot only this week's report of food poisoning on British Airways flights but also the recent report in the  Medical Journal of Australia  of an outbreak of food poisoning due to vibrio parahaemolyticus picked up by travellers probably in Kuala Lumpur and Bangkok. Does Qantas Airways Ltd pick up and serve any raw food at intermediate ports? Does Qantas pick up and serve any seafood at intermediate ports? Does Qantas pick up any unboiled drinking water at intermediate ports? Are all members of the cockpit crew allowed to eat the same consignment of food picked up at intermediate ports? 
My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Treasurer. It concerns the supply of trained statisticians for the Public Service. I ask: When was the decision made to phase out the Cadet (Statistics) Training Scheme? Is it a fact that 1976 is the last year during which trainees from that scheme will emerge and be absorbed into the Public Service? Is it a fact that graduates from the scheme are absorbed into various departments of the Australian Public Service and not just into the Bureau of Statistics? Is the Government prepared to undertake a further assessment and reexamination of the scheme and its value with a view to reconsidering the decision of the former Labor Government to cut off this valuable source of trained people for the Australian Public Service? 
The Senate is considering 3 Bills, but I shall confine my remarks to the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Bill to which  Senator Keeffe  devoted about 18 minutes of his speech. The other 2 Bills, although important, will be dealt with, I believe, by other honourable senators. It is my belief that the Land Rights Bill is an historic Bill and that this is an historic occasion in the Parliament of Australia, because the passage by the Australian Parliament of that Bill is in its way as significant as the referendum result of 1967 in what it promises and means to the Aboriginal people of Australia. 
I have served on many parliamentary committees with  Senator Keeffe  who has just spoken in the debate. I have found  Senator Keeffe  to be a fair, just and reasonable  chairman.  But having heard his speech today, I feel a sense of shame at the way in which he has spoken in the Senate. He failed to acknowledge at any stage any of the advantages which will flow from this legislation or any of the things the legislation will mean to the Aboriginal people of Australia. 
The second reading debate is, after all, an opportunity to state some of the principles in the legislation and some of the goals and aims. It provides an opportunity to examine and to explore those principles, and I will try to do that. I will leave for the Committee stage consideration of those detailed matters which occupied so much of the time of the honourable senator who has just resumed his seat. 
The threads we draw together include, first, an expression in the Senate in 1975 when my colleague,  Senator Bonner,  who is the first member of the Aboriginal people to enter an Australian Parliament, proposed a motion which was agreed to unanimously by the Senate. It is worthwhile recalling to honourable senators the terms of that motion. They state: 
That the Senate accepts the fact that the indigenous people of Australia, now known as Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders, were in possession of this entire nation prior to the 1788 First Fleet landing at Botany Bay, urges the Australian Government to admit prior ownership by the said indigenous people, and introduce legislation to compensate the people now know as Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders for dispossession of their land. 
That was an expression of will agreed to unanimously in the Senate on 20 February 1975. We should join that with the thread that came out of the referendum of 1967, which was an overwhelming expression by the people of Australia to remove the discriminatory provisions from our own Constitution. We should add to that the thread which is provided by the findings of the Woodward Commission- a Commission appointed by the former Government It was appointed in February 1973 and presented its second and final report to the Parliament in April 1974. If we draw those threads together we arrive at the need for the provision of land rights for the Aboriginal people. We have had presented from both sides of this Parliament, and from the honourable senator who has given such a mean and ungenerous speech today, land rights Bills and land rights proposals. 
Today we are debating and will pass the first Land Rights Bill in the history of this nation. As one of the representatives of this Parliament on the Australian Institute of Aboriginal Studies, as a member of the committee that worked under the chairmanship of  Senator Keeffe  to examine the environmental conditions of Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders, and as a member of the committee which under the chairmanship of  Senator Bonner  brought in the report on the environmental conditions of Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders, it gives me a special pleasure to be able to take part in this debate. I remind honourable senators that the second progress report of the Senate Committee to which I have just referred was tabled, I believe, in 1973. At page 2 of that report the following appears: 
We see as an imperative need the firm establishment of a national outlook favourable to and actively seeking the restoration to the Aboriginal people of the fundamental human dignity and self respect of which they have been largely, and in some instances completely, deprived in the historical  development of European settlement and the exploitation of the resources of this continent. In justice and equity, this nation can have no lesser aim for the survivors of a people who have been so disadvantaged by changes forced on their traditional and highly specialised way of life and, until recently, so ignored by the national conscience. 
The provision of land rights is part of that response. This Bill is not the last word on land rights. It is, however, the first. It is the first step which this nation is taking towards Aboriginal land rights. Its provisions should be welcomed, acclaimed and acknowledged. 
I believe it is hard to over-emphasise the significance or the promise of this piece of legislation which will grant land rights to groups of Aboriginal people- something which the honourable senator who led for the Opposition forgot to mention. It will provide the legal framework in which land rights can be granted. It will attempt to accommodate the realities of land holding by traditional Aboriginal groups via land trusts. 
We recognise the difficulties involved in what we are undertaking. I point out once again that we see this legislation as a first step. This Bill will protect Aboriginal communities against exploitation of various kinds. It will create a framework within which the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly will be able to propose subordinate legislation. Only within this framework will the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly be able to operate. In case  Senator Keeffe  has forgotten, clause 68 of this Bill refers to roads on Aboriginal land; clause 69 refers to the protection of sacred sites; clauses 70 and 71 refer to rights of entry and clauses 73 and 74 refer to reciprocal legislation which might be passed by the Northern Territory. 
The honourable senator who interjects perhaps does not understand that some of these clauses create specific offences in relation to certain activities against Aboriginal land. Before people criticise, they should read these clauses of the Bill to understand what they offer. 
When the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  announced that he was introducing a revised, amended Bill, he also announced that if both Houses of the Parliament agreed, a joint committee would be created comprising members of the Opposition and members of the Government Parties in both Houses. He said that this Committee would undertake 2 main tasks: Firstly, it would examine the extent to which traditional land owners were able to exercise their rights under this legislation, and surely no one would object to that; secondly, it would examine the adequacy of the complementary legislation proposed by the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly. We are creating a vehicle by which we will be able to ensure that the provisions of this Bill are successful and that our aims in matters such as complementary legislation are properly met. It is hoped that this committee will be established before the Senate rises this week, that it will commence its work immediately and that it will be able to report to this Parliament by the middle of 1977. It is our intention that this Bill should be effective. By setting up this Parliamentary committee we are creating a watchdog to ensure that the intentions of this Parliament are carried out. 
I am satisfied that by this legislation we are moving to honour yet another of our election promises. We promised before the last election that there would be legislation to provide land rights for the Aboriginal people. This legislation provides those land rights. I shall not read that part of our policy document which contains our promises on land rights, but they are in that document. This Bill will move towards their achievement. 
I should like to draw the attention of the Senate to the processes which we have followed in introducing this legislation. We were aware of the public interest that surrounded land rights legislation. Honourable senators will recall that the second reading of the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Bill was made in another place on 4 June 1976. The Bill was then laid on the table for examination and comment by interested groups from the community, from within government and from all parts of Australia. I commend to any Australian following this debate that he or she read the sensitive, sympathetic and evocative speech given by the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs on 4 June when he introduced this legislation. It contains, in a philosophical sense, the reasons why we believe that land rights are so important, our understanding of the relationship of the indigenous people of Australia with their land and our determination that our legislation should be just and adequate. 
Since that Bill was laid on the table, there has been extensive consultation. We have not hurried or rushed this legislation through the parliament. We have ensured that the public debate could be complete and adequate. I am led to believe that the Bill which came back to the Parliament and which was then re-introduced in amended form on 1 December contained some 48 amendments. These amendments covered areas including the protection of Aboriginal rights on mining against decisions in the national interest so that any decision would be subject to disallowance by Parliament. They contained new clauses on sacred sites and rights of entry. This new amended Bill is the result of activities, representations and submissions by many interested groups, including, of course, the report of a committee of this Senate which was made available to the Government. We in the Government Parties have worked hard to understand the various points of view. We have worked with the Ministers in order to seek the very best amendments that we could obtain. I am proud of the amended Bill which has come before us now. I am proud of what it promises and what it offers. I should hope that during this debate we do acknowledge what this Bill does provide. 
I believe that in most parliaments there are very few moments which are as important as this one. We are dealing here with an issue which is one of national conscience as well as being a particular issue involving land rights for the Aboriginal people. The acceptance and endorsement for the first time in this country of the legislation before us says something about our society; it says something about our beliefs and mores. It says something about the kind of nation we are and would like to be and about our national morality. 
The Bill is historic. Actually it is not before its time. The House of Commons had a select committee which looked at the conditions of the Aboriginal people. Part of its report read as follows: 
We still must express our conviction that if we are ever able to make atonement to the remnant of this people, it will require no slight attention, and no ordinary sacrifices on our part to compensate the evil association which we have inflicted; but even hopelessness of making reparation for what is past would not in any way lessen our obligation to stop, as far as in us lies, the continuance of iniquity. 
This report by the House of Commons was not a 1977 report, nor even a 1937 report. It was written in 1837, 140 years ago. It drew attention at that stage to the requirements of justice for the Aboriginal people. This Bill represents one of the great steps along the road to providing this justice. 
As  Senator Keeffe  pointed out, white Australia has a sorry history in terms of our relations with the indigenous people. Our communal conscience is not clear. We cannot ignore the past. We cannot ignore the need to respond, not only literally but also figuratively in many ways. The blood of Aboriginal people is on our hands and on the hands of past generations of white Australians. 
Today in Australia, one of the most affluent countries in the world, we have in our midst a group of people who are disadvantaged, dispossessed and disorganised. In terms of their housing, their employment, their health, their education and their prospects they do not have access to the things we regard as proper and normal in today's Australia. Land rights will assist one group of those Aborigines to function in a way they want to function and to get a fairer share of what exists in this country. I was interested to read in the  Bible  from the book of Joel the following words: 
I will restore to you the years that the locust has eaten. 
Those words are not altogether inappropriate for what we are trying to do in Australia now. 
The Fraser Government has continued the work which was begun during the last Administration. It has reintroduced the land rights legislation. It has made itself available for consultation. It has accepted amendments and it is now determined to pass that legislation and to make it work. Let us keep the Committee debate, when we come to an examination of different clauses of the Bill, until we get to that stage. In the second reading debate let us at least acknowledge that we are moving in a real way towards the provision of land rights and greater justice for the Aboriginal people in the Northern Territory. I hope that today we can place on record that both sides of the national Parliament are supporting what are just and honourable proposals and what is decent legislation. 
I shall listen with interest to hear honourable senators acknowledge- whatever criticisms they might have of the particularities of clauses- that with the passage of this legislation for the first time the Aboriginal people in the Northern Territory will have land rights and that this will be good, new, positive and desirable. I hope that honourable senators will proclaim what is being given, what is being achieved and what is being offered in a bipartisan spirit. I believe that this land rights legislation does no more than offer justice in a humanitarian way to the indigenous people of Australia. I believe that it will be a monument to the Thirtieth Parliament. I hope that in the discussions which take place during the rest of this debate we can acclaim its promise and support it in the Senate. 
-On behalf of the Senate Standing Committee on Social Welfare, I present a report on the 1974-75 annual report of the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories Commission. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
 I say simply that I have listened with interest to what  Senator Keeffe  has had to say. He has offered no intellectually satisfying explanation why this definition, which was good enough when he put it into his private member's Bill, is not satisfactory now. I hope the Government will not accept the amendment. 
I merely say that clause 71 of  Senator Keeffe  's Bill is still identical with the clause in front of us. I think the Keeffe clause should be supported. 
-During the debate  Senator O'Byrne  offered to me a comment which I could not help hearing. I could not get the exact words. I will certainly wait until tomorrow to read in  Hansard  exactly what the honourable senator said. I thank him for what he said and promise him I will examine what is in  Hansard.  I will give it the widest currency in the community. I am sure  Mr Berinson  would like to read it. I am sure  Mr Barry  Cohen would like to read it. I am sure  Mr Hawke  would like to read it. I am sure  Mr Einfeld  would like to read it. I am sure many people in the community would like to know what  Senator O'Byrne,  the Australian Labor Party senator for Tasmania, said tonight. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Education, is related to the study of human nutrition in Australia, especially in the light of the widespread occurrence of problems of over-nutrition and poor nutritional practice in our society at present. Is the Minister aware of a recent gift of $500,000 from a private citizen,  Mr Alexander  Boden of Sydney, to establish Australia's first chair of human nutrition within the University of Sydney? Does the Government place a high value on the study of human nutrition and are there any plans for the Government, possibly in the form of collaboration between the Department of Education and the Department of Health, to attempt to match this private endeavour and to extend the study of human nutrition within our universities? 
My question concerning cigarette advertising in the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory falls somewhat between the responsibilities of the Department of the Northern Territory, the Department of the Capital Territory and the Department of Health. I understand, after some initial hesitation, that it will be taken up by the Minister representing the Minister for Health. I ask: Has the present Government altered in any way, either by making more restrictive or by relaxing, the regulations in relation to display advertising of cigarettes and tobacco products in either the A.C.T. or the Northern Territory? What are the present restrictions on the advertising of tobacco products in the Australian Capital Territory and Northern Territory, excluding restrictions on the use of electronic media? 
-by leave-  Mr President,  over the last several months, you have forwarded to the Senate Standing Committee on Social Welfare some 25 annual reports for its consideration and if necessary for report thereon. My Committee reports to the Senate that all these reports have been studied and that three of them, namely, Commonwealth Serum Laboratories Commission, Department of Aboriginal Affairs, and Norfolk Island were invited to elaborate in writing on certain matters raised in their reports. We await replies from Aboriginal Affairs and Norfolk Island, and table a short report on some of the matters raised in CSL's 1974-75 report.  Mr President,  in view of the pressure of business, we leave this report to speak for itself. 
I intervene briefly to take up a point raised by  Senator Melzer.  I am glad that she referred to the report of the Senate Committee which dealt with housing for Aborigines. I was interested in the mathematical projection which we were able to make from a paper provided by the Department of Aboriginal Affairs. The paper is entitled  Desirable and Anticipated Actual Housing Program for Aboriginals for the 3-year period 1 July 1976 to 30 June 1979.  The paper indicates a need for 1 8 000 homes to meet the housing needs of the Aboriginal people. I make the point that, when we were travelling through New South Wales taking evidence on Aboriginal housing needs, we were a little alarmed to learn from the officers who talked to us in various localities that no special arrangements existed to cater for those Aborigines who would be requiring homes under the Housing Commission program. I notice the honourable senator acknowledging that we obtained that evidence. The indication was that they were to be treated like everyone else. Our feeling was that that was not a proper approach from the Housing Commission. There were special needs and special kinds of responses were required. We were not getting those in New South Wales. 
Really, what I want to do, perhaps to balance up against what  Senator Melzer  said about housing commissions in one or other State, is to draw attention to the experience we had in South Australia. In that State we saw operating through the Housing Trust of South Australia a cooperative venture which was highly successful. A body called the Aboriginal Housing Board of South Australia worked with the State Government in determining a number of matters in relation to Aboriginal housing. Without labouring the point and going into detail, I believe it established a kind of model as to how housing might be provided using State instrumentalities and yet still recognising that the Aboriginal people want their own say and want to make their own decisions. My own view of the situations we saw operating throughout Australia is that the most satisfactory was the South Australian model. It is one that I would like to see extended and applied more generally. 
I understand that  Senator Keeffe  is moving an amendment which would have the effect of removing the words: 
. and includes any area that, by virtue of regulations in force under that law, is to be treated as a town. 
I turn to a Bill which was introduced in to the Senate earlier this year by  Senator Keeffe,  I find in that Bill is a definition of 'town' which includes those same words. 
I am asking a question of the  Chairman.  I interpolate here to say that the debate is not helped when we hear words from the other side such as 'racist' and 'sell-out'. We are here determined to try to examine these clauses. The honourable senator has moved an amendment to delete words which were included in the definition in his private member's Bill. I rise simply to invite him to explain to the Committee why that should be so. 
I was interested to listen to the remarks of  Senator Cavanagh  who usually puts with great clarity the problems involved in procedural matters. I understand that the present provision is different from that which was in the Bill which we originally introduced and which did not contain this capacity for disallowance within the Parliament. I remind  Senator Cavanagh,  if he finds the present clause so objectionable, that, again he may care to look at  Senator Keeffe  's Bui. 
You cannot get away from it, because  Senator Keeffe  's private member's Bill- the Labor Party Bill- contained in clause 71 identical words to those which appear in this clause, the only difference being that it referred back to different clause numbers. But in terms of the process of disallowance, it was exactly the same, word for word. 
I am just impressed by the fact that it is the kind of provision which is good enough when the Labor Party is proposing it but which requires amendment when we propose it. I am not impressed by an argument that there is something inherently wrong with this clause when I find that  Senator Keeffe,  who carefully prepared his private member's Bill, thought it was good enough in the appropriate clause to put in exactly the same wording, with exactly the same provisions, in exactly the same fashion. He will have to do better than that to convince me. 
asked the Minister representing the Mininster for Health, upon notice: 
Do any chemical plants in Australia produce trichlorophenol and are any of these in areas under direct Commonwealth control. 
In view of the recent disaster associated with trichlorophenol production in a chemical factory in the north Italian town of Seveso on 10 July 1976 and the subsequent delay in the taking of proper remedial action, what procedures exist for the immediate assessment of dangers of explosions in chemical factories and the early warning and evacuation of vulnerable civilian populations. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
In preparing estimates for the 1976-77 Budget, what allowances were made for price increases already agreed to for pharmaceutical benefit items. 
What increases in the costs of pharmaceutical benefit items have been agreed to during 1976. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. It follows a question I asked some weeks ago about the failure of a medical group from Taiwan to get permission to come to Australia in any representative capacity. While accepting that delegations from Taiwan cannot claim to represent China, what reasons exist which prevent them from entering Australia claiming to represent Taiwan? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport and concerns a request made recently to the Department by the Federation of Air Pilots that the compulsory period between drinking and flying should be extended from 8 hours to 12 hours, as it was previously. I believe that the Department has refused the request. I therefore ask the Minister: Is not the association a responsible grouping and could not the only result of such an extension be an increase in air safety? Will the Minister indicate the reasons why the association 's request was refused and the possibility that exists to have the decision reviewed? 
My question, which is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate, arises out of matters raised in the adjournment debate last night. I believe that the Leader of the Government in the Senate offered to try to obtain additional information. I ask him: Is he now in a position to give the Senate any additional information on the matters raised in that debate? 
The record of performance in the Northern Territory with relation to some matters affecting sacred sites has been appalling. History bears that out and I will return to this subject in a minute. It is quite fallacious for  Senator Keeffe  to draw from that the conclusion that the only right and proper way for the situation to be remedied is for the Commonwealth to exercise its power. The Commonwealth has always had the power and until this minute it is the Commonwealth which has possessed the only executive power. The total responsibility for the failures that have taken place lies with Commonwealth administration and the honourable senator wishes those failures to be perpetuated. The Legislative Assembly has never had any executive power but it will acquire executive power on 1 January. 
There are 3 requirements for effective protection of sites of significance, rights of entry and some of the other matters referred to in the clause. The first is that the complementary legislation should be adequate. The second is that the staff should be available to make it operate effectively. The third is that the enforcement provisions should be adequate and that enforcement should in fact take place. 
It is a fact that there has been in the Northern Territory since 1955 an ordinance in the nature of subordinate legislation which relates to the protection of sacred sites- the Native and Historical Objects Preservation Ordinance- and it is generally acknowledged that that ordinance is defective. One of the urgent requirements, and I say this hoping that this debate will be read in many places including the Northern Territory, is that this ordinance is improved and updated. I should like to place on record that the Territorians were amongst the first to acknowledge that a new ordinance was needed. An amendment was moved- I think my colleague  Senator Kilgariff  will help me if I am wrong- in June this year to try to improve that piece of legislation.  Dr Letts  has indicated that he wants a new ordinance. I imagine that nothing should be allowed to stand in the way of the provision of effective subordinate legislation. If the Northern Territory has no drafting capacity, then let us provide the Parliamentary Counsel and do the drafting, if necessary. Let there be nothing to stand in the way of the first requirement, which is effective subordinate legislation. Nothing in what  Senator Keeffe  has offered suggests that such subordinate legislation should not exist and that it should not serve, when it is passed, to enhance rather than diminish protection in a number of these areas. 
Dealing with the question of staff, the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly does not employ staff. Staffing in the Northern Territory has been in the hands of the Commonwealth. In a statement by  Dr Letts  in the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly, and I can provide the  Hansard  reference if it is required although I do not think there is any doubt about it, he suggested that 40 per cent of the tribally oriented Aborigines in Australia probably live in the Northern Territory. I should not think that was a grossly inaccurate assessment. But if we look at the number of site recorders, and there have to be site recorders for the effective implementation of an ordinance which deals with protection of sacred sites, although the Northern Territory has 40 per cent of the tribally oriented Aborigines it has only 5 per cent of the site recorders in Australia. Only 3 site recorders out of the 60 site recorders we can identify in this country are to be found in the Northern Territory. 
-The reason is that the Commonwealth has not provided the resources to enable more site recorders to be employed. The three who are there are employed by the Australian Institute of Aboriginal Studies. Victoria can find salaries for 13 site recorders, New South Wales for 10, Queensland for 13, Western Australia for 10, South Australia for 7, Tasmania for 1, and the Australian Capital Territory for 1, but there are only three in the Northern Territory. I simply make the point that no staff means no enforcement. I hope that when the subordinate legislation operates adequate arrangements are made for staffing of these positions. The ordinances on sacred sites, for example, which was passed in 195S and is subordinate legislation, has resulted in only 6 sites being designated. The operation of that ordinance is dependent entirely upon the Commonwealth providing the staff and the back-up resources. 
If I could speak briefly now about enforcement, it is here that  Senator Keeffe  's argument really falls apart. He seems to suggest that if the Commonwealth keeps control things will be better. I say that the Commonwealth has always had control and things could not be worse. The Territory will be getting some executive power for the first time from 1 January, and it is up to us to give the Territorians a chance to do a better job. I remind honourable senators that the examples of what has happened under Commonwealth supervision are pretty horrendous. At Mount Saunders near Gove, where a gap 15 ft by 6 ft was driven into the cliff face by bulldozers during mining operations, Commonwealth supervision in the executive sense operated. I could give more details if I have to come back to it.  Senator Bonner  will remember the questions he asked about Quail Island. Two groups of Aboriginal people claim Quail Island as part of their dreaming and their hunting ground, but for years it has been used as a site for bombing target practice. Has it been used by the Northern Territory authorities? Of course not. It is in use by Commonwealth authorities, the Department of Defence.  Senator Cavanagh  will remember what I thought was a careful and generous answer he gave in this place last year to  Senator Bonner,  who raised the possibility of doing something about that situation. But it was a Commonwealth matter that Quail Island had been used in that way. 
We know that Aborigines are claiming the right to go back to Quail Island. In his answer,  Senator Cavanagh  drew attention to his concern that there might be unexploded shells there, and he referred to safety. I am not objecting to his answer; I am saying that Commonwealth activity, the kind of control  Senator Keeffe  wants perpetuated, did not do much good to the people of Quail Island. I refer to Top Springs and point out that when the road from Katherine to Wave Hill was being constructed carved stones were crushed for gravel by the Department of Construction, another Commonwealth department whose activities resulted in the destruction of material important to the Aboriginal people. The Department of Construction established a gravel pit. It was removed at the request of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs but some of the carved stones now form part of the road surface. 
In the report on the National Estate, and I refer the Senate to paragraph 5.44, it is stated that when the Department of Civil Aviation- not a Northern Territory instrumentality but another Commonwealth Department- wanted to surface an airstrip in Arnhem Land it used shells and ash from one of the largest Aboriginal shell mounds recorded in Australia. I will quote from the report on the National Estate: 
In spite of specialist advice to the Northern Territory administration- 
That is Commonwealth Northern Territory administration- that the practice should cease ... the same material was used for the same purpose, together with the destruction of other mounds some kilometres distant The use of midden  material for roads, filling and even lime burning has been recorded from many areas throughout the continent. 
The point is that there is no validity to the claim that the Commonwealth has always protected or could more effectively protect some of the sites. 
Finally, I must say that until recently, when I read the Northern Territory  Newsletter,  I was not aware that the executive power involved would be passing to the Northern Territory on 1 January. It is only fair to realise that a new situation exists, that a new capacity will flow to the Territory, and I believe it is appropriate that the provisions in this clause should remain. 

 - Mr President, my question is directed to you. I preface the question by reminding you of a vigorous debate in the Senate this week in which frequent reference was made to the Legislative Assembly of the Northern Territory. Does the protection afforded by standing order 418 against the use of offensive words in respect of a House of a State Parliament extend to offensive words used in respect of an elected assembly in a Territory? If appropriate,  Mr President,  would you be willing to refer this question and the possible need for an extension of standing order 418 to the next meeting of the Standing Orders Committee? 
Can the Minister representing the Minister for Health give details of the inadvertent mixing of opium poppy seeds with lucerne in seed supplied recently to a Victorian farmer? Is not control of opium poppy growing strictly administered by the Commonwealth, by licensing and by strict supervision of the production areas? If so, how did this astonishing accident occur? Are there any other known instances of opium poppy seed being made available inadvertently? What effort is being made to review the security measures surrounding the licit supply and availability of opium poppy seed in Australia to ensure that all growing of poppies is under proper statutory supervision and control and to prevent the emergence of an illicit opium industry? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. To what extent are Australian domestic airlines, one of which is a statutory authority of the Commonwealth, permitted to sell more air tickets than there are seats on aircraft? What regulations exist to prevent or to police this practice? What are the rights of a passenger who, having purchased a ticket and believing that he is able to travel on a particular flight, finds that he is off-loaded because of overbooking? Is there any move to insist that airlines indicate to all extra passengers that in fact they are only waitlisted for a particular flight? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
Is the comparative table appearing in the  Bulletin  of 27 November 1976 at page 4, showing the comparative staff per aeroplane for various airlines a substantially accurate one. If so, can the Minister identify why Qantas Airways Limited 's staffing should apparently be so much greater than that of its competitors. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. In view of the imminent admission to Australia as conference observers of members of the Palestine National Council with which the Palestine Liberation Organisation is affiliated, I ask the following questions: Will the Minister confirm that admission of the Palestine Liberation Organisation members as observers in Australia does not constitute recognition either now or in the future of the Palestine Liberation Organisation? Will the Minister confirm that the Australian Government's well known total opposition to international terrorism including outrages perpetrated around the world by the PLO remains undiminished? Finally, does Australia's opposition to the United Nations according recognition to the PLO remain unqualified while that Organisation continues to have as its avowed policy the destruction of Israel, a member state of the United Nations? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Education, follows the question asked yesterday by  Senator Walters  concerning alleged physical intimidation of delegates to the Australian Union of Students conference. Can he assure the Senate that control of the Australian Union of Students is vested by democratically impeccable procedures free of intimidation, threats and violence? 
Has the attention of the Minister representing the Minister for Health been drawn to recent complaints by physiotherapists in private practice that the Health Commission of New South Wales has made a ruling denying them the right to treat patients in a number of Schedule 3 hospitals? Is it true that previously private physiotherapists were able to supply services to public patients in these hospitals, either free or at greatly reduced costs, and that in return they were able to care for private patients on a fee for service basis? Are these New South Wales hospitals now compelled to advertise for physiotherapy staff to render treatments on a sessional basis and, as a result, is the previous comprehensive service now reduced to limited sessional service only on 5 days a week? Does this mean inconvenience and perhaps unnecessary suffering to patients in New South Wales? Will the Federal Government take up this matter with the New South Wales Health Commission to try to correct this situation? 
The Senate is considering the Public Service Amendment (First Division Officers) Bill, which provides, among other things, for the method of appointment of some First Division officers within the Public Service. It provides for procedures to regulate the entry of what might be called outside or new blood into the top levels of the Public Service. It provides for a means of termination of appointments from outside the Public Service if that is thought desirable with a change of government. 
I must agree with some of the propositions put forward by  Senator Button.  I have no doubt that our Public Service can benefit from the entry of people outside the service to top positions. The concern which many of us have felt has been about the permanency which, up to this time, such appointments carry. There is the dilemma between the permanency which goes with established Public Service career appointments and the benefit which can flow from the entry of independent, new thought into the Public Service by a government anxious to see its programs carried out. 
I do not wish it to be thought that I find anything frightening or undesirable about appointments to senior positions from outside the service. This Bill, however, by providing a framework within which such appointments can be regulated and within which they can be terminated, if necessary, in fact enhances the capacity of a government to appoint such people without controversy and without its motives being misunderstood. Having read the report of the debate in another place, it is interesting how few speakers, particularly from the Opposition, have sought to examine any of the appointments which were made to positions of head of department within the Australian Public Service. It is a fact that during the time the Australian Labor Party was in government 3 appointments highlighted the problem which could arise. These were 3 political appointments to heads of government departments of former secretaries of  Mr Whitlam. 
I shall come back to discuss each of these men. In order that the honourable senator opposite will not have apoplexy I point out that I intend to make it clear that I consider them men of eminence and capacity. I do not necessarily deplore the fact that they entered the Public Service. I depore the fact that under the conditions then operating their entry meant permanence in the Public Service and it blocked for all time the career opportunities of men who had come through the service. I make that quite clear. The Australian Labor Party would help us if it examined the problems which the entry of people from outside the service can pose to those officers who have made a career working themselves through the service and who see that all promotions to top level can be blocked by a government simply bringing in its own people. Even if it loses office later those people are permanently in possession of jobs in the First Division. 
I believe that we are looking at the way in which there should be an interplay between the Executive, Parliament, the judiciary, a courageous Press and the Public Service. The amount of power within the Public Service, particularly within certain parts of the Public Service, makes it of great importance to our community to examine the way in which appointments are made, the way in which we go about seeking people to take jobs within the Public Service, the way in which our departments are structured, the way in which they are led and the way in which those appointments, when they have been made, are given tenure or the way in which that can be discontinued. 
I agree with  Senator Button  that institutions have a certain common dynamic. Most institutions function in a similar way. There is not much difference in the kind of group dynamic operating between a prison, a school, a monastery, a parliament or a government department. They all have the same kind of rules of power. They all operate, whatever their ostensible purpose, by certain hidden agendas which have to do with the use and distribution of power within the institution for the purposes of the people working there. Those hidden agendas may have very little do to with the intended purposes for which that institution or department is working. 
Nevertheless, I believe there has been considerable benefit to this country from the existence of an independent, non-partisan- in public at least- Public Service to advise Ministers of State. It has not been entirely beneficial. As  Senator Button  pointed out, it is true that with the neutrality we get, we also tend to get an inbreeding. We tend to get an entrenchment of beliefs, ideas and practices. I commend honourable senators to the essays by Professor David Butler in his very excellent and readable book  The Canberra Model.  In it, in looking at the question of the right of public servants to speak publicly, Professor Butler makes some effort to examine the kinds of relationships which should exist between senior public servants and the Ministers of State whom they serve. He draws up the arguments between a neutral Public Service and an activist Public Service and, I think, comes down on balance in favour of the model which has been traditional in this country. Nevertheless, there can be value in providing a flexible mechanism by which it is possible to vary the appointment of officers of the First Division. 
The present Bill concerns the appointment of only some First Division officers. It is concerned with the method of appointment of heads of departments. Certain other First Division officersfor example, the heads of parliamentary departments and of some statutory authorities- are not covered by the provisions of this Bill. That would mean that the appointment of, say, the Commissioner of Community Relations would not be covered by the provisions of this Bill. The Bill refers only to those First Division officers who are appointed as permanent heads of departments. 
I do not believe that  Senator Button  did justice to the kinds of procedures which have been suggested or which are envisaged because at all times there is a capacity to seek a wider choice. At all times there is a capacity to go outside the Public Service when seeking the officer one wants. As I understand the arrangements, there will be a committee formed from within the Public Service when an appointment occurs or when a vacancy is about to occur. It is true that that committee will draw up its own short list for presentation to the Minister and the Prime Minister, but there is no requirement upon it to select only from within the Public Service. That committee can go where it wants to seek people who might be suitable for appointment as head of a Public Service department. 
The committee can go wherever it wishes to seek a candidate. When that short list is presented the Prime Minister, the Cabinet or the Government is not obliged to act upon the recommendations which come from that committee and can then put the appointment to public advertisement. The responsibility rests where it ought to rest, with the government of the day and the Ministers of that Government. It is up to the government of the day in the end to appoint whoever it wishes. The matter can go to advertisement, a longer list can be sought, and in the end the committee meeting again can make another recommendation or series of recommendations, and again the Government can make its own decision on whether it wishes to accept that recommendation. The Government at all times maintains the capacity and right to appoint an outside person. 
All this Bill does, besides setting down that selection procedure, is determine that if a government decides to appoint a non-career public servant certain conditions will apply to that appointment. I think that those conditions will provide security for career officers within the Public Service and some security for people coming into the Public Service from outside. It will come as no surprise to those honourable senators who have read Alvin Toffler's book  Future Shock  when I say that many people today are not seeking one career which will take them over a lifetime. Many people are prepared to see themselves recycled in a professional sense several times in a lifetime to have the experience of different careers and jobs. Certainly there are many people who would be willing to come into the Public Service and who would be reassured by the conditions that would attach to appointments by government of outside persons. 
The conditions would include appointment for a period of up to 5 years- a fixed term publicly identified and stated. It would be an appointment which could be terminated by the Governor-General upon the advice of the Prime Minister should the government of the day change. If the new government found the appointee unsuitable it would arrange his dismissal but, in order to protect him, there are provisions for a negotiated settlement under fair conditions at termination with respect to such things as superannuation arrangements. I well remember the interest which a number of honourable senators had in the abolition of a statutory commission of the Commonwealth, the Social Welfare Commission. There was a period when we had a lively interest in what would happen to the head of that Commission when the Commission was abolished. As is well known, the Fraser Government made most generous and adequate arrangements which were satisfactory to that officer and to all the people who were interested. However, this raised the question of the legitimate rights of a First Division officer when a commission is abolished or, as would happen under this legislation, when an officer's service is no longer required. 
I do not believe that there is necessarily anything wrong with what might be called the American system of patronage appointments where the incoming government puts its own people into senior positions. In America the system works consistently and on a change of government those people go. 
The problems with the present system here certainly have been highlighted by 3 appointments made by the Labor Government during its term of office- the appointment of  Mr Menadue  as Secretary of the Department of Prime Minister and Cabinet, the appointment of  Dr Wilenski  as Secretary of the Department of Labor and Immigration and the appointment of  Mr Spigelman  as Secretary of the Department of the Media. Those are the 3 important appointments made by the Labor Government which forced us to concentrate our attention on this problem. 
The position of Secretary of the Department of Prime Minister and Cabinet is one of the 3 pivotal positions of power in Canberra. Those positions are the Secretary of the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet, the Secretary of the Department of the Treasury and the  Chairman  of the Public Service Board. The Labor Party put one of its men into one of those positions when it was in office. Lest it be thought that I am attacking these men, I am not.  Mr Medadue  had been private secretary to  Mr Whitlam,  and he was Secretary of the Department of Prime Minister and Cabinet between 16 December 1974 and 20 September 1976.  Mr Spigelman  was a brilliant law graduate from the university which I attended. He was private secretary to  Mr Whitlam  and was appointed Secretary of the Department of the Media, Labor's propaganda department, between 30 June 1975 and 22 December 1975. 
I was interested to learn of the vehemence with which the Public Service unions attacked that particular appointment. I simply remind  Senator Button,  who interjects, that  Mr N.  Campbell, the Federal Secretary of the Administrative and Clerical Officers Association, said that the placing of  Mr Spigelman  in the Media post could be described only as ' an expensive national scandal'. That was the view of unionists whose members were working in the Department at the time.  Mr Spigelman,  of course, is now working on the New South Wales Law Reform Commission.  Dr Wilenski  has had a quite remarkable career from the time he started off, like so many other people, as a junior resident at the Royal North Shore Hospital. If I might just digress, in looking at the people who have come to this Parliament- Cass, Klugman, Everingham, Grimes, Wilenski and myself- one wonders what is wrong with the Royal North Shore Hospital that so many of its graduates leave medicine for ever and enter upon the road of politics or public administration.  Dr Wilenski,  like so many members of this Parliament, left medicine and has had a distinguished academic career. He too was private secretary to  Mr Whitlam.  He too was placed in the position of secretary of one of the departments of State, in his case serving as Secretary of the former Department of Labour and Immigration between March 1975 and December 1975. 
Under the provisions proposed in this Bill, those appointments could have been made and, with a change of government, the services of those officers could have been terminated by negotiation. I would find that quite unexceptionable. I believe that the Public Service would benefit from a greater capacity to allow in outsiders, but that the conditions attaching to such appointments should be regulated as suggested in this Bill. There is nothing wrong in a government bringing in its own men, however partisan they may be or however dedicated to a particular political view, provided that with a change of government their services can be terminated, as happens in the United States. That is a consistent and proper approach, and I suspect that career officers in the Public Service would find it far less threatening than the position at the present time, where any appointment from the outside means an appointment with life tenure. 
There have not been a lot of appointments made to the position of permanent head from outside the Public Service. I am aware that  Sir Kenneth  Bailey was appointed in 1946 as the head of the Attorney-General's Department, but he came from the position of Professor of Public Law at the University of Melbourne.  Sir Hugh  Ennor, an extremely eminent Australian scientist, came in 1967 from the John Curtin School of Medical Research to the position of Secretary of the Department of Education and Science. In 1973  Mr C.  C. Halton came from the position of Senior Administering Executive, Planning and  Major Projects,  in the Federal Ministry of Transport in Canada to the position of Secretary of the Department of Transport. A few other appointments have been made from outside-  Sir Robert  Jackson to National Development,  Dr McMichael  from the Public Service of New South Wales, and Major-General Refshauge to the Department of Health, and Air Marshal  Sir Richard  Williams, who went to Civil Aviation in 1946, as well as 3 secretaries to  Mr Whitlam  who went to 3 departments during the time of the last Government. 
I do not believe it is necessary that all positions at the head of the Public Service should be career positions, but I believe that the permanent officers should have a fair go and a fair career structure. The proposals contained in this Bill, proposals which are soon to become law, will ensure that the just and proper claims of career public servants are at least considered. They will ensure that a government retains the capacity, if it so wishes, to appoint its own people. After all, we have a good history of people appointing those sympathetic to their views.  Mr Whitlam,  for example, appointed a Governor-General whose views he knew were sympathetic to his own. There have been several other appointments for limited periods to which I cannot object.  Senator Sibraa  is not in the chamber, but those of us who come from Collaroy will remember our neighbour, ex-Senator John Armstrong, who went to London as our national representative for a fixed period of time. I see nothing wrong with that. 
I believe that in the years ahead we may have to look at some kind of separation of powers within the Australian system. One of the things that Ministers and Prime Ministers need is some kind of fresh and independent advice in areas which they consider to be particularly sensitive or particularly important to their program. If they wish to bring in outside people let them do so, but under the conditions provided in this piece of legislation. As  Senator Button  has pointed out, there is nothing wrong with innovation or innovative ideas, with freshness, originality or creativity. Under the new arrangements, the Government has the capacity to allow those things without interfering with the traditional Public Service structure. 
This measure will restore confidence within the Public Service. It will restore confidence to those officers in the Public Service who are looking for appointment to top positions. It will ensure fairness in the treatment of those outsiders who are brought in to fill positions during the tenure of one government. I do not reject and I do not believe my colleagues reject the concept that appointments from outside the Public Service should be made to serve a particular position. I want to see that practice regulated. The Bill does that, and I support the Bill. 
I direct a question to  Senator Carrick.  In 1974 when the Labor Government made the decisions which have had such an adverse effect upon Newcastle, who was the Minister for Transport and from what electorate did he come? 
I should not like it to be thought that I was a person who supported what  Senator Wood  has just said. I do not believe that a property franchise is what this Bill is seeking to achieve. I believe  Senator Withers  has stated the case fairly. We believe that areas of Australia should return people to the Parliament in proportion to the number of electors contained therein. The arguments that have been going backwards and forwards across the chamber have had to do with the kind of formula which will achieve that by the most appropriate method. I should just like to make it clear that I reject any argument that would have the kind of industry or wealth production in an area as a relevant factor in how many representatives that area should have. 
Question put- 
I present 3 petitions, similar in wording, from 80, 63 and 36 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the delays between announcements of each quarterly movement in the Consumer Price Index and their application as a percentage increase in age and invalid pensions is excessive, unnecessary, discriminatory and a cause of economic distress to pensioners. 
That proposals to amend the Consumer Price Index by eliminating particular items from the Index could adversely affect the value of future increases in age and invalid pensions and thus be a cause of additional economic hardship to pensioners. 
The foregoing facts impel your petitioners to ask the Australian Government as a matter of urgency to: 
Require each quarterly percentage increase in the consumer price index to be applied to age and invalid and similar pensions as from the pension pay day nearest following the date of announcement of the CPI movement. 
Give an open assurance to all aged and invalid pensioners that any revision of the items comprising the consumer price index will in no way result in reductions in the value of any future entitlements to pensioners. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
-Has the Minister for Science seen reports about the dangers involved in certain types of genetic experiments which have caused the Australian Academy of Science to place a virtual ban on these experiments on the grounds that no laboratory in Australia has sufficient safeguards to allow these experiments to proceed? Is it a fact that no Australian laboratory has these safeguards? Has action been taken by the municipal authorities in Cambridge, Massachussets, the location of Harvard University, to restrict the conduct of such genetic experiments in the area under their control? Is the Minister entirely satisfied that no risk to public health is presently being caused by any such experiments currently being undertaken in Australia? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. Is the Minister aware that the isotope, radioactive pyrophosphate, is urgently needed at some Sydney hospitals for use in medical diagnostic procedures such as bone scans and special heart scans? Is this material available only from the Isotope Division of the Australian Atomic Energy Commission at Lucas Heights? Has the agreement in principle for the release of radioactive pyrophosphate in fact been granted since September 1976? If this is so, why has the substance still not been made available to Sydney hospitals? What is the reason for the delay and how soon can these hospitals expect to receive this substance necessary for their diagnostic work? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, concerns fears which have been expressed publicly in the western suburbs of Sydney about the river systems in that area. Is it a fact that a study conducted recently by a hydrologist,  Dr Wolanski,  predicted increasing pollution over the next 20 years of the Nepean and Hawkesbury river systems in outer Sydney? Is it claimed that this pollution will result from the discharge of effluent from planned residential development for 600 000 people in the Camden and Campbelltown areas? Is the Minister able to indicate what information is available to confirm or corroborate these fears? What positive action can the Federal Government take to ensure that there is adequate monitoring of the state of the rivers and that there is proper planning of development and proper protection of these valuable western suburbs waterways? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
1 ) Following the answer to Senate Question No. 8 1 7, can the Minister advise whether there was earlier this year a question answered in the House of Commons relating to the health problems of asbestos. 
Was there made available to the House of Commons Parliamentary Library the substance of a report compiled 8 years ago for the Department of Health in the United Kingdom, together with an updated revised version of the report. 
Was this report prepared for the Department of Health and Social Security Standing Medical Advisory Committee by a working party under the Chairmanship of  Sir Richard  Doll. 
Did that report clearly state that minimal levels of exposure to asbestos pose a real cancer hazard. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. The question relates to a recent statement by the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs that he had seen neither drafting instructions nor the Bill, proposed as complementary legislation to the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act, which was introduced recently into the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly by  Dr Goff  Letts. Did the Minister in his second reading speech on the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Bill indicate that he would participate with  Dr Letts  in the preparation of complementary legislation and that acceptance by the Minister of such complementary legislation would be necessary before it was introduced as legislation? Does the Minister's insistence on participation in, and acceptance by him of, complementary legislation remain? If so, can he advise what is the present position in relation to the complementary legislation now before the Northern Territory Legislative Assembly? Can the Minister assure the Senate that there will be no attempt to by-pass the processes of consultation, participation and approval set out when the land rights legislation was debated in this Parliament? 
I present the following petition from 1 1 citizens: 
To the Honourable, the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled: The humble Petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth that the Government's Child Care Policy should be immediately clarified and announced to ensure continuity of programmes and allow effective forward planning. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications: Is subliminal advertising permitted on any of the electronic media in Australia under federal control? Is it known whether any subliminal advertising is used in advertisements appearing on the electronic media in Australia? 
I am grateful to  Senator Douglas  McClelland for indicating that he will be raising this matter again at a later time. Those of us who live in Sydney are concerned, as he is, that there be an adequate number of radio outlets. The honourable senator would be quite wrong, though, to join together 2 issues which are quite separate. The first issue is where a particular government might stand on the principle of how many radio outlets there should be, and the other issue is who should have those outlets. 1, like the honourable senator, do not know exactly what the facts are and I would appreciate it if he would let me know when he plans to raise this matter again. As a senator for New South Wales with an interest in this area and in this matter, I undertake to get together the facts that I have on this subject. A large number of representations were made to me- I have not been able to check them out- by people who were worried about the proposed licence group. I do not know why they were worried, but considerable concern was expressed to me. Like the honourable senator, I am concerned that the Hills area, the northwestern area- the whole western area of Sydneyshould have a commercial radio outlet if it can, a licence, community access radio and many other radio services; but this is a separate issue from who should hold the licence. 
-We will take the matter up at a later date, and all of us who come from Sydney can come properly prepared to examine what is best in the interests of our city and our community. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Defence and concerns the garment which has succeeded the humble greatcoat worn in the Army. The garment is known as 'men's coats, field, olive green' and is issued to members of the Army. It is alleged that it is being withdrawn from general issue to soldiers in the Army Reserve. Is it a fact that these coats will no longer be on individual issue to Reserve soldiers? Will they continue to be on individual issue to regular soldiers? I suppose I am asking really whether the same conditions of issue will apply to regular and reserve soldiers in the Army or whether it will be a case of 'greatcoats on' for regular soldiers and 'greatcoats' off for reserve soldiers. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. It has come to my attention that in some parts of the world attempts are being made to limit the use of saccharin on the ground that it may represent a health hazard. Is it known whether these decisions are based on good evidence or on experiments involving very large doses of saccharin in experimental animals? What supervision of the existing data is there in this country? Is any position being taken by the Department of Health with regard to the continued use of saccharin in Australia? 
The Senate is debating the motion for the adoption of the Address-in-Reply to the Speech of  Her  Majesty Queen Elizabeth II and it is an honour to join the debate to support the motion moved by my colleague,  Senator Lewis.  I start my speech by congratulating  Senator Lewis  on a most notable maiden speech, on a most thoughtful contribution to the debate and on a most auspicious start to his career in the Senate. I also congratulate  Senator Tehan  who seconded the motion and other honourable senators who have taken pan in this debate. 
The Fraser Government is entering the second phase of what will be a very successful 3-year period in office. Already its achievements are notable and numerous. We have made many of the hard decisions which our socialist predecessors refused or were unable to make because of their structure of government. We have taken the first steps to control and reduce the rate of inflation. We have introduced a family allowance scheme which, one would gather,  Senator McAuliffe  does not support or approve but of which we are very proud as it is one of the most radical and necessary social welfare initiatives introduced in this country in a quarter of a century. The scheme is in keeping with the recommendations of the Henderson commission of inquiry into poverty which the Whitlam Government appointed. It is a measure of the kind of government we have today that this proposal which was suitable for meeting the needs of many families in poverty was rapidly initiated, rapidly introduced and rapidly passed by the Fraser Government. 
We have introduced personal income tax indexation which has helped me and every other taxpayer in this country. We have trade union legislation actual and proposed which will assist in orderly development in this area in Australia. We have restored Australia's credibility in the area of foreign policy. It is appropriate to refer to the most impressive document made available yesterday setting out Australia's foreign policy position in a number of areas. It is a document which quite properly has been received with acclaim in the Press and which has been hailed as a forward-looking and comprehensive document. We have introduced and passed the first land rights legislation in this nation's history. We have increased spending on education in real terms. We have introduced a radical federalism program for the devolution of power and have moved along the road towards implementing it. We see pensions payments in Australia higher than they have ever been. The 1 500 000 people receiving the full pension next month will receive an increased payment which in a full year will cost the Government $335m and will take pension payments to a new level automatically as a result of the indexation rules which we introduced last year. 
We have done many things and we have seen signs that the economic indicators in this country are starting to reflect the careful financial management which this Government has introduced. The  Round-up of Economic Statistics  for the December quarter shows that private businesses increased their capital expenditure by 7 per cent in that December quarter. The housing sector of the economy in terms of approvals, commencements and completions continued to show strength. We see that retail sales are steady and that average weekly earnings have risen less rapidly than before, an important condition for the control of inflation. All of these things indicate that the Fraser Government is on the road to achieving and fulfilling the promises it made to the electorate a year and a quarter ago. 
I should like to return to one matter which was raised in the speech of  Senator Lewis  and to develop at some length a question which I think is important. It may be appropriate to quote from  Senator Lewis's  maiden speech in which he says some words which I think should be taken as a starting point for a discussion in the Senate. He said: 
I am conscious of the fact that I am here only because of the tragic death of  Senator Ivor  Greenwood, Q.C. The late  Senator Greenwood  was a friend of mine. He was acknowledged by all as a man of integrity and high principle, of outstanding courage, with a passion for justice and with an enormous capacity for work. Repeatedly in and around Canberra I have been informed by car drivers and staff that he used to work until half past 3 or 4 o'clock in the morning and then resume again at 8 a.m. the same day. There can be no doubt as to the cause of his death in relation to his work. 
I believe that  Senator Lewis  has said something which is too important to be passed over by honourable senators or by the Parliament as a whole. I set the stage a little further by drawing the attention of honourable senators to some of the available statistics we can draw upon. In the first year of the Whitlam Government, when a mass of legislation was presented to the Parliament, at least three of the Ministers collapsed. They collapsed as a result of the work load and the strain under which they were trying to operate. I am saying nothing detrimental about the Ministers' capacity. I am talking instead about the load to which they were being subjected. I remember that a former  President  of the Senate- he has no objection to my mentioning this fact-was sent to hospital urgently from this place. I remember last year, as one of the honourable senators with medical training, being called upon in a most awkward situation when a member from another place very nearly perished here. He was back here working when on medical grounds he had no right to do so. I remind honourable senators of the death of Hugh Gaitskell when he was 56 years of age. He need not have died. Honourable senators know also of the recent death of the right honourable Anthony Crosland. He died early this year at the age of 58 years. Honourable senators may be interested to know that the  Guardian  in England on 27 February this year had something to say in its editorial which bears again on the problem that I am discussing. In discussing the death of  Mr Crosland,  the newspaper said:   for most politicians who gain high office the inevitable destiny is a long, hard, and often bitterly unrewarded slog . . . where the occasional honours and glories, which may be rich, are often bought at the cost of painful sacrifice: sacrifice of leisure, sacrifice of family life (attested by the growing toll of broken Westminister marriages), and finally- too often- sacrifice of health and strength. The tyranny of the red boxes of which Richard Crossman wrote  (Mr Crosland was working on the boxes when he was struck down),  the constant apprehension that crisis is no more than a phone call away- these, added to the endless round of journeys, conferences, social engagements, speeches, questions in the House and the rest put even the toughest politicians under strain. A year ago, Brian O 'Malley, the Social Security Minister, whose name was a byword at Westminister for industry and integrity, was suddenly taken ill in the House and died soon after at the age of 46. 
The question that is worth asking is whether these events are fortuitous- whether we are all due some time or other to become ill and die- or whether these events are inevitable as a result of systematic fault that exists in the way we construct and run government in this country. If there is a systematic fault, it is time for us to examine it. 
I commence my remarks on this subject by making one caveat and that is that it may not just be the job which causes the trouble. I have a colleague in Sydney,  Dr John  Ellard, who is well known to many honourable senators. He is an outstanding practitioner in the field of psychiatry who has studied doctors and their diseases. There are similarities between the work patterns of doctors and those of politicians. John Ellard has written extensively on this subject. He has written a paper entitled:  The disease of being a doctor.  I suppose that he could have written it on the disease of being a politician. He told me the other day and I see no reason to doubt that he is correct, that it takes a very special kind of person to want to subject himself or herself to the rigours of politics. He used adjectives such as tough, aggresive, narcissistic and committed to work. There is probably something self-selecting about the fact that we are here, anyhow. It is probably true that as people are promoted they select themselves out further. All I am saying is that perhaps there is a group of people who are primed for self-destruction. Perhaps politicians are among them. But that does not stop us coming back to examine, firstly, how people respond to work stress and, secondly, what is the situation in politics and what we can do about it. 

 Dr Ellard, writing in the  Medical Journal of Australia  last August, pointed out that doctors, in order to cope with their stresses, resorted to a number of techniques. First of all they tend to be anxious. I might say that I am not entirely unaware of the existence of anxiety within the national Parliament.  Dr Ellard  pointed out that the medical practitioner, under work stress, tends to deny that there is any problem at all and uses denial as a means of not having to face up to the fact that there is in the way he lives and structures his life a problem which is very serious. He drew some conclusions which have to do with what happens to doctors- the wounded and the dead, as he calls them. He referred to the abuse of drugs, abuse of alcohol, family breakdown, delinquency problems and the high suicide rates. He pointed out, among other things, that the suicide rate in the medical profession was about equal to the lung cancer rate. It is a very serious and common problem. 
The same kind of things apply to politics. In general, most politicians will deny that there is anything pathological about the kind of life that people are expected to live if they are in politics in Australia. I would not be here if I did not enjoy the life very much, if I did not find the work very satisfying and if I did not intend to stay here. That does not perhaps alter the fact that I, like everyone else, should examine- if Ivor Greenwood's death is to mean anything- what goes on and whether it is a subject which we should regard as worthy of careful examination in case we can do something about it. What about the travelling arrangements of our Ministers? There is a condition known as trans.meridianal circadian dysrhythmia which we in the trade call jet lag. This kind of circadian dysrhythmia is a very real condition. Basically what it means is that people cannot travel long distances east and west and work at full pace when they get there or return. 
I hear my colleague from Western Australia acknowledging this fact. Yet we expect our politicians in Australia to do that week after week. We expect our Ministers and Prime Ministers, when they travel to goodness knows where around the world, to arrive, start negotiating and meeting people and then to come back and start work again. The fact is it cannot be done. It cannot be done without cost. If a person follows that course for a while he cannot keep on doing so effectively or efficiently. 
A whole lot of other factors probably operate too. It has been shown that any significant life event, including promotion, success, marriage and jobs, increases the chance of sickness. 
It is probably inevitable that people who come to Parliament to work, and who operate in the conflict situation in Parliament, will be more subject than normal to certain health problems. Yet it is incredible that we are less able than most other groups in society to acknowledge that fact as a first step or to do anything about it once we have acknowledged it. 
As a consulting physician for many years I used to assist certain companies by counselling their executives. There are simple rules of survival. There are certain rules of prevention which can be used in society to help people live, to stay alive instead of dying and to remain healthy. The various companies which approached me obviously considered that their executives were worth helping. The companies considered that they had an investment in the executives. It was possible to discuss such matters as the amount of relaxation, the amount of exercise, the amount of smoking and drinking, the amount of time the executives managed to spend with their families and the number of holidays- all things which might be a little threatening if we as politicians tried to examine our own performance in those areas. 
The load which people can carry is finite. It was no good for  Senator Greenwood  to be called upon by a system of government to work till 3.30 or 4 o'clock in the morning and then be expected to carry on the next day. There is a minimum level of exercise without which we cannot remain healthy. We have needs for our own private lives and for our inter-personal relationships. Last Sunday I took my 2 children fishing. We went to Broken Bay. We sat at the end of a wharf and dangled the fishing lines in the water for a couple of hours. That probably did more for me in 2 hours than most other kinds of therapy. Yet I suppose I could have been spending that time in some political activity of a more formal kind. If our Ministers are like business executives, if they are valuable assets, we should be doing something to try to look after them, to try to preserve them. We should try to look after our leaders. 
I do not know of any national leader whom I have observed on television who has not aged visibly before my eyes, whether it be a President of the United States, a Prime Minister or any national leader. Everyone knows that the office itself destroys the men. 
Is this inevitable? It is interesting that there are some differences in the way in which we operate in Australia. The continental United States is about the same size as Australia but senators and representatives from California do not attempt to go home from Washington every weekend. They would tell you that it was madness. Their electorates accept that. Perhaps we in this country have a need to start accepting the same thing for some of our own representatives here. In England the parliamentarians stay in London and it is considered the only sensible thing for them to do while the parliament is in session. Let us look at the resources given to members of parliament. I find it very difficult to accept that one United States senator has available staff far in excess of the staff available to Ministers of State in this country. I am led to believe that a budget of up to a quarter of a million dollars is provided for United States senators to pay - 
I am indebted to  Senator Coleman.  That figure is far in excess of the staff allowed for any of our Ministers of State. 
-I am told by  Senator Sibraa  that some United States senators employ more. Let us go back to what the  Guardian  said about Anthony Crosland: 
Anyone who lives this way (and it is a way of life by no means confined to politics) imperils his health and his future. 
That is true. I suggest to the Senate that we should seek to encourage a number of things to happen. First, we should seek an acceptance of what the situation really is. We should try to tear away our tendency to deny that there is any problem, any health risk, in being in politics. If we did that we might be able to approach a number of other matters. We might be able to look at our timetable. We might be able to decide to alter our sitting program and try to back up our sittings over 2 longer weeks so that we have longer periods when there are no sittings. We should look at the hours the Parliament sits so that, heaven forbid, we might expect only an absolute minimum 12-hour day from our Ministers instead of the present commitment which they are expected to make. We might introduce rules- not suggestions but rules- concerning the amount of rest required after travelling from east to west, particularly in regard to international travel and particularly if a Minister is going to represent the country in negotiations. The same rules should apply when those people return to Australia. 
We should offer to people coming into the Parliament the kind of counselling which would enable each of them to understand the kind of health problems he or she might face. Politicians are sensible people, they are intelligent people, and if they were told what the problems were and what some of the solutions might be they would probably try to act, at least partially, on those suggestions. Health counselling made available to politicians makes just as much sense as does health counselling made available to executives, workers or other people in activities outside politics. If we could get politicians to accept health counselling we might even get the medical profession to accept it for itself at some time in the future. 
The work which our Ministers do is not all essential. Some of it has no place in a Minister's office. Some of the work can be delegated to other administrators. When one writes to the local council one does not get many letters in reply from the mayor. The letters which come back are signed by the town clerk, and that is right and proper too because most administrative matters have no right to go across the desk of the chief executive. We should look for ways to enable some of the other minor but still politically sensitive matters to be channelled away from the desk of the Minister. I remember when I was a candidate in 1973 that  Senator James  McClelland commented to me that it was distressing to see the front bench of 27 people working themselves into the ground while many of the very able men on the back bench were under utilised. There must be a way to introduce some kind of delegation in order to give our Ministers and leaders a better chance. We need to accept these goals and to look for some solutions. 
It is not smart to work all night and it is not effective to ask our Ministers to do so. It is not effective to create a situation where the politicians of this country cannot get adequate exercise, where they cannot get adequate relaxation, where they cannot look forward to the minimum conditions necessary for the maintenance of a healthy way of life. Our leaders are too valuable for that to happen. Our families also deserve something better. I should like to say publicly that while it was fashionable last year to deride  Mrs Shirley  Cass, I believe that she spoke with great courage, accuracy and conviction about a real situation. That situation does not apply only to politics but it does exist for the families of those in politics. 
Returning to the Speech of Her Majesty, she finished with these words: 
With confidence that you will fulfill to the utmost of your abilities the great responsibilities placed upon you . . . 
I hope that we in the national Parliament can create the kind of circumstances where it will be possible for our leaders to fulfil those conditions, where it will be possible for them to function effectively and for a prolonged period, and that we can make at least some attempt to attack the very real and serious structural defects in the way we operate our government here, which I am afraid have made and still make unnecessary illness and early death in our leaders inevitable. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health and concerns a very technical diagnostic procedure, upper gastrointestinal endoscopy. I ask: Are claims for medical benefit rebate in respect of these diagnostic procedures allowed when the service is carried out by any doctor? Is there any restriction on the rebates payable when upper gastrointestinal endoscopy is carried out by nonclinical specialists, non-gastroinstestinal specialists or general practitioners? To what extent have the views of the Gastroenterological Society of Australia in respect of the dangers of this procedure been taken into account and to what extent have their veiws on the proper training necessary for the performance of this type of procedure been recognised by limitations on the availability of rebates to properly trained clinicians? 
Has the attention of the Minister representing the Minister for Health been drawn to an article which appeared in the Melbourne  Age  on Thursday, 17 March, in which a specialist at the Royal Children's Hospital is reported to have stated that 'Australian patients have to be satisfied with second-rate treatment . . .'He was talking about the bleeding disease, haemophilia.  His  claim was that this situation came about as a result of Federal Government policy banning the importation of a commercially available product used in the treatment of this disease. Is it not a fact that the specialist's statement is incorrect? Is it not a fact that steps have been taken already to expand Australian production of similar concentrates of the appropriate factor? Is this not occurring in the Commonwealth Serum Laboratories and through the Australian Red Cross Society? Is it not a fact that adequate provision for treatment of haemophilia commensurate with international standards is assured already in this country? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. Does the Minister recall whether or not the Liberal and National Country parties while in opposition repeatedly warned the Labor Government of potential abuses inherent in the Medibank proposals, particularly in association with bulk billing? In spite of honest operation by most doctors, does it now appear that a small percentage of doctors and patients are regularly abusing Medibank, as we predicted would be inevitable? Can the Minister advise what measures might now be necessary to create proper controls and sanctions to prevent, detect and adequately punish any dishonest practices in the health insurance area? 
-On behalf of the Joint Committee of Public Accounts I present the one hundred and sixtysecond report of the Committee relating to an inquiry into the financial administration of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs. I seek leave to move a motion that the Senate take note of the report. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. Is it possible to confirm that a large grant has been given to extend the national program against trachoma, a program designed to assist in improving the eye health of outback residents, both 
Aboriginal and non-Aboriginal? Can the Minister confirm also the extent of the unpaid voluntary involvement in this program by the ophthalmologists or eye surgeons who are making this great preventive program work? Is it true that these doctors are giving and have given time and service free of any charge as a public service to people in non-metropolitan Australia? Will the Government acknowledge fully this outstanding and voluntary contribution by Australian ophthalmologists acting in the highest traditions of the medical profession and for the benefit of the Australian people? 
My question which is directed to the Minister representing the AttorneyGeneral relates to the statement made at the Australian Capital Territory Law and Justice Symposium last weekend by the Australian Capital Territory Police Commissioner to the effect that there has been delay in introducing new Territory legislation to ensure the proper enforcement of criminal laws. Is the Commissioner correct in his assertions that it is impossible to get convictions for use of marihuana because of a faulty definition of cannabis in the Australian Capital Territory? Is he correct that in Canberra a conviction for drunken driving can be obtained only if the blood alcohol content is double the legal limit? Does the Crown in the Australian Capital Territory enjoy no automatic right of appeal from a Court of Petty Sessions, as the Commissioner claims? If these claims are correct, can the Minister indicate what may be delaying action to correct and overcome any severe weaknesses in the law as it applies in Canberra? Can he indicate when corrective action might be expected? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 16 March 1977: 
1 ) To what extent are Australian domestic airlines, one of which is a statutory authority of the Commonwealth, permitted to sell more air tickets than there are seats on an aircraft. 
What regulations exist to prevent, or police, this practice. 
What are the rights of a passenger who, having purchased a ticket and believing that he is able to travel on a particular flight, finds he is off-loaded because of overbooking. 
Is there any move to insist that airlines indicate to all extra passengers that, in fact, they are only wait-listed for a particular flight. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health, relates to a question asked yesterday in the Senate by  Senator O  'Byrne which contained a number of assertions about Medibank. It is reported on page 627 of  Hansard  that  Senator O  'Byrne asked:  ls the Minister aware that the Health Insurance Commission reported that the average cost of processing-  and he then goes on to give a number of figures. Has the Health Insurance Commission reported all the matters asserted by the honourable senator? Is it clear where  Senator O  'Byrne's figures come from? If they have not been reported publicly, should  Senator O  'Byrne be invited to indicate to the Senate the basis for his assertion that the 'Health Insurance Commission reported'they are his words- certain figures that he cited to the Senate as correct? 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes. My only point in raising the question this morning was to test  Senator O'Byrne's  assertions thai the Health Insurance Commission had reported certain things.  Senator O'Byrne's  further explanation does nothing but support my contention that he had no basis for making that statement. The figures he put out were not contained in the Health Insurance Commission's report and if they were private figures supplied by  Senator Grimes,  that in no way makes any of my imputations incorrect. 
I believe I am the only person without legal training who will be speaking to this Bill. There appears to be a bipartisan acceptance of what the Bill seeks to achieve. I take  Senator James  McClelland 's point that clauses 9 and 10 of the 
Bill are the main causes of concern to me, not that I do anything but support the Bill. I believe, as  Senator James  McClelland does, that this is a proper attempt to resolve an issue which requires action by the Government, though in clauses 9 and 10 there are some potential future problems. I wish to emphasise only several points during my brief address. The first is that I believe that mercenaries are entitled to pursue their calling. Though I would never see it as an attractive calling there are people who throughout history have followed this course.  Senator Missen  pointed out that many authorities overseas have made it clear that it is almost impossible to stop people following the calling of a mercenary if they so wish. Lord Diplock 's Committee implied that it was an undue restriction upon their rights to try so to do. 
The second point I make relates to one of the associated matters coming out of this Bill, namely the attempt to prohibit military drilling in Australia. The Attorney-General  (Mr Ellicott)  announced that a proclamation made under the Crimes Act is something greatly to be desired. The third point is that the Attorney-General's role is likely to be politicised in view of the discretionary power which will be vested in him under clauses 9 and 10 of the Bill. Like other honourable senators I was attracted to the committee set up in the United Kingdom following the Angolan exercise when, I think, 160 citizens of the United Kingdom enrolled as mercenaries following advertisements in Great Britain and took up the cause, I believe, of the FNLA- the National Front for the Liberation of Angola against the MPLA- the Popular Movement for the Liberation of Angola in the Angolan conflict. 
I do not want to see Australia used as a recruiting base for any kind of terrorist activity. I do not want to see the Irish Republican Army training and recruiting people from Australia. Like other honourable senators I do not want to see Australia used as a base for continuing domestic conflicts in the Balkans or in Greece. These matters should not concern us. We should not lend ourselves to the continuation of these conflicts. I do not want Australia involved in the civil wars that are arising on the continent of Africa. I thought that the Diplock Committee's report was helpful. I note that the Attorney-General has drawn heavily upon it in some of the statements he has made. For example, I believe that it was his view that the Australian Government should not approve of Australians readily serving as mercenaries. The Government accepted the view in line with the Diplock report that it could not restrict a citizen's capacity to enlist overseas if that is what he wished to do in pursuance, as  Senator James  McClelland, of some deeply held belief. The Bill, as I understand it, does not make it unlawful for Australians to work as mercenaries. 

 Senator Missen quoted from the Diplock report itself. He did not quote paragraph 10 of that report which dealt particularly with individual freedom and the public interest. I shall quote briefly from the Diplock report. It contains a passage which I found quite relevant to the point I am making. It reads: 
To serve as a mercenary is not an offence under international law. Under the Geneva Conventions to which the great majority of states are parties, a mercenary serving as a member of an organised armed force of one party to a conflict which would be recognised in international law as involving a 'state of war' between the parties to it, is entitled to the some treatment as a combatant and as a prisoner of war as any other member of that force. 
In its conclusions the Diplock report draws attention again to some of the points it wishes to make. Conclusion 3 states: 
To prevent a United Kingdom citizen from accepting service as a mercenary abroad is a restriction upon his personal freedom which could only be justified on grounds of public interest. 
Conclusion 6 states: 
Under any new legislation enlistment as a mercenary by a United Kingdom citizen should cease to be a criminal offence and service as a mercenary abroad should not be made one. 
The proposed legislation picks up the thrust of these recommendations. The other conclusion of the Diplock report to which I wish to refer is conclusion 7. It states: 
Any new legislation should be directed to empowering Her Majesty's Government to prohibit recruitment in the United Kingdom of mercenaries for service in specified armed forces abroad. 
It goes on to define how that should be done. The Diplock Committee took an approach different to that being taken in this country. I understand that it sought to identify those specific forms of enlistment which were to be made unlawful. We are taking the opposite course in identifying only those forms of enlistment which should be allowed. I hope the point can be made clearly that while we do not object to service - 
I agree with that point,  Senator. While  we do not in any way disagree with the rights of Australians to serve as mercenaries we are placing restrictions upon the method of their recruitment and the method of their enlistment in that calling. 
The second point to which I refer concerns a matter mentioned by the Attorney-General. It is the closely related matter of military drilling by certain paramilitary organisations often associated with ethnic groups in Australia. I am interested that the New South Wales police have apparently reported that military style drilling and training in the use of firearms have occurred in various areas of New South Wales. The Press throughout Australia has similarly reported that this style of drilling and arms training has been occurring certainly often enough for the Press to know about it and to know details of it. I presume that some of those to whom  Senator James  McClelland referred who have travelled overseas and embarked upon actions against governments of other countries received some of their training in this country in such military drilling groups. Finally, I am interested to know that the Commonwealth police appear to have uncovered some evidence of military style training. 
I am inclined to ask why people carry out this kind of activity. Perhaps they do it for the benefit of Australia. I suspect that that argument is unsustainable. Perhaps they do it for overseas ventures. Quite clearly, if that is the case, such activity is undesirable. What concerns me in association with this kind of activity in Australia is that I believe it is not consistent with the preservation in the long run of representative democracy in the style that we support. The primary responsibility we have is to do what we can to examine any activities in our country which threaten in any way the continuance of our style of representative democratic tradition. I do not believe that the presence of groups in Australia training in the use of firearms for military purposes is appropriate. To the extent that the Government intends to make a proclamation under the Crimes Act, I heartily endorse and support that action. It can be only for the good of our society. Irregular drilling and training is a potential threat to the kind of society structure we have. I want no armed vigilantes, no groups in this country outside our regular armed forces, the groups who carry our authority, engaging in this kind of activity. For that reason, I welcome the decision to make a proclamation under section 27 of the Crimes Act. 
The other point I wish to develop refers to clauses 9 and 10 of the Bill to which  Senator James  McClelland has already referred. Clause 9 (2) provides for the Minister by instrument in the  Gazette  to authorise recruitment for a specified armed force under certain circumstances which he can set down. Clause 10(3) provides that no prosecutions are to proceed without the consent in writing of the AttorneyGeneral. I emphasise that this will represent a new degree of politicisation of the function and role of the Attorney-General. By tradition, the office of the Attorney-General is supposed to be somewhat outside the normal run of politics and political decision making. I believe that in the United States there is a current proposal by  President  Carter to remove the office of Attorney-General from the American Cabinet to try to sustain that kind of view. Whether that is true, the fact remains that the kinds of discretions provided for here will involve some political decisions as has already been pointed out by other honourable senators. 
If the Bill is passed the Attorney will, in due course, be called on to make decisions which, as  Senator James  McClelland has pointed out, will involve choices. This well may involve choice which, in the end, may involve the Government making and declaring its own value judgments for one side in certain matters and against the other side. I am simply emphasising, as other honourable senators have, that this will occur under the Bill as it is laid down. We may have to decide whether we wish to allow involvement by Australians in the Israeli Army. Having done that, do we then consequently wish to allow involvement in certain Arab or Palestine Liberation Organisation army groups? If we do not allow both we must accept that we will have made a political choice which places us on one side of the argument. We have to decide whether we will allow Australians to enlist in the British military forces. After all they may have to serve in Ulster. We might decide that that is not an appropriate thing to do. There might be pressure on the Attorney to allow enlistment in certain armies in southern Africa. There may be pressure to allow enlistment in armies which might be fighting communist guerillas, perhaps in South East Asia. 
We may decide to allow enlistment on one side and not the other in particular arguments. There may be pressures to allow enlistment in the armed services of New Quinea, particularly if this region becomes unstable in the future. There could be a situation, and  Senator James  McClelland already has referred to it, to allow enlistment in one or other side in some argument in our region or very close to home- for example to allow enlistment in the armed forces of Fretilin. In respect of these decisions the Government, through the Attorney-General, will be asked to make a public declaration of where it stands on the issue. 
I am not concerned about these particular issues; I am merely concerned about the kind of choices to be placed before an Attorney-General in the future. The same thing applies to clause 10 where the Attorney-General will have to decide whether he wishes to proceed with prosecutions that may arise under the provisions of this legislation. If he decides not to proceed it will be seen as a government decision for or against one particular policy decision. I simply comment that this represents some new degree of political involvement on the part of the AttorneyGeneral. 
So I see the Bill as fulfilling the kind of useful purpose and desirable objectives to which other honourable senators have referred already. I see it and the proclamation associated with it as protecting Australian society against certain undesirable developments which we have seen in past years. I see the Bill as bringing our practice in Australia into line with that of other nations. I see the exemptions which the Bill provides as a twoedged sword- desirable in that they will allow certain Australians to continue to follow deeply held loyalties and beliefs but dangerous perhaps in the degree of politicisation of the role of the Attorney-General. Also I am pleased that the Bill accepts, and that the speech by the AttorneyGeneral explicitly accepts, the proper role of the mercenary in the world. I have known a number of Australian colleagues who served, for example, in the Persian Gulf. I am aware, for example, of Orde Wingate's role as a mercenary, as a trainer, of Glubb Pasha, I have known of many people who have helped bring stability to certain regions as military advisers. There is nothing wrong with the role of the mercenary, perhaps, provided mercenaries are not enlisted in this country. In conclusion I am reminded of the lines of Houseman in writing his Epitaph on an Army of Mercenaries. He made the point that mercenaries have played an important role in preserving certain civilisations. He said: 
Their shoulders held the sky suspended: They stood, and earth 's foundations stay; What God abandoned, these defended, And saved the sum of things for pay. 
In promoting this legislation, as long as we do not attempt to prevent Australians who wish to do so from serving in this kind of occupation I find the provisions of the Bill acceptable and desirable and join other honourable senators in commending it. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 16 March 1977: 
1 ) Did the Federation of Air Pilots make a request to the Department of Transport that the compulsory period between drinking and flying should be extended from 8 hours to 1 2 hours. 
Did the Department refuse the request. If so, why. 
Would the only result of such an extension be an increase in air safety. 
Will the Minister have the Department's decision reviewed. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 16 March 1977: 
1 ) When was application made by Schering Pty Limited to market a preparation called Sequilar50. 
2 ) What stage has been reached in the assessment of this submission for marketing of this oral contraceptive agent. 
When is it anticipated that processing of the submission will be completed. 
How much time elapsed from the receipt of the submission and the beginning of assessment by an evaluator. 
If processing is incomplete, what stage has been reached at this moment. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. I ask: Has 1977 been designated as World Rheumatism Year? In view of this, does the Minister know the extent and significance of rheumatic disease in Australian society? Is the Minister able to advise what pan Australia will play in promoting or hosting the main events of World Rheumatism Year? 
-The Senate is debating in cognate fashion 2 Bills- the Tertiary Education Commission Bill 1977 and the Commonwealth Teaching Service Amendment Bill 1977. I listened with great interest to the speech by the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate  (Senator Wriedt).  I believe I am correct in saying that generally his co-operative and positive attitude could only be welcomed by my colleagues and by all of us. I believe that the measures before the Senate advance our desire to push ahead with the general principles on which our education policies are predicated- a belief in choice, a belief in variety in the kinds of institutions and the kinds of courses available and the place of the non-government sector in education generally in Australia. 
It would be appropriate to address myself first to the Commonwealth Teaching Service Amendment Bill 1977. Although this is a small BillSenator Wriedt referred to it in passing- it contains a provision which I think should be noted. The Bill allows former members of the New South Wales teaching service who were teaching in the Australian Capital Territory in technical institutions and who joined the Commonwealth Teaching Service in the early part of this year to preserve the long service leave conditions which applied immediately prior to their joining the Commonwealth Teaching Service, lt enables them also to treat future service as if it were State service for the purpose of that kind of legislation. This complicated provision is really seeking to preserve for these officers rights which they formerly enjoyed before moving from a State service to a Commonwealth service. 
A principle is involved here which I believe requires stating and emphasising; that is, the principle revolving round the general issue of portability. There is no doubt that a pattern of rearrangement of services between the Commonwealth and the States, between the States back to the Commonwealth, and between either of those levels and local government is emerging. We have, for example, a number of major reports. We recently had tabled in the Parliament the report of the task force on health and welfare, chaired by  Mr Peter  Bailey- the Bailey Task Force- which deals particularly with this issue of the movement of welfare services between different levels of government. I simply wish to make the point that when services move it must be possible for the expert staff required for those services to move as well. When officers who have made a career in one function wish to continue, if that function moves, they must be able to do so with no detriment to the existing rights of the officers under schemes which provide for long service leave, superannuation rights or whatever other rights there might be. 
This principle of portability is one of which we have to take note if the concept of federalism, which this Government is espousing, is to be implemented successfully. To the extent that the Bill before the Senate does advance that principle I think it is especially welcome. It is, of course, just and it is appropriate. But it means that one of the barriers to the free movement of experienced people to the level of government where they can best operate to use their skills will have been removed or at least lowered. I hope that this is one of a number of measures which will be forthcoming to allow portability of the rights of officers to be safeguarded in every situation of transfer. 
The main Bill which we are discussing in this cognate debate is, of course, the Tertiary Education Commission Bill 1977. The Bill can really only be discussed against a background of the achievement of the Fraser Government- the Liberal and National Country Parties in governmentin the field of education. I think it is important to state once again that in a time of economic hardship and of economic restraint it has been possible, because of the commitment of the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  and the Government, to continue to support education in a very positive and increasing manner. 

 Senator Wriedt outlines some of the budgetary measures introduced by the Government of which he was a Minister some years ago. But the Whitlam Government in its 1975 Budget- its last Budget- reduced expenditure on the four education commissions by $ 105m. It set aside the triennial basis of funding which was then operating. This was a particularly serious thing to happen. It froze all student allowances at the level operating at June 1974. Of course, because of the Whitlam Government's policies- its tariff cuts and its economic management generally- it created more juvenile unemployment and, in fact, created a greater demand for education under the new economic conditions. 
In this situation in the 1 977 calendar year the Fraser Government- the Liberal and National Country Party Government- has put more money into education. It did not put in just enough money to cover inflation. Not only did we provide money to cover inflation but we put in more money again to create real growth in the field of education. We covered inflation and more for all of the four education commissions. We re-established the rolling triennium with appropriate minimum funding guidelines. We have increased student allowances. We have started new training schemes. We have appointed a most important and significant committee- the Williams Committee of Inquiry into Education and Training. I might refer later to this Committee and to some of the things it is doing. 
I pick up the concern of  Senator Wriedt  and point out that we have given special emphasis to the expansion of technical and further education in Australia in the programs which we are introducing. Commonwealth funding for technical and further education for this year rose in real terms by 7.5 per cent. This occurred at a time of great economic stringency and difficulty. We were able to find places in colleges and universities for all qualified matriculants. There has been a 10 per cent increase in planned college places. The money in real terms available for schools after allowing for inflation has increased this calendar year. There has been an increase of 2 per cent. 
A number of new initiatives in education have been undertaken during this time as well. These include new initiatives for the education of children in institutions, pilot schemes to cover special problems of country children and isolated children, initiatives dealing with country boarding schools and disadvantaged schools in the country. 
I should like to indicate my support for the non-government sector which educates such a large number of our children. Our initiatives include new loan guarantees from the Fraser Government, forward construction approvals for building funds for non-government schools and the linking of recurrent grants as a percentage of government school grants for the nongovernment schools. 
We have kept other promises. We have retained the Schools Commission. We have preserved and strengthened specific purpose grants in the area of education. There have been no cuts. 
The Fraser Government has preserved its commitment to education. It has increased the money spent on education and it has increased its commitment. In fact, in 1977 the 4 educational commissions have spent between them more than  $lA  billion- $ 1,537m- an increase of almost $50m on the previous year. 
All this has occurred in a situation in which we have strengthened the other great funding arm for education-the State governments. During this year the States have received more money than ever from the Federal Government. I remind the Senate that the new tax sharing arrangements have put into the hands of State governments $ 100m more than they would have received under the previous formula. That money is available to be used by the State governments, if they so wish, for education as well as other purposes. The States are more affluent than they have ever been. They have a capacity to respond to the needs of education as they wish. Most States in fact have recognised their affluence by offering various tax cuts to their citizens as one of the options. We believe that whatever is done eventually in education must be done in a co-operative fashion with the State and Federal governments working together. We believe that the kind of funding that we espousemore direct funding from the Commonwealth and more capacity for the States to provide money- is a proper way to approach the whole funding question. 
I believe that the Tertiary Education Commission Bill serves to extend our initiatives in one more area. The fact is that for some years now we have realised that in the field of education we have had a large number of bodies, each responsible for small segments of education but they have been poorly co-ordinated. In fact, there were some thirty or so small bodies and four or five major bodies which directly advise the Minister for Education on matters relating to his portfolio. They cover a wide range of subjects and functions. The 4 major bodies- I think  Senator Wriedt  mentioned three of them- are the Schools Commission, which is not affected by the present legislation; the Universities Commission; the Commission on Advanced Education; and the Technical and Further Education Commission. Up to the present time, these commissions have operated autonomously and independently. The only focal point at which they have co-ordinated their activities has been with the Minister for Education and this has created its own problems. It means, for example, that there is a likelihood of duplication of effort, duplication of research funding, duplication of the bureaucracies to operate the structures, and as  Senator Wriedt  so correctly pointed out, there is vigorous and sometimes bitter competition for the available funds. 
I share the concern of anyone who feels that one or other of the commissions could be placed in a disadvantageous position with regard to future funding and  Senator Wriedt  mentioned the Technical and Further Education Commission in that regard. I share and support the concern which he has expressed. 
If we examine the ways in which we could have approached the problem of bringing some co-ordination and some rationalisation into the plethora of bodies responsible for postsecondary education we find that we could have worked to ensure some joint membership of the different commissions. That could have been one solution. I do not really think it would have resolved the problems we face. We could have asked some body- say the Australian Education Council or, the various ministerial councils- to take a co-ordinating role but I do not really think that would have been practical. We could have had one chief adviser on education- one chief officer. We could have adopted the procedure followed by the British Government which has a chief adviser on science whose job it is to co-ordinate the various science commissions and advisory bodies. Alternatively, perhaps we could have abolished some of the commissions as a solution. I really think that of the avilable choices the one which has been chosen, which is to create a higher planning body which lies between the Minister and the 3 post-secondary commissions, is the most logical and the most practical solution. This body is, of course, the one which is being set up in this Bill- the Tertiary Education Commission. The Schools Commission will remain untouched and will remain carrying out its own functions. 
We are dealing here only with problems of post-school education. The 3 present commissions will cease to exist but councils will carry out the functions which each of those commissions presently carries out, except that the councils will operate now under the authority of the new commission. This is in keeping with the pre-election policy which our parties put out in 1975. 1 suggest to  Senator Wriedt  that much will depend upon the instructions and guidance given by the Minister to this new Commission as to how the Commission functions to protect the legitimate rights of all branches of postsecondary education. I take, for example, the particular instance  Senator Wriedt  mentionedthat of the Technical and Further Education Commission. It is within the capacity of government to ensure that this Commission receives guidelines which will indicate to it the proper concern of government to see that no area of education is disadvantaged. 
One must acknowledge that some people will be concerned that by merging the commissions access to funds by the less able or weaker parts of the Commission will be weakened. We could find that certain commissioners might gang up on one area to further their own ends. But I am not sure that the present system of independent commissions necessarily protects one or other branch of post secondary education any better. I believe than an independent commission- a coordinated commission such as we are producing -can work well to protect all 3 post-secondary education avenues. I believe that a better debate will take place in a single commission. There is less likelihood of ideas getting through to the Minister or to the bureaucracy- slipped through by, say, the Universities Commission- without the idea having been seen, examined or criticised by the other 2 bodies which will be affected and which may, in fact, end up as losers. This at least will aid and enhance information transfer in the system and I believe that can only be good. 
I believe that the new arrangement will give us a chance to look in a better way at the competing demands between liberal generalist education and between the highly specialised education which is vocationally oriented, such as the education I received in my day. 
Sitting suspended from  6  to  8  p.m. 
The Senate is debating the Tertiary Education Commission Bill and the Commonwealth Teaching Service Amendment Bill. Before the suspension of the sitting I was discussing some of the points which would need to be taken into consideration in making the new Commission work most effectively. I said that I hoped that there would be a balance between the provision in Australia of resources for liberal arts education and resources for technical education in strictly vocational specialties. I was making the point that although we required high quality technology training I hoped that we would not develop in our education system the thrust which sees value only in this kind of training. It can be too narrow and too inflexible. It can be divorced in fact from real needs as they sometimes exist. Sometimes a very narrowly based vocational training can be positively harmful. I am aware of the great difficulties that face many students at present who are undertaking university courses in strictly narrow areas for which there is at present no opportunity to practise in the community once they graduate. We need to be aware of any restructuring in our educational commissions which could in any way resemble that done recently in France. It seems that the restructuring in France's educational commissions was done simply to meet the needs of industry and commerce and perhaps not to meet broader national goals. 
Let me say a few words about the general role of education and its formal apparatus and how the two should work together. I have an interest in this subject having at one stage been a teacher, as have many people in this place. I taught at university level and I can well remember the anonymity when one lectures to a class of 250 people in a subject and then at the end of the year is called upon to set an examination for a faculty and a year the students of which were included amongst one's students and whose presence one was entirely unaware of for the whole time. I thought I was teaching medical students. I had to set examination papers for medical students and science students. There is something wrong with the kind of system where there can be this distance between the teachers and the taught. 
It was pointed out to me informally by  Senator Wriedt  a few moments ago- this is something I would acknowledge- that it is extremely important for us to acknowledge the influence of home and one 's other background in the finished educational product and the quite limited though important role which formal education plays. Nevertheless I would like to think that formal education is relevant and effective. 
I offer the observation that in those educational activities in which I have taken part either as a recipient or as a teacher there has generally been a lack of goals which are clearly stated and which seem really relevant to the task. There seems to be a lack of training for those who are doing the teaching, and this applies particularly at tertiary level in all the post-secondary levels where many of the people who are giving the training are basically not prepared for the job. There seems to be no evaluation of what goes on in education. 
I offer the comment that if ever there is an area of activity where consumerism is resented it is education. If ever a person wants to see a group of people resisting the voice of society attempting to question what is being done he should go to the teachers- I was a teacher- and tell them that he is not quite sure that they are doing their job appropriately or well. One will quickly learn that his point of view is neither sought nor wanted. 
I am reminded that in New South Wales there was a move, not carried through, to create certain citizens consultative groups. This was resisted bitterly by the professional teachers. I think that in the end we will have to recognise that even our educational institutions will have to be as answerable to evaluation as anything else. 
It does not follow automatically, it does not follow  a priori,  that education is necessarily good. It does not follow that the activities of an educational commission are necessarily good. It does not follow that an institution will do any good just because people want to see it do so. 
It is pleasing to see in my State some initiatives which are at least promising. A new medical school is being created in Newcastle which has completely turned traditional methods of teaching upside down. It is going at things in a very different way. It is concerned with its goals and with measuring what it does. Some colleges of advanced education it seems to me are doing the same kind of thing. I hope- other speakers have expressed the hope- that in the field of technical and further education the same thing can happen. Standards have been uneven between the different branches of post-secondary education. There has been inadequate co-ordination. Goals and objectives have not been stated clearly. I would like to see this kind of thing further advanced. 
The Williams committee on education and training will address itself to precisely these questions. I think we should acknowledge the initiative of the Government in setting up this committee of inquiry to address itself to basic questions of education- where we are going and what we hope to achieve. The Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick)  might be interested in a similar kind of experience from New Zealand. The New Zealand community has created the New Zealand Educational Development Conference which attempted to examine some of the basic questions. I have one of its documents which sets out quite clearly some of the aims and objectives clearly enough for people to work from and to produce plans for the society to use. 
Before the suspension of the sitting I referred to some figures which indicated expenditure on education by the Fraser Government. I have been able to tabulate these figures. The table I have shows triennial expenditure in the calendar years 1975, 1976 and 1977 for universities, colleges of advanced education, technical and further education, schools and total. This table has been previously seen in the Senate. I seek leave to have it incorporated. 
On 3 1 March in the adjournment debate  Senator Ryan  drew the attention of the Senate to a serious situation which exists in the Australian Capital Territory with regard to the provision of medical services. I am one of 3 doctors who serve in the Senate. I believe that each of us trained under a system where there is a mix between salaried and private doctors providing the best kind of care. This is what we are used to in the major cities of Australia. It is the kind of situation which should come to operate in Canberra. 

 Senator Ryan quite correctly drew attention to a situation in Canberra which is far from satisfactory; a situation which has given many people cause for concern. It is unfortunate that in performing what I believe was a useful service she did not have adequate concern for the complete accuracy of all the facts she stated. I think in order to do justice to the Minister for Health (  Mr Hunt)  who has been consistently concerned about the position in the Australian Capital Territory it is necessary to put the record straight and to indicate what the position is in the A.C.T. at present, to indicate the initiatives that are under way and to indicate the good faith that has been shown by the Government in its concern to improve the situation operating between the 2 branches of the medical profession in Canberra. 
Let me make it quite clear. As I have already stated, the matter to which  Senator Ryan  adverted is important. The situation is intolerable. I believe she was quite correct to raise the matter. She said:   . . the Minister has made no progress towards reestablishing proper professional relationships between the two parts of the medical profession referred to. He has made no progress towards re-establishing proper professional behaviour on the part of the  ACTM  A - 
That is the Australian Capital Territory Medical Association-  members towards public patients. 
The problems have become worse in the last 12 months during which  Mr Hunt  has been Minister for Health. 
These statements are incorrect.  Mr Hunt  has deliberately and carefully opened up negotiations with all the parties to the dispute in Canberra.  Mr Hunt  sought agreement to the appointment of an outside arbitrator.  Mr Hunt  was able to secure the agreement of one of the most eminent men in Australian medicine, a former  President  of the Royal Australasian College of Surgeons, a professor at the University of Melbourne, to come to this city to examine the situation and to produce a report. I refer to Professor E. S. R. Hughes. The Hughes report made to the Minister late last year has served as the basis for a solution to the problems between the groups of doctors in the Australian Capital Territory. There has been considerable progress directly as a result of the intervention, the activity and the efforts of  Mr Hunt.  It is not really helpful to the argument to indicate, even by inference, that he has not played his part in taking the kind of initiatives which will lead to a resolution of the situation. 

 Senator Ryan stated that undue influence has been exerted on the present Government by the ACTMA. I know of no evidence of any undue influence by anyone on this Government. This Government is committed to the proper provision of medical services in the A.C.T. I say to  Senator Ryan  that that includes a mixed system. That includes the proper provision of salaried medical officers. It is a fiction to believe that this Government has anything but a commitment to the proper provision of salaried care. 
Our record in the Australian Capital Territory is sometimes forgotten. The introduction of health centres was an initiative of our side of politics. The Llewellyn Davies report from which the health centre initiatives came was presented to our Government in 1969 and we started the construction of the first health centre. We have remained committed to the provision of balanced services, including salaried services. We are under no undue influence from either side in this argument. If the honourable senator wants to indicate that the ACTMA is exerting undue influence, let her do so and demonstrate how and where and produce the facts. 
The honourable senator went on to say that there have been resignations and that there has been inadequate response on the part of the Government trying to cope with the replacement of these medical officers. There have been 10 resignations of salaried medical officers in the A.C.T. in the past 2 years. The honourable senator omitted to mention that during that period there have been 4 new appointments and that 9 positions have been advertised and recruitment action is in hand. It does not alter the fact that there have been 10 resignations. I believe that some of those resignations would have occurred because of the hostile climate that exists in Canberra which has made it difficult for doctors to practise. I am not for one minute underestimating the seriousness or the distastefulness of the situation from both sides which has existed in this city. But to say that our Government has taken no action is simply not true. To imply that all the resignations have been because of the conflict in the A.C.T. is also not true. One of the people, a pediatrician,  Dr Garry  Kneebone, left Canberra to become professor of pediatrics at Flinders University.  Dr John  Corry, a very close friend of mine, resigned to leave medicine and to undertake a different- course of study and a different form of activity. Some of the resignations are normal turnover that one would expect.  Dr Teik  Oh, who was director of intensive care, has taken up the position of director of intensive care at a very senior hospital in Perth. It is important that the Senate understands that although there have been 10 resignations, there have been 4 new appointments and there have been 9 positions advertised with recruitment action in hand on those positions. The Minister is in fact taking very effective action and monitoring closely what is going on in the A.C.T. I think it has been unfair to suggest that  Mr Hunt  has not effectively intervened. 
All patients can now be seen by both salaried and private practising doctors regardless of their insurance status. The only difference is whether the insurance company or the hospital pays for that care. The private practising doctors have agreed to treat public patients. 
Further,  Senator Ryan  has slandered in the Senate the private specialists who have been appointed for a period of 5 years. She asserted that they were appointed regardless of competence. She must substantiate that claim against the judgment of the Appointments Committee which appointed those doctors. That Committee of 6 people included the  President  of the College of Surgeons. It scrutinised the qualifications of every specialist who applied. Not one of the salaried specialists appointed by the former Government had to go through such a rigorous selection procedure. In fact, so unsatisfactory were the selection procedures which applied when the salaried doctors were first appointed that two of the colleges removed the accreditation of Canberra hospitals for post-graduate teaching because they were so dissatisfied with the selection procedures. They were the College of Surgeons and the Faculty of Anaesthetists. To claim that patients in Canberra have been deprived of public service is an astonishing claim. Seventy per cent of the people in Canberra, a very affluent city, are covered for private insurance. I have already said that every patient in this city can be seen in hospital by either salaried doctors or private doctors; there is no discrimination. 
The inaccuracies in what was stated by  Senator Ryan  should not detract from the central point that she was making. It cannot be in the best interests of this community, the doctors, or Australian medicine, to have a quite unnecessary and bitter fight continuing years after it should have been resolved. There is a place in this city for all practitioners. There is a place for the salaried doctors who have been appointed and whose position will continue to be secure. I for one could not envisage a return to what is essentially a system suitable only for a small country town. Canberra is now a large city. It deserves the medical services of a large city. Equally, I could not envisage a situation such as the one threatening in 1973 and 1974 in which private practising doctors faced potential exclusion from the hospital services. There are many doctors of goodwill on both sides in Canberra. Most of the private practising doctors and most of the salaried specialists are people of goodwill and want nothing more than to get back to treating their patients in friendship and amity. 
I support as publicly as I know how the general message that  Senator Ryan  was promoting that the sooner the haters and the unforgiving on each side can forget their differences, the sooner we will return to a proper system of care in Canberra. I am grateful that the honourable senator raised this matter. But I leave the Senate with an assurance that the Minister for Health is actively and continuously pursuing every avenue to resolve this conflict and that he has done more than any single person to bring resolution as close as it is at present. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 1 6 March 1977: 
1 ) Has the Minister become aware of an article in the  New Scientist  of 4 November 1976 drawing attention to the sale in Great Britain of children's toy cigarettes containing a powder emitted as a cloud of dust when the cigarettes are blown. 
) Has it been shown on chemical analysis that they may contain an asbestos compound. 
As the cigarettes are manufactured in Taiwan, can the Minister give an assurance that no similar toy cigarettes are available for sale in Australia, and that none will be allowed in while any doubts as to their safety exist. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Social Security. Has the Minister's attention been drawn to expressions of concern by the ACCESS Regional Council for Social Development in Melbourne that funds which were made available to it in last year's Budget might be withdrawn, due to certain minor project changes? Is the Minister able to give any assurance that that is not the case and that all moneys allocated will be made available to the Regional Council? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 16 March 1977: 
1 ) In view of the recently observed toxic effects of the beta adrenergic blocking agent Practolol (Eraldin ICI), has any prescribing advice been offered to medical practitioners on the use of (a) Practolol and (b) other beta adrenergic blocking agents. 
What evidence is available bearing upon the possibility that other beta adrenergic blocking agents could share the same toxic side effects as Practolol. 
Has the Minister assisting the Prime Minister in Federal Affairs seen a report indicating that concerned citizens in Mount Druitt, west of Sydney, waited on a Minister of the New South Wales Government to seek assistance with the problems of unemployment in that area? Was their approach based in pan on a recognition that the problems in Mount Druitt were a direct and inevitable result of the original decision by the State Labor Government of the day to develop the Mount Druitt housing estate with no adequate community or industrial supporting base? Was the citizens' approach to the New South Wales Government turned down with no offer of help? Were they in fact told to solve the problem within their community? In terms of federalism policy, will the Minister indicate the extent to which we need co-operative action from all levels of government, including the New South Wales Government, where particular circumstances demand their involvement and intervention? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health and follows the publication this month of an editorial in the  Medical Journal of Australia  relating to surveillance of salmonella organisms. Are domestic pet tortoises liable to infection by salmonella, the group of organisms which includes the organism that can cause typhoid fever? In view of the persistence of the presence of cholera organisms in water reservoirs near Brisbane and the undesirability of salmonella spreading through our community, and since it is reported that the sale of pet turtles has been banned in the United States of America, can the Minister advise the Senate of current knowledge in Australia on the safety of pet tortoises and any risk of disease which they could represent ? 
-by leave- On behalf of the Standing Committee on Social Welfare, I wish to inform the Senate of the outcome of the Committee's consideration of a number of annual reports referred to it by you,  Mr President,  pursuant to resolution of the Senate. The Committee sought elaboration from the Department of Aboriginal Affairs in respect of one matter arising from the Department's annual report for 1974-75. In response, the Department provided additional information on grants to States. Having examined the additional material, the Committee sees no occasion for further action on that report. The Administrator of Norfolk Island, at the Committee's request, provided further information on the following 3 matters referred to in the annual report of the Norfolk Island Administration for 1974-75: 
The backlog of legislation awaiting processing. 
Airport standards and air service arrangements, and their effect on the tourist industry. 
The spread of noxious weeds. 
We have been advised that action has been taken to overcome the backlog of legislation and to control the spread of noxious weeds. 
The air service to Norfolk Island is now conducted by East-West Airlines Ltd, which introduced Fokker F-27 aircraft when it assumed responsibility for this service at the beginning of March of this year. Furthermore, a number of important recommendations concerning the airport were made by the Royal Commission into Matters Relating to Norfolk Island which reported in October last year. The Committee considers that no further action on the Norfolk Island annual report is required at this stage. 
The First Annual Report of the Commissioner for Community Relations, which covers the period from 31 October 1975 to 30 June 1976, raises a number of important matters which require departmental consideration. Future developments will be noted with interest. I should like to say, in conclusion, that the Committee's examination of the following 12 annual reports referred to it has revealed no need for further action at present: 
Australian Capital Territory Electricity Authority 1975-76 
Australian Capital Territory Police for year ended 30 June 1976 
Medical Research Projects 1974 
Department of the Capital Territory 1 975-76 
Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs- Review of Activities to 30 June 1976 
National Advisory Council for the Handicapped for year ended 30 June 1976 
Aboriginal Hostels Limited 1975-76 
Defence Force Retirement and Death Benefits Authority 1975-76 
Australian Capital Territory Fire Brigade 1975-76 
Australian Military Forces Relief Trust Fund for year ended 31 December 1975 
Royal Australian Air Force Welfare Trust Fund for year ended 31 December 1975 
Royal Australian Navy Relief Trust Fund for year ended 31 December 1975. 
-I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications: What restrictions apply to advertising on the electronic media and in newspapers of contraceptives and of such other matters which would assist in family planning in Australia? Could the minister distinguish between legal restrictions and restrictions imposed as a matter of individual company policy by various media outlets? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 16 March 1977: () Has a new rebate scale been proposed for a specialist medical examination called computerised axial tomography. 
ls the Department of Health proposing two separate fee scales for this procedure, one for private consulting specialists and the other for the same examination being carried out in hospitals. 
On what basis has it been decided that the same procedure, possibly carried out by the same doctor on different days in different locations should attract a differential rebate level. 
Will the Minister agree that the capital costs will be just as real for a hospital or health service as they are for a private doctor and that a more appropriate method of adjustment might be to adjust the percentage of the fee which a hospital doctor might claim for performing a service for which he has not provided the capital, equipment or staff. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Health and it concerns an apparent gross breach of the confidentiality of medical records in the Australian Capital Territory. I preface the question by reminding the Senate of the concern which I expressed in this chamber some 2 years ago about the improper transfer of information on patients attending mental health services in the Australian Capital Territory. Is it a fact, as reported in today's Press, that the personal mental health file of a patient attending mental health services in the Australian Capital Territory was found in the gutter of a Canberra street? Can the 
Minister inform the Senate of details of the investigation which, we hope, now is being made into this breach of confidentiality? Is she able to seek from the Minister in another place his agreement that there be made available to the Senate both the result of the investigation and an outline of new measures proposed to improve and further protect patient confidentiality in this country? 
By arrangement there was only one  speaker  from each side in the second reading debate. However I would now like to address a few remarks to the Bills, to state some of my belief in what the insurance industry can do and has done for this country and to make a point which would amplify what was said by  Senator Archer. 
In Australia we have a great need for capital formation. We have a great need for money available on a long term basis. We have a great need for capital formation in both the private and public sectors. I am concerned that of the ways in which capital can be made available it is the voluntary availability of long term capital from the local investment market which we particularly need and which is particularly important. The insurance industry over the years has enabled this kind of resource to be made available to Australia when we needed it. We can obtain also money from overseas sources; we can also obtain money from taxation. 
We would like an opportunity for the maximum amount of long term capital which we need for national development to be made available through industries such as the insurance industry, which has such a fine record in this country and which has done so much to provide the large amount of capital we require for a number of national development programs. 
There has been concern during the past few years about some of the actions which have limited the capacity of the insurance industry to respond in this way. We are concerned at the high level of government spending, industrial problems, economic uncertainty and excessive economic nationalism. These made problems worse for the industry and exacerbated the problem of developing and making available a sufficient long term capital in which we are interested. Poor return on funds or a low rate of return on funds invested did not help. Australia is a small market. There has been wage escalation, cost rises, high rates of taxation and  de facto  price control. All those factors have not helped this industry in the job that it is trying to do. 
I am concerned about what is happening with the development of available capital for investment at present. At present in Australia most of the money is going into short term saving, at the short end of the spectrum. The money is going into the savings banks and the building societies. The money can be withdrawn as quickly as it is deposited. We can see that this money is not really available for use in the kind of development projects which we would like to see funded from within this country. We would like to see these projects funded from within Australia, by Australian people, through agencies such as the insurance industry. The life offices and the superannuation funds have traditionally been the major suppliers of long term capital funds for commerce and industry in Australia. 
The life assurance operations are particularly noteworthy because they are a major source of contractual long term voluntary capital. I make it clear that in anything we are doing to regulate the insurance industry and in anything we are doing to alter the conditions under which it operates we must remember the major role it serves in this country for the mobilisation for the development of this nation of capital for long term investment. That was a role which almost the insurance industry alone served. It is no good being complacent about the present statistics of savings or short term money which cannot be used and which is inappropriate. 
I have been concerned at the kinds of trends in recent years. Fewer new life assurance policies are being taken out. More policies are being voluntarily discontinued. They are not desirable trends. There has been a greater use of cheaper forms of term insurance which do not involve a savings element. Many things affect these new trends. Among them are included the high rate of inflation and the general community expectation that inflation will continue. There is also the increased tax which the life offices have had to bear and which have caused some of the policy holders to invest their funds elsewhere. I read the debate which took place in the other place when these Bills were discussed. There was very little discussion or recognition of the great national role which the life insurance industry and life offices have played. I think it is worth placing on record what they have done and why they have played such an important and central role in the capital formation of this country. 
I preface my question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Attorney-General, by reminding the Minister of the discovery in an isolated farm house in rural New South Wales this week of an arsenal of weapons, supplies, military uniforms and ammunition. I ask the Minister: Is there any information on whether this weapon cache is associated in any way with any irregular paramilitary group or whether the owners of the weapons are members of any irregular paramilitary group? Can the Minister assure the Senate that the Commonwealth Police are examining all the implications in this find in relation to the internal security of Australia? 
Pursuant to order of the Senate, I bring up the report of Estimates Committee D, together with the  Hansard  record of the Committee's proceedings and the explanatory notes provided by the departments whose estimates the Committee considered. I move: 
That the report be printed. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry. The question concerns an insect, the American lucerne aphid as I believe it is called. Some members of the Labor Party may think this is funny, but it is not very funny for people in the rural areas of New South Wales. Has the Minister's attention been drawn to the presence of an aphid in plague proportions in rich pastoral areas such as the Upper Hunter Valley in my own State of New South Wales where it is destroying lucerne crops and causing major damage to rural industry? Can the Minister indicate the extent of the plague infestation? Is any information available as to the source of the aphid? Do we know anything about the potential for treatment or eradication of what is really quite a disastrous infestation? Can the Minister indicate the possible role that the Commonwealth Government could play in assisting in this area? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 16 March 1977: 
1 ) Has there been a large number of medical graduates from overseas who have registered in Australia in the past few years. 
Is there any evidence that any of these registrations have been by means of forged documents; if so, now many registrations in each State have come within this category. 
What safeguards are there to ensure that the documents produced by applicants for registration in the Australian Capital Territory and Northern Territory are genuine. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 20 April 1977: 
How many prescriptions for rauwolfia drugs have been written as pharmaceutical benefits for each of the months available since those for which information was given in reply to Senate question No. 675 of 1975. 
-The Fraser Government administers the legislation relating to the unemployment benefit reasonably and generously. The Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  has already answered the arguments which have been put by Opposition supporters. She has exposed the shabbiness and emptiness of the points they have made. She has answered quite adequately the charges- quite improper and inaccurate charges- that the Government is in any way acting illegally.  Senator Tehan,  my colleague, will discuss the judgment itself when it is his turn to speak because members of the Opposition have carefully refrained from addressing themselves in any depth to the judgment. I would like to quote briefly from page 25 of the judgment, a section to which the Minister did refer briefly, to emphasise one of the central points of the argument.  His  Honour, referring to Karen Green, said: 
She is not, however, entitled to a declaration that she was, in respect of any period before 22 February 1977, qualified to receive unemployment benefits; any such qualification remains for determination by the Director-General or his delegates in the light of s. 107 (c) and of the particular circumstances of the plaintiff at the time. 
That is a critical point of the judgment. It is interesting that no one on the Opposition side thought it worthwhile mentioning that part of the judgment- because it did not happen to suit the Opposition's argument.  Mr Justice  Stephen said quite accurately, in the final paragraph: 
The declarations to be made fall considerably short of those sought by the plaintiff . . . 
One would imagine also that they fall considerably short of those declarations that Opposition supporters would have liked to see in order to advance their own arguments in relation to what they think should be done about the payment of the unemployment benefit. 
The Minister set down in this Senate more than a year ago some of the concerns we have about the administration of the unemployment benefit policy. The Government has indicated its view on when a school child or school leaver becomes a genuine member of the work force entitled to draw the unemployment benefit. The Minister outlined at page 671 of the Senate  Hansard  of 23 March 1976 some of the abuses that have been occurring in the administration of the unemployment benefit and I am constantly reminded by colleagues and friends of examples which they know in which there is quite systematic abuse of our system of the unemployment benefit. It is interesting to note that in talking about genuine need there has been a disinclination to mention what the other side of the coin is in Australia. There is systematic abuse of our system of unemployment benefit. I will come back to that. 
The purpose of the unemployment benefit is to provide income security for those who genuinely require it and there is not a person on this side who would shrink from the concept of providing income security to those who need it and those who are properly qualified to receive it. The argument is simply an argument about who is qualified to receive it. Let me point out to the Senate that to the week ending 22 April this Government had paid the unemployment benefit to over 38 000 school leavers from 1976. Over 38 000 had received the unemployment benefit. They had qualified properly. The argument seems to be whether they should have received it during the period of the final school vacation.  Mr Justice  Stephen was not prepared to give any declaration that the benefit was payable during that period and indeed the matter is still being determined. The Government has had some 62 000 applications by school leavers. Many of them have found jobs. Let me emphasise though that some two-thirds of them have received the unemployment benefit from this Government in the period up to 22 April- a fact we do not seem to have heard during this rather shabby debate from this rather discredited Opposition. 
Unemployment is one of the sadder legacies of the Whitlam years. It is one of the legacies of socialist government over a period of 3 years. I draw the attention of honourable senators to the newspapers of September 1974- during the period of the Labor Government. The banner headline for the  Australian  newspaper of 20 September 1974 reads:  1000 workers lose their jobs each day 
These are the realities of the period of the Whitlam Government: Unemployment, which was generated and structurally developed because of the disastrous policies of Labor, accelerated and we are reaping the whirlwind of the wind Labor sowed. Another newspaper headline in October 1974 reads:  10 000 Jobs On The Line 
That referred to another business failure due to Labor Party policies. If we look at a publication put out by the Australia and New Zealand Banking Group Ltd for April 1977 called  Business 

 Indicators we will see some graphical representations of employment statistics in Australia. Under the heading Domestic Activity, graph No. 1 shows the level of the number of persons registered for employment. It shows that the number of persons registered for employment was at a low level until about 1974 when the effects of the Labor Government's financial management began to bite. It then increased very rapidly to a plateau, where it has remained. The plateau will now start to diminish as the effects of" the Fraser Government's economic management come into force. If we look at the total job advertisements from the same publication,  Business Indicators,  we find that the number of jobs available in Australia fell dramatically at about the mid point of the term of office of the Labor Government. This is the reason unemployment has increased. This was due to the Labor Government's disastrous tariff policy and absolutely ruinous monetary and fiscal policy. 
The Labor Government destroyed the structure on which Australian businesses depended. What is more, there is no real indication that even today Labor supporters remember this. After the Budget speech last year the Labor leader in another place responded. It was interesting to see the comments in the  Financial Review  of 25 August following  Mr Whitlam  's reply. The editorial was headed 'Labor's Backward Grand Vision'. This editorial referred to Labor's whole response to the Government's economic management. It stated: 
He would greatly have strengthened his attack if his speech had shown evidence of his recognition of past folly. 
It is the past folly of the Labor Party which has placed Australia in a situation where 5 per cent ofthe work force is registered for employment. It will be seen from the ANZ Bank quarterly survey of business activity for April 1977 that young people are over-represented in the number registered for employment. We know that 14.6 per cent of males between the ages of 15 years and 19 years and 16.7 per cent of females between the ages of 15 years and 19 years are registered for employment. These are excessive rates which are reflected among the youth because fewer employers have been willing to take on untrained people and also because the education system in this country is sending too many young Australians out from school without literacy, without numeracy, without skills and without the capacity to win jobs. 
I turn now to unemployment benefits which are paid to people genuinely out of work. I remind the Senate that when the Australian Bureau of Statistics carried out a survey on 2 days, 21 March and 25 March this year, and investigated some 3800 addresses given by recipients of unemployment benefits, it found that on a percentage basis only 49.8 per cent were genuinely unemployed and genuinely seeking work. It found that 15.6 per cent actually were employed in the week the survey was carried out. It found that 5.6 per cent were not looking for work at all and that for 29 per cent it could not obtain answers for some very interesting reasons. Of the 29 per cent for whom the Bureau could not get answers, it was found that 2.6 per cent refused to talk to the surveyor and wanted to have nothing to do with giving information about the benefits they were receiving. There was a number whose addresses were inadequate. There were some who were away on holidays and I have no argument with this. However, 2 per cent of people had given as their address uninhabited dwellings. In addition 15.5 per cent of those receiving unemployment benefits had given false addresses; that is to say, fraudulent addresses. A further 1.2 per cent had given non-existent addresses. 
A further 1.2 per cent had given non-existent addresses. 
Let us face it. There is a problem in the administration of unemployment benefits. The Government's responsibility is to ensure that this income security is available to those who genuinely are seeking work and who cannot find it. It is not the Government's function to give that benefit to those who are attempting to defraud the Government and it is up to the Government to determine the policy which will apply to the administration of these benefits. 
The Fraser Government is actively intervening to try to improve the employment opportunities for young Australians. It is intervening effectively - 
-I refer firstly to the CRAFT apprenticeship program- the Commonwealth Rebate for Apprenticeship FullTime Training scheme- which was introduced this year. Already it has attracted sufficient support to increase by 10 per cent the number of apprentices in training in Australia. 
The Government anticipates that, including the next month of the financial year, there will be 40 000 new apprenticeship positions created as a result of this program. 
The figure is already well over 30 000. This program, of course, provides a subsidy to employers for the first 3 years during which they take apprentices. The restructured National Employment and Training Scheme has increased the number of young people under training in the past 12 months. 
-The number has gone from 7300 to 1 7 500 in the year to mid-April. Probably about half of the 13 000 of that number who are in-plant trainees are young people. The Government is intervening actively to do what it can to improve the job opportunities for young Australians. Of course, the Government cares about this problem and is sensitive to it. In addition, the numbers registered for employment are dropping. Between February and March the number dropped by 20 000. The latest figures show that although there are still 323 000 people registered, the number has dropped by a further 3500 in the month to the end of April. The Government has granted unemployment benefits to over 38 000 school leavers who have entered the work force since the end of the last school year. With the help of  Dr Myers,  the Government is examining the whole Commonwealth Employment Service. Once again I remind the Senate that in his judgment  Mr Justice  Stephen said that Karen Green was not entitled to a declaration that she was entitled, in respect of any period before 22 February, to receive unemployment benefits. The motion proposed by the Opposition is typical of its ineffective approach in this chamber generally. It deserves only condemnation and I have much pleasure in supporting the Minister for Social Security in opposing the motion. 
During the examination of the Department of Health estimates I asked some questions about goal setting and objectives. I eventually received some answers. It is highly desirable, I believe, that the Department has a clear idea of what it is setting out to do every time it asks for money from the Parliament. When it comes before Estimates Committees it should be able to tell those Committees its objectives. I simply wish to indicate, through you,  Mr Temporary Chairman,  that the same questions will be asked by me of the officers every time the Estimates Committees query different programs for which money is being sought from the Parliament. I will expect statements of goals and objectives which will make some sense and which will be subject to cross-examination. 
I would simply like to place on record my support for what  Senator Grimes  said. I too would find it unacceptable if we were funding only one side of a difficult argument. I am not pretending that I agree with  Senator Harradine  's view or that I am opposed to it but in this matter, which is very sensitive to the community, it seems inappropriate that funds are going to one side of the argument and not the other. I accept what the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  said. I simply would like to place on record that I think that  Senator Grimes  has said something reasonable, something which should be looked at very seriously. 
Proposed expenditure passed. 
Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs 
Proposed expenditure, $ 1 60,000. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Primary Industry and refer once again to the disastrous infestation of lucerne crops in New South Wales by the American spotted alfalfa aphid. Following the question I asked on this matter earlier this week expressions of concern continue to come in, particularly from the Hunter Valley in New South Wales, where the infestation is very serious. I ask the Minister whether he is able to advise whether the Federal Government is involving itself actively in this problem. Are any new initiatives being taken by the Federal Government in an attempt to assist the growers in New South Wales? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Education, concerns the Australian Union of Students and its executive. Is the expenditure of vast AUS funds, perhaps amounting to $ 1 m on current account, in the hands of an executive? Can the Minister advise the method by which this executive is elected? Can he assure the Senate that the AUS election processes are fair, democratic and properly conducted? Can he assure the Senate that the AUS executive genuinely represents the majority view of students? If those assurances cannot be given, will he again examine, perhaps with his colleague the Minister for Transport, the present position of the AUS which has a monopoly position with regard to the provision of certain charter flights in Australia and which is partly being bankrolled by government? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. Will he outline to the Senate the details of the  Of Show  of 5 May, particularly those details, words and phrases which have been held by some of my constituents to hold up to ridicule the basic figure of our Christian beliefs'? Will he inform the Senate what are the rules against the use of blasphemy on Australian Broadcasting Commission television programs? 
The Senate is debating the Supply Bill (No. 1) 1977. In this first reading debate I wish to refer to a number of newspaper articles which lead into a very serious subject. The Melbourne  Truth,  although it may be Victoria's top selling weekly newspaper according to its own advertising, is not one of my favourite newspapers. It has been drawn to my attention that for 7 weeks running, from 2 April this year for 7 successive weeks, this newspaper has carried on its front pages and prominently throughout its news pages a number of accusations, a number of assertions. The first front page headline read: 'Cancer Victim Saved '. This newspaper has set out to claim that there is in existence a new and important form of cancer therapy; that it is being run by a doctor who has been victimised; that this doctor has now set up in the Cook Islands; that something shameful is going on; and that his services are being restricted in the sense that we are not helping to run his service by giving blood and other things he needs. 
Each issue of the Melbourne  Truth  makes extravagant claims. The issues claim that the man is not a quack. They claim that he is highly qualified. They claim that the Minister for 
Health  (Mr Hunt)  is in some way recreant because he will not co-operate in giving to this doctor, now in the Cook Islands, the support he needs to treat Australians among others. The fact is that the stand taken by the  Truth  newspaper is almost impossible to comprehend. It has no basis in fact. What the  Truth  newspaper is doing is a cruel hoax upon many thousands of cancer victims throughout Australia. 
There are few worse illnesses than cancer. One in five Australians will die of cancer. Almost all of us, personally or through someone we know, will have some contact with malignant disease. It is a cruel imposition on people to raise hopes which cannot be satisfied. It is a perversion of the morality of journalism to have a newspaper running a campaign for which there is no good basis and no justification. One must ask the question: Are the assertions, the headlines, the many items, the anecdotal stories of cures, the accusations against our Government and the testimonials in the  Truth  newspaper true? Do they represent some failure on the part of our Government and the New Zealand Government, which is also involved? Do they represent some grave injustice to a reforming medical practitioner? Or is there some other explanation of what is happening which is less complimentary to the practitioner, certainly less complimentary to the  Truth  newspaper and certainly less complimentary to journalism in this country? 
There are 3 ways of treating cancer: Surgery, either to cure or to reduce the size of the tumour mass; deep X-ray therapy; or drugs. The drugs which we use for cancer basically are poisons. They poison the cancer cells a bit more than they poison the rest of the body. Their use is fraught with danger. They are extremely potent. They carry with them damage to the patient unless the people who use them are very careful. Anyone who uses these drugs for cancer treatment has to be in a place where safeguards can be applied, where the patient can be monitored and where good support is available. 
The Messiah of cancer- or should I say 'this quack'- referred to in the newspaper has set himself up in the Cook Islands. He has a clinic at Rarotonga. He is carrying out therapy- not with surgery, which would be bad enough, or with X-rays, but with these particularly dangerous drugs. They are well known to medicine. They are used quite extensively. He is carrying out the therapy in a quite adventurous way. He lacks laboratory support to do it safely. He lacks the treatment support to do it safely. Of course, in the Cook Islands there is something in it for him, as I shall demonstrate as I go on. Above all, I make the point that this man who is carrying out the treatment in Rarotonga is not a qualified medical practitioner. He is unqualified. He is by all accounts a quack and a charlatan. 
I must pay tribute to the Minister for Health, who has attempted by way of Press releases to acquaint the Australian public with some of the facts. I must congratulate the  Age,  the  Sydney Morning Herald,  the  Canberra Times  and other newspapers which have published some of the material setting out the facts to balance what the Melbourne  Truth  published. 
In a Press release  Mr Hunt  gave a summary of the story concerning this person,  Mr Vlastimil  Brych. Not only did he give the facts but also he attached to his Press statement an absolutely damning indictment of the man and his methods which had been issued by the Medical Council of New Zealand. The Medical Council, as honourable senators would know, is the main disciplinary body existing in almost every English speaking country to control the practice of medicine and to discipline medical practitioners. It is this body which can recommend the striking of practitioners from the register. It hears complaints and it maintains standards. It is the watchdog of the profession. It is a body which is very careful in the way it acts. It is very loath to condemn. It is extremely careful in the procedures it follows and it is extremely aware of the proper recourse to law and to defence that should be available to anyone who is accused. 
The document which the Medical Council issued, and which  Mr Hunt  has issued publicly, damns  Mr Brych.  The Council could not have issued the document earlier than it did in April this year because for 3 years legal proceedings were underway in an attempt to deregister this man. Time had to be allowed for him to appeal. When his appeal finally came to court he decided not to proceed. We wonder why. The reason is that he has not a leg to stand on. He is practising in Rarotonga in the Cook Islands.  His  patients are a band of people without hope- with advanced cancer. This man has set them up as prey for money-making activities. The Medical Council has set out quite- clearly that he is a liar who has claimed to hold degrees from Czechoslovakia that he does not hold. 

 - Senator Mulvihill asks what nationality he is. This man left Czechoslovakia in 1968. He was accepted into New Zealand with all the goodwill that existed at that time. I take it that the honourable senator  would agree with me that one bad person in no way reflects upon anyone else who escaped from Czechoslovakia at the same time nor on any other doctor who has come to practise in Australasia generally.  Mr Brych  is an exception in his evil and in the deceptions which he has practised. He has claimed a doctorate in medicine which he does not hold. He has claimed a Ph.D. which he does not hold. What he did not elect to tell until it was discovered was that he has been in prison a number of times. I will quote briefly from the statement issued by the Medical Council of New Zealand. It states:  in fact Brych was in prison from late 1958 to late 1965 and again from mid- 1967 until early May of 1968. 
I interpolate to say that is about the time he left Czechoslovakia. The statement goes on: 
This covers the periods when Brych would have been attending medical school to obtain his qualifying degree, and higher institutions to obtain the equivalent of a Ph.D. In November of 1976 evidence was taken under New Zealand court procedure, using sworn testimony at a Court hearing in Brno attended by  Mr David  Morris, solicitor for the Medical Council, Professor Scott and  Mrs Jane  Anderson, a New Zealand diplomat from Vienna.  Mrs Anderson  attended the hearing at Brno to ensure that this was conducted in a fair and proper manner. Brych had the opportunity to be represented either by a lawyer from New Zealand or by someone appointed in Czechoslovakia. He did not take up this opportunity. 15 witnesses gave testimony and Brych 's criminal record was produced in Court and inspected by the three New Zealanders present. Two of Brych 's high school teachers testified that he had left school at the age of 1 7 years before gaining the educational qualifications to attend University. Brych's first prison sentence in 1958 was for attempted murder but the charge was reduced on appeal to one of robbery with violence. The victim of Brych's violence gave evidence at the Court hearing in Brno about the crime which led to Brych's imprisonment for seven years, and the Court records relating to the charges were included in material submitted to the Supreme Court in Auckland, following the November 1 976 hearing at Brno. 
So it goes on about how authorities attempted to rehabilitate him, how he went back to prison and how finally he came to New Zealand. 
This man has claimed, and the  Truth  newspaper has published his claims, that he has done something which has never been done in the world before. He has claimed, and I quote from the newspaper, 'to have saved more than 80 per cent of terminal cancer patients referred to him over 8 years'. He has also claimed that in a controlled trial on 800 terminal patients 580 survived. He further said: 
There are no signs or symptoms of cancer after completing treatment. 
It appears in fact that there are no trials or analyses of  Mr Brych's  results. In fact the New Zealand authorities looked at the records in Auckland where this man had worked for some years. They selected from the records all evidence of the patients he had treated. They contacted the patients and found which ones were dead. They plotted them against the survival for ordinary treatment of cancer, and there is no extra survival from the treatment he gave. The man is a liar. He tells untruths. He is a villain. He has been to prison for crimes of violence. He is a forger. He is a charlatan. Of course the Medical Council of New Zealand wanted to strike him off the register. It did its best to assess his treatment. He claims there is some secret about it. It has not been assessed. Who suffers? The victims of cancer suffer because when they are desperate enough even a man like this might look attractive. 
A further document from the Medical Council of New Zealand has come into my possession. It is not included among the documents which the Minister for Health in Australia made public. It is, however, an important document. It is a letter from the  Chairman  of the Medical Council of New Zealand to the Director-General of Health in Australia. It is a 4-page letter and I intend to read it because of the gravity of this case. It states: 
Dear  Dr Howells, 
Although this letter has been prepared on behalf of the Medical Council of New Zealand, my action in writing to you has the strong endorsement of senior members of the medical profession in New Zealand generally and of doctors in the Auckland area particularly. A copy of this letter is being sent to  Mr Hunt,  your Minister of Health, and to  Senator Margaret  Guilfoyle, Minister for Social Security in the Federal Government. In addition, a similar letter will be sent to  Mr J.  Stewart, Minister of Health for New South Wales - 
I gather that is meant to be the Honourable K. J. Stewart. The letter continues:  and we are hoping that you, or one of the people mentioned in this paragraph, will give consideration to forwarding the contained information or an abstract thereof to the Senior Executives of Medibank and the private health insurance corporations in Australia for their further consideration. My Council feels that it has a moral obligation to inform relevant authorities in Australia about a number of aspects of what is known in New Zealand as the Brych affair. This matter has involved Australian patients for a number of years but, the implications to Australian doctors and patients changed dramatically as a result of a Supreme Court action in Auckland on 5 April 1977. 1 am enclosing a statement which was prepared for release to the media in New Zealand at the time of the Court hearing on 5 April. 
That is the document to which I have already referred. The letter continues: 
A copy of this document was given to an Australian reporter of Melbourne TRUTH at that time. This document was prepared by Professor P. J. Scott of the School of Medicine, University of Auckland, who had been asked by the Medical Council of New Zealand to investigate the background of a former Czechoslovakian refugee known as 
Vlastimil or Milan Brych. The enclosed document was approved at a special meeting of the Medical Council held in Auckland on Sunday, 3 April. Also enclosed are two other documents which will be explained in the following paragraphs. 
Essentially, Vlastimil Brych is a former Czechosolvakian refugee who was accepted by the Medical Council of New Zealand, upon his own sworn testimony, as having undergone a medical training in Czechoslovakia commencing in 1958. He left Czechoslovakia in 1968. Brych became a member of the staff of the Auckland Hospital Board institutions and from early 1972 onwards began to make extravagant claims about his ability to cure cancer patients, by a secret remedy of his own. Brych has never disclosed his methods, never published any scientific papers, nor presented any scientific evidence to the medical profession nor to any other scientific organisation. In response to complaints laid against him by the Division of Medicine of the Auckland Hospital .. . his background was investigated by the Medical Council during 1974 and he was struck off the New Zealand Medical Register in November of 1974 on the basis that he had fraudulently claimed to hold medical degrees. A long and complicated legal process followed which ended on 5 April 1977 when Brych withdrew his appeal against being struck off the register. Brych himself had moved to Rarotonga in the Cook Islands during March, and he was not in Auckland on 5 April, nor has he returned since then. 
In addition to the charge that he had falsely claimed to have undergone University training and to have obtained medical degrees, Brych was facing a series of 23 other charges laid by the Division of Medicine from Auckland. (These charges related to a number of alleged instances of disgraceful behaviour and non-professional conduct.) Now that Brych has left New Zealand, and has been struck off the Medical Register, the Medical Council does not have power to investigate these 23 charges or to take further action. While still in New Zealand, Brych had been publicly named as a liar and there a number of well documented examples of his falsehoods. 
Australian patients have been coming to New Zealand for treatment by Brych, probably from 1972 onwards. At least one of the private insurance firms in Australia made inquiries about his treatment and professional behaviour some time in 1974. At that time, Brych remained on the Medical Register of New Zealand, pending his appeal. Australian doctors who referred patients to Brych at that stage would not have been breaking ethical or other professional rules of conduct. Even at that stage a number of doctors from Australia expressed grave anxiety concerning Brych 's activities. 
Brych has now set himself up in the Cook Islands. The Cook Islands Medical Act was altered specifically to allow for his registration. This was done despite the fact that the Division of Medicine in Auckland had warned the Cook Islands Medical Council and their Minister of Health of the likely outcome of legal proceedings in New Zealand. The Medical Act of the Cook Islands was altered before 5 April 1977. The  Chairman  of their Medical Council has resigned in protest. We have information from journalists and, in two instances, from patients and their relatives who have returned from the Cook Islands that Brych is working with unsatisfactory facilities. The hospital has no automatic suction, oxygen or similar amenities at the bedside of the patients. There are no elaborate laboratory or x-ray facilities. The blood transfusion services are poorly developed and there have already been requests to the Auckland branch of the Blood Transfusion Service for assistance. 
I interpolate that requests for assistance have been made to this country also, and quite properly the Minister for Health has declined to send blood for an unregistered person or a person we consider to be inappropriately qualified. The letter continues: 
As far as New Zealand is concerned. Brych is no longer a registered medical practitioner and the medical profession in this country may not refer patients to him. We would presume that the same would apply to referrals from doctors in Australia. We have learned from one member of the University of Otago staff who was recently in Melbourne and also from news reports that a  Dr Hastings,  who has rooms in Collins Street, Melbourne, is actively promoting Brych 's activities in the Cook Islands and is assisting in the organisation for sending patients from Australia to Rarotonga for treatment by Brych. 
I understand that he is a very young doctor, recently graduated and certainly not an expert in any field of medical practice. The letter goes on to say: 
Brych continues to charge large sums of money and there are varying estimates of the amounts of these sums which represent straight profit. The  President  of the Cook Islands Medical Association,  Dr Tom  Davis, who is an Otago University Medical graduate, has deduced that up to half the fees charged may be regarded as clear profit. Brych lacks the facilities in the Cook Islands to make critical diagnostic decisions, let alone to check the diagnoses on patients who arrive there from elsewhere. He lacks the facilities for careful monitoring of patients on highly dangerous cytotoxic drugs or for correction of trouble such as bone marrow depression. He once again has access to cytotoxic drugs free from restrictions, now that he is out of New Zealand. (As a nonspecialist he had access to such drugs in New Zealand provided the patient paid the full cost, but because he was not a registered specialist he did not have automatic access to these drugs on the Social Security scheme after he was dismissed from the Auckland Hospital Board institutions.) 
As we have already mentioned, two of the patients who have gone from Auckland to the Cook Islands have returned disillusioned with the state of affairs there as far as Brych 's management of patients is concerned. One of these patients has told us that the Australians, who greatly outnumber the New Zealand patients, believe that the insurance authorities in Australia will be meeting their charges. These costs have escalated steeply over the past six months, from approximately $45.00 a treatment to $60.00, then to $300.00 and now to approximately $680.00. I am enclosing a copy of a document which is distributed to patients going to Rarotonga to the Oncology Centre where they will be treated by Brych. This document was given to us by a newspaper reporter and one of the two patients who nas returned to Auckland. 
We are distressed that Brych avoided the major Court hearing which would have taken place in Auckland on 9 May. had he not withdrawn his own appeal. He has now transferred his activities, which my Council regard as highly dangerous to patients, to a small Island community in the South Pacific. He has successfully caught the ear of at least one of your national newspapers and we understand that television programmes favourable to Brych have been prepared or may have been shown already in Australia. The whole cycle of Brych 's charlatanism appears to be repeating itself this time involving Australia. 
We feel it is important that the relevant authorities in Australia, including the Executives of your insurance corporations, know the facts regarding this man. My Council feels it is important to stress that at no stage was Brych granted specialist status in New Zealand and at no stage did he act as a consultant, even while in the employ of the Auckland 
Hospital Board.  His  claims to have links with foreign governments and major overseas drug firms can very easily be shown to be false. Similarly, a number of affidavits which have been prepared on his behalf, including some prepared in Australia, can very easily be shown to contain false information. It is again unfortunate that these affidavits were not presented in open Court in New Zealand where their falsehoods could have been demonstrated. 
Like all cancer quacks, Brych does not produce any figures or facts. This is one of the reasons why he has survived so long as a cancer therapist. The only information we can obtain to counter the claim that he has some miraculous secret method of treating cancer, is to study survival times in patients diagnosed by members of the medical profession in New Zealand who subsequently transferred to Brych, and whose death certificates are available to us. The enclosed graph is based on a careful analysis of this type prepared by members of the Oncology Department at Auckland Hospital. 
The letter goes on to outline the various figures. I will not read them out to the Senate. I simply say that there is no evidence of any improved survival for those patients. The letter goes on to say: 
A file prepared by the Auckland Police has been sent to Police Headquarters in Wellington for their consideration and for perusal by the Solicitor General and his staff. It is possible that the New Zealand Department of Justice or our Police Department may request an extradition order against Brych to bring him back to New Zealand to face criminal charges. However, this decision will take some time. 
In addition to yourself and the people mentioned in the first paragraph of this letter, information concerning Brych is being sent to a number of individuals and groups in Australia. In particular, I understand that Fellows and Members of the Royal Australasian College of Physicians in Auckland are submitting material through their  President, Dr A.  O. M. Gilmour, with a request that Brych 's activities be drawn to the attention of the Therapeutics Advisory Committee in Australia. 
My Council and I trust that you will appreciate the very real concern we hold for the well being of Australian patients who may quite understandably, either take or be persuaded to take the decision to travel to Rarotonga for treatment by Brych. My Council is satisfied that this man has no University or medical training and that he represents a very real danger to patients who have cancer, and to those who think they may have cancer. For those patients who have cancer, he can offer only a form of cytotoxic drug treatment which cannot possibly be controlled according to the best modern criteria in view of the facilities he is occupying. He has no access to radiotherapy. He is working in an environment devoid of the normal supporting specialties. Therefore, patients with potentially treatable disease are exposing themselves to very real dangers. 
If you felt that further documentation of our statements is required, I would put you in contact with colleagues in Auckland who could add detail to the general outline I have set out in this letter. I must ask you to excuse the length of this letter but I felt that this initial account of our viewpoint should be set out in this manner. As you will realise, your counterpart in New Zealand,  Dr John  Hiddlestone, is a member of the Medical Council of New Zealand and he is fully aware of the facts and opinions contained in this letter. 
Your sincerely, N. F. GREENSLADE Chairman 
Medical Council of New Zealand 
There can be no greater indictment of any kind of crook than that set out in that account. The New Zealanders have gone to extreme lengths to document the falsehood of almost every claim put forward by this man- and still Australians are going to Rarotonga. They are putting themselves in danger. They are being fleeced. 
I remind honourable senators that this  Dr Brych  recommends 6 treatments. Since he went to the Cook Islands the basic cost per treatment has gone up to $680. If the patient survives to have all 6 treatments it will cost him more than $4,000. The hospital bed charge is $50 a day. The rehabilitation unit bed charge is $35 a day. I am informed that on commencing treatment patients are requested to pay a deposit of $2,000 to the Oncology Centre, to be offset against treatment. This initial deposit would cover the first two or three treatments. The other unfortunate thing is that, as our present Health Insurance Act is written, the patients can claim some benefits. From the patients' point of view I do not mind that they receive some rebate; but we should not be offering benefits for treatment by a quack, who is so dangerous and so unscrupulous. It should be made known to Australians who go there that the rebate is only a fraction of the cost. The cost of each treatment is $680, and honourable senators will remember that it is estimated that at least half of that amount is clear profit. The rebate on that $680 is $ 135. 
The New Zealand Medical Council would not have acted lightly. It has sifted every fact. It has examined every aspect of this man's background. The interesting question is: Why has the Cook Islands registered him? I regret to say that, apart from anything else, it will be a very lucrative venture because it is bringing money into that country. But it is blood money. It should be a matter of shame to the Prime Minister and the Minister for Health of the Cook Islands that they have altered their medical Act specifically to register this charlatan. It is to the credit of the  chairman  of their medical council that he would not stand for it and resigned his position. 
No one wants to prevent patients from receiving the very best treatment. No one wants to prevent any real advance in treatment from becoming well known. But we are concerned that more and more of the Australians who are going there are returning dissatisfied. I took the trouble today to telephone some of my medical friends. Many of them have patients who have been to the Cook Islands and come back dissatisfied. They have told some horrific tales, including the tale of a man who was placed on an aeroplane  for the return trip and who died a short while later while the flight was in progress. 
The fact is that  Mr Brych  is not a doctor. He is, we know, a charlatan and a criminal. But let us examine the possibility that his treatment could be effective. If it were effective, one would ask: Why has he not published his reports? Why has he not shared with all the suffering people in the world what he has discovered, the treatment that he has developed? Why has he not written up his results? Why, when his results from New Zealand are examined, do they not show any benefit? Only if one realises that we are dealing with a criminal conspiracy to make money out of suffering can one understand the present situation. Only then do the facts fit in: A man with a criminal background, known to be a perjurer, known to have obtained registration by fraud, known to be unqualified, known to have given unsatisfactory service in New Zealand, known to have withdrawn his appeal so that he would not have to face any cross-examination in court; a man for whom special arrangements somehow were made in the Cook Islands, arrangements which bring no credit upon that country; a man who has started to charge increased prices now that he has a captive clientele. One can only wonder that this man has prospered when he is so clearly unqualified to do so. 
My final comment is that this seems to be the way in which the quacks always work. There is always a magical cure. Conventional therapy is always wrong for not having recognised this cure. It is always a secret cure. The secret is never released, and it never stands up to examination. These people, whether they are selling lantana juice, whether they are burying people in manure or whether they are like  Mr Brych  in Raratonga and are just ripping off the innocent, they claim victimisation. I should like to see people with advanced malignant diseases properly treated, given some comfort and the best available therapy. If there is something in this man's treatment, let him publish it and share it. Let him make it available to the whole world. Of course, there is nothing in his treatment except a massive rip off. 
It is just unthinkable that we should do anything to support this man's activities, that we should send blood gathered from volunteers in Australia to help him in Raratonga, or that we should do anything to improve facilities for travel  to his clinic.  It is unthinkable that we should extend medical benefit rebates to include the cost of his treatment. It is highly desirable that we should do all in our power to restrict the extra suffering which he is threatening for Australians.  Mr Brych  says he wants to visit Australia in 3 weeks. It is said that some of our television stations want to interview him. They should remember when they do so that they are interviewing a perjurer and a publicly branded liar. One wonders what they hope to get from him. For my part, I do not want him in Australia at all. I hope there is some way in which the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  or the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  can examine whether he is a desirable visitor to this country. I believe it would be of considerable benefit to exclude him from this country, and to subject his cruel and extravagant claims to the closest scrutiny with a view to making his services unavailable to the innocent sufferers in Australia. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. Has he been advised that Standard Telephones and Cables Pty Ltd is under some pressure in maintaining its present staff levels in Sydney? Does Telecom Australia buy Australian where Australian suppliers are available? If not, can the Minister advise the percentage of purchases by Telecom Australia which in fact are manufactured in this country? 
My question is directed to the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Federal Affairs. I ask the Minister: In view of the fact that the Government of New South Wales is showing no inclination to involve itself in initiatives in the area of unemployment or to take up community development programs on the ground that it has no available funds, and in view of the fact that the Victorian Government has already taken up the Australian Assistance Plan from its own funds, will the Minister outline to the Senate the current cash position facing the Government of New South Wales and indicate whether or not there is any substance in its claim that financial stringencies make it unable to meet its proper obligations? 
asked the Minister represent ing the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice, on 21 April 1977: 
1 ) How many deaths due to swimming pool immersion have occurred in the Australian Capital Territory in each of the past 5 years. 
How many of these occurred in in-ground swimming pools as opposed to above ground swimming pools. 
How many of the swimming pools were adequately fenced. 
What percentage occurred in the family's own backyard pool, and in what percentage was the fencing around the pool adequate. 
-Has the Minister representing the Attorney-General had his attention drawn to a submission by a senior class at a school in Canberra to the inquiry into tissue transplantation being conducted by the Law Reform Commission? Is it generally understood in the community that the capacity to make submissions to committees of inquiries, including the Law Reform Commission, exists with groups like school students, who after all are the voters of tomorrow? Will the Minister consider making more widely known the desirability of more school groups putting a considered point of view to government inquiries and also make known the desire of government to hear from students their views on current social and legal issues? 
My question is directed to the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Federal Affairs. It relates to the desire of the New South Wales Government to spend money on improvements on railways and to statements by the Premier of New South Wales casting doubt upon assertions that New South Wales is in a good financial situation. Will the Minister confirm the present financial situation of New South Wales? Is that State running a surplus on current account? What is the size of that surplus? Does the State have available to it considerable resources to apply to railways if it so wishes? 
I simply wish to follow up what  Senator Grimes  has said. One point in this Bill which has not been recognised is that the recommendations came from a working party which included representatives of the medical profession, of pathologists and of governments. In fact, there is a general downward movement of fees in recognition of the structure that is associated with pathology. While there is an equalisation for Tasmania and other States, there is a reduction in the general fee level payable to pathologists. I think the medical profession can be proud that it has been able to co-operate with Government to work out a new structure and a new scale and to look at something which represents a slight downward movement in the overall fee levels. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 20 April 1977: 
Has the Minister's attention been drawn to press reports of a survey conducted by the Dutch consumer organisation, Consumentenbond, which alleges that pharmaceuticals in Australia are expensive by world standards. 
If the answer to (1) is in the affirmative, are these claims made on the basis ofthe costs of only 12 pharmaceutical items and how representative are these items and to what extent is it legitimate to extrapolate from these to draw conclusions regarding drug prices in Australia compared to those in other countries. 
What evidence exists relating the costs of pharmaceuticals in Australia to those in other nations around the world. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 1 June 1977: 
Does the Australian Government endorse the principles of the Declaration of Tokyo published after the World Medical Association meeting in that city in 1975 concerning torture and setting out guidelines against the involvement of doctors in torture. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 16 March 1977: 
Do any medical deputising services operate in the Northern Territory or the Australian Capital Territory; if so, under what conditions of licensing or control and under what conditions of supervision do they operate. 
What guidelines exist and what consultation has been carried out with the providers and the consumers of health care regarding the future development of medical deputising services in the Territories. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice on 3 1 May 1977: 
Have desirable downward trends in Aboriginal infant mortality in the Northern Territory and other pans of Australia been associated with any alteration in the mortality of Aboriginal children, (a) aged between 1 and S years and (b) aged greater than 5 years. 
asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce, upon notice, on 31 May 1977. 
Has the Minister's attention been drawn to a report from the Textile Council of Australia entitled 'State of Industry Report-April 1977'; if so, are the major findings outlined in Section 1 of that report basically correct? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 16 March 1977: 
What percentage of applications to market new drugs in each of the past five years have been (a) approved, (b) rejected, (c) considered and deferred for extra specific information, and (d) not yet considered to the point of any decision. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health, concerns the problems of salmonella infection of baby milk powders detected at Tongala recently. Can the Minister say whether powdered milk products produced at other factories in any way constituted any threat to the health of infants? Specifically, can the Minister say whether the products of Wyeth Pharmaceuticals Pty Ltd, the other major producer of these products, manufactured at Parramatta in Sydney were at any time suspect? Is she satisfied that the standards and quality of powdered milk produced by Wyeth were always of the levels required? Can the Minister advise the Senate whether all the problems associated with salmonella infection in baby milk powders have now been overcome? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 1 June 1977: 
To which of the countries, named by Amnesty International as systematically practising torture, does Australia give foreign aid? 
-I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Health: Have claims been made, allegedly on the basis of research, that 25 per cent of Sydney's Aboriginal children suffer from serious malnutrition? Is it further alleged that most of them suffer permanent brain damage from this malnutrition? In view of the fact that there is genuine concern on this side of the House for the situation and because some of us want to make an accurate assessment of what the real situation is, I ask the Minister: On what basis of evidence do the claims rest, and how comprehensive and well controlled are any surveys which have been carried out? 
-The Senate is debating the second report of the Ranger Uranium Environmental Inquiry and the ministerial statement on nuclear safeguards. This is a very important debate and gives members ofthe Senate a chance to intervene and comment on a matter on which the Government has not yet announced its policy. I regard this as an important opportunity to put down a position statement in advance of the Government's decision and to set out the reasons which I think are relevant in regard to the future of uranium and to make a number of observations. 
I have been disappointed at the contribution of some members of the Opposition but listened with great interest to the Leader of the Oppostion  (Senator Wriedt).  He advanced the argument, I believe, that developing countries cannot afford the costs of developing nuclear energy. He set out some of the reasons. I think he is aware that developing countries do need light and power and that they will be looking to some means of satisfying their needs. 
The honourable senator will be as aware as anyone else that there is a lot of discussion at present about the need to develop what is known as intermediate technology, to move away, as  Senator Wriedt  said, from the use of high technology in countries where it is inappropriate, to the use of a lower grade of technology. This could be appropriate in the development of energy for some of the developing nations. I agree that we do not need necessarily to seek for some developing nations the high technology and high cost techniques where these cost jobs and divert capital and what might be scarce human resources. No one will disagree that if it is inappropriate to force uranium on particular nations perhaps we should not do so. However, the honourable senator has not established by that argument at all the propositions that we in Australia should not mine uranium. He has not established the proposition that we should not use uranium or that we should not sell uranium. This, in the end, is what the debate is about. 
This debate gives us a chance to set down what we think should be the safeguards and what we think should be some of the principles which should guide the formation of policy. It is appropriate at this stage that I should make special mention of the contribution to the Senate today by my colleague,  Senator Collard.  It was, I believe, one of the most useful and balanced presentations I have heard on the subject of uranium policy. I believe that the honourable senator is to be congratulated. 
It has been put to Australians that uranium is inherently unsafe. It is said that because it is unsafe to mine it may be unsafe to use and to dispose of the by-products. The conclusion reached by the Australian Labor Party at least is that because of this we should leave uranium where is is. The available facts do not support this argument. It is an argument for which there is no logical framework. 
In attempting to understand the issues, evaluate them and reach a considered judgment, I have been disappointed by the shrill voices raised in the community from the extremists on both sides of the argument. Honourable senators may care to direct their attention to the Fox report. It draws our attention to the same point when it states: 
In considering the evidence, we have found that many wildly exaggerated statements are made about the risks and dangers of nuclear energy production by those opposed to it. What has surprised us more is a lack of objectivity in not a few of those in favour of it, including distinguished scientists. It seems the subject is one very apt to arouse strong emotions, both in opponents and proponents ... I regret to say that the input which we have received from the community has been of poor quality, has made it difficult to evaluate where the true facts are and has made it difficult for a rational argument to emerge. 
But it has emerged and my colleagues have drawn attention in some detail to what the environmental inquiry found. It is worth just repeating some of the conclusions. First  Mr Justice  Fox found that under the procedures laid down in the Australian code of practice for the operation of uranium mines, radiation from mining and milling is not such as to justify a ban on uranium exports. Similarly the commissioners found that the next steps of uranium processing are considered to involve only a few problems. The Ranger report finds little danger from a reactor accident whereby vast amounts of radioactivity could be liberated into the atmosphere. The Fox inquiry supports the findings of the Rasmussen study, an American study on the safety of reactors. The report goes on to suggest that some of the dangers involved in the extraction and use of alternative sources of fuel, some of the fossil fuels, particularly coal may be greater than those involved in the extraction and use of uranium. 
These facts are worth having before us. It is not the only study available. I believe it may have been  Senator Melzer  who earlier today referred to the Royal Commission on Environmental Pollution under the chairmanship of  Sir Brian  Flowers which reported to  Her  Majesty's Government in Great Britain in September 1 976. The findings of this study tend to show that it is possible to justify on perfectly proper grounds the use and development of nuclear power in Britain. 
The Australian Government has responded to the findings of the Fox inquiry by developing our own safeguards. These safeguards were contained in the Government's statement of policy on nuclear safeguards announced by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  which forms part of the subject of this debate. It is sufficient to say that the safeguards outlined by the Prime Minister on behalf of our Government went beyond those suggested by  Mr Justice  Fox. They went beyond those suggested by  Sir Brian  Flowers. We have identified the safeguards. We have confirmed and expressed our concern. We have gone on record as to the position we take. We have taken a position more strict, more cautious and more secure and have made it clear that we do not intend to compromise or move away from it. That at least should be acknowledged because these are all elements in the background to a policy which the Government will announce. 
We know that around the world there is considerable public support for the use of uranium and nuclear power. Honourable senators will be aware that 42 million people or about 20 per cent of the citizens of the United States of America, in seven States, had a chance to vote at referendums giving them a chance to say in their own States whether there would or would not be use of nuclear power in their own areas. By a majority averaging out at between 65 per cent and 70 per cent they determined the vote in every case in favour of the use of uranium and in favour of the development of nuclear power. For those who have a belief in the value of the democratic vote, for those who trust the public, these findings are quite reassuring. In Australia, as honourable senators would know, the position is less clear. Several different polls have been conducted.  Senator Keeffe  referred to one earlier tonight. We asked him for the source and he has been kind enough to supply it to me. It shows that Australians are pretty evenly divided at the moment on the mining and export of uranium. A slight minority is in favour of mining it but about 59 per cent of the people are in favour of sending it overseas if it is mined. The Australian populace was fairly evenly divided on this question when last polled. 
If we can just talk briefly about the process of mining uranium, I note that it has been said already that we have already had some demarcation disputes between the trade unions determined to have control of the mining of uranium when it is approved. They have no doubt what the outcome will be. They are now fighting for the spoils. The uranium available in our major deposits is surface uranium easily accessible by a very simple process. It is present in vast supplies readily available. One deposit of uranium is available in part of the country where Aborigines have been living. It has not been possible to identify so far in those Aborigines any health hazards or bad health effects. In commenting on the amount of uranium available in this country,  Mr Justice  Fox, made this comment on page 39 of his report: 
. The effective energy content of known uranium reserves is potentially greater than of known fossil fuel reserves. 
This is one of the facts that we have to acknowledge and recognise. We are a world in need of energy. We are a world in need of safe, clean, low cost energy and we must at least consider uranium as a source of this energy. There is a highly developed technology for the mining of uranium. There is an international commission on radiological protection which has set down the medical safeguards which are to be employed for those involved in uranium mining and technology. It monitors the exposure and the dosage of anyone involved in the industry. This system has been refined over decades and has been effective in protecting those in the industry. 
There are vast amounts of coal. I note that my colleague,  Senator Walters,  in her contribution set out some of the amounts of coal reserves likely to be available in Australia. Nevertheless let us not forget that the extraction of coal is dangerous. It is much more dangerous than the extraction of uranium. It is dangerous because of the traumas, mine accidents, mine cave-ins and explosions. It is dangerous because of the long term effects upon the miners. We are being told about the potential hazards of uranium but it has been my misfortune over the years to have to treat people with the actual disabilities which have come from miners' lung, from chronic obstructive airways disease directly attributable to their involvement in the coal mining industry. The generation of electricity from coal is associated with environmental damage far in excess of that which has occurred or which would occur from uranium use. The expense of coal is greater than the expense of uranium. It is worth noting that there are projections on the amount of the world's energy which will be derived from different sources. A table appears at page 1 1 of the annual report for 1975-76 of the Australian Atomic Energy Commission which sets out the contributions which will be made from fossil fuels, hydro-electric and geothermal energy and nuclear energy in 1973, 1985 and the year 2000.  Mr Acting Deputy President,  I showed the table to  Senator Mulvihill  when he was keeping the House for the Opposition, to  Senator Cotton  and to the  President  I seek leave to have the table incorporated in  Hansard. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Devitt)-  Is leave granted? 
There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="074232197708185_78_9.jpg"></graphic>

With regard to the processing of uranium, the processing planned for this country is simple. It involves the crushing and chemical treatment of the rock taken from the ground so that we can extract the yellowcake, or uranium oxide,  U3O8.  Generally the yellowcake contains more than 90 per cent uranium. That is what we are talking about extracting and developing in this country at the present time. 
Let me go on to talk a little about reactors and the reactor process. Let us acknowledge that many of the reactors being developed are being developed for the generation of electricity. Heat is released from the nuclear reaction in a controlled fashion. This controlled release of heat is used to generate steam and the steam generates electricity. We know that at the end of 1 975 there were 157 reactors operative in 19 countries in the world. That means that we have an established industry, an established technology. I am not saying that it does not require supervision or care but it is established and had been established for enough years to let us have a look at what can happen and at whether or not it is safe. 
Let us talk about the reactor process and let us look at the safety factors. We know that the reactors cannot explode. A lot of the public do not know that The way the waters have been muddied by some of the contributions to the public debate, it is no wonder. The reactors used to generate electricity cannot explode. The thing that could occur in a disaster is that they could melt down. There could be release of radioactivity if that happened.  Mr Justice  Fox and  Sir Brian  Flowers both accept the safety involved in the reactor process as set out in what is known as the Rasmussen report as being adequate and appropriate at the present time. The record of this major industry at the present time is impressive. There are numerous accounts of the safety record. For example there is the  Australian Financial Review  of 10 October and the journal of the Administrative and Clerical Officers Association in the uranium debate conducted on its pages, which I read with great interest. The statement on safety in the journal of the ACOA said: 
No member of the public or employee in a commercial nuclear power plant has been killed in a radiation accident. There have been the normal construction, transport and other industrial accidents, but even these have been less in the nuclear industry, which now has 2000 reactor years of experience, than in the fossil fuel power undertakings. Nuclear reactors cannot blow up. 
Even if we talk about the Brown's Ferry incident in which two very foolish employees took a lighted candle to check for air leaks and there was a fire, the fact that emerges is that the reactor was closed down, that the safety processes did work, that they were adequate. This is the point that should be remembered. The Brown's Ferry disaster told us that the procedures available there were adequate and that they succeeded. 
Let us ask what contribution we are going to find from uranium to the radiation background to which we are going to be exposed. I am sure you would be aware,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  that you,  Senator Button  and all of us are emitting radiation at this moment. You would be aware that in the air we breathe there is radiation. There is no such thing as a nil radiation situation. The question is: How much radiation? How much is there in relation to what we consider to be safe level? Is it within acceptable limits and what contribution to that radiation level is made from various sources? One of my colleagues earlier gave some figures but I have a second table which I have shown to the same honourable senators as I mentioned before, which sets out the different sources of radiation in the United Kingdom in the bone marrow and in the reproductive cells. I seek leave to have that table incorporated in  Hansard. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT-Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="074232197708185_79_0.jpg"></graphic>

The point that emerges is that naturally occurring radiation to which you and I and every other Australian is exposed comes largely from the atmosphere, from the soil and sometimes from within the body, from potassium which we take in in our drinking water and our food. A much smaller amount of radiation is taken in from medical sources. Honourable senators who have an X-ray will receive more radiation from that examination than they will receive from the effects of nuclear power generation in this or in any other country. If we take orders of magnitude we see that the naturally occurring radiation may contribute to bone marrow 101 millirems per year, medical radiation may contribute 46 millirems per year and the radiation from the nuclear power industry may contribute 0.25 millirems per year. These are the orders of magnitude we are discussing as they have been measured in Great Britain, They are the actual levels. It is important that we all get the opportunity to understand what these levels of radiation mean.  Sir Brian  Flowers' report takes the matter a little further. In paragraph 53 of his report on page 1 9 he states: 
It has been estimated that irradiation from medical X-ray examination (in which doses of about 100  mrem  are given to bone marrow and of between 30  mrem  and several rem to the skin) will give rise to one or two extra cases of leukaemia a year (compared with the spontaneous rate of 50-60 per year) for every million people involved. 
They are the kinds of hazards, the kinds of doses that are needed.  Sir Brian  Flowers makes the point that medical radiation is a useful yardstick to take since it is quantitatively orders of magnitude greater than the radiation which you or I will receive from nuclear power reactors. Flowers says in relation to the people who worked at the Windscale plant in Britain: 
On the basis of the information that we have been given about the doses of radiation that the men are likely  to have  received, we are not persuaded that any notable hazard has existed. 
They are not members of the public; they are the people who work in that nuclear power generating facility. We must understand that there is no such thing as absolute safety. There is no safe motor car ride. Nothing is safe. All safety is relative. A call by a political party for a moratorium until safety is achieved is an empty and spurious call. There is no such thing. For honourable senators who are interested, there are some very useful publications dealing with safety theories. I know that  Senator Button  reads widely. He may care to examine the very good account which appeared in  Nature-  which I am sure is one of the honourable senator's favourite journals- of 12 May this year at page 92 dealing with relative risks and the theory of risks. It tries to set out how to develop models. You do not do it by expecting, imagining or demanding that you can have zero risks in anything you do in this world. In science or in life all hypotheses can be falsified. That is one of the things about an hypothesis. In scientific terms we can never have absolute safety. 
I want to talk now about some of the other uses of nuclear power and nuclear energy. First of all we must acknowledge what honourable senators have acknowledged today, that is, that nuclear energy has been used for weaponry. We know that a lot of this debate has developed around the question of power generation, but there are other important uses for nuclear power in this and in other countries. For example, there is extensive industrial use of radioisotopes. We have on-stream analysis of some production processes in the metal industry. We have analysis of bulk materials using radioactive processes. We have tests on safety in coal mines which are dependent upon nuclear technology, measuring radioactivity deliberately placed there to give a measure of safety in coalmining. In hydrology radioactive isotopes are being used for tracking water, liquids and gases. Even in the eradication of termites radioactivity is used to help identify the site of the nest to enable people to eradicate the pest. 
Finally, and most importantly, radioactive technology is used in medicines in this and in every other country. The use of radioisotopes is now central and essential to the practice of medicine. I must say to the Senate that a political party which would advocate a policy at its national conference which would threaten our use of or our access to radioisotopes is a party which is irresponsible and ignorant of what goes on. The motion passed at the Labor Party Conference included the words that there should be no mining of uranium. I say to honourable senators opposite that we require uranium for the peaceful use of nuclear energy, not for generation of power in this country.  
The radioisotopes we use in medicine can be made in two ways. They can be made from a nuclear reactor which is efficient, highly developed technology and cheap, or they can be made by a process, which is now obsolete, using accelerators or cyclotrons. It may interest honourable senators to know that we have no cyclotron process available in this country now to develop the kind of isotopes we require for diagnosis and the treatment of Australians. At the end of World War II a cyclotron was operated at the University of Sydney and, following the death by leukemia of one of the workers, it is interesting that the University of Sydney accepted liability and paid compensation for his death. I would say this to the Senate that with the safeguards that go with nuclear technology it is safer than the use of a cyclotron, and it is cheaper and more efficient. 
Australia has two small reactors at Lucas Heights. One of them, the Hifar reactor, is used for the manufacture of our medical isotopes. I do not know how we would cope in this country if we did not have these available. The annual sale of radioisotopes produced by the Australian Atomic Energy Commission exceeded $lm in 1975-76. The main isotope produced and sold was an isotope of radioactive technetium. It is a short lived isotope, useful in a whole range of important diagnostic processes. Not only that, we exported some of these isotopes to other countries which required our assistance in supplying the radioactive isotopes that they required for the care of their own citizens. 
The technology associated with the nuclear industry in Australia is sophisticated. It is high technology. It is not new. It is well proved. Since we do not live in a risk-free world we have to take a balance of whether the benefits we are deriving from nuclear technology properly applied outweigh the risks of things which have not happened and which I believe will not happen because of the safeguards in the industry now and because of the safeguards contained in the Government's paper which we are discussing. 
It is very interesting that we seldom see any advance in technology in this world without some sizable group of conservative thought opposed to it. For example, metric conversion. Generally the opposition comes from hidebound experts who cannot change, but in this case we have the interesting spectacle of the opposition coming from the mindless pursuit of a policy decided at a political conference which has bound all the members of the Labor Party and has removed from them the opportunity to give any independent consideration to this question in the light of developing knowledge and in the light of what may emerge. All honourable senators will be aware of the objections raised by some eminent Labor men to some of the proposals. I am impressed by the  Canberra Times  of 29 July in which we see that no less a person than  Mr Bob  Hawke has been told by his party that in spite of his own views he is to back the party's policy, or else. 
The fact is that the opposition of the Labor Party is on ideological grounds and it is just a pity that the lefties in the Labor Party who got this through their conference have not done something about convincing their friends in China to sign the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty as other countries have. What would be the consequences to Australia if we were silly enough to listen to the Labor Party?  Mr Dunstan  has been known to say that there would be considerable economic costs to Australia. Does anyone doubt that? He said it would prejudice our relations with Japan. Does anyone doubt that? Those are the words of Labor men about some of the consequences which might flow. 
If we do not mine uranium in this country a number of consequences will flow. The first is that we will have to start importing uranium because if we are to operate our own radioisotope production we will require uranium for our own reactors. Without that uranium we cannot carry out our own task of keeping our medical industry running. But more than that, if we stop mining, processing and exporting uranium, what effect will it have on the rest of the world? It is very likely that we would create a situation in which the only country to suffer from such an action would be Australia itself. It is ridiculous to think that we would inhibit the development of nuclear technology around the world. By mining and exporting our own uranium we have a chance to assist in the policy outlined by President Carter to assist in the policy of retarding or preventing the development of a plutonium industry which involved the recycling of uranium and which is more likely to develop if supplies of uranium oxide are difficult to find. 
By exporting, we may in fact be doing something to assist in the rational use of nuclear energy in the world. The issues which have emerged in this debate are simple: There is no risk free world. All risks have to be balanced and are relative. The uranium mining industry is well controlled. The processing and the reactor history is good. I am disappointed at the Labor Party which has argued not for a moratorium but for an indefinite halt to the development of uranium in this country. I should like to draw attention to one of the statements by a very great American- one of the great men of this century. I am referring to  Mr Adlai  Stevenson. I think  Senator Button,  who is attempting to interject, would acknowledge that he is a man whom we all can respect for his intellect and for his intellectual honesty and integrity. He said: 
There is no evil in the atom, only in men 's souls. 

 Mr Adlai Stevenson set down what I see as an essential component of this debate. The issue does not concern uranium or plutonium. I think that my colleague,  Senator Collard,  in his excellent contribution made this clear. There is nothing wrong with uranium or plutonium. What is wrong is with people who would misuse it. Over a period of decades now we have had the chance to observe what nuclear energy can do. In the profession which I have practised, it has added new dimensions to what we can do for people. But to use that technology I must have available uranium in our reactors. I must have available the means and the sources to get the radioactive isotopes that I require. Often they are very shortlived isotopes and often they are very difficult or impossible to import. 
This country is continually developing greater prospects of helping people through medicine and through industry. The Australian Labor Party, in arguing for a risk free program, must acknowledge that no such thing exists. It must acknowledge, as  Senator Collard  stated, that no one argues that there is no risk at all associated with uranium technology. It is no good building castles in the air and trying to pull them down. 
The fact is that we have a safe, effective and well controlled industry. Australia has developed good safeguards in relation to the use of uranium. I commend the statement and the report of the inquiry. 
Debate (on motion by  Senator Withers)  adjourned. 
-My question is directed to the Leader of the Government in the Senate. It concerns the proposal by an entrepreneur to promote a series of cricket matches. Is it true that this Government advocates free enterprise, encourages the operation of a market and discourages monopoly operations? Since the proposals made by the entrepreneur seem to extend the free market and the choice for cricketers, can the Minister assure the Senate that adequate protection will be afforded to those Australian citizens who are professional cricketers and who wish to make their living playing cricket in a free market? Will he investigate whether any ban put on those players who move away from the traditional monopoly could be in breach of the Trade Practices Act? 
Has the Leader of the Government in the Senate yet been able to examine the article entitled 'After I Shot Arthur Calwell' which appeared in  Quadrant  and to which  Senator Mulvihill  made rather uncomplimentary reference on 19 August? Does the article in fact fully acknowledge, to quote the author's words 'the dreadful violence' done by him to  Mr Arthur  Calwell in 1 966? Is it a fact that it does not, as alleged by  Senator Mulvihill,  glorify political assassination? Does the article in fact give a useful insight into the life and mind of the man for whom  Mr Calwell  helped to build a new life? Is its publication consistent with the social responsibility of the magazine  Quadrant')  Can the Minister say whether the objectives of the honourable senator who originally raised the question might have related to the fact that  Quadrant  is a major Australian cultural journal not yet in the hands of the left? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. It refers to the current choice facing the Government in the awarding of a contract by Telecom Australia for electronic telephone switching equipment worth at least $500m. Because the final choice will have serious employment implications for my constituents in Sydney, I ask: If the contract eventually is awarded to L. M. Ericsson Pty Ltd, the Swedish firm in contention, will the equipment be imported to any significant degree? If it is awarded to STC, the other firm in contention, will it protect and expand job opportunities in Sydney? To what extent is Telecom instructed to consider employment implications in decisions which it makes in awarding large contracts in Australia for public works? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health, relates to fluoridation of water supplies which has now been proven to be effective in the prevention of dental caries, especially in young Australians. Since it is likely to be highly cost effective in public health terms I feel it should be available to all Australians. I ask the Minister: Approximately what percentage of the potable water supplies in Australia are now fluoridated, either naturally or artificially, to levels considered satisfactory for prevention of dental caries? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 16 August 1977: 
Is there a national program in Australia directed towards the continuing detection of hypertension and towards notification to the family doctors of those members of the Australian community suffering from unsuspected hypertension. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 16 August 1977: 
Has the attention of the Minister been drawn to recent publications in the Medical Journal of Australia, indicating an alteration in the sex ratio of children born to mothers in hospitals in highly industrialised pans of Australia. 
Is the Depanment able to comment on the significance of the figures, which seem to suggest a lower likelihood of conceiving or carrying to live birth a male child in areas heavily contaminated by air pollution. 
If the findings are thought to be reliable, can the Minister indicate what steps have been taken to draw these findings to the attention of relevant State and Commonwealth authorities as yet more evidence of the deleterious effects of air pollution on the health of Australians 
I present the following petition from 70 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned students, parents, teachers and citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the decision of the Government to withdraw all forms of financial assistance to students of non-State tertiary institutions in the main, business colleges, is in total conflict with stated Government education policy. 
The decision will result in a shortage of places for training secretarial and clerical students and an inordinate demand upon the State Government technical education systems. 
At a time of severe economic disruption, this action must lead to an unnecessary worsening of the current employment situation for school leavers. 
Your petitioners, therefore, humbly pray that the Commonwealth Government will act immediately to reverse its decision. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Science. Some time ago the Minister outlined to the Senate the uses of the Australian Landsat system. I now ask the Minister: Is it anticipated that the Australian Landsat system, when it becomes operative, will be effective in identifying plantations of marihuana and assisting in the inderdiction of locally grown supplies of this drug? 
I direct my question to the Minister for Education. I draw to his attention the fact that on several occasions when nongovernment schools have been mentioned, they have been described as privileged, wealthy schools. Can the Minister indicate whether this is a correct description of schools in the nongovernment sector? If it is not a correct description, can he indicate the true situation of schools in the non-government sector? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. Can the Minister confirm that the Australian Council of Trade Unions, unlike the Australian Labor Party, does not oppose outright the development of a uranium industry in Australia? Is this so in spite of attempts by the Australian Labor Party to enforce on all members, including those in the ACTU executive, an extreme partisan view on uranium and its problems? Can the Minister resolve from the statements of the  President  of the ACTU and the ALP just what the real policies of these bodies are on uranium? Does  Mr Hawke  in fact reject instructions that he abandon his own capacity to think and adhere blindly to a party line laid down by the ALP? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 16 August 1977: 
1 ) Does air pollution by anaesthetic agents pose potential health risks for people who work on operating theatres and who thus attract continuing exposure to these gases day after day. 
What action is being taken by the Occupational Health Group to assess the risks involved and the people threatened by anaesthetic pollution. 
What action is being taken by his Department to disseminate information about this issue. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice on 16 August 1977: 
Has the Minister's attention been drawn to an article in 'Current Therapeutics' of May 1977 showing evidence of foetal abnormalities associated with Warfarin therapy during early pregnancy. 
What action, if any, has been taken by his Department to disseminate this information to appropriate authorities; and what restrictions are or will be, placed upon the use or availability of Warfarin. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs upon notice on 17 August 1977: 
Does the guest list to functions at Australian Consulates and Embassies on Australia Day usually include at least some of the Australian citizens known to be resident in the city in which the functions are to be held? 
How many Australians are known to be resident in Noumea? 
How many Australians from the list of known residents in Noumea received invitations to the last two years' celebrations of Australia Day? 
-I ask the Minister for Administrative Services whether he has received an invitation from  Mr Peter  Bowers, Press columnist, relating to a private showing of a film,  The Wargame,  on an invitation card headed 'Australian Institute of Current Affairs'. Has the Minister any information as to what the Australian Institute of Current Affairs represents? Does the Minister know who  Mr Bowers  is? 
My question to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs follows on the question asked by  Sir Magnus  Cormack two days ago. It also flows from newspaper articles of last weekend concerning torture, execution and atrocities in Cambodia. Are the accounts substantially true? What is the best available summary of the extent of atrocities committed since the takeover of Cambodia by the Khmer Rouge? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Education. Has the Minister's attention been drawn to advertisements from colleges of advanced education appearing in the Sydney  Sun,  for example, advertising in the following terms: 
Kuring-gai College is a very personal place ... a beautiful centre for learning. Why don 't you study there? 
Will the Minister agree that the Kuring-gai College is indeed a very pleasant place and a very fine college of advanced education? Can he advise whether these advertisements have been placed as a matter of policy with government money? Is the reason for the advertisements that there is some unfilled capacity in tertiary institutions in Australia? Do the advertisements mean that there are more student places available than there are students to fill them? If so can the Minister give an indication of how many places are available? 
Can the Minister for Education inform the Senate whether there have been any recent incidents which limit the capacity of Australian citizens or others to express views freely in this country to audiences anxious to hear them? Will he set out on behalf of the Government what is meant in this country by the right of free speech? Can he comment on any dangers to our freedoms evident at the present time in some of our tertiary institutions? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice, on 24 August 1977: 
How many persons in the Australian Capital Territory have, in each of the last five years, been charged with (a) possession of, and (b) sale of or trafficking in, marijuana. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 8 September 1977: 
Has the Minister read Bulletin No. 17 of the International Association of Jewish Lawyers and Jurists, dated May 1977, relating to legal aspects of the 'Abu Daoud Affairs', in which it is implied that France has not abided by its treaty obligations in the events surrounding the arrest and subsequent release of Abu Daoud. 
If the article is correct, does the Minister regard the failure of France to honour its treaty obligations as a significant precedent for France's attitude to treaties in general. 
Is it felt that Australia can in future rely upon the Government of France to honour its treaties to which Australia is a party 
Does the precedent indicate that France is likely in the future to harbour or to release terrorists in defiance of the accepted principles of public international law. 
-I refer the Minister for Education to Press reports that teachers in outback New South Wales are now on strike because of what they say is inadequate housing, the blame for which they place at the door of the Federal Government. Can the Minister inform the Senate of the position in New South Wales? Are teachers without adequate housing? To what extent is this a result of any funding responsibility which rests with the Commonwealth? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, upon notice, on 17 August 1977: 
1 ) Did the Minister state that there exists a high departmental priority for the implementation of recommendation 44 ofthe Report ofthe Senate Select Committee on the environmental conditions of Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders, a recommendation calling for adequate rehabilitation facilities and follow-up programs for discharged Aboriginal prisoners. 
Will the Minister outline all progress to date towards the implementation of this proposal. 
-I direct a question to the Minister for Science. It relates to the conversion of the measurements made in the field of medicine to the metric system, in particular to the System Internationale d 'Unites, which is known as the SI system and which was developed by the Conference Generate des Poids et Mésures. In view of the magnitude and significance of the change which is occurring in medical measurement can the Government assure the Senate that those who care for patients will have available appropriate conversion charts, particularly in the next few years? Further, has the Government given any thought to making available for training members of the medical community resources that would help them in the proper use of the new metric SI system of measurement? 
-Can the Minister representing the Minister for Health tell us whether it was stated in the  Medical Journal of Australia  of 10 September last that as recently as 1966 the Northern Territory of Australia had the highest rate in the world of endemic Hansen's disease or leprosy? What are the latest figures available for the Northern Territory? Is there any reason to believe that the endemic rate of leprosy in Australia is now substantially improved? 
asked the Minister representing the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 17 August 1977: 
Are evaluation reviews, carried out by the Priorities and Evaluation Division of the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet, ever made public when completed; if so, can the Prime Minister advise of any evaluations in the area of health or welfare programs which have been completed in the Department and the results of which can be made public. 
Is the Minister for Social Security in a position to comment on the criticisms made by the Archbishop of Sydney,  Sir Marcus  Loane, on the funding and operation of women 's refuges and health centres in Sydney? 
The Senate is debating a motion that the Senate take note of the Budget Papers. The Senate has had the pleasure of listening to  Senator Douglas  McClelland expounding eloquently on the reasons why an election should not be held. I can well understand why no member of the Australian Labor Party wants an election to be held. I can understand why they do not ever want elections to be held. I do not know whether there is any truth to the speculation which they have been fuelling so carefully, but I say to them that we on this side can all understand their desire that there should be no election for as long as possible because they know they could not win it. They know the people would not have them on in a fright. 
The Senate has been discussing an important and constructive budget; a budget that has brought into being some new tax reforms, long sought and long awaited by the Australian people; a budget that provides a framework for the continued attack upon inflation which, according to an indicator mentioned by  Senator Douglas  McClelland a moment a go, now stands somewhere below 10 per cent and, on his figure, actually at 9.2 per cent. 
I take the point from my colleague,  Senator Messner,  that in 1975 inflation was 17 per cent. We are looking at figures now below 10 per cent solely as the result of careful financial management, careful husbanding of the resources of this country. 
I remind the Senate that in this country 120,000 new jobs have been created since this Government came to office. They are jobs that did not exist before. In fact the work force in Australia is growing. If we look at the number of people registered for employment in December 1975 and add to that the number of people who were unemployed but who received assistance through the Regional Employment Development scheme, we find that the figure was in excess of 360,000. The unemployment figure as at August 1977, though still unsatisfactory, is down to 324,000. There has been an improvement in the unemployment situation though not only through the creation of new jobs. It is incredible to me that someone of the experience of  Senator Douglas  McClelland, a man who was a Minister in the Labor Government, a man who did so much to help put Australia where we found it in December 1975, a man who helped to create the conditions of economic disarray fails to acknowledge the nature of unemployment today. He fails to acknowledge that in the unemployment situation in this country there is a marked preponderance of untrained youth, of young people leaving our schools with no skills that they can sell on the market. It is this group of people particularly who are providing us with problems in the unemployment area. It is this Government that has moved systematically and vigorously into the area of assisting with job creation for young people. 
We have avoided all the draconian measures that were so freely promised before the Budget was brought down. I wonder why people kept spreading rumours. I wonder why they thought the $16 a day subsidy for private hospital cover was going to go. None of these things have come to pass. Instead, we have set a blueprint which will carry on our fight against inflation. We have brought in tax reform. We have started the inevitable move towards world price parity for oil. We have heard nothing from people like  Senator Douglas  McClelland as to what alternative policy we should operate there. Perhaps they would like us to wait until 1981 and move directly to world parity in one step. Perhaps that is the solution they would recommend for Australia. It is clearly a responsible step that we have taken. 
Further, this Government has stood by the Australian dollar in recent weeks in the face of one of the most disgraceful speculative attacks ever mounted by any Opposition in any Parliament. The Australian dollar is sound and safe. This Government's action has been decisive and effective. To the extent which the Australian Labor Party and its friends continue to speculate against the dollar they in fact speculate against this country and they speculate against its economic future. 
In the time available to me in this debate I wish to talk about a particular interest I have in liberalism in the western suburbs of Sydney and to respond to some attacks made on me personally in another place last night by the honourable member for Prospect,  Mr Klugman.  There is strong support for the Liberal Party and for liberalism in the western suburbs of Sydney. There is a large number of people who support what we stand for and who support the work we are doing in the western suburbs. The western suburbs of Sydney are part of my electorate. I have as much right in that area and as much right in any of those places as  Mr Klugman  or any other member of Parliament. If I move into those areas to work, I do so as of right. The fact that I have worked actively in the western suburbs is something which the honourable member for Prospect will have to accept and to learn to live with. He finds it uncomfortable. He will continue to find it uncomfortable because there are large numbers of people in the electorate of Prospect who come to me for their representations, who come to me for help. They are unwilling to go to a member whom they find remote, both geographically and personally, and whom they find ineffective when they approach him. 
After some episodes in the last three weeks, I have a better appreciation of why I receive so many approaches from people in the western suburbs of Sydney in the electorate of Prospect. During this period we have been organising and carrying out effectively a visit by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  to Club Marconi, an excellent club at Bossley Park in the western suburbs and in the western end of the electorate of Prospect. It is amazing that this visit has provoked from the honourable member for Prospect several outbursts in the Parliament which are not true, which are most damaging and which are most unfair. I regretfully feel it necessary to intervene in this debate to set the record straight and to identify the flagrant untruths by the honourable member for Prospect and to do justice to many loyal friends in the area, to my friends in the Club Marconi and to the Club itself. 
The circumstances of the Prime Minister's visit to the Club Marconi are very simple. I have been a member of this Club for some time. Many honourable senators in this chamber will know that the Club has attached to it what is possibly the best club soccer team in this nation, a team which I hope will in the next couple of weeks bring home the Challenge Cup which it is so close to winning. As a member of Club Marconi I have made it my business to visit the Club regularly. It is conveniently situated in the heart of the area I visit and work in. When I visit the Club I maintain close contacts with the directors, the  president  and the office bearers of the Club. It was during visits to Club Marconi that the  president  and his office bearers raised with me on a number of occasions their concern that no Liberal leader and no Liberal Prime Minister had previously been able to visit Club Marconi. They put the very reasonable view that this Club, which is an important and very significant centre for the Italian-Australian community in the western suburbs, was a place that deserved a visit from a Prime Minister of Australia. 
Not only because I am a member of Club Marconi but also because I thought the point the Club was putting was impeccable, I approached the Prime Minister by letter of 7 March this year suggesting that he should make available some time to visit Club Marconi as a guest. On 12 August I was given a firm date. It was indicated that the Prime Minister would be able to make himself available to visit the western suburbs on 23 September. Immediately I set in train the activation of the long-standing invitation from Club Marconi. The Club was delighted to accept and act upon the invitation which it had suggested to me. The arrangements for the visit were confirmed by telephone on 16 August with the  President  of the Club,  Mr Angelo  Bagatella, a very prominent and responsible member of the communty 
The visit by  Mr and Mrs Fraser  took place on 23 September. It is necessary to inform the Senate of the three activities in which the Prime Minister engaged when he was at Bossley Park. He arrived at Club Marconi and attended a function for Liberal Party workers in the western suburbs for approximately 45 minutes. At this function there were no speeches. There was no political rally. The Prime Minister merely made it his business to move around and say 'Hello' and to be introduced to the people who had gathered. Following this there was a dinner organised by the directors of the club which lasted, I suppose, an hour and a half. 
Following this the Prime Minister moved among the members of the Club through the Club premises until about 10.30 in the evening, a period of some further hour and a half. 
During all this time at the Club there were no political speeches. There was no attempt to talk politics. This was an effort by the Prime Minister to meet and listen to the people of the far western suburbs of Sydney. That is what he did. The only speech I can remember was a speech of welcome from the  President  of the Club at dinner and a brief response of thanks from the Prime Minister. During the time the Prime Minister was there all he did was say 'Hello', listen and take part in the Club's activities. The Prime Minister played bocce, which I am sure other honourable senators will know all about if they move among the Italian community. He played barille, which is a rather more difficult sport in which to engage. He drank a fair number of glasses of ale with the people he met. 
The honourable member for Prospect took exception to this visit. In fact, he saw it appropriate on 2 1 September, before the visit, to speak on the adjournment debate complaining about the visit and saying that it had been organised by the Prospect Electoral Conference of the Liberal Party and alleging that the  President  of that Conference was a con man. One can understand why the honourable member for Prospect does not like the Conference of the Liberal Party. It is too effective in cutting back his margin- so effective in fact that when he rose on the adjournment last night he described his seat as a swinging seat. It was not a swinging seat a few years ago. It is a swinging seat following his occupancy. 
The honourable member took exception to a whole series of things. He told a number of untruths about the visit which must be set straight because they are quite unfair and improper. He alleged that the visit to Club Marconi was an electioneering stunt. It was set up months ago and it was conducted in a low key manner quite unlike an election rally. Secondly, he alleged that I approached Club Marconi to seek the visit. That is untrue, as I have explained. The honourable member alleged that I asked Club Marconi to let us have Liberal supporters in the Club at a discount price of $2 a head. That is quite untrue. Club Marconi indicated to us that we could have Liberal supporters there provided there were no political speeches, which suited us. It suggested that a charge of $2 a head would cover its costs. Just to set the honourable member for Prospect straight, I have been in touch with Club Marconi today. It assures me that it made a handsome profit by charging $2 a head for the drinks and savouries which it supplied. If the honourable member for Prospect intends to use his adjournment speech last night for distribution in the electorate and if he wishes to have in it allegations that we talked the Club Marconi into some subsidised arrangement, he will be spreading a falsehood. I want him to know that because we will watch to see what he does with the material which he put down last night. The honourable member further alleged that, contrary to arrangements with Club Marconi that six people might sit down to dinner, we turned up with 60 people. He said:   a party of 60 turned up for a free feed. These were the hangers-on of the Prime Minister. 
My colleague,  Senator Lajovic,  who was present at Club Marconi, points out so correctly that the majority of the people who sat down to dinner were the directors of Club Marconi, their wives and guests of the Club. The majority of people were there by invitation of Club Marconi itself. The editors of the Italian Press were there, the Prime Minister's party was there, and I had a party of people there. The interesting thing is that the honourable member for Prospect has deliberately misrepresented what went on. The reason he has done this is the fact that the function was so successful that he cannot get over the fact that SOO people turned up as Liberals to meet the Prime Minister. After a successful dinner the Prime Minister moved through the club premises for several hours amid friends from the Italian community. Someone, either the honourable member for Prospect himself or someone giving him information, has chosen to misrepresent the facts. At the very least, the honourable member for Prospect has brought into the Parliament material which is not true and which he has not bothered to check. I can understand the problems which the honourable member for Prospect faces- new boundaries, a new electorate, new preselection. I am sure he will have the vote of the new mayor of Fairfield, and I wish him luck; but he should be careful if he hopes to misrepresent as he has done the proper activities of the Prime Minister of Australia moving among his community. 
When I opened, I said that the western suburbs of Sydney is a great Liberal area. It might be worth while to set down just how many Liberals live there. For a start, I place on record that my election to the Senate in 1 974 depended upon the Liberal vote in Labor seats in the western suburbs of Sydney. The margin was close. There are large numbers of people in the western suburbs who will not vote for the socialists. Of the six seats that surround Club Marconi, some of which were mentioned by the honourable member for Prospect last night- the seats of Chifley, Macquarie, Macarthur, Parramatta, Prospect and Werriwa-the Liberal Party holds three. There are 205,466 people who voted Liberal at the last election, and in none of those seats did the Liberal Party get less than 37 per cent of the vote. In fact, in most of them its vote was well above that. The only accurate thing that  Mr Klugman  said last night was that I organised the Prime Minister's visit to the western suburbs. I certainly did organise it and I will certainly continue to work in the western suburbs. I will continue to visit the area. I will continue to work for the citizens who need decent representation. They need something better than they have been getting. I will continue to bring significant government figures into the electorate simply so they can get to know the area better. 
Can anyone seriously say that it is to the disadvantage of the western suburbs if the Prime Minister visits and sees the area? Of course it is not. It can only be to the advantage of the area if he comes to understand first hand some of the things which have been concerning us. 
The people in the western suburbs desire an active, interested and concerned representative, and if they cannot get it from the ones they have got they will continue to look to their senators. As a senator interested in the western suburbs I will continue to take Ministers there whenever I can. I will continue to visit Club Marconi; I will do it proudly. I am quite disgusted by the flagrant untruths spread last night on the adjournment debate by a member in another place- for what purpose one can only guess. 
My question is directed to the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Federal Affairs. It relates to the question asked by  Senator Wriedt.  Did the New South Wales Budget brought in last night in fact increase State expenditure while allegedly easing some State taxes? Did the Budget in fact reduce or enlarge the tax base in New South Wales? Can the Minister clarify for the Senate where the extra funds which New South Wales has enjoyed have come from in the last year? 
The Senate is debating an Opposition motion that the following is a matter of urgency: 
The social and economic implications of youth unemployment. 
No responsible government would want to deny the importance or significance of unemployment, particularly the importance or significance of unemployment among youth. We regard it as a significant and major problem, and it is one to which this Government and governments such as ours have given a lot of attention. We recognise the extent of the problem. We know that, in 1977, 38 per cent of those registered as unemployed are under the age of 21 years. That is not and cannot be a satisfactory situation for any government. It is quite wrong, quite improper, for the Opposition to say that we are unaware of the problem. We are aware of the extent and importance of youth unemployment, and it is quite immoral to say that we are not doing anything about it. This Government is acting effectively and responsibly to intervene in the situation, which is so much a legacy of the wasted Labor years. My colleague  Senator Tehan  will speak later, and he will outline the way in which the unemployment situation developed inevitably as a result of the economic policies of the disgraced Government that we replaced. 
We are acting in this area. We are aware of the large number of unemployed youth. We were sufficiently concerned to commission a report from a study group on youth affairs. That report, which was presented in February this year, made some very significant comments about unemployment as it is seen by youth, as it is understood by young people. On page 3 the report stated: 
Youth unemployment was regarded as the most pressing problem affecting young people in all areas visited. 
That is to say, young people in Australia see the capacity to get jobs as the most significant problem facing them. We understand that and we recognise it. The report went on to make some further analytical observations about youth and the opportunities for employment. It pointed out that youth unemployment is particularly concentrated amongst those who are disadvantaged for some reason. We know who those people are. They are the early school leavers, migrants, Aboriginals, young people in rural areas and in inner city areas- the people who one might say are at risk. They see unemployment as a particular problem. They are aware of some of the points that have been made, such as that they may be labelled incorrectly as failures because they cannot get jobs. 
Young people are aware of the psychological effects of not having a job. They also are aware that there is something wrong with the system in that the employment opportunities which they seek are not there for them to take advantage of and to use. Let me make one point that is clear to this Government. We have no argument with the young Australians of today. They are as good a generation as one could find anywhere. We are keen to give them the opportunities they deserve and demand. It is difficult to understand the morality of an Opposition which, in presenting a matter of urgency such as this, will not acknowledge, will not set out, will not identify the positive contributions of the Government towards the alleviation of unemployment amongst youth. This Government has a record of which it can be proud. It has been active and effective. This year's Budget puts into the area of employment opportunity for youth one-third more in dollar terms that was put into the programs last year. An amount of $ 103m has gone specifically into the area of job creation or job promotion for youth and about 100,000 young people will benefit from that allocation. 
The various schemes have been mentioned previously, but they should be identified again because there may be people taking an interest in this debate to whom some of the programs are important. The National Employment and Training scheme- the NEAT scheme- provides vocational and on-the-job training and instruction. This year the Government has provided $S4.3m for the scheme, an increase of about $23m on the amount spent last year. That is an enormous increase by a Government determined to intervene effectively. At the end of September more that 25,000 young Australians were in training under the scheme. And the Opposition says that we are doing nothing! In 1976 and 1977 more than 40,000 young Australians passed through the NEAT scheme. 
The Community Youth Support scheme is another Government program, another Government initiative, and it is an interesting one. It funds community organisations to provide support for young people who are out of work and to help them learn how to get a job. It provides counselling and tells young people how to go about winning the battle for jobs. The allocation this year is $4m; last year's allocation was $0.6m. That represents a big increase. And the Opposition says that we do nothing! There are 277 different programs which have been funded under the scheme since 1 November last year and more than 2,000 young people have been provided with counselling and help through the scheme. I have seen the scheme in operation in my State of New South Wales, where young people in the Gosford area, for example, have taken advantage of it and found work. 
Another scheme initiated, promoted, advanced and extended by the Government is the CRAFT scheme- the Commonwealth Rebate for Apprentice Full-time Training scheme. I prefer to call it CRAFT because at least I can remember that. The scheme provides support for employers to make it possible for them to take on apprentices and to give them an opportunity to receive training and instruction and to acquire a skilled trade. The Government has provided $42.2m under the CRAFT scheme. In Australia there are more than 41,000 apprentices, of whom more than 5,000 are being assisted under the scheme. One would have thought, listening to the Opposition, that we were doing nothing. 
Another Government scheme is the Special Youth Employment Training scheme, which has just been expanded and extended. It now applies to people from 1 5 to 25 years of age- people who since leaving school have had no proper job, no suitable employment. At the end of September this year 1 1,894 people were being trained and receiving assistance under the progam. In the nine months since the scheme commenced more than 15,000 young people have been assisted and trained. The scheme provides a subsidy of $65 a week in respect of each young person assisted, with a total allocation this year of $ 18m. The interesting point is that of those who have been through the scheme and have been followed up, 70 per cent- seven out of ten- have been able to find employment once they received the training. They were people who on any reasonable grounds could not normally have expected to be employed. 
Another scheme announced recently, the Education Program for Unemployed Youth, is the latest and perhaps in its way the most important of all the initiatives we are undertaking to assist in solving the problem of youth unemployment. It is a sad fact that the educational system in this country is a failure in certain ways. Any system that will send young Australians out from school, unable to read or write at a level that gives them an opportunity to find and hold a job, is an educational system which has failed. While that system lasts it is incumbent upon our educationists to re-examine the relevance of what they are doing and their competence as educators. After looking at a lot of youth who have no jobs, the Government has found it necessary to start training them again, giving them education to teach them to read, to count and to compete on the job market. This program already has more than 500 young people involved with many more to come in quickly. 
Youth unemployment is serious, but it is world-wide. We are aware that other countries like ours have significant problems of youth unemployment. The  Australian Financial Review  of 1 1 July dealt with this at some length in an article entitled 'Europe tackles a mountain of young jobless'. The article made the point that in Britain the many young who will be leaving school will remain jobless because their problems there are the same as ours. They expect that nine months after the school year ends they will still have almost half a million school leavers out of work. In France, about 49 per cent of their one million unemployed are under the age of 21 years. We have seen the recent riots in Italy by the young unemployed. In West Germany there are special levies on employers, all directed towards providing resources for youth who need jobs. The problems are world-wide. 
Why is it that young people cannot get jobs? There is a structural component to what is going on which must be acknowledged and must be recognised by any responsible Opposition. There are more young people as the baby booms of the post-war years catch up with us. There is increasing technology and automation which is causing some simpler jobs to disappear, to be replaced. The post-industrial society is creeping up on us. Market forces are having their effect. The Labor Government was responsible for the upward pressure of wages for junior employees. They have been priced out of the market. What is the economic advantage of employing a junior in many industries if it costs more than it is worth, especially in view of the move in our society towards the increasing employment of married women. Married women may be better value economically. In 1964, 33.4 per cent of our work force consisted of married women. In 1975 it was already in excess of 40 per cent. There is nothing wrong with that. If they are able to hold jobs on a competitive market, then why should they not do so. Our interventions to date have reduced the number of young jobless. In July, articles in the  Australian Financial Review  carried these headings: 'Youth job training programs a success'; CRAFT, NEAT, youth plans come up all smiles', and 'Young jobless down 6 per cent in 2 months'. We do care; otherwise we would not have responded with the vigour we have shown. We are concerned at the long term structural implications for young unemployed. It is a pity that the Australian Labor Party ignores the question. It is a moral abdication on its part. The case put by honourable senators opposite has done nothing to give one any comfort that they understand or seriously wish to attack the problem. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 7 September 1977: 
1 ) Do most recent surveys indicate that most Australians are non-smokers and that smokers represent only some 40 per cent of the Australian population. 
Do Ansett Airlines of Australia, Trans-Australia Airlines and Qantas provide more than 40 per cent of aircraft seating for smokers; if so, will the Minister again indicate to the airlines the distress felt by non-smokers who cannot obtain non-smoking seats on aircraft. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Education. Are motions being put to the annual council meeting of the Australian Union of Students to increase the annual fee towards $10, which fee is to be hidden in the enrolment fee and inapparent to students? Will the Government permit a compulsory levy of this kind on tertiary students to be used to pay the debts of the bankrupt and discredited AUS Travel Service? Can the Government carefully monitor the use of compulsory levies on students to ensure that they are not diverted into any improper or inappropriate uses? 
I bring up the report of Estimates Committee D on the particulars of proposed expenditure for the year 1977-78, together with the  Hansard  record of the Committee's proceedings. I move: 
That the report of the Committee, excluding the appendix, be printed. 
For the information of honourable senators I table eight reports which were presented to the Committee by the Department of Health in response to requests for additional information. Because of their combined bulk, they have not been included in the Committee's report. I also table replies containing additional information from the Department of Aboriginal Affairs which have been received by the Committee subsequent to the preparation of its report. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Is the Minister for Administrative Services aware that an interchange for the planned Tuggeranong-Canberra City road system will affect the site west of Black Mountain that is proposed for a National Museum of Australia? Does the Minister recall the answer he gave in the Senate on 7 September 1976 that the site would be used for no purpose other than that of a National Museum of Australia? On the basis that the assurances still hold, will the Government restrain the National Capital Development Commission from proceeding in any way to disfigure the proposed museum site, or reduce options for a National Museum of Australia to occupy this unique position in Canberra? Finally, will he inform the NCDC that it may be necessary for the Parliament to move to disallow the alteration to the plan of Canberra which would be necessary to allow the interchange to be constructed? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Public Service Matters, upon notice, on 16 August 1977: 
1 ) Do any Government Departments have a requirement for compulsory unionism for employees within the Commonwealth Public Service or within statutory authorities associated with the Commonwealth Public Service. 
If there is no requirement for compulsory unionism, will the Minister assure the Senate that those electing not to join a union will not have the right to employment withdrawn solely on the grounds that they are not unionists. 

 - Senator Georges made a quite extraordinary speech tonight. In that speech he pointed out that AUS Student Travel was unable to understand the financial advice given to it by consultants and that therefore it is not to blame. 
-You talked about the accountants - 

 - Senator Georges drew attention to the advice the travel service had received from its accountants and emphasised the incompetence of the board of management of this travel service. That is the first point. It is incompetence that drove the travel service into the position it is now in and it is incompetence in other areas which has landed people in much worse trouble than that experienced by AUS Travel. The next part of  Senator Georges'  speech was quite extraordinary. He outlined to the Senate in words of one syllable that not only had illegal practices been the order of the day in the travel area but also he admitted and acknowledged in a way that I find quite extraordinary that Qantas - 
Thank you,  Mr President.  I found what  Senator Georges  said most instructive. He has admitted that Qantas and AUS Student Travel have taken actions which have breached the regulations. Honourable senators are indebted to  Senator Georges  for that admission. He has made it clear that the illegal practices in the market place have extended to Qantas. It is interesting that in the feasibility study which was put out by AUS Student Travel, on which they based their program of recovery, the following statement appears: 
An assumption has to be made that Qantas, Thai and MAS will continue to trade in the 'spirit ' of the past. 
I found it difficult to know what that meant, but  Senator Georges  appears to have clarified it for me. He said that not only are these illegal practices taking place but also that we should continue to allow them to take place. He makes a case for us to ignore the air navigation regulations which are designed for the management and regulation of the industry. I am indebted to the honourable senator for what he has said about secondary arrangements. I am concerned that his answers do not tie up completely with some of the responses that we have received from Qantas Airways Ltd and from AUS Student Travel at this stage. It is most interesting that the honourable senator has this knowledge of the irregularities going on in the market place. I believe it is necessary that the air navigation regulations should be applied, and that they should be applied across the market place. They should be applied to AUS Student Travel as well as to all the airlines and any other travel agency. 

 Senator GEORGES (Queensland)-Mr  President,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
-On behalf of  Senator Wood,  I present the following petition from 23 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
Objection to the metric system and request the Government to restore the imperial system. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
On many occasions speeches on foreign affairs matters are made in this Parliament, and I believe that on those occasions the Parliament tries to achieve a certain measure of bipartisanship, including the matter which  Senator Wheeldon  has raised tonight. I draw the attention of the Senate to two speeches that  Senator Wheeldon  made in the last year, one on India and the loss of democracy there, and one on the Middle East. It is likely that there have been no finer speeches made in the Senate for a number of years, and I would like to place on record that the speech made by him tonight is entirely consistent with views that have been put forward by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  publicly on a number of occasions. Though we are political opponents of  Senator Wheeldon,  he has expressed the view that was expressed by  Mr Fraser  in relation to apartheid at the meeting of Commonwealth Heads of Government this year. Also, he expressed a view that was entirely consistent with that expressed by  Sir Robert  Menzies at page 282 in his book  The Measure of the Years.  Even if  Senator Wheeldon  has told us very little about oilseeds, the subject matter of the Bill now before us, he has done a real service to the Senate by the public statement he has made on this very important matter. 
I remind honourable senators that since the Senate is discussing the Oilseeds, Levy Bill, which it may not amend, one is permitted under Standing Order 190 to debate on the motion for the first reading, matters both relevant and not relevant to the subject matter of the Bill. I wish to address myself tonight to the subject of the AUS Student Travel Service, because the structure of that Service and the events surrounding its operation, its recent failure and the attempts to reconstruct it, have given me the greatest cause for concern. Many people will have noted the publicity which surrounded the failure of this organisation. I was interested, when I started reading matters concerned with it, to look first at the last annual report of Qantas Airways Ltd, the report for 1975-76,where in several places Qantas Airways drew attention in a very definite way to illegal practice in the Australian market place, to the fact that illegal discounting has been going on in Australia by a number of airlines and its concern about the effect which these illegal practices have had on the capacity of airlines to work and survive. 

 - Senator Georges has made an amazing statement- that Qantas Airways has been part of it, whatever 'it' refers to. He may be saying that it was part of the illegal discounting practices. It is interesting to consider what AUS Student Travel Service has done, its unnaturally close association with Qantas and the way in which it has been allowed, under a moratorium, to recommence trading. I wish, above all, to state my concern that students are being placed in jeopardy, that their travel arrangements cannot be undertaken with confidence, that the moratorium arrangement is one that cannot work, and that this company is engaged in a scheme of arrangement which cannot succeed but can only adversely affect the capacity of students to obtain . low cost travel. I would like to see students able to get and to use low fares. I would like to see all young people able to get these fares, but to get them from reputable carriers and from reputable organisations, not organisations such as AUS Student Travel. 
AUS Student Travel is a company incorporated in Victoria. It has been given rights to operate on campus throughout Australia under a condition available to no other travel service. It operates under a privileged situation. 
-Senator Missen says that it is a monopoly. It operates under conditions not available to any other travel service in Australia because a special waiver- a unique waiverwhich was given in good faith does away with what is called the 50,000 affinity rule. It applies only to AUS Student Travel. Honourable senators would think that that would ensure its commercial viability and success. It has special conditions not available to anybody else. This travel service is not an International Air Transport Association approved travel service. It operates slightly differently. It can operate charters. It can operate charters for students and it can charge for those charters an amount of money which it can take as profit. That is perfectly legal and proper. However, because it is a non-IATA agency it should not be able to take any commission at all for anything it does in relation to scheduled air services. It should not be able to take commissions for certain tickets called SATA tickets with which I will deal later. It should be able to get its income only from its charter work and from a few other minor services such as sale of Eurail tickets and certain other all-inclusive tours. 
AUS Student Travel has operating with it an associates' club, which has enabled it to spread its membership very wide. Many school teachers and many young graduates are associated with this travel service. What has amazed me and what has disquieted people all round Australia is what has happened to this company in a favoured trading position, operating on campus virtually with a monopoly. In 1976, this company had a profit. In 1977 it has gone into liquidation with very large debts. How did AUS Student Travel come to fail? 
That is a question which we are entitled to ask and we are entitled to have an answer to it. I can understand  Senator Georges'  concern.  Senator Georges  seems to have some special concern that we do not even introduce or discuss these matters. It is a matter of great concern to people why this favoured organisation should have failed. The first point is that AUS Student Travel was mismanaged in a mammoth and almost unbelieveable way. Last year's balance sheet to 31 March showed a profit of $150,977. Its management has been so bad that there has been no balance sheet yet for the year ended 31 March 1977. In spite of the fact that it has had to go into voluntary liquidation, in spite of the fact that the auditors have been in and in spite of the fact that there has been a scheme of arrangement, there is still no balance sheet for last year. But we are told that unaudited results show that last year it has lost $1,189,000. We then have to recognise that in one year AUS Student Travel has managed to turn a healthy, handy profit of about $150,000 into a loss of $1.2m. That really takes some doing and one is entitled to ask why it happened. The questions are interesting. I said that the company has been mismanaged. The exact extent of its debts is still not fully known. It is still not possible to get an exact and reliable figure of the extent to which the funds of students have been put in jeopardy. This company is owned by the Australian Union of Students and its debt has put a lot of AUS money in jeopardy. 
Questions asked recently during the Estimates committee hearing revealed some information but we could not even then get an exact statement of the amount of indebtedness. We were told that the unaudited loss at March this year was $1,189,000. We were told that in the six months that followed it is expected that its loss will be somewhere around or somewhere in excess of half a million dollars. That is fine accounting practice! That is fine practice for an organisation which had a turnover last year of $20m! It does not even know how much of the money of the Australian university students it has lost. At least, the provisional liquidator who was appointed- a man from Coopers and Lybrand-  Mr Ken  Russell held a Press conference after the scheme of arrangement was announced. He is reported in the  Australian Financial Review  of 12 September as helping us a little with some figures. He said: 
. seven airlines which are owed between $2.5 million and $3.1 million . . . 
This whole case is one of such exactitude! Airlines are owed somewhere between $2.5m and $3.1m. The company does not even know, to within half a million dollars, how much money it has lost.  Mr Russell  states further:   the company had total liabilities of between $5.1 million and $5.7 million. 
Total assets which were mainly in liquid form, were $3.6 million. 
So whatever else we know, this travel service had got itself into an extremely serious situation by August this year when it had to close its doors. A balance sheet still has not been presented. It is very difficult to make any accurate analysis of what had gone on in this organisation in that 12 months. There is very scanty documentation in the balance sheet for the previous year which we were able to obtain. It was interesting that during the Estimates Committee hearing when I referred to the balance sheet to March 1976, the officer assisting the Estimates committee made a comment to the effect that there had been some suggestion that the results shown in that balance sheet were not correct. Here we have uncertainty heaped on uncertainty. We have unsatisfactory features heaped one upon the other. We have an officer of the Department of Transport indicating that there are suggestions that the previous balance sheet may not have been correct. We do not know just how big the debt or the indebtedness is but it is very major and very great. If it had been any other travel agency, it would have closed its doors and it would not have been able to reopen. But AUS Student Travel has been able to reopen. 
What are the other reasons why this travel service failed? I draw to the attention of this Senate the fact that this Government tightened up the Air Navigation Regulations from 1 April 1976. We then attempted to implement these Air Navigation Regulations. It is interesting that it was during the period when AUS Student Travel could no longer operate at a profit that we were ensuring that the rules which applied were properly and rigorously enforced. There have been many complaints about the operations of AUS Student Travel and its failure to adhere to the Air Navigation Regulations and to the rules of conduct which apply throughout the industry. There have been all kinds of complaints, and the industry's executive committee has passed on many of these complaints to the Department of Transport for action and investigation. Interestingly enough, it is not as though this travel company was without good management. Qantas Airways Ltd had put into AUS Student Travel for the last 18 months a  Mr Gregory  to be its marketing manager. The tie-up that emerges! There is a close tie, a close link, between Qantas and AUS Student Travel, with an officer from Qantas coming in to help the firm during that time. Unfortunately, he could not do much good and the firm continued to lose money. 
Another observation on the failure of this company is that its expenses were exceedingly high. It has been possible to examine a document called an AUS Feasibility Study- a document which was verified during a meeting of the Estimates Committee by an officer of the Department of Transport as having come from the companyin which were set out the unaudited expenses for the last year. Let us pick out a couple of the expenses. Let us take the travelling and entertainment item. AUS Student Travel spent on travelling and entertainment approximately 20 times as much on a pro rata basis as one of the largest agencies to whom I spoke and from whom I sought information. 
Its turnover was $50m a year, which was greater than that of AUS Student Travel by a factor of five, and its expenditure on travel and entertainment was only a quarter of that of the student agency. I will say one thing. The people at AUS Student Travel knew how to live and they knew how to travel. They did it in a way that was not consistent with commercial viability, and they have paid the price. Perhaps I could deal with AUS Student T ravel's telexes. I wonder who used its telex, but one of my colleagues might help me there. Its telex expenses were half as much again as those of an agency five times as large. We have here a story of mismanagement, inadequate financial records and large expenses during a period when the Air Navigation Regulations were tightened up. It all adds up to this company being unable to continue trading. 
I should like to discuss in more detail some of the unsatisfactory features of this whole episode relating to the operations of Qantas and TransAustralia Airlines in AUS Student Travel. We have a legitimate interest in this Parliament in Qantas Airways. We have a legitimate interest in TAA. 
I hear some reference to Ansett, but Ansett Airways is not one of the creditors of AUS Student Travel. TAA is a creditor and so is Qantas, and I would remind the Senate that the debt owed by AUS Student Travel to Qantas Airways is admitted as being over $800,000. If we had the real facts, I believe we would find that it is very much greater, possibly in excess of $1m. It is my intention at a later date to place on notice a question seeking the full extent of the indebtedness of AUS Student Travel to Qantas when AUS Student Travel can give the figures. What has happened is that among the creditors who have closed AUS Student Travel are several larger airlines. They are owed varying amounts of money, but Qantas is owed most. A number of questions then arise. Qantas is not known as an airline that is free and easy with the taxpayers' money. It maintains a good credit control over the agencies which work though it. IATA controlled agencies work through what is known as a bank settlement plan- BSP-and they operate on fortnightly settlements. They pay their bills each fortnight or their BSP plates are taken away and they do not open next day. That is the way Qantas operates, and there are numerous examples in the market place of agencies which did not open on Monday because they could not pay their bills on the previous Friday. There is something else about IATA agencies which provides a little more comfort for those who put their money in. If an IATA agency fails, let me remind honourable senators that there is an industry responsibility. When the Four Seasons Travel Agency closed recently, the industry moved in to pick up its debts and to cover those customers who might otherwise have been stranded. That does not apply to a nonIATA body such as AUS Student Travel. 
I pose that question: How did AUS Student Travel run up a debt to Qantas of $800,000? What did Qantas know about it? How did it run up a debt of almost half a million dollars to TAA? Qantas has accepted from AUS Student Travel the use of a ticket called a SATA ticket- a special international student's air travel ticketand the SATA ticket is a very interesting one. It does not have a price written on the front. It is very hard to know what price has been charged. You only know when the accounts pass back from the airline to the company. SATA tickets are extensively used by AUS Student Travel. Indeed, they are highly valued by AUS Student Travel because when it wrote its feasibility study on how it could survive it had this to say about SATA tickets: 
The use of SATA tickets should continue as otherwise airlines have to use IATA rickets and indicate published fares. If SATA agreement was in danger AUS would have problems. 
That is a very revealing statement in the feasibility study prepared for AUS Student Travel when it went into voluntary liquidation. It is very hard to control the prices that are being charged and whether the Air Navigation Regulations are being breached while SATA tickets are being used. That is the first thing about the relationship between Qantas and AUS Student Travel. The second thing is that AUS Student Travel believes that it gets commission for some of its operations. It is not an IATA-approved agency and it is therefore not entitled to commission. If there is any question of AUS Student Travel getting commissions, especially commissions on scheduled flights, those commissions are clearly illegal and in breach of the Air Navigation Regulations. AUS Student Travel is not an IATA agent and it is not entitled to the commissions which are paid to such agencies. If it is getting such commissions and has been getting them, that is illegal. 
I remind the Senate that the marketing manager for AUS Student Travel for 18 months was a Qantas man. It is most interesting to examine how it was that a debt as large as $800,000 accumulated. Answers have been given to the Senate Estimates Committee indicating that all the charters arranged by AUS Student Travel were paid in advance. I would not think of doubting the veracity of answers given in response to questions asked by our Committee. That means that the entire debt arose from operations other than charters. If all the charters were prepaid, there could be no debt in relation to them. If there is a debt, it must have come from some other kind of operation. Qantas Airways Ltd stated that it has extended to AUS Student Travel its normal 30 day credit terms. How could AUS Student Travel accumulate a debt of $800,000 in 30 days! Anyone could multiply that out and arrive at a figure of at least $9.6m a year for non-charter work. 
It is plainly an astonishing, outrageously incorrect statement. It is not possible for this debt to have been accumulated over 30 days. It is quite clear that Qantas Airways Ltd has allowed AUS Student Travel extended credit. There is no other way that such a debt could have arisen. I make the point that this is something that has been offered to no other travel agencies by a company which has tight credit control and which had no compunction about closing other travel agencies in the past. These facts are correct. Further, AUS Student Travel has built up a debt of $500,000 with Trans-Australia Airlines. It is interesting that we have had no response from TAA yet to inquiries made during the meetings of the Estimates Committee. I am looking forward to the replies which I am sure TAA is anxious to provide to the Senate in due course. I believe that Qantas has been at least disingenuous in the answers it has given to the Estimates Committee. I believe that it still has a lot to explain about the relationship it established with AUS Student Travel. 
There is one other matter I wish to raise. It is very unusual for an agency to be able to re-open without putting up the cash to cover its deficiencies. It is most unusual that AUS Student Travel has been able to open under these kinds of conditions to allow Qantas to try to avoid the ignominy of its own sloppy, inefficient management. 
The moratorium that has been proposed is non-viable. It cannot work. It requires enough income to overcome the loss of $ 1.2m incurred last year. It requires that AUS Travel starts operating profitably. It requires further that the Company generates enough income to repay the amount it owes to the airlines. For AUS Student Travel to move from a loss situation to one of marked profitability will require a volume of traffic which it cannot achieve. The moratorium will not work. It cannot work and it is students who will be placed in jeopardy. We worked this out. If we add to the 5 per cent allowable commission on charters the $40 surcharge that the Company intends to make, we can work out the tens of thousands of students who must be transported at these higher prices in order to allow the Company to trade out under the guidance and protection of the airlines. I am concerned about this moratorium arrangement. It is not something that can be good for students. It is not something that can be good for those students who wish to travel overseas. 
We require a national inquiry. We need an inquiry to get to the bottom of what has occurred in the AUS Student Travel affair. We need to know the true size of the debts. We need to know the real relationship of Qantas Airways and TAA to the build up of the debt and to the reconstruction of the company. We need to know how the Australian Union of Students itself would come to put a further $50,000 unsecured into AUS Student Travel in the last couple of weeks. We need to get the public concerned about getting worked out the tangled financial relationship between AUS Student Travel and the airlines. We need to examine the non-viable reconstruction scheme. 
Students in Australia and young people generally want low cost travel. Let us make sure they get it from a reliable carrier. Let us make sure they get it with no danger to their rights to travel. There can be no quiet on this matter until a lot more is known and until the AUS Student Travel affair is looked a lot more closely than it has been to date. 
-Can the Minister for Social Security confirm that the Salvation Army and other voluntary organisations in Victoria which have been providing emergency aid to families of people out of work because of the power strike have now depleted their funds? If this is so, can the Minister give any assistance to those voluntary organisations to enable them to provide emergency cash relief in this particular situation? 
-I present the report from the Standing Committee on Social Welfare on its inquiry into the extent and nature of the inappropriate use of alcohol, tobacco, analgesics and cannabis, together with the official  Hansard  transcript of the evidence taken during the inquiry. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the report. 
I have the honour to present to the Senate the report of the Senate Standing Committee on Social Welfare entitled 'Drug Problems in Australiaan intoxicated society?' This report has taken 18 months to prepare and will make a significant contribution to one of the most important debates now taking place in Australia. This is the first national parliamentary report into the use and abuse of alcohol and tobacco in Australia and the first attempt to state a national strategy for coping with drug abuse. The report also adds significantly to those parts of the report in 1971 of the Senate Select Committee which dealt with cannabis and with analgesics. 
Boswell noted 200 years ago Johnson's comment that 'a man is never happy for the present but when he is drunk'. This Committee report notes that Australians are compulsive and heavy drug users and have always been so. Drug use in Australian society is not new or recent and should not be so portrayed. National tradition has been towards intoxication rather than towards sobriety, a view expressed forcibly in the title of the report. 
The solution of great public issues requires a rational and intelligent debate and the provision of adequate, dispassionate, factual information. It is to our regret that we report to the Senate that the drug debate in Australia today is characterised by a lack of knowledge, a lack of tolerance, a lack of intelligence and a lack of constructive proposals. On both sides the debate has been approached with a degree of hysteria, propaganda and invective which should be rejected by the Senate and by all Australians. 
Too many Australians, when they talk about our national drug problem, confine their remarks to illicit drugs and to cannabis in particular. This is partly because people often refuse to discuss the drugs which they abuse- alcohol, tobacco and analgesics- and want to concentrate upon the drug use and abuse of others. Further, many people who use the legal drugs refuse to think of themselves as drug users- which they are. In the same way the producers, distributors, retailers and promoters of legal drugs do not regard themselves as drug pushers- which they also clearly are. The major problems, let me state again, are the use and abuse of alcohol and tobacco- major in terms of numbers of users and degree of damage to society. 
This report, if it does nothing else, will establish in the community an appreciation that drug use and abuse is to be seen all around us and that alcohol and tobacco are the real menaces to the future health of the Australian community. These views do not derive from a wowser' mentality on the part of the Committee. Members of the Committee are drinkers and smokers- of tobacco, I should add- and users of analgesics, too. Our views derive directly from the incontrovertible nature of the evidence presented to us. The evidence itself is a major contribution to the national debate and should be read with great care by anybody seeking a proper understanding of the drug use problem. Incidentally, our report is extensively referenced to the evidence and to the other sources on which we have drawn. 
The use of all drugs should, in the opinion of the Committee, be reduced. There should be a reduction in the use of licit drugs, and the use of illicit drugs must be brought under control and be continually reduced. Again, I stress that in this regard we see it as an important national goal to reduce our levels of consumption of alcohol and tobacco, the drugs most seriously abused in Australia, and the ones which cause the greatest personal and social damage and the greatest economic cost. 
In regard to opiates, prescription drugs and hallucinogens we found problems in the collection of hard data. We received little factual information on these and therefore have been unable at this stage to make a useful contribution concerning them. The information we did receive included some figures on incidence of narotic use sufficient to justify our statements about the relative importance in Australia of different forms of drug abuse. Some valuable, though limited, information on amphetamines and barbiturates was received and we have presented this briefly to give added perspective to our discussion of the total drug problem. We have sought in this report to place before the Senate, the Government and the people, without further delay, the facts and our conclusions and recommendations relating to alcohol, tobacco, analgesics and cannabis. The Committee's terms of reference permit it to return later to consideration of the effects of the use of other drugs and we already have determined that this will be done. 
This report to the Senate has 3 components. First there is a statement of a possible national strategy with some associated comment. Second, there is a discussion of several general matters including education and general policy issues. Finally, there is a discussion in four separate chapters on the use of four separate drugs of abuse. Education, often advanced as a necessary new and major avenue of intervention, poses many uncertainties and problems. Its aim in the drug area must, in the end, be to reduce drug use or to ameliorate its effects. There is little evidence that education achieves these aims; there is some evidence that it can increase drug use. The Committee seeks support for effective programs of education which encourage broad values for living as well as for any specific drug intervention programs which can be shown to work. The call for a national strategy or national program is what might be termed the keynote of the report. Without an agreed strategy there can be no successful outcome in Australia. What we offer is one suggestion and our proposal has seven elements. They are: long term commitment; agreed priorities; balanced efforts to reduce supply and demand; international co-operation in supply reduction and early intervention and rehabilitation in demand reduction; acceptance of drug abuse as a social/medical problem; coordination between programs and agencies; and, finally and most importantly, recognition by the Commonwealth of its leadership responsibilites and by the States of their role in the provision of services. 
I wish to elaborate briefly on the last of these to emphasise the importance of the Commonwealth's role in giving national leadership in coping with drug abuse. In the first place, the definite leadership which is necessary calls for primary responsibility for policy to be placed with one Commonwealth minister and one department. At present, responsibility is spread across a number of departments according to types of drugs or programs rather than on a basis designed to achieve a concerted overall approach. The present rather amphorous administrative arrangements ought to be strengthened by giving a charter specifically to the Minister for Health and to the Department of Health in order to ensure that relevant programs in the other Commonwealth departments concerned contribute to the national strategy. Paradoxically, the current absence of an overall national strategy may be both a cause and a consequence of ambivalent community attitudes towards drug use. The adoption of an appropriate national strategy should help to promote a sense of unitary purpose and reduce the present uncertainties. I should now like to discuss briefly each of the four specific chapters which deal with alcohol, tobacco, analgesics and cannabis. 
The report details the ravages of alcohol, in terms of ill health, erosion of social well-being and economic cost to individuals and the community. Abuse of alcohol is the major drug problem in Australia. One and a quarter million Australians are affected personally or in their family situations by the abuse of alcohol, and more than a quarter of a million can be classified as alcoholics. In 1972-73 problems directly related to alcohol, including industrial accidents and absenteeism, cost the national economy more than $500m. As many as 10 per cent of school children between the ages of 12 and 17 get 'very drunk' at least once a month. These are just some of the awful facts which indicate that a national disaster is already here. It would be particularly irresponsible for governments or individuals to fail to acknowledge the danger, and the need for a national response to the challenge of alcohol abuse. 
To date there have been no deliberate measures by Commonwealth governments to control rising consumption or to restrict expanding availability of alcohol. We are concerned at the recruitment of the very young to the use of alcohol: It is accelerating at a rate far greater than recruitment to the use of any other drug. This results in early establishment of life-long drinking patterns and contributes significantly and tragically to the road toll. We recommend the adoption of government revenue policies to maintain the real prices of alcoholic beverages, limitations on the promotion of alcohol, and the establishment of a sub-committee on drugs and driving with functions directed at the reduction of the toll resulting from the association of driving and drugs, especially alcohol. Finally, we call for a clear statement of intent by the Commonwealth Government to reduce the per capita consumption of alcohol in Australia and to produce a specific comprehensive national policy on alcohol and alcohol abuse. 
I turn next to tobacco. Its use is now accepted by all responsible authorities as dangerous to health, and the dangers have been widely publicised. The community knows that smoking is a major health hazard. In fact, it is one of the main avoidable health hazards in modern society. Tobacco use, mainly cigarette smoking, contributes each year to the deaths of about 8,000 Australians from heart disease and about 3,500 from lung cancer, and is a known casual factor in many diseases. Yet there is little positive outcry or action by the community or by governments to change the situation. There is no declared national policy which identifies a national goal of diminished per capita use of tobacco. As a vital first step towards a national program, the Committee recommends that Commonwealth and State governments determine as national policy a commitment to a decrease in per capita consumption of tobacco. 
In civil liberties terms, adults may choose to smoke if they do so without harming others; but our evidence has shown that smoking habits become established in adolescence. The Committee believes that there is an important difference between decisions made by adults possessed of the facts and the maturity to make decisions about their own life styles and health, and the decisions of young adolescents with neither the information nor the maturity to make such far-reaching decisions. We are deeply concerned about the real problems of recruitment of the very young to tobacco use, and recommend measures to counter the promotion of tobacco products similar to the anti-promotional measures recommended in respect of alcoholic beverages. We recommend that the advertising of both alcohol and tobacco be banned and we call upon the Government to take immediate action in this respect in those areas under its direct control. 
Abuse of analgesics is the third specific drug problem discussed in detail in the report. In spite of publicity about the dangers of analgesic abuse and the withdrawal of phenacetin from all prescription drugs on the pharmaceutical benefits list, there has been no reduction during the last 6 years in the extent of illness resulting from excessive analgesic consumption. Compound analgesics cause 20 per cent of kidney failure, and most such analgesics are habituating. This Committee has received, and this report presents, the first data which explain why the incidence of kidney disease due to analgesic use is much higher in Queensland and New South Wales than in the rest of Australia. These are the States in which Bex and Vincent's powders are most vigorously advertised and most used. The Committee supports the proposals adopted by the National Health and Medical Research Council in April 1977 that most compound analgesics be available only on a doctor's prescription, and recommends that the proposals be implemented immediately by Commonwealth and State governments. We recommend also that all analgesics, whether sold with or without prescription, carry on the container an appropriate warning and also that all non-prescription analgesics in pack sizes containing more than 25 tablets or 12 powders be available only from pharmacies. 
I come now to the question of cannabis use. The community is divided over this issue, and the genuine divergence of community opinion is reflected in our report. Thirty hours- almost onethird of the time spent deliberating on the report- - were devoted to the chapter on cannabis. The area of disagreement within the Committee is limited, however, and relates only to some aspects of the views of the majority on a proposed national strategy on cannabis and on proposed changes in the treatment of offenders under the law. The public debate on cannabis is a disgrace. Extremist literature produced on both sides contributes to the poor quality of the debate. The lack of rationality inhibits the development of effective methods of control of cannabis use and also of rational discussion and action in relation to the more serious problems of opiate use. 
There is no agreement on the extent of cannabis use in Australia, and the prevailing situation is one of genuine confusion. However, the information available to the Committee suggests that as many as 400,000 Australians, or about 3 per cent of the total population, use cannabis at least once a month. This compares, for example, with an estimated 4 per cent of intermittent and regular users identified in the United States in 1972. We must recognise that cannabis is used in Australia as an intoxicant and that its use is widespread, extending across age, sex and socioeconomic lines. Cannabis and cars are a lethal mixture and cannabis is a potential hazard in the work place. The use of cannabis and alcohol in combination intensifies the dangers of both drugs. Despite claims to the contrary at both extremes of the debate, the long term health effects of constant, heavy cannabis use are not completely known and need further study. 
The Committee believes that the use of cannabis in Australia should be positively discouraged and that our society should continue to express its disapproval of the use of this drug. As stated clearly in the report, the aim in respect of cannabis, as with other drugs, is significant reduction and, if possible, ultimate discontinuance of use. Existing measures, legal and otherwise, have demonstrably failed to prevent the increasing use of cannabis and trafficking in the drug. On the other hand, current legal practices have led to some unfortunate consequences, particularly diminished respect for the law by young people and deterioration of the relationship between young people and the police. 
It has been argued that the proscription of cannabis is inconsistent with society's acceptance of the excessive use of alcohol and tobacco. On balance, the Committee rejects this view. We acknowledge that the debate on cannabis has produced one important by-product: It has h ighlighted the failures of our present approaches to alcohol and tobacco, and has demonstrated the failure of previous strategies to achieve our desired goals. The strategy on cannabis recommended by the Committee is based on two premises: That there is a need to reduce the overall consumption of cannabis and that there is also a need to have deterrents and responses which are appropriate and effective in meeting this initial requirement. 
Cannabis is not a narcotic. We therefore recommend, as did the Senate Select Committee in 1971, that, as a matter of urgency, action be initiated to have cannabis removed from Schedule One of the United Nations Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs to an appropriate Schedule in the Convention on Psychotropic Substances. The Committee believes that cannabis should not be associated with opiate narcotics in any Australian laws and considers that separate legislation on cannabis should be enacted. The present laws on cannabis should be changed to help restore public respect for the law and law enforcement authorities, and to minimise the social damage done by the manner in which the law enforcement system operates. In 1971, the Senate Select Committee on Drug Trafficking and Drug Abuse stated:  too much reliance can be placed on the value of legislation to provide solutions to social problems after they have been allowed to generate. 
That Committee recommended: 
That in regard to the existing drug abuse situation in Australia the first consideration should be a humanitarian approach and that any legislative action contemplated should draw on the wide experience of other countries such as the United Kingdom and United States. 
The majority of the present Standing Committee believes that the positive features of some recent laws relating to the use of cannabis in the United States offer guidelines for Australia. The majority therefore recommends that for possession of marihuana- that is, dried leaf, as distinct from other forms of cannabis- for personal use, as already defined in most States, the offence not be defined in law as a crime and that the penalty be solely pecuniary and be a fixed amount at approximately the same level now being imposed by the courts in most States- that is $100 to $150; that police should not photograph or fingerprint defendants; that no record of conviction kept by police or courts should be used in subsequent proceedings or in relation to any application by the offender for employment; and that consideration should be given to treating growing of small amounts of cannabis for personal use in the same way as simple possession. It should perhaps be noted that in this respect the majority of the Committee finds itself in line with the recommendations made by major drug inquiries in the United Kingdom, the United States, Canada and elsewhere. For trafficking in marihuana, the Committee recommends that penalties be raised to levels more appropriate to the quantities involved in seizures. Like the earlier Select Committee, the majority of the present Committee does not advocate an approach based solely on legal sanctions. Diversionary programs in the form of medical or psychological treatment or education are now being encouraged and we support fully the use of appropriate diversionary programs. 
The presentation of the report comes at a time when the South Australian Royal Commission into the Non-medical Use of Drugs and the New South Wales Royal Commission of Inquiry into Drug Trafficking have already embarked on inquiries. The National Royal Commission into Drugs is about to begin. This report may be of assistance to the royal commissioners on matters relevant to their investigations. The findings of all three inquiries will be examined carefully in this Committee's further consideration of drug problems under its continuing terms of reference. 
I emphasise that, except for the limited areas of dissent indicated, this is a unanimously agreed report. The Committee hopes that it will promote a rational and objective debate on drug use in Australia and act as a catalyst for the development of the national policy on drug use which is so urgently needed. We trust that in specific areas the Commonwealth Government- and, where appropriate, the State governments and Territory administrations- will be able to respond to our recommendations in pursuit of the objective of bringing excessive drug use in the Australian community under effective control. Particularly, we look forward to hearing, in the Senate, a statement of the Government's observations and intentions with respect to the Committee's recommendations. 
In conclusion, I wish to express my personal appreciation to my fellow Committee members for their contributions during the inquiry and their patience during the difficult deliberations which followed. I should also like to record the Committee's gratitude for the co-operation and assistance received from State governments and many departments, organisations and individuals throughout the inquiry. Particularly valuable co-operation in expediting the printing of the report has been received from the Australian Government Publishing Service and the Acting Commonwealth Government Printer and his staff. Our thanks go also to the Committee's staff, to our own personal staffs and to the various specialist staffs of the Parliament for their ready response to our many and varied needs during the inquiry. I commend the report to the Senate. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Education. Does the Commonwealth Government have any role in paying the levy to the Australian Union of Students which is charged compulsorily to all students enrolling in universities and colleges of advanced education? 
-I seek leave to table additional information received by Estimates Committee D. 
I have listened carefully to the objections that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Douglas McClelland)  has offered concerning the redistribution proposals for New South Wales. It is important to direct attention to his statement that we are looking at a new situation in New South Wales, at new provisions which have led to a redistribution in which two seats will be lost by abolition, with a reduction in the total number from 45 to 43. 

 Senator Douglas McClelland would, I think, acknowledge that this has created a very different situation in New South Wales. Not only have the electorates had to be redistributed to take account of population movements, but also this has had to be done in such a way as to diminish the net total by two. As I have said, this has caused considerable difficulty. One of the areas in which a seat has been lost by abolition is that comprising the inner western suburbs of Sydney, an area to which the honourable senator advertedthat presently embraced by the Lowe, Evans, Grayndler trio. A seat had to be abolished, and that proved to be the seat of Evans. The question of how the reconstitution should take place has presented genuine difficulties. 

 Senator McClelland states that the Australian Labor Party objects to the redistribution, but what grounds for so doing does he offer? First, he finds is sinister that the Liberal Party should have been outraged by the original proposals. There was nothing sinister in that. Those proposals came as a body blow to the Liberal Party, which seeks to obtain in Parliament representation commensurate with the vote it receives in the community. There was genuine outrage that the proposals, as they emerged, would seriously disadvantage the Party in its task of achieving proper representation for those electors who cared to vote for Liberal Party candidates. Surely there is nothing wrong with our officials or our  president  expressing such outrage. I ask  Senator Douglas  McClelland, who for many years has known  Sir Kenneth  Anderson: Does he suggest that  Sir Kenneth  would express outrage other than on the basis of a deeply-held belief? He knows the man. There was genuine distress in New South Wales at what the redistribution might mean for us. 
Secondly,  Senator Douglas  McClelland directs attention to the personal view, expressed publicly, of the Right Honourable  Sir William  McMahon, that the provisions of section 19 of the Electoral Act had not been properly applied in reconstructing the electorates. Surely the honourable senator would not claim that there was anything improper in that. If he does, perhaps he would so indicate by interjection.  Sir William  has the right to make public comments on this matter, as on others. 
I must make the point that the propositions put originally to the electoral commissioners had been submitted by the New South Wales Division of the Liberal Party.  Sir William  exercised subsequently his right as a private individual to submit his own proposals for further consideration. Was there anything improper or irregular in that? Of course not. That is what the Electoral Act is designed to encourage. He submitted his objections m proper form, with the reasons upon which he based them. It is perhaps a tribute to  Sir William's  forceful argument that his objections apparently found some favour and had some effect on the drafting of the final maps. 
Lastly, the honourable senator directs attention to certain leaks that he believes must have occurred, because a  Mr Ian  Frykberg was the author of a report, published on 14 October, in which the final boundaries were anticipated. The honourable senator goes further and implies that this has a sinister connotation which points to government involvement. I do not know who is involved, or how anyone could anticipate what the final maps would show. Most people were impressed by  Sir William's  argument that a genuine community of interest existed between the suburbs running along the southern half of the area in question, just south of the water, and that they should together form one seat. I do not know where the leaks, if any, came from. I am certain that they did not come from the Minister or from this Government. If the honourable senator studies the maps he will find that the Government did not publish them. If one looks at the inscription on the proposal before the Senate one finds that it was published by D. West, Government Printer, New South Wales. One is amazed. Does  Senator Douglas  McClelland suggest that there could have been a leak from that source? I certainly would not do so. 
-We know that  Senator Withers  has answered questions on the redistribution proposals, but I believe that the details thereof were unknown to the Minister before about 6 p.m. on Monday night last. If I recall correctly, the Minister assured the Senate, in answer to a question, that he had not previously known the details. He is the responsible Minister and any information would come to the Government through him and his Department. I reject absolutely the suggestion that anyone in the Government has had available, or has made known, the details of these redistribution proposals. 
What is the redistribution going to mean for New South Wales? What it is going to mean for my Party is considerable electoral difficulty. Let us not forget that the new maps and boundaries will create a considerable problem for many good Liberal Party members in the other House, members who now have electorates that they must try to hold with boundaries that are much more exacting than they were. 
The proposed redistribution is of great assistance to the Australian Labor Party, which has p roved to be the winner insofar as the new b oundaries in New South Wales are concerned. Perhaps its supporters are annoyed that they did not get everything they wanted; that the apparently valid, well-argued, objections of  Sir William  McMahon were needed. One suspects that the comments of  Senator Douglas  McClelland and his colleagues are inspired by sour grapes and nothing more. The Liberal Party will fight for all the electorates, but it has no illusions about these boundaries. The city of Maitland is to be divided amongst two electorates, which I consider will be difficult for us. The electorate of Riverina is to be carried right across the western half of New South Wales. It will extend from the south right through to the Queensland border. That will create considerable difficulties for whoever is elected to represent that division. 
I simply say that I can see no substance and I can see no argument of merit in anything that . has been offered by  Senator Douglas  McClelland to the Senate on this matter. He has given almost no facts in his argument relating to the redistribution itself. He has offered almost no argument about the boundaries that were finally decided upon. He has merely offered the Senate a mixture of half truth and innuendo. There is no basis in what he has presented to the Senate to provide any grounds for doing other than accepting this redistribution as it has been offered. 
asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce, upon notice, on 16 August 1977: 
Has the Minister's Department been undertaking an examination of the viability of the pharmaceutical manufacturing industry in Australia. 
Is the Minister in a position to advise the Senate in the near future of the results of such an inquiry. 
If not, can the Minister indicate how the results of the inquiry will be handled and how they will be made public 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 2 1 September 1977: 
Has the Minister seen the article by Christine M. Swearingen and James M. Perrin, entitled 'Foreign Medical Graduates in Rural Primary Care: The Case of Western New York State' which appeared in the journal 'Medical Care ' April 1 977, Volume 1 5, page 331. 
Do any Australian statistics, similar to those quoted in the article, show an increasing dependence within the Australian community on foreign medical graduates for the provision of primary medical care; if so, could the Minister give details, and, in particular, what trends they disclose. 
-by leave- I table the written answer to a question asked during the consideration of the particulars of proposed expenditure in Senate Estimates Committee D which has been received since the report of the Committee was tabled on 13 October 1977. 
I ask the Minister for Industry and Commerce whether the Chase Manhattan Bank, like other major overseas banks, has maintained a close interest in the state of the Australian economy. Is the Minister able to relate any recent views expressed in a publication or by executives of the Bank on the process of economic recovery, the growth of confidence, and the strength and progress now evident in Australia under the policies of the Fraser Government? 
Earlier it was put clearly on the record by  Senator Chaney  that it is possible for members of this Senate to comment upon the actions of the Governor-General if it is done by way of substantive motion. This has not been done, and any claim that the rights of the Senate are being abridged in any way does not stand up. Honourable senators have this right and this has been clearly stated. The argument has ranged very wide, but in essence it is whether your ruling should be dissented from.  Senator Douglas  McClelland, I think, has contributed quite significantly to the debate in the speech that he has just made. He has said that it is his view that  Senator McLaren  did not mean certain things. It is his view that  Senator McLaren  was speaking in a way which made it possible for a different interpretation to be placed on what he said. 
Moving away from semantics it would seem to me that there is a way of clearing up the present problem and it rests entirely with  Senator McLaren.  It is very simple. If  Senator McLaren  was willing to rise in his place, as  Senator Douglas  McClelland thought he might do, and assure you,  Mr President,  that when he spoke he meant no disrespect to the Governor-General I think it would meet the situation. However, if  Senator McLaren  was not willing to take the opportunity to assure the Senate that he meant no disrespect to the Governor-General we would be entitled to assume that he did mean disrespect. I believe that the solution is there and hope that we can invite  Senator McLaren  now to take some affirmative action to assist the Senate to resolve this matter. 
My question, which I address to the Minister for Social Security, concerns the funding of programs for youth during the school holidays. Is the Minister able to advise whether there are to be vacation programs funded over the long school vacations this year? In view of the lead times involved in setting up detailed programs, can she advise when details of programs can be expected to be announced? 
My question to the Minister representing the Prime Minister follows the question asked by  Senator Messner  a moment ago referring to a newspaper report that  Senator Wriedt  had committed a future Labor government to abolishing tariff protection and to restructuring manufacturing industry. Has any Australian government in recent times implemented such a program? If so, what were the effects of it upon employment in Australia? If Labor were permitted again to abolish protective tariffs what effect on the employment of Australian workers could be expected? 
-The Senate, in debating the Bill to amend the Homeless Persons Assistance Act, has just heard a most extraordinary speech. If this Government had proposed to abolish the Homeless Persons Assistance Act and thereby to abolish all the assistance available under it, the Government would have been open to criticismand possibly rightly so. The Government has moved to extend the program of assistanceto continue it- and what do we get? We get as ungenerous a speech as it is possible to receive. The Government has decided to continue the program and to allow certain of the initiatives under the program to be extended and to continue, but from listening to what the Opposition has said one would not have understood that this is what is happening. In fact, we have decided to make available the opportunity for large amounts of money voted under this program to be expended. 
It is interesting that  Senator Grimes,  in leading for the Opposition, conveniently forgot to mention the amounts of money which have been voted and the amounts of money still available for use under the provisions of the Act. I remind the Senate that it was made clear by the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  in her second reading speech that an amount of more than $8m- $8.4m in fact- has already been allocated under the Act and that $5.3m of this amount has been allocated for expenditure in 1977-78. For  Senator Grimes  to suggest that we have allocated no more money is completely to misrepresent the situation which in fact will be operating. With the extension of this Act it will be possible to spend the $5.3m allocated for expenditure in 1978 and the $lm which is being carried forward into 1978-79. 
The rental and salaries subsidies for the period 1977-78 that are allowed under the provisions of this Act total $275,000. That money also will be spent. It is not right to assert that the program is to continue without any financial basis. If one looks at the expenditure under the National Welfare Fund on accommodation and meal subsidies one will find that the amount of $800,000 has been allowed for 1977-78. It is not right to assert that the program is going ahead without any financial support. That assertion is unsupportable. That is the position without detailing the amounts which have been spent up to the present time. 

 Senator Grimes spent some time;I think not inappropriately;discussing women's refuges and setting out his views on how they might most appropriately be funded. 
The honourable senator mentioned the fact that there is some concern as to whether they should be funded under this Act or the community health program. In the end it does not matter to the people who run the refuges whether they are administered by the Department of Health or the Department of Social Security. That is a question which, while it may be important here, is a side issue as far as we are concerned. The fact is that under the provisions of the Budget and under the programs of this Government the funding of women's refuges has been assured for this financial year. It has been assured under the community health program. It has been extended. The most important matter at the present time is to ensure that they are provided for and funded. 
The honourable senator referred also to the proposals of the Task Force on Co-ordination in Welfare and Health- the Bailey Task Force. That matter was also referred to in the debate that took place in another place. I believe that the proposals of  Mr Peter  Bailey have been consistently misrepresented. There are many ways in which  Mr Bailey's  proposals could be implemented. There is a whole range of options by which one can administer or carry out his devolutionary proposals. Only one of them is the way in which honourable senators opposite have alleged it is to be done- as a cost cutting exercise. There are many kinds of arrangements which can be made between the Commonwealth and the States to accompany the devolution of programs under any aggregated broad banding program. 
It is fair to say that the Bailey proposals have been thoroughly studied. I think it is to the credit of the Government that  Mr Bailey  has been asked to head a follow-up group and that this follow-up group has been charged with the duty of consulting with the consumers, the organisations concerned and the administrative structure of the State governments and local government that will have to cope with any kind of devolution that takes place. If it is difficult to devolve some of these programs then it is to the credit of  Mr Bailey  that his task force has taken time over the matter and that the Government is considering carefully the kind of proposals that it has put forward. It is entirely unfair, unnecessary and unwarranted to represent the Bailey proposals as a cost cutting exercise. 
Many options are available under the Bailey proposals. If in fact we ended up with personal cash transfers aggregated at the Commonwealth level I would be pleased, and if we ended up with service delivery being closer to the client I would also be pleased. But I agree with the Opposition on one point. I would want to see that being done under some appropriate form of arrangement which did not disadvantage any of the levels of government that undertook the particular arrangements. I am perfectly happy to examine the options available within the welfare system for bringing personal cash transfer to the Commonwealthonly a few parts are not with the Commonwealth now-and for taking some of the provisions of services for clients further down. 
In the end one needs to return to one of the matters to which  Senator Grimes  referred when he discussed- I think with some cogency- the conditions under which many of the homeless persons live and the kinds of conditions that led to their being in the state in which they find themselves. In the end what we are mounting here and what we are offering is a salvage program. It is nothing more than that. It is a program of salvage for people who in some way have been failed by society. I think the honourable senator and I would be in complete agreement on that point. In the end, worthy and admirable as a homeless persons assistance Act is, it is not enough on its own. It must be combined with programs of active community development to help to give people the capacity they require and to allow society to intervene, if you wish, at an earlier stage in the process. For example,  Senator Grimes  and I have developed an interest in the extension of programs for treating alcoholism in industry. We happen to believe that this is one way of intervening effectively at an earlier stage to prevent the emergence of homeless men requiring assistance under this Act. If the problems are brought about by alcohol, perhaps there are other things that need to be done besides providing some salvage basket at the end of the road. 
Nevertheless, we are not abandoning the program; we are extending it. Money is available for use under the program, and to that extent the Government's enterprise and initiative are entirely admirable. Without this extension there would be unnecessary disability caused to the people operating the programs and unnecessary distress for those people who benefit from them. It is appropriate to extend the program. It is appropriate to consider very calmly the long term options available to government in terms of possible devolution. It is not fair to view a positive activity of government of this kind in an entirely cynical and negative light. I believe that the Government has acted correctly, and I commend the Bill. 
-Does the Minister representing the Minister for Transport recall being asked about an alleged inquiry initiated by the Norwegian Parliament into the Omega navigation system, the suggestion being made that Omega was in fact a military device? Did the Minister promise to obtain information for the Senate and is he now in a position to supply that information? 
It was the Government of which  Senator Cavanagh  was a member which brought to this country on a scale never seen before in Australia the inflation, the misery and the unemployment which we inherited two years ago. It was that Government's Budget which cost jobs. It was that Government's tariffs which cost employment. It was that Government's expenditure which left the country where we found it when we came to office. The statement which the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  brought in tonight has set down a record by the Fraser Government of new initiatives, increased benefits, a family allowance scheme, extended benefits, a movement towards an income supplement scheme which will guarantee a minimum income, an income test replacing a means test and consultative mechanisms set up within the welfare area. The Minister set these things down. 
The hypocrisy of an Opposition which claims that we have done nothing is almost unbelievable in its audacity. The Opposition cannot camouflage the extra benefits which the Fraser Government has brought to Australia and which  Senator Guilfoyle  set down in her statement tonight. I believe  Senator Cavanagh  should be ashamed of what he has said. The statement is worthy of most careful attention by the Senate. I move: 
That the debate be now adjourned. 
-On the first reading of this Bill I return to the question of the Australian Union of Students Student Travel. I still have concern about the viability of the moratorium which is being constructed by AUS Student Travel in order to try to trade out of its difficulties. I remind the Senate that, for this moratorium to be successful, it needs to generate enough revenue to cover the expenses of the travel service, to make a profit and to repay the unsecured creditors such as the Australian Union of Students which recently put in another $50,000 as an unsecured loan. It must repay also the moratorium instalments which in the first six months will be $317,000 and which next year will amount to $635, 100 if I have been able to read and analyse the documents correctly. I believe I have. A very significant amount of money is required to make this moratorium work. 
I have a continued interest in AUS Student Travel. I am not convinced that it is viable. I am concerned about the students who travel with the service and that they should be properly protected. I have looked at the AUS feasibility study which it produced after it went into liquidation in which it proposed the means by which it could trade out of its difficulties. The AUS feasibility study assumes questionable practices which are not in accord with the regulations applying to the travel industry in this country and which would not be allowed if the rules were being properly enforced. My interest is to try to identify the amount of income which could be available to AUS Student Travel to achieve its aim of generating enough income to get itself out of its present financial difficulties. Firstly, I remind the Senate that the AUS Student Travel feasibility study assumed a 40 per cent loss in its market. That is its own assumption of the effect of going into liquidation as it did. We are looking at a contracted market over the one it traditionally had. We need to examine what the market itself is. The feasibility study helps here. It assumes a revenue base of $2.2m on the basis of a number of elements. The first is commissions earned in Asia on scheduled services, but there is some doubt whether this is a viable source of income. The feasibility study states: 
The Orient Airlines Association Committee are endeavouring to regulate pricing in Asia. Malaysia is a particular area (also Singapore, Bangkok). It is not expected that they will be successful, however the position should be watched. 
Commission earnings in Asia are dependent upon the nations themselves being unsuccessful in regulating their own markets. In the same way the AUS feasibility study looks to income from the United Kingdom. Here again, the situation is far from rosy for AUS Student Travel. I quote again from the feasibility study. It states: 
This area is under present pressure from the Board of Airlines  BARUK  They are supported by the Board of Trade and have appointed an IATA inspector to police the market. Already AUS have had difficulties and if the Board decides they really could close AUS down. The revenue into AUS of $200,000 commissions could slide plus the flow of students to charter flights in Asia. 
There are two sources of income which immediately are on very shaky ground. There are other sources of income. There are a few sources associated with the sale of accommodation plus travel. That source of income remains available to AUS. There is also the sale of Eurail tickets. 
These are very small sources of income and certainly not enough to generate $600,000 a year in moratorium repayments. Without' those repayments coming in on schedule every quarter, this travel service cannot succeed in trading out of its difficulties. 
It is relevant to examine the potential sources of legal income, derived within the regulations, available to AUS Student Travel inside Australia. AUS is looking to the commission on scheduled services- the people who travel by scheduled airlines. AUS Student Travel in its own assessment of the situation notes that its revenue from scheduled flights will be about $3,500,000 in a normal year. Most of the passengers on scheduled flights are travelling to and from the charter gateways. In other words, they are chartered passengers getting to or from the point of departure or the eventual destination of the charter. Secondly, AUS Student Travel has looked to commissions on charters. It set its charter income for the year at about $6m. The interesting point is that it is not certain that AUS Student Travel is legally entitled to any income from either of these two sources. 
The oral evidence given to Senate Estimates Committee C and written answers subsequently indicate that it is highly unlikely that there is any legitimate source of income available to AUS Student Travel either from scheduled flights or from charters. If this is so, there must be real doubt that this travel service has a capacity to generate the income to trade out if it works within the rules. The evidence received by Estimates Committee C shows firstly that AUS Student Travel is not a travel agent accredited to the International Air Transport Association. Because it is not an IATA accredited travel agent or an IATA bonded travel agent, it misses out on certain obligations. But it also misses out on all the privileges which accrue to proper travel agents. It is not entitled to commission from the airlines at any time for any work that it does.' That should be understood. AUS Student Travel has no entitlement to any commission from any airline inside Australia for work that it does. It is not entitled to the commission payable to IATA agents. For example, if scheduled flight tickets are issued AUS Student Travel cannot claim any kind of commission for doing this. It is not entitled to commission for the work it does for Trans-Australia Airlines. I know that is true. A written answer from TAA to the Parliament stated: 
No commission was paid by TAA to  AUSST  . . . 
We know there is no commission coming from TAA. Always assuming that the relationship between TAA and AUS Student Travel is exactly what it seems to be, it is in fact a most remarkable relationship. Here is a situation where a travel service is not entitled to any commission yet gives all its business to one airline, thereby creating a monopoly position. But, there it is. That is the information given to the Parliament, so whatever its source of income, it cannot be TAA. Regardless of all the work it did for TAA, and all the debts it left TAA holding, no commission was payable in that situation. 

 - Senator Wright asks a very pertinent question. They actually say that they expect $6m revenue. The next question is: How much commission? As I will demonstrate, they are entitled to no commission. Commission can go to IATA bonded agents only. I will further demonstrate that commission splitting is highly irregular and forbidden, so it is hard to see where, operating legally, this travel service is to obtain its income. 
The whole relationship with TAA is a subject to which I could return on another day, but it is incredible that that airline, in its explanations to this Parliament, should claim that it has a commercial relationship with AUS Student Travel and for that reason offers its special arrangements. In fact, it is not a commercial relationship. AUS Student Travel is a travel agent, registered as such, and should be treated by TAA as it treats other travel agents. The work that it has done for TAA is no different from that done by other agents when they write tickets. Of course TAA has said, 'A limited amount of free-of-charge travel for AUSST employees travelling for business purposes was made available by TAA'. I would like to know how much free-of-charge travel was provided. 
Enough to make it a good proposition to give all its travel business in Australia to the one airline? How much is a limited amount? We can return to that another day because it is extraneous to what we are discussing now. 
AUS Student Travel might say it is going to draw its income from commission on chartered flights, and it does do a lot of charter work. It apparently expects to retain a privileged position on charters because its feasibility study under the heading ' Charter Program ' reads: 
The total chaner program is dependent on the maintaining of the dispensation of the affinity 50,000 rule. This allows AUS to sell to all university students in Australia, not campus by campus. 
So now we know it depends for its continued existence upon the very privileged position it has had for some years. The study continues: 
Clarification should be sought prior to a decision to trade. 
It then discusses the charter position. From the first evidence we received, we understood that AUS was entitled to 5 per cent commission on charter flights, but it appears that that commission is payable only to an IATA bonded agent and we know that AUS Student Travel does not enjoy that status. 

 - Senator Georges finds this difficult to accept. Perhaps he will be interested to hear the answers that were given to the Estimates Committees by Qantas. Qantas said: 
Qantas does not pay commission to AUS Student Travel Pty Ltd. However, in the case of charters, if arrangements are made through an IATA outlet, for example World Travel Services . . . 
Interesting, is it not,  Senator Georges,  that Qantas mentions that particular IATA outlet- 
. and paid for by the IATA outlet, the normal 5 per cent commission is allowed to that agency. Likewise, World Travel Services receives normal commission through the IATA Bank Settlement Plan on any traffic documentation written in their office for scheduled service travel. 
So now we discover that the only people who can get the commission on charter flights are the IATA bonded agents. Thus, AUS Student Travel can look to no income from the 5 per cent commission payable on charters. It certainly cannot if the system is operating properly and legally, under adequate supervision and security We understand that AUS has placed great store on its income from charters. 
Let me return for a moment to the subject of World Travel Services. Qantas, in its answer, chose to mention that organisation as an IATA outlet. I also directed attention in the Estimates Committee to a possible tie-up between World Travel Services and AUS Student Travel, and recall that it attracted points of order from certain honourable senators who felt that my questions were without relevance; but the following statement was made to the Department of Transport by AUS Student Travel: 

 Mr Heifitz  of World Travel Service Holdings is a co-opted member of the Travel Board of AUS, but is not a director of AUS Student Travel Pty Ltd. 
So there is a tie-up between an IATA outlet and AUS Student Travel. I understand that most AUS charters with Qantas are made through this IATA agent, which then picks up the 5 per cent commission but that does not explain where AUS Student Travel can look to raise the more than $600,000 it needs each year over and above expenses in order to pay off the moratorium on the debt which it ran up. This is what I want answered. 
It does not end there. One is actually not allowed to profit from charters,  Mr Deputy President.  Charter flights are supposed to be on a kind of co-operative or mutual basis, to help share expenses. Actually, IATA rules forbid charging for charters in order to make a profit. Because I know that some honourable senators are interested, I will quote from IATA resolution 045 (4) (vii) as follows:   the aggregate of amount paid for the air transportation by the group or members of the party to be transported does not exceed the amount charged by carrier for the charter except that reasonable incidental expenses will be allowed, but not to provide a profit for any person concerned with the charter, and provided that any amount collected for such expenses, not used for such expenses, shall be refunded. 
In fact, it is not permissible to load the cost of one's charters for profit purposes. It is certainly quite outside the rules laid down by IATA as representing proper behaviour. The question then arises: Where does that leave AUS Student Travel, in seeking revenue? There are the minor areas of activity such as selling a few Eurail tickets, and arranging certain accommodation and tours. That leaves the area of the SATA tickets, which are really central to the whole issue of what is going on. It becomes clear that they play a major part in the plans of AUS Student Travel. If I may quote once more from the feasibility study which AUS produced, under the heading 'SATA tickets', it reads as follows: 
The use of  SATA  tickets should continue as otherwise airlines have to use IATA tickets and indicate published fares. If  SATA  agreement was in danger AUS would have problems. 
Of course, it is a problem. Firstly, it seems that a very large part of the debt owing to Qantas Airways Ltd by AUS Student Travel may have been in the form of these strange SATA tickets because after AUS ran into insolvency Qantas continued to honour some pre-written tickets. They were obviously tickets that had not been paid for because the information given to the Senate by Qantas stated that after the failure of AUS Student Travel on 10 August, Qantas honoured tickets issued by AUS Student Travel for travel on its scheduled services to the amount of $646,858. Over $640,000 worth of tickets had been written but had not been paid for. There is no IATA travel agent around who could get that kind of deal or who could get away with that kind of operation. 
The bank settlement plan which governs the behaviour of IATA bonded agents would have it close its doors if those tickets were not paid for within two weeks. But the best part of two-thirds of a million dollars worth of tickets were floating around, which Qantas honoured. It appears that these SATA tickets are not paid for when they are issued. No price appears on the front of them. Goodness knows what arrangements exist or what prices exist. Qantas could end the speculation by telling us the prices which are charged for SATA tickets. Any time it wants to do so it can end the speculation. AUS Student Travel could tell us. The student concerned goes on his trip. The ticket is redeemed. It goes through a central office in, I believe, Amsterdam. At that stage the documentation is completed and a charge is made. Here we have the student travel service using SATA tickets. Goodness knows what financial arrangements exist for the cost of the tickets. 
It is on that basis that AUS Student Travel is basing its hopes of earning very significant amounts of money. On that alone, with all the uncertainties as to the validity and continuance of SATA tickets, will AUS Student Travel continue to trade. Goodness knows what commission it is getting. Qantas Airways Ltd said in the most recent issue of the  Bulletin  words to the effect that no special arrangements existed or no special conditions existed for AUS Student Travel. It is quite clear that that is an unsustainable statement. Show me any other travel agency for which Qantas would honour $646,000 worth of pre-written unpaid tickets. Show me the kind of credit arrangements given to this student travel service that are available to any IATA bonded group. Qantas can say what it likes, but it does not add up. 
I return to the question of where the revenue will come from to turn this into a viable moratorium. The document given to the Supreme Court in Victoria set out ways in which AUS Student Travel could get its money. But it is clear now that to the extent that it depended on scheduled or charter flights it may well have mis-stated the real situation. It may have been written to make the moratorium attractive. There can be no profit to AUS Student Travel from scheduled flights because that commission has to go to an IATA agency-probably the World Travel Service in most cases. There may be no profits from the involvement by AUS Student Travel in scheduled flights in other countries if the United Kingdom and the Asian countries are successful in tightening up the operation of their own regulations. There can be no profit to AUS Student Travel on charters. The 5 per cent commission must go to an IATA agent and to no one else. It appears that the statement in the feasibility study by AUS Student Travel that-  generally AUS Student Travel charges much more than 50 per cent of the economy fare and therefore the actual earning is higher'  may be an action which is contrary to the IATA provision covering profits for charter flights. There can be no profit to AUS Student Travel from Trans-Australia Airlines because TAA has told us that no commission is paid. 
Unless some kind of commission splitting is going on with an IATA bonded agent who is receiving the legal commissions for the work, it is hard to see from where the revenue comes. I would hope that there is no commission splitting. I remind the Senate that the AUS Student Travel feasibility study, which set out its marketing strategy, did assume income from each of the sources from which I have now pointed out it is not possible to get income properly. Unless there is commission splitting the money cannot go through to it. Honourable senators would know that commission splitting is highly improper. It is not allowed. Sub-paragraphs 9 to 12 of paragraph (i) of IATA resolution 8 10a clearly set out the position in relation to the splitting of income. In summary they say that it is not allowed in our part of the world with the exception of Japan, where sub-agents can receive some commission. It is specifically stated in that IATA resolution that in our area, which is area three of the world, income splitting between an IATA bonded agent and a sub-agent is not permitted, except in Japan, and that if any IATA agent is carrying it out he is in breach of this IATA regulation. 
There are other matters in relation to AUS Student Travel. Of course, there are. The whole unsatisfactory affair continues. There were unsatisfactory features in the replies that TAA gave to the Senate. Simple arithmetic shows that TAA's statement about 90-day credit will not stand up because when AUS Student Travel went into liquidation early in August the April account had not yet been cleared. There are inconsistencies in fact in some of the answers that Qantas has given to us. For example, Qantas may care to examine the answer that it gave us on the employment of  Mr Bruce  Gregory and the contents of a letter that  Mr Bruce  Gregory has written to me stating his position in terms of his employment. It will find that the two do not match. So the matter goes on. But today I am interested only in the viability of the moratorium and it leaves open the question of how AUS Student Travel, which has a requirement to trade profitably, to cover its expenses and to pay back $600,000 a year on its moratorium, can obtain the revenue operating legally. 
It cannot get it from scheduled services in this country. It cannot get it from TAA. It cannot get it from the commission on charter flights. It cannot get it from anywhere, unless it operates outside the rules.  Senator Georges  was kind enough to indicate in an adjournment debate the other night that that may be happening. Even then there is great doubt that it can generate sufficient revenue to achieve the levels of income it requires. Again I urge that the Department examine with the utmost closeness the operations of AUS Student Travel in relation to the Air Navigation Regulations and that it examine the operations of the IATA bonded agencies in relation to the IATA regulations. I repeat my call for a public inquiry to be held into the affairs of AUS Student Travel, into the circumstances surrounding its collapse and, in particular, into the reality or non-reality and the viability or otherwise of the moratorium which it has managed to mount and which I believe cannot be carried through to successful completion. 
My question, which I direct to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, concerns the armed hold-up in Sydney last Sunday allegedly involving Laurence Byrne, a work-release prisoner sent to a bogus job the day before. Has the Minister for Services in New South Wales blamed the Commonwealth Employment Service for the placement of this prisoner in a nonexistent job in a firm run by a former prisoner on parole? Are the claims of the Minister for Services in New South Wales correct? Is it true that some offices in the CES are considering withdrawing from any future participation in the work release scheme for prisoners? Indeed, is it possible or appropriate for the Commonwealth Employment Service to continue to offer help in relation to work-release schemes when it has been incorrectly blamed by an incompetent State Minister for placements which it has not made and which should have received approval from within that Minister's department? 
I believe that the speech which has just been made by  Senator Button  is his first in the capacity of  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition. I extend to him my good wishes and those of my colleagues for his success in the position he now holds. He is, of course, the man who yesterday was described in the Melbourne  Herald  as 
Labor's impish big debating gun in the Senate'. Many things he might be. Big is not one of them. Impish' is denned in the dictionary as 'pertaining to or characteristic of a little devil or mischievous urchin', and that perhaps is a well chosen adjective as used by  Mr Peter  Costigan in his newspaper article yesterday. 
The honourable senator,  Mr Deputy President,  made some comments on the institution of Parliament and expressed a pessimistic view about the capacity of this institution to function effectively in all appropriate areas. I simply point out that the complete functioning of the Parliament depends as much upon an effective opposition doing its job as upon a government doing its job. One of the challenges facing the Thirtyfirst Parliament is to ensure that the Opposition in both chambers begins at last to function as an effective, active, involved Opposition, doing its job properly. We have had a sorry sight before us in the last two Parliaments. The Labor Party has made some moves; it has made internal rearrangements which it thinks will assist it in another place. In this chamber, where it cannot pretend to have any grave deficiency of numbers, where always there is an even balance and it is well represented in terms of members, we on this side look to a better performance. There is no point in Labor's best men sitting on the back benches, never speaking, never contributing. We all know that in the last Parliament, some of the finest debaters were never heard from. Therefore, if honourable senators opposite are going to criticise Parliament and its functioning, they should think about the contribution their own party has made to debate over the last couple of years. 
If honourable senators opposite are going to refer to the committee system, where from both sides of the chamber senators have worked together, let us at least acknowledge that the mere fact that a Senate committee sees a certain course of action as desirable does not necessarily mean that the whole world needs to fall into line with its views. I am at present trying to promote the adoption of the recommendations of a Senate committee which reported last year. Some of those recommendations will, I believe, be picked up by the Government, but would it not be naive if I came into this chamber and complained or carried on because all of those recommendations of that committee were not accepted? We have to be fair and realistic in what we seek. 
I want to use my time during the AddressinReply debate to refer again to a matter which concerned me last year. I refer to a deregistered, ex-doctor from New Zealand who is now in the 
Cook Islands, who says he has a cure for cancer, who wants to come to Australia, and about whom there is some controversy. 
I note the interjection,  Mr Deputy President,  and suggest that the honourable senator wait and hear me out. I may well draw down the wrath of many people. 
The Governor-General pointed out in his Speech that it is the Government's fundamental belief- 
. that a better society can only be realised by giving the men and women of Australia a greater measure of choice, power and freedom. 
One of the ways to achieve that power, that choice and that freedom is through the acquisition of useful information. It is desirable, if there is to be a debate about this man, Milan Brych, and if there is to be pressure to bring him to Australia, that we know who he is, what he is and what he represents. In the  Medical Journal of Australia  of 8 October there was a summary of the events surrounding this man's arrival in New Zealand, his provisional registration as a doctor, his being investigated, his deregistration, his determination to appeal, and his flight from New Zealand to the Cook Islands, where he has again been registered as a doctor despite the fact that he was deregistered because he had forged and falsified all the documents which were used to get him New Zealand registration in the first place. In New Zealand he obtained an appointment at one of the Auckland hospitals in a middle ranking position in one of the cancer units. I quote from this document. It reads: 
Brych next obtained a position in the radiotherapy department of Auckland Hospital. Here he used high dosage combination chemotherapy - 
That is to say he used a number of drugs together for the treatment of cancer-  which was just then becoming popular in Auckland, and, soon after, he began to make public claims that he had developed a highly effective system of treating various forms of cancer. Increasingly he hinted that he might possess a new and secret method of cancer treatment. 
This man has gone to the Cook Islands. From there he is now trying to come to Australia to gain acceptance and in the long run to be allowed to carry on his treatment.  Senator Button  drew attention to the desirability of there being no interference with people who offer themselves as candidates for election to Parliament. I shall now draw attention to what I consider to be a most serious intervention in the whole Brych affair. It occurred when the Premier of Queensland publicly intervened to urge that the man come to Australia. He made some serious and direct threats against a Minister of the Crown saying that he would 'put the skids under him' if he did not agree to let this man in. The Queensland Premier's threats are detailed on page 3 of the  Sydney Morning Herald  of 14 February. The article quotes  Mr BjelkePetersen  's words on radio. He said: 
Gee, 111 put the skids under you one of these days if you don't be fair and reasonable about it - 
He was referring to the entry of  Mr Brych.  It is one thing for a politician to express an opinion about what another politician is doing but it takes on an entirely different character when he extends that to a threat to get rid of a Minister in a government if he does not make an administrative decision with which he happens to agree. It was a highly undesirable, inappropriate and improper intervention. It is time we said so and made my position quite clear. 
What are the facts about  Mr Brych  and the treatment he has to offer? It is said by some that he is achieving an 80 per cent success rate for people with cancer. It is a serious matter for a person with a terminal illness when someone holds out a ray of hope- an 80 per cent chance of cure. It is desirable to point out to the Senate that this man's claims have been tested fairly simply. Before he left New Zealand he treated a lot of patients in Auckland. Their names and the dates on which they were treated are known. The New Zealanders have done a simple exercise. They have gone back through the registers and identified the people treated by this doctor. They have also identified a series of people treated by standard methods and have worked out what happened to those people. If this man had an 80 per cent cure rate for cancer surely it would be revealed in any analysis of the hospital figures in Auckland? What comes out of the analysis is quite clear. I received a letter from a good friend in Auckland,  Dr Gordon  Nicholson. He wrote to me on 9 August 1977: 
Clinical tests have been done comparing  Dr Brych  's treatment - 
That should of course read  'Mr Brych  's treatment'- 
With standard treatment and the results are very disappointing indeed, where such data is available as can be analysed. In breast cancer the natural history of the disease at 2 years allows for about 2 patients in 20 being alive - 
That is for a certain advanced form of the disease-  (In  Dr Brych  's group 3 patients in 20 were alive and in the group given standard chemotherapy by  Dr Stephens  12 of the 20 were alive.) 
I am not suggesting that the standard treatment was necessarily better. I am suggesting that that kind of evidence and other available analyses do not lend any support to the claims of this man that he has an effective or unusual form of treatment. The  Medical Journal of Australia  of 10 September 1977 contains a letter from the Auckland Blood Transfusion Service signed by  Dr Paul  Berry of the Blood Transfusion Service and  Dr John  Scott of the Department of Medicine in Auckland. They analyse  Mr Brych  's use of blood collected from voluntary donors. They conclude that, on the standard indication for giving blood, 75 per cent of the donor blood given in New Zealand which he used was given improperly and wasted. 
Why am I so worked up about this man in the Cook Islands? He is either offering to people some special treatment or he is a charlatan profiteering from the misery of those with a terminal illness. Let us examine what happened in the Cook Islands. 
I am surprised at the intervention of  Senator McAuliffe.  I am trying to set down some facts about a man who is preying upon his electors and my electors. They could be members of our own families. He is taking vast amounts of money from them. An article in the  New Zealand Herald  of 15 August 1977 shows that the operation in the Cook Islands is a giant rip-off grossing more than $ 1.3 m a year. It states that  Mr Brych  's people are charging exorbitant prices for accommodation. Interestingly enough it states that a medical trust on the islands is taking some of the money. One of the trustees is the secretary of the ruling political party in the Cook Islands which altered its registration provisions to allow  Mr Brych  to be registered and to practise in that country. 
This is a most disturbing business. Money is being taken from people in large amounts. The central thesis I offer to the Senate is this: Let us assume for one moment that  Mr Brych  has nothing new to offer to people with terminal cancer. We are then looking at a giant fraud. He is already a convicted felon. He has been gaoled in Czechoslovakia. He was deregistered in New Zealand for infamous conduct. He appealed but on the day of the hearing turned back at the courtroom door and withdrew rather than face cross-examination in a court of law. If this man has nothing to offer, what is going on? If he has nothing to offer why are Australian politicians and Australian Sunday newspapers taking up his cause? Why is it that no one has been able to demonstrate any benefit, and why does it cost so much, $10,000, for a course of treatment? Why, if there is nothing in it? 
One would have to presume that he is a crook. Let me put another suggestion. Suppose  Mr Brych  has actually stumbled on the cure for cancer. Assume that this man who wants to come to Australia and has such powerful friends trying to promote his entry- powerful friends who are threatening Ministers in the Federal Government and colleagues of mine in my Party- has in fact found a cure for cancer. Now let us examine the morality of that situation. Let us examine the ethics. He is holding that information secret and selling it for $10,000 a treatment. 

 - Senator Primmer 's interjection is not worthy of him. If this man has the answer to cancer he is selling it to a restricted group of patients and he is excluding from it every other cancer sufferer in the world. He has been invited repeatedly to reveal his methods of treatment. He has been invited time after time to take space in journals, to go before medical meetings and share his information, but he will not do it. If we stay with the assumption that he has the answer, what he is doing is one of the most immoral and disgraceful acts that one could ever see because he is condemning every cancer patient in the world, every working class patient who cannot get the money; he is condemning every cancer patient in the world who cannot make his or her way to the Cook Islands. They will die because they cannot have the benefit of that treatment. 
It is a basic tenet of medicine that secrecy about new treatments is disgraceful behaviour. There is a famous story from the 17th century about an obstetrician who invented one of the first obstetric forceps and kept it secret in his own family for the family's profit and fame. The only people who benefited from the use of that appliance were those who could pay to go to that practitioner or his family. So it is an interesting situation and I challenge the Premier of Queensland to get from  Mr Brych  the full details of his treatment because if it is going to benefit mankind there is no way in which that information can be held locked up in the Cook Islands. I invite the Premier of Queensland to get that information and make it public. I wrote a letter to a person in Victoria who had written complaining about my criticism of  Mr Brych.  I wrote back to him in June last in these terms: 
It is a tenet of medical ethics that no doctors shall keep new treatments secret. My memory seems to tell me that this arose out of examples through history, where doctors by keeping secrets made themselves rich but at the expense of other patients not being offered the new advances. If  Mr Brych  has a new form of treatment for terminal cancer then it is his duty to make it freely available to terminal cancer sufferers throughout the world. An important test of his bona fides is to put him to this test. There should be no secrets in medical treatment. Secrets mean that the treatment can only be available from those who share the secret knowledge . . . 

 - Senator Georges feels that there is no question that this man has a cure for cancer. However, there are many Australians who are willing to believe that he has and I put it to them that they should not have to go outside this country to enjoy the benefit of everything  Mr Brych  says he has to offer. The statement made by the Queensland Premier was reported in the  Australian  of 13 February 1978 as follows: 
Everything he - 
I gather than is  Mr Brych-  says is logical and his methods of building up the blood to fight this disease seems sensible not only to me but to eminent doctors I have consulted. 
I say with respect to the Premier of Queensland: You would not know if the treatment was or was not effective in the same way that I would not know whether you were growing peanuts properly'. I invite the Premier to approach this man, to get the details of his treatment and to make those details public for everyone in Australia. When the Premier has done that I will join him in seeking to invite this man to this country and to welcome him. However, while  Mr Brych  is running a secret racketeering operation in the Cook Islands and while he is making his profits from the sufferers in this country for whom hope is worth pursuing even if they know they are being cheated, if he comes here at all he must come as other than a therapist, other than a doctor and other than someone who is going to treat Australians. If this man comes here, or even if he does not, let him in the name of humanity declare the details of what he does because if it is dangerous and is killing people he should stop his treatment and if it is helpful we should all know what it is. I ask every Australian suffering from cancer, every Australian with a relative who has cancer and every Australian considering using this man's treatment, whether they would settle for anything else. I thank the Senate for hearing me on this matter in the way it has and I support the motion so ably moved by my colleague  Senator Walters. 
Sitting suspended from 5.58 to 8 p.m. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations and it relates to the present dispute in the filling of positions in the Commonwealth Employment Service and the proposed employment of people from outside the Public Service. 
I thank the honourable senator for his assistance but will continue to ask my question. Has there been any instruction that outsiders are to be appointed to the Commonwealth Employment Service other than on merit or is the tradition of appointment on merit to be maintained whether the appointee is from inside or outside the Public Service? Is there any proposal for review procedures should appeals be desired against any particular appointment? 
My question to the Attorney-General relates to the Administrative Decisions (Judicial Review) Act 1977, which passed all stages in the Senate on 30 May 1 977 and received Royal Assent on 16 June of that year. I ask the Minister whether he can assure the Senate that this Act will be proclaimed. Is he able to say when this will take place? Is it possible for him to advise the Senate of the reasons for the delay in proclamation to this stage? 
A week ago, on 22 February, while debating the motion for the Address-in-Reply, I made reference to a  Mr Brych,  a so-called cancer specialist in the Cook Islands. In the course of that speech I drew attention to the participation in the dispute of the Premier of Queensland and, in particular, to some threats he had made against a Federal Minister. At this stage it seems only fair to advise the Senate that I have had a communication from the Premier of Queensland. Honourable senators might care to hear what the Premier sent to me on 23 February as his further contribution to this debate, and I quote his telegram: 
I have seen the remarks attributed to you in the Senate last night. I along with many other people are disturbed at the near hysterical and defensive attitude of you and some of the medical profession in regard to Doctor Brych. It appears you have fallen prey to the federal parliamentary disease of opening your mouth before using your eyes. Had you consulted the Parliamentary Library you would have seen my statements that and I quote 'I am not a medical man and unable to judge whether the claims about Doctor Brych 's treatment are true or not. All I can go on are the statements of those people who have been given up for dead by their doctors and have come home apparently cured from Doctor Brych. This is why I say he should come to Australia to demonstrate his methods to doctors so that they can make up their own minds if he is a quack or not'. I would have thought  Senator Baume  that in view of your interest in this matter of concern to every person who has cancer that you would be the first to volunteer to hear Doctor Brych. Why is it that so many people including yourself are more concerned at condemning Doctor Brych in his absence than in hearing him in person. I would remind you senator of your profession 's condemnation of people such as Jenner, Lister, Pasteur and Sister Kenny who were denounced by 'eminent qualified physicians as charlatans unleashing dangerous methods and ideas'. Beware that you are not caught by professional snobbery. I repeat what I have said: 'Doctor Brych may or may not have methods that help cancer patients. He should be allowed to come to Australia to demonstrate his methods so that Australian doctors and Australians can judge for themselves'. I am not a medical man as you say senator but even I can diagnose blind prejudice when I see it. 
Joh Bjelke-Petersen Premier of Queensland. 
It seemed appropriate in the circumstances to respond to the Premier's telegram, which I did in a telegram sent on 24 February, to which I have had no response from the Premier. My telegram stated: 

 Mr Premier, your telegram re my speech on Brych arrived yesterday and requires a response. The central issue raised by me was that Brych is not making known details of an allegedly effective treatment for cancer. In so doing he maximises his profit but at the expense of making his treatment unavailable to hundreds of thousands around the world in similar need. Neither Jenner nor Lister nor Sister Kenny mentioned in your telegram sought to keep their methods secret nor did they seek to reserve the benefit of treatment for those who could afford to pay exorbitant fees. My request to you was and is  f  encourage  Mr Brych  to identify publicly  and in complete detail what he does to people when he treats them. This is an issue of public importance which will not be resolved by the trading of insults between politicians. 
Peter Baume,  Senator for  New South Wales. 
It seemed appropriate to place both the telegrams on the public record. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Transport whether, on or about 23 February 1978, a letter was sent by the Department of Transport to AUS Student Travel advising that a fare offered between Australia and New Delhi breaches rule 106a of the Air Navigation Regulations? Did the letter advise that AUS Student Travel should desist immediately from using this fare? Finally, can the Minister assure the Senate that AUS Student Travel will be required to comply with all departmental instructions in this matter? 
Has the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs had drawn to his attention the availability for sale in Australia of chocolate cigarettes marketed in a packet which closely resembles a well-known brand of cigarettes? These cigarettes are manufactured in Holland. Does the appearance of the packet and brand name 'LAMAL' not indicate a clear intention on the part of the manufacturers to identify their product with the well-known brand of cigarettes? Will the Minister not agree that the chocolate cigarettes represent one form of preconditioning to smoking? Will he give consideration to reexamining the appropriateness of an import licence being available to permit entry of this product into Australia from its country of manufacture? 
I ask the Minister representing the Treasurer: What progress has been made in the preparation of a survey, in cooperation with the Australian Council for Rehabilitation of the Disabled, that is planned to give reliable figures about numbers of disabled people in our population and about particular disability groups? Is it a fact that questions contained in the census give only general information and that a follow-on survey has been planned? When will the survey be carried out, and when should results be available? 
I am concerned only with paragraph (4) on page 2 of the report of the Standing Orders Committee. This paragraph refers to the procedure to be adopted in the event of more than one matter of public importance being brought to the attention of the  President  for debate. In spite of what the Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Withers)  has said, I am concerned that the procedure proposed will in some way politicise the role of the  President  when he is asked to choose, on some grounds which he has to decide, between two competing claims on one day. The proposal has a lot of merit and I hope to support it, but I would ask you,  Mr Chairman,  whether there is to be the opportunity to deal with each of the proposed amendments one by one. The proposal that the  President  should decide between competing claims is one that I would not be willing to accept at this stage unless other honourable senators could advance arguments showing me that in fact it would not put the  President  in an extremely difficult position of being forced to decide always to accept a matter proposed by honourable senators on one or other side of the chamber. 
It does not mean that I find it any more acceptable. In a way I would rather have the  President  able to accept the first matter proposed. At least it would involve a judgment which is not political. Whoever got to his door first would get priority. I am not convinced that the proposal that the  President  should be asked to exercise his judgment is necessarily something that will serve the  President  at all times in the best possible way. I would be interested to hear argument on that point. 
-My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs and relates to the claim by the Premier of Queensland that he might travel to the Cook Islands to bring  Mr Brych  into Australia if the Federal Government does not agree to let him in. Would transport by the Premier of Queensland in any way absolve this man from complying with normal entry requirements or any special entry requirements which might have been laid down by the Australian Government? 
I support what  Senator Rae  has said about the need for secretariat help for the Estimates committees. There is no doubt that some of the things we have been able to achieve in some of the Estimates committees have been significant. I can think of departments which have changed procedures in a major way. I am concerned, however, about the method that might be adopted to achieve this aim. I know that  Senator Rae  has suggested that his proposition would be a short term, interim proposition; but I am nervous about even a short term proposition that in fact may - 
Consideration interrupted. 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Social Security. Will the ninth revision of the International Classification of Diseases of the World Health Organisation, effective this year, contain three categories of visual performance, namely, normal vision, low vision and blindness, instead of the present two categories? To what extent is the extra category- namely low vision, representing as it does a state which is neither normal nor one of blindness- used or to be used by the Minister's officers in categorising applicants for benefits and in other administrative arrangements? 
-Has the attention of the Minister representing the Minister for Health been drawn to claims that nuclear medicines produced at Lucas Heights are in some way inferior to imported products? Is the Minister able to comment on the accuracy or significance of this claim and on steps proposed by the Government to resolve the issue? 
-I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. Is schistosomiasis or bilharzia, one of the great disease scourges of the world, not presently found in Australia? Would its introduction into this country as a disease of humans require the presence of a special species of snail to act as an intermediate host? Has this species of snail, which is not normally found in Australia, recently been found by the Animal Quarantine Service? Under what circumstances have the snails been detected? Can we be certain that none has been released into our waterways? What significance is there in the presence in Australia of the intermediate vector of bilharzia? 
The Senate is debating a matter of public importance. The debate is concerned with the issue of an arbitrary decision by the Queensland Government to take over the Aboriginal communities at Aurukun and Mornington Island by removing the management of these communities from the control exercised from the beginning of this century, firstly, by the Presbyterian Church and, more latterly, by its successor, the Uniting Church. From what honourable senators have said today, it appears that the action being taken by the Queensland Government is against the wishes of the people of those communities. Messages from leaders of the two communities expressing their concern have been read to the Senate. In the last few minutes a telegram which reached Parliament House within the last hour has been handed to me. It was sent from Mornington Island Outpost to 'Minister Viner, Parliament House, Canberra', from Larry Lanley at Mornington Island. The text of the telegram is: 
Council and community rejects State Government decision to take over Mornington. We wish present administration to continue but with Federal Government assistance. 
We also know from comments made publicly that the action proposed by the Queensland Government is being taken against the wishes of the Uniting Church. This is a major church group in Australia which is highly respected. 
I find it incredible that an honourable senator can abscribe to a church and its members in general derogatory comments such as I hear at the present moment. 
I should imagine that any major religious grouping in this country would contain members whose political views ranged from one end of the spectrum to the other. Why should it be any different? This is a highly respected church whose social conscience and social presence have been considerable. Its experience in the area on which the debate centres today has been respected. It has been a responsible group. It has certainly been socially concerned. It further appears that the proposed takeover is to take place without proper consultation either with the Church or with the communities involved. 
-The honourable senator indicates that we can stop that. I accept his comment. But the real issues we have to face now are: How can we determine what is going on in these communities? What justification can we find for the proposed action? How can we bring about proper consultation with the people whose views should be heard? How can we bring about that consultation before any decision becomes irrevocable? These are the first steps that I want to see taken. 
The Federal Government has a major role in providing funds for Aboriginal advancement but, as other honourable senators have said today, the departments in day to day control of conditions in these communities are departments of state of the Government of Queensland. It is interesting that the State Government is complaining about activities being undertaken by its own departments which are leading it to say that it should intervene. The basis of the takeover proposed by the Queensland Government appears to be concern which it is expressing over the adequacy of health standards and health performance in the settlements and also over educational performance and standards. 
The  Courier-Mail  of 14 March reports a statement by the Queensland Minister for Aboriginal and Islanders Advancement,  Mr Porter.  The article states: 
Aboriginal and Island Affairs Minister  (Mr Porter)  said yesterday that both communities were facing rapidly mounting health, education, maintenance and other problems. 
He accused the Church of ineffective management, backward policies and promoting philosophies hostile to Government programs. 
It is at least worth examining this statement. It is worth examining what evidence we might have that there are special problems at Aurukun or Mornington Island in relation to health or education, to take just a couple of examples. Health services in Queensland are provided by the Queensland Government. If there is something wrong with those services, as other honourable senators have said they would be deficient because the Queensland Government has not provided them or has not conducted them to its own satisfaction. It is not the fault of the Uniting Church if health facilities in an area of Queensland are inadequate. It is not the function of the Uniting Church to be responsible for providing health services throughout Queensland. Health services for Aboriginal people, even if they are subsidised from Canberra, remain the responsibility of the Government of the State in which they are given. This is part of our federal system. 
The Senate Select Committee which studied the environmental conditions of Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders and the preservation of their sacred sites presented its report to the Senate in August 1976. It included a chapter on Aboriginal health. One of the questions we might ask is: Do we know that Aboriginal health generally is better than that at either Aurukun or Mornington Island? If it is not, on what grounds is the Queensland Government basing its claims that there are special health problems. After all, the Committee found that at the time it conducted its study 70 per cent of Aboriginal children admitted to hospital in Darwin suffered from malnutrition. Seven per cent of Aboriginal children admitted to hospital in the Northern Territory had severe malnutrition. The Committee presented figures showing that the infant mortality rate among Aboriginal communities throughout Australia, even in 1975-76 when it had been improving measured 50 infant deaths per 1,000 live births. It was still three times the rate for non-Aboriginal Australians. 
That is a general finding. We know that the general health performance of the Aboriginal people has need of improvement. It has not been as good as that of the non-Aboriginal community. We know that 18 per cent of Aborigines have visual defects and that 40 per cent of Aboriginal children aged 6 years to 10 years have hearing defects. Nowhere in the evidence presented to it could the Committee find anything to suggest that there were special problems at Mornington Island or Aurukun which set those areas apart. I noted on reading through the report that there was a reference to health and health performance ; Aurukun. There was in the report of the Senate Select Committee a quotation from the report of the Parliamentary Commissioner for Administrative Investigation upon the facts surrounding the attitudes of the Aurukun people to the proposed mining venture. That report was tabled in the Queensland Parliament on 6 April 1976. The Commissioner, in talking about Aurukun, made a comment as follows: 
The Mission is presently free of liquor and the attendant misery usually associated with drink. The responsible Aurukuns want to keep it this way. 
That is an interesting comment. In 1976 the Aurukun community was the one that was selected as having stated that its community had no special problems with alcohol. That was in 1976, yet  Mr Porter  tells us without any supporting detail, and without any extra evidence that the health problem at Aurukun is one of the reasons why his Government must move in and take over the community. We know that alcoholism concerns all Aborigines. We know that it is not just a question for paternal non-Aboriginal 
Australians. We know that the Aboriginal people themselves want to do something about the problems of alcoholism that exist within their community. 
It is no good just picking on Aurukun when we know about Oenpelli and the border store; it is no good just picking on Aurukun and Mornington Island when we have received a report from the Western Australian Royal Commission into Aboriginal Affairs which talked about alcoholism levels throughout the Aboriginal community in Australia being greater than that of nonAboriginal community by a factor of about four. Unless the Minister in Queensland gives us facts and analyses, I see no reason to accept at face value his statement that there are special health problems in this community which require a takeover such as is proposed. If the problem has developed since 1976 when we last received figures, it has to be set against the failure of the Queensland Government to accede to requests within the communities for the provision of policemen to help to enforce the law in their own areas. We do not know the details on which the claims of the Queensland Minister are based; we certainly do not know enough details to enable us to acknowledge or respond. 
The same thing applies in the field of education.  Mr Porter  says that there are increasing educational problems in these communities. Increasing over what? Are they increasing over the general education problem facing Aboriginal people? Any honourable senator who reads the Senate Select Committee report will be reminded that there is a general failure of education in this country to cope adequately with the aspirations and requirements of Aboriginals. We have no evidence that the educational performance at Aurukun or Mornington Island is worse than in any other Aboriginal community. Until that evidence is made available we cannot accept, reject or evaluate the claims that sufficient problems exist to enable this takeover to be seen as proper, necessary or advisable. Education also is provided not by the Federal Government- although it provides the funds- but by State instrumentalities and if there has been a failure in education the State Government involved should look to its own performance to see what has happened. 
Honourable senators have spoken of a dropout rate. The Senate Select Committee report on page 163 lists school participation rates. We know that the kind of figures one can expect are that 1 3-year-old Aboriginals might have only a 60 per cent school participation rate compared to an 80 per cent rate in the community as a whole. If  Mr Porter  wants us to accept and believe in what he is proposing, let him produce the figures and the facts to justify it. We require evidence that there are special problems at Aurukun and Mornington Island. More than that, I would require special argument to enable me to accept the proposition that it is appropriate for a State Government to take over. After all, what is being proposed is the replacement of a nongovernment instrumentality by government. 
-Thank you,  Senator, that  is my very point. It is a takeover from a non-government instrumentality by a government. It is in fact a socialist activity, a socialist enterprise, when a government takes over from non-government people who have been doing the job for 70 years and doing it perfectly adequately. I do not believe and have never believed that State capitalism- State monopolyhas anything to offer over private monopoly. What is being proposed by the Queensland State Government is nothing more than the accretion of power for purposes which have not been made clear to us. Good socialist philosophy it is and it may be considered as that, certainly in the State from which I come. 
There is no evidence available to us to suggest that the kind of problems that  Mr Porter  has talked about this morning exist at Aurukun and Mornington Island. There is certainly no supporting argument to lead him to suggest that a takeover by his State Government- a venture into State monopoly- is the right proposition. This is a matter of public importance and I believe that the Senate has done a service to Australia today by debating it as it has done. There is still time, before this takeover becomes effective, to seek from the Aboriginal people an expression of their point of view if further expressions are needed. There is time to seek the point of view of the Uniting Church. There is a chance to have more consultation. This is a matter of public importance and it is a matter upon which the people of Australia want more information. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Mulvihill)-  Order! The time permitted for the discussion has expired. The discussion is concluded. 
Before I move that the debate be adjourned I should like to indicate that it had been the Government's hope to proceed to a vote on each of these motions that the Senate take note of the reports. But a very eminent member of the Senate who is interested in the Stevedoring Industry Authority is not present tonight. This is his last Parliament and it is our wish that he should have an opportunity to speak on these motions. It is for that reason that I move: 
That the debate be now adjourned. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Item 5, which concerns the functions and staff of Estimates committees, is of interest to me. One of the activities that I have valued in the Senate has been the opportunity to serve on Estimates committees and there to learn some of the extra details of the functioning of government departments and to obtain extra information about not only the construction of Budgets but also some of the reasoning behind them. I completely concur with what the Standing Orders Committee has said; that is, that there is value in the Estimates function of the Senate being extended. It seems to me that we have difficulties in analysing departmental submissions when they come to hand, we have a need of some assistance in the preparation of our questions for Estimates committees and we also require assistance in the analysis of the answers we receive in order to know exactly what information has been obtained and what extra information needs to be obtained. 
The committees already are served in an administrative sense by the staff of the Senate. I simply place on record my appreciation- and, I think, the appreciation of all chairmen of Estimates committees- of the assistance we receive from the Clerks who service the committees and who make sure that we are able to conduct our business. I take it that the staffing assistance being discussed goes beyond this and is in the nature of research assistance of a special kind. At this point I would like to move slightly beyond what the Standing Orders Committee has suggested. The question might be, firstly, not only whether we should have staffing assistance on the Estimates committees but also who should be employed to give this assistance; and, secondly, how the system should be introduced and from where the staffing support should come. 
I see a need for the Estimates committees, if they are to do their job in the best possible way, to have specialised staff. The Estimates function is a particular specialist function. Having served on many committees of the Senate, it is quite clear to me that the Estimates committees are unlike any other committees of the Senate. They are called on to do a particular job that requires particular analytical skills. I am in no way criticising any of the staff of our present committee secretariatfar from it- but, if I were chairman of an Estimates committee, I would want to have available to me someone who was used to public accounting and the kind of analysis which has to go into the understanding of the Estimates and who would help me determine what kind of information I should properly be seeking and obtaining. 
I move now to my present position as chairman of a Senate standing committee. That committee has a secretariat which is trained to do a different kind of job. In that Committee we investigate matters on behalf of the Senate. I understand that the Standing Orders Committee has recommended that we examine, as a transitional arrangement only or as part of a gradual process, whether the secretariat of the standing committees should undertake- I take it that the Standing Orders Committee means for a limited period of time- a function in relation to the Estimates committees. I am concerned - 
What I am saying is that if we agree that staffing is desirable for the Estimates committees and that the function of the Estimates committees should be extended as part of the general process of extending the role and use of the Senate in the parliamentary system, and if we agree that the Estimates committees would operate more efficiently with the provision of staff, I think we should grasp the nettle properly and make an approach to have the appropriate staff provided for our Estimates committees. 
I can see immediately a number of questions which would have to be answered. At the moment the Estimates function is active for only two periods each year. There is no reason why that should necessarily continue to be the case. There is no reason why we could not copy what is done in other countries if we wished to do so, why we could not take on some of the parliamentary scrutiny on a continuing basis as is the case in the United States of America. The plea I am making is that if we agree that extra assistance is necessary for the Estimates committees we should seek now the right kind of staffing. I believe that we should try to do that as the initial step rather than move through any intermediate steps, even though that may be administratively more simple. I make it clear that I support the thrust of what the Standing Orders Committee has drawn to our attention, but I commend to it the proposition that it go further and seek some means of obtaining specialised staff for the Estimates committees as a first step and as a more appropriate definitive way of meeting the need. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 28 February 1978: 
What was the fare published in the AUS Student Travel 1977-78 Summer Program for a one-way journey to Zurich. 
Did this one-way fare encompass: (a) a flight with a Qantas affinity charter to Singapore on12 or 26 December 1977; (b) a Thai Airways Flight from Singapore to Copenhagen; and (c) a Scandinavian Airways flight from Copenhagen to Zurich. 
Are the published fare and the routing in accordance with Air Navigation Regulations and the International Air Transport Association travel rules. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 28 February 1978: 
What was the exact indebtedness of AUS Student Travel Pty Ltd to Qantas Airways Ltd and to Trans-Australia Airlines at the time the scheme for repayment of AUS Student Travel debts was entered into. 
-Can the Minister for Transport recall acknowledging in an answer to me in the Senate that AUS Student Travel had been instructed to discontinue some advertised services which were in breach of the Air Navigation Regulations? Further, is he aware of an answer to a question on notice that another AUS Student Travel fare appears not to be in accordance with the Air Navigation Regulations? Is he also aware that Qantas Airways Ltd has given over some scheduled services to AUS Student Travel for charter purposes with loss of convenience to the travelling public, and is he aware that the Minister for Transport has indicated his concern regarding this practice? 
Is the Minister now aware that AUS Student Travel has advertised for 6 September next a charter which has not yet been approved by the Department of Transport as required by the regulations before it is advertised and for which it has been allocated a scheduled Qantas service? I note here that people who have telephoned to get on that Qantas flight have been told that it is full'. Can the Minister assure the Senate that scheduled services will be reserved for all Australians where possible and not for a favoured few, and that Qantas should advise the public honestly when it gives away a scheduled service to a favoured charterer? Finally, will the Minister assure the Senate once again that AUS Student Travel will be required to comply with the Air Navigation Regulations like any other operator in the air transport field? 

 - Mr President, the Senate is debating your statement on security in Parliament House and two amendments to it, one of which I rise to second. The argument before the Senate appears to fall into three areas. The first is whether there is a need for security in Parliament 
House- perhaps for better security than we have had- and a number of honourable senators have addressed themselves to that question. Secondly, there is the separate question of the general processes by which security should be achieved, and there are differing opinions as to which methods may be appropriate or inappropriate. Thirdly, there may be some particular issues which have been associated with the initial implementation of the measures which you have announced in your statement. They are all really separate questions. 
Turning first to the general proposition that there is a problem of security, a legitimate area of concern for a presiding officer- one in which he may choose to move- I think that we can answer at least some of the concerns which honourable senators have. As I have listened to the debate, it has appeared that most honourable senators have acknowledged by means of anecdotes and of examples of events elsewhere, that they recognise the inadequacies of the security measures that have been taken in this place. I look in the galleries and I am reminded that we in the past have made provision for security. We have an excellent staff of people who are placed around Parliament House for no other purpose than to help to ensure a degree of security. But that does not stop us, perhaps stimulated by events earlier in the year in Sydney, from pausing to examine once again the kind of security risk that we face. 

 Mr President, we do not do it in any sense of hysteria or great self-pity, but it is worth asking whether there is a risk. As  Senator Gietzelt  has pointed out, given the events of the times, given the feelings of the age in which we live, one may well ask: Is there a risk to which we should be responding? I think one has to agree that there is in the world today an increasing security problem, in that in the political arena violence is being used, not merely sporadically and fortuitously but now systematically. I was interested in the example given by  Senator Colston,  in his very balanced presentation, of the stabbing of a Prime Minister of South Africa. That kind of event, the sporadic act of a person who may be deranged, is very difficult to guard against. What I am concerned about is the rising incidence of violence and terrorism as a strategy, a tactic, a means of achieving and using power in today's world. We have examples all around us. I am not attempting,  Mr President,  to enter upon an unauthorised cognate debate but if I might turn for a moment to the Prime Minister's statement on protective security and counter terrorism, I would note that it contains a summary of the number of incidents over the last few years which provides a measure of the extent to which terrorism has increased. 
The Prime Minister said that according to evidence given recently to a United States Senate Committee, in the last five years there have been around the world 1800 major acts of terrorism, which have resulted in 512 deaths, 551 injuries and 363 kidnappings. We need simply to remind ourselves of what has happened in Italy, one of the few democracies in the world- perhaps 25 in number, and which probably only 18 would satisfy our requirements for proper parliamentary democracies. In Italy, in the centre of one of its largest cities, the kidnapping of one of the leading political figures of that country occurred. Terrorism has become fashionable. I see no reason, if one is to make a reasoned assessment of what is likely to happen here, to make any other assumption than that in the years that lie ahead we will see more, rather than less, of a certain kind of activity, After all, we are close to the rest of the world, we are part of the world, and there is no reason why we should imagine that we shall be insulated from events that are happening elsewhere. 
If there is a need for security in the parliaments of other countries, a need for security in other countries generally, why would there not be a similar need here? For example, internationally known senior terrorists have, in the last three or four years, been identified in Australia. On at least one occasion a major figure in an international terrorist organisation was discovered here and was deported. That took place, of course, before the visit of General Moshe Dayan to this country. That particular person was identified here. There is no reason to believe that we will be free from terrorist activity. To that extent, the events that took place at the Hilton Hotel did no more than bring us back to a sense of the realities of today. I am not going to argue with  Senator Gietzelt.  I am not concerned at this stage with where the responsibilities may have lain. That is another question, which will be answered by authorities in New South Wales and the Commonwealth. It is a rather fruitless argument for us to go into at the moment. 
Moving on to the question of security in this country, wherever I go now I am involved in answering questions, identifying myself and submitting to appropriate security arrangements.  Senator Chaney  reminded us that last week, when he visited an office building in Melbourne, he had to go through the same kind of procedures as you have instituted in this building now,  Mr President.  When I travel on Australia 's airlines I must be prepared to meet their security requirements. In Adelaide two days ago I was not allowed to take my tape recorder aboard a plane until I had operated it, until the security officers could be sure it was indeed a tape recorder and not some kind of bomb. I notice that people who work for airlines and in airports wear the kind of identity disc which you,  Mr President,  have now introduced to Parliament House. 
When I visit government departments, for example, the Department of Foreign Affairs, I have to go through identification procedures that are perhaps more stringent than have been introduced here. When I worked in a hospital in the United States I was surprised at first to discover that one had to have identification. I was told that after the assassination of  President  Kennedy in Dallas he was taken to the South Western Medical Centre, a major medical centre and very fine medical school. It became clear in the course of the later debriefing that one of the major failures in that situation had been the total inability to control entry into the emergency department of that centre, or to control therein the movement of people generally. There was no information available at that stage as to who did and who did not belong. In that situation it made a lot of sense for the hospital in Tennesee for which I worked to insist that we also should be identified by means of the kind of tags that you,  Mr President,  have introduced here. I understand that tertiary institutions in this country now are insisting upon the adequate identification of their students in certain situations. 
Of course, when I visit the parliaments of other countries I find that they make no bones about and no apologies for the kinds of security arrangements that they regard as routine and necessary. If we think that our Parliament is security conscious obviously we have never been to Israel and tried to enter the Knesset, which is the parliament of one of the few parliamentary democracies in the world. To enter the parliament building in Israel one has to go through a police checkpoint. Even inside the building bullet proof glass is placed in front of the galleries. One may say that is taking things a bit far but the political life of that country is, as I think everyone will agree, vigorous and active. All that those security arrangements are doing is to give to the institution of parliament the capacity or the greatest possible chance to carry on its function and work without the systematic use of terror to disrupt what it is seeking to achieve. 
When I visited the House of Commons I saw what I considered to be some security arrangements. Searches of bags and parcels were made. They were similar to those that you,  Mr President,  have introduced now into this Parliament. One could keep describing how what you have done really has been to bring us into line with the practice in many countries and many parliaments overseas and to bring us into a greater realisation of what are the realities facing us and of what are the likely problems we will have to face in the future. 
I would like to take up a point raised by  Senator Colston  in his contribution to this debate. The honourable senator made the point- if I misquote him I do so unintentionaly- that he saw no reason why everyone should not wear badges if in fact they have to be worn by the staff. 
-Some type of identification. I want to place on record that I think the honourable senator is absolutely correct. I see no reason why the elected members of parliament should insist that they be put in a category different from that of other people who use this building. I note that  Senator Withers  has obtained for himself the same type of identification that is now used by all his staff. But on reflection he is absolutely right and I believe that we are absolutely wrong not to have done the same thing. I think it is a conceit on the part of members of the Parliament to think that we are in some way superior or that in some way we should not share in this process which, after all, is designed only to help us and the Parliament and to protect the national polity and the institution which we think is important. I notice,  Mr President,  that in your statement you said: 
Persons permanently employed in the building and others who need regularly to come to the building will be issued with photographic identity passes. 
Later on you said: 
Passes are to be worn by the pass holders. 
If when we get into questions of process we agree upon an adequate means of identification, let us also agree that those processes should be followed by everyone who uses Parliament House, from the Prime Minister down to the people who clean the building and look after us in so many other ways. There is no reason in my mind why we as elected members should not have to follow the same processes as everyone else. 
It has nothing to do with guards on our homes.  Mr President,  if you have decided that certain procedures are necessary for the proper protection of this Parliament those procedures should be followed by everyone, including the politicians. To me, the matter is as simple as that. The next matter that has been raised is the process by which security might be achieved. There has been some discussion in this place about this matter. A number of honourable senators have expressed some concern that some processes which you,  Mr President,  have introduced may not be perfect. But I doubt,  Mr President,  whether you have ever suggested they will be perfect. I doubt whether anyone has ever said that this is the final answer. If we are to be serious and fair dinkum about our desire to bring about some adequate form of security I think we have to look at the processes that you have introduced and accept that there will be costs as well as benefits and that some of the costs may be the costs to convenience which some honourable senators have drawn to our attention during this debate. I am perfectly prepared to consider accepting those costs if I can see that the benefits that I am likely to gain are worthwhile I do not pretend, and I do not think that any reasonable person would pretend, that  Mr President  can introduce into the Parliament a set of procedures designed to achieve a desirable end without those procedures possibly having some other effects which may be inconvenient or which may require us to modify some of our traditional practices. That does not concern me. After all,  Mr President,  we can ask who is it we are protecting? It is not just the members of parliament. We have a responsibility to protect those who work with us and for us. We are responsible, and no one else is responsible, for the safety and well being of all those who are employed in the Parliament. If we do not carry out this task we will have been recreant because we have the responsibility. 
We have been told how bad security is in this building.  Senator Button  told us during his contribution in the opening debate that responses to bomb threats are totally inadequate. If the honourable senator can say this he should take the next step and ask who is being endangered? The answer is not simply the senators and members of the other place but every person who works in the building. If we do not take into account that we are answerable for all these people I believe we will bear a heavy responsibility. 
That leads me to the next point- the question of who is responsible in this area. It seems to me there is no doubt that the responsibility for the security of this building rests with the Presiding 
Officers. I have heard much discussion today about the role of the Executive in this matter. I am not aware that the Executive has tried to usurp or take over the role of the Presiding Officers. I am not sure that the Presiding Officers would allow it. After all,  Mr President  is responsible to us in this chamber. I was interested to hear  Senator Gietzelt  remind us of the days of Cromwell. The honourable senator might remember that during those days  Speaker  Lenthall was the  Speaker  of the House of Commons. He might recall also that on 4 January 1642 King Charles I came to the House of Commons to arrest five members.  Mr President,  you certainly would know and most honourable senators would know of  Mr Speaker  Lenthall's reply to the King on that occasion. He told the King: 
May it please Your Majesty, I have neither eyes to see, nor tongue to speak in this place, but as the House is pleased to direct me . . . 
That brings me to the point that you,  Mr President,  in making the statement, were acknowledging to us that it is to this chamber that you are responsible and you were seeking from us the expressions of opinion which this debate has brought forward. You have made it quite clear that you are looking for the involvement of the Senate and to contributions by honourable senators to assist you to carry out the difficult job of ensuring security in Parliament House, I acknowledge that this is an area of considerable difficulty and an area of shared responsibility. In a sense the Senate has indicated during the debate that it would like to share with you some of the tasks involved in fulfilling this duty to protect the Parliament. The amendment moved by  Senator Button,  had it been agreed to as it stood, could have led to the Committee of Privileges considering whether there was a security problem or whether security here required attention. 

 Mr President, the further amendment which has been moved by  Senator Chaney  and which I have seconded narrows slightly the ambit of the Committee's consideration to seeking from it a consideration of the means by which we might best achieve the kind of security arrangements which you are seeking and which would be best for the Senate. It is for this reason that we have moved the further amendment and we welcome the expressions of support which it has received from both sides of the Senate. There will be teething problems, there will be change, but I believe that the arrangements which you have introduced are a beginning. They are a considerable extension of anything we had to this date. However, I would not want to think that the problems of providing security to the Parliament had been resolved. I would prefer to think that you had started a process and that we will examine what comes from it. If some of the disabilities are as great as some honourable senators consider they will be, then perhaps some change will be necessary. For the moment, I welcome your statement. I welcome the move to improve security in this place. I welcome the opportunity to involve a committee of the Senate in the process by which security will be improved. I hope that we will see a gradual development of a better system of security in this Parliament not only for those who are elected and serve in the chambers but also for those several thousand people who work in the Parliament or who visit the building regularly. 
-Is the Minister representing the Minister for Health aware that the Royal Australasian College of Physicians has accepted responsibility for quality assurance of health care and also that the College and its fellows have accepted a responsibility to educate physicians, physician trainees, other medical practitioners and others in the health field in the cost benefits of investigations and treatments in internal medicine? What other professional bodies in the medical field have accepted similar responsibility for involvement in cost containment? Is the Minister able to give us the names of these other bodies? How and when have they made a commitment in this area? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 2 March 1978: 
How many new operating theatres and specialist neurosurgical areas are under construction at the Royal Prince Alfred Hospital in Sydney. 
Are any Federal Government funds involved in the construction of these theatres and neurosurgical areas; if so, at what level. 
) What was the basis of the decison to build the particular number of theatres and neurosurgical areas. 
I think it appropriate that I respond to what  Senator Harradine  has just said. The Government's intention that the subject Bill should be considered this week by Parliament and, if thought appropriate, passed, was well known. One could have assumed that the Government would therefore give it some priority. Nevertheless, I believe  Senator Harradine  is correct in regard to the point that he makes.  1  acknowledge that it would have been better had I consulted him and advised him of the course of action that the Government proposed to take. I am perfectly happy to make that admission to the honourable  Senator. I  hope that the matter of General Business of which he has given notice will come on for discussion at some appropriate time. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-My question which is directed to the Minister for Administrative Services relates to the absence of an Australian Government Publishing Service bookshop in the city of Newcastle. In view of the fact that the population of the Hobart statistical division, in which there is an AGPS bookshop, is 162,000 people and that the population of the Newcastle statistical division, in which there is no such bookshop, is 362,000 people, I ask the Minister whether he is aware that some people in Newcastle are having difficulty in obtaining government publications, reports of Senate committees and similar documents. Is he able to advise whether there is an agency or any other arrangement available to the people of Newcastle to assist them in getting AGPS publications? If not, will he give consideration either to the establishment of an AGPS bookshop in Newcastle or to the establishment of some appropriate agency arrangements which will suit the convenience of the people of this industrial city? 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health, follows written advice to New South Wales doctors that, while in terms of the Medical Practitioners Act in that State it may be legally permissible to refer patients to chiropractors, it is not legally permissible to refer patients to osteopaths. 
I ask the Minister: Have osteopaths in Sydney, graduates of what was the Sydney College of Osteopathy, awarded to themselves new diplomas in the years since 1 968. allegedly changing themselves in sequence from osteopaths to chiropractors, then to doctors of chiropractic and, latterly, to all of these? Has this all been without significant or sufficient extra study? What is the standing of the College awarding these diplomas? What is the standing and significance of each of the different diplomas which have been awarded? 
This motion gives us the chance to examine the way in which the adjournment debate should be handled in the Senate as well as the way it should be handled in the House of Representatives. I note that the House of Representatives has chosen the way in which it wishes to handle its adjournment debate. I take it that it has adopted a formal structure for its adjournment debates with five-minute speeches only for its members and the right of reply from the Minister. On that basis the House of Representatives has decided that it is appropriate that proceedings should be broadcast. I suppose it is not now inappropriate that the  Senate  at least should examine the question of how we have conducted our own adjournment debates and how we may care to do so in the future. 
I have always valued adjournment debates in this place as the time when I can bring up any issue which has concerned me. We do not have a Grievance Debate in the Senate. So the adjournment debate traditionally has given us the opportunity to discuss matters which in the other place might be brought up by using other forms of that House. The adjournment debate in the Senate has proved over the years a very effective way by which honourable senators are able to bring to public attention issues which they think are important and in respect of which there is no other provision under the Standing Orders of the 
Senate. I would not like to see any progression in the Parliament to procedures which lessen our rights. I would certainly not like to see any abrogation of the right which we have to speak on the adjournment debate as our Standing Orders provide at the present time, to speak for a considerable period of time provided we can maintain a sufficient number of our colleagues in attendance to give us a hearing. 
I think it is appropriate that on the presentation of this report, although it is referring to what is happening in another place, we take the opportunity to set down what some of us think about what should be the procedures in the Senate because it seems to me that if we make any move at all towards the broadcasting of adjournment debates there would go with it automatically the requirement to alter the nature of our adjournment debate and to alter the way in which it is conducted- to alter the structure of the debate, lt would be unthinkable, for example, for us to keep the present format of debate under which an honourable senator can, if he wishes, rise to his feet and address the Senate for 30 or 40 minutes if the matter is of sufficient importance. It would not be possible, if we moved to emulate the practice in the House of Representatives, to keep that kind of debate running. We would have to adopt rules under which honourable senators were restricted in what they could say and certainly restricted as far as the length of debate was concerned. I am not certain that that would meet the convenience or wishes of honourable senators. Whilst we may gain some publicity or some better communication of what was being said in adjournment debates I think we would lose some of the freedom that we have to address the Senate in our own way for as long as we think is necessary and with the freedom which we think is appropriate. 
Further, I think that the broadcasting of the adjournment debate could prove to be a mixed blessing. I think we would agree that the fact that the adjournment is not being broadcast has produced a different quality of debate in the Senate. Honourable senators do not get up automatically in order to have another 1 5 or 20 minutes of broadcast time. Those honourable senators who speak on the adjournment in this place do so because they genuinely desire to be heard by their colleagues on some matter of importance. I am inclined to the view that if we had a broadcast adjournment debate in the Senate, sooner or later we would see the development of honourable senators speaking to use up the broadcast time, whether or not genuine issues might have motivated them. 
I am indebted to the honourable senator; it would be used for propaganda purposes. On many evenings in the Senate there is no adjournment debate; on some evenings there is a prolonged debate. I think honourable senators have accepted over the years that, because there is this genuine desire to discuss issues, we generally wait and give an audience to speakers on the adjournment to allow them to express their views and to give them a hearing. Sometimes if the issue is sufficiently important we have a vigorous debate. I can think back- I am sure  Senator Button  can think back- to the time when the late  Senator Greenwood  was serving in the Senate when I believe we had some extremely vigorous debates on the adjournment on various issues from time to time. I believe that if we broadcast the proceedings, we would lose our right to speak for the length of time that we have had traditionally and we would also lose the genuineness with which adjournment debates have been conducted. 
While I accept that we are looking at a report which deals with another place and its procedures, it raises for us the question of how the Senate might care to regard its practices; whether honourable senators might seek some change in the arrangements for broadcast. I would like to place on record my belief that the present arrangements on balance suit the needs of the Senate better than other arrangements which would cause us to alter the adjournment debate even if they did give us the opportunity to broadcast the contents of that debate. 
-My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. Is the Minister aware that the Honourable Peter Cox M.L.A., the New South Wales Minister for Transport, has incorrectly claimed in a number of letters to the New South Wales State member for Corrimal that the reason the northern suburbs distributor in Wollongong is not being commenced is the failure to provide adequate Commonwealth funding for urban arterial roads? Can the Minister state precisely in whose province the blame for the delay in the construction of this road lies? ls the New South Wales Minister for Transport merely prevaricating on this matter in an attempt to hide his own Government's failure to start this road? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 2 March 1978: 
Is a new block built at the Austin Hospital in Melbourne, to contain approximately 250 beds and 1 6 theatres. 
Are Federal Government funds involved in this project; if so, at what level. 
Was a brief for the project prepared and produced, either before or after approval was given by the Hospital and Charities Commission for the program to proceed; if so, when was it prepared, and by whom. 
-My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. Is it true that a major health fund in New South Wales is to encourage some of its contributors to leave the fund and to move to Medibank to enable the fund to avoid payment of nursing home benefits? Will this advice, if followed, place contributors in any jeopardy? Will the Minister indicate the view of the Government on the suggestion? 
by leave- Honourable senators will be aware that over the years the Senate has usually sat for three days each week, three weeks of each month with a week up to work in our electorates. This arrangement has been quite satisfactory for some honourable senators but has not necessarily been suitable for all members of the Parliament. You will remember,  Mr President,  that about 1 8 months ago I expressed some concern in this place about the strain that was being imposed on members of the Parliament, particularly members ofthe Ministry, by the pattern of sittings and by the stress to which they were exposed. I believe I spoke soon after the unfortunate death of  Senator Greenwood.  Since that time, the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has had a committee from his own party looking at questions of the procedures of the Parliament and the sittings of the Parliament to try to provide some ideas which might be discussed in relation to sittings and other matters and which might provide for a more reasonable way of living and a more reasonable way of proceeding for honourable senators, bearing in mind the stresses to which they are subjected. 
The sitting pattern which was introduced recently, which is a departure from what we have been used to, has been designed around the needs of parliamentarians. Specifically, it has been designed around the need to try to reduce, as far as possible, some of the travelling dme of honourable senators from outlying States, particularly those from Western Australia. They have had, as the Senate will know, a particularly irksome amount of travelling over the years. They spend anything up to 10 hours a week in the air. If they have been trying to leave Canberra and return to Canberra on the same weekend and also trying to cany out a full weekend of electorate duties, the strains to which they have been subjected have been unreasonable. The pattern of sittings which has been provided allows for two weeks each month in Canberra and for two weeks away from Canberra. The two weeks in Canberra are designed to provide both the Friday and Monday as sitting days, with the result that honourable senators can then spend the weekend in Canberra to recuperate, as it were. We have had only one such sitting period, although more sitting periods are planned for the remainder of this session. 
The reason I rise is to draw attention to a number of rumours which are being circulated that the Government is in some way considering an early abandonment of the times of sitting we initiated. After all, they were initiated on a trial basis. If we can create a situation in which senators from Western Australia can stay in Canberra one weekend a month and then be free to go home for a fortnight we believe it will be to their advantage. I am not aware of any reason why rumours should be going around that we intend to abandon the particular sitting program which we introduced on a trial basis. I do not know how the rumours began, but it was announced in the House of Representatives today that that chamber will be sitting in May in accordance with a program which, I believe, continues to run the experimental program to which I have drawn attention. The House of Representatives will sit on Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday and Friday of the first week, and Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday of the following week. This does not mean, of course, that that pattern of sittings will necessarily have to be continued. In concluding my remarks, I add that we have indicated at this end that the present arrangements will continue for the Senate for the present time. We have sought the views of all senators about the best method to adopt for the sittings in the period that follows. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Transport: Is it true that representatives of AUS Student Travel Service Pty Ltd exchanged students' onward airline tickets for credit vouchers at Sydney Airport on 26 April? Is it also true, as reported in the Press, that AUS Student Travel was informed at least a week before then that arrangements it was making to sell a cheaper fare to Kuala Lumpur were a breach of the amended Air Navigation Regulations? Is it also true that AUS Student Travel has followed this type of fare construction for some time and is now doing so in defiance of instructions from the Department of Transport? What steps does the Minister for Transport intend taking to prevent AUS Student Travel from either continuing its present illegal practice or issuing credit vouchers at an airport which could later be exchanged for onward airline tickets overseas? Finally, I ask whether other travel agents, operating perhaps more legitimately, are to enjoy the same facilities and have access to the same practices as AUS Student Travel. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 22 February 1978: 
1 ) Did an article, published in the AMA Gazette of 2 February 1978, give an indication of the level of utilisation of medical services and its alteration over recent years which differed from assertions made by  Dr John  Deeble, reported in The Medical Letter, 2 February 1 978, pages 2-3. 
Can the Minister reconcile the two different statements on alterations in the levels of utilisation of medical services since the introduction of Medibank. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 23 February 1978: 
What progress has been made in finalising common assessment procedures for overseas qualified medical practitioners seeking registration in Australia. 
Are the new procedures yet in operation; if not when will they become operational. 
I  present the following petition from 9 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble Petition of the undersigned members and ex members of the Citizens Forces of Australia respectfully sheweth: 
On 14 February 1975, the then Australian Government deprived the Officers and men of the Australian Citizen Naval Military and Air Forces of the distinctive and historic Decorations and Medals for long service and good conduct, namely the Reserve Decoration, the Efficiency Decoration, the  Ali  Efficiency Award, the Efficiency Medal and Long Service and Good Conduct Medals, awarded for long and meritorious voluntary service in the citizen forces: 
The proposed substitution of the National Medal for these Decorations and Medals varies the principle of selective recognition of efficient voluntary service in the citizen forces in that it recognises the period of service only and embraces also full time service as well in the defence forces as in the police, fire brigade and ambulance services: 
This deprivation caused and is continuing to cause serious discontent amongst personnel of the Citizens Forces who willingly and cheerfully give of their spare time outside their normal full time civilian careers, to serve Her Majesty and Australia: 
The Reserve Forces of Australia have been recognised by the present Government as a valuable- and costeffective component of the Defence Forces. Anomalously, whilst the Government is actually supporting recruiting for these Forces it has imposed and continued this deprivation which as foresaid has depressed the morale of the Citizen Forces: 
Her Majesty has not cancelled the said Decorations and Medals. 
Your Petitioners therefore humbly pray 
Your Honourable House take appropriate action to resume the award of the several distinctive Reserve Forces Decorations and Medals for Long Service and Good Conduct to members of the Royal Australian Naval Reserve, Army Reserve (CMF) and the RAAF Citizens Air Force. 
Petition received. 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Education. Does the compulsory student union fee payment at the University of New South Wales include a contribution to the Australian Union of Students? Does the University of New South Wales restrict conscientious objections against payment of this fee to certain strictly defined religious grounds and to nothing else? What are these grounds? Does the University allow conscientious objection on grounds narrower than those applicable to membership of trade unions generally? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. I remind the Minister that information provided after the examination of the Estimates last October by Trans-Australia Airlines indicated that no commission was paid by TAA to AUS Student Travel Service Pty Ltd. Are any payments now made by TAA to AUS Student Travel? If so, what are they? 
I address a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. Does AUS Student Travel Service Pty Ltd have a charter aircraft leaving Australia for Rome on or about 14 June? Have young Australians paid $555 to form this charter? Will they be issued with tickets for travel to Rome? Is the fare and trip structure in accordance with the Air Navigation Regulations? Have travellers been advised that this Malaysian Airline System charter to Rome will carry them only to Kuala Lumpur; that they will stay overnight in Kuala Lumpur; that they will be ferried- whatever that means- to Bangkok and then flown to Rome? How and by what airline is each stage of the trip to be conducted? Does the offer of this trip by 
AUS Student Travel breach the Air Navigation Regulations? Is it intended to allow MAS to offer packages not permitted to our national flag carrier? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. Will the Minister advise whether at the time Qantas Airways Ltd and TransAustralia Airlines agreed before the Supreme Court of Victoria to a scheme of arrangement for AUS Student Travel Service Pty Ltd, their officers had any knowledge that in attempting to trade out - 
I find it interesting that Opposition senators are so sensitive on this matter. Can the Minister advise whether they had any knowledge that in attempting to trade out, AUS Student Travel planned to operate in breach of the air navigation regulations? 
-My question to the Minister for Science is prompted by the continuing need for information for the significant minority of Australians who still smoke. 
-We have some smokers here. What testing programs are undertaken by the Government to provide information likely to allow consumers to make discriminating decisions on the matter of smoking? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Health: What progress has been achieved in establishing the Committees of Inquiry set up under the Health Insurance Act to deal with complaints against providers of medical care? Have the Committees yet begun their operations? 
I seek leave to make a brief statement on an inquiry proposed by the Senate Standing Committee on Social Welfare as part of its continuing oversight of relevant aspects of the report of the Senate Select Committee on Drug Trafficking and Drug Abuse. 
Leave granted. 
I desire to inform the Senate of a further inquiry proposed by the Standing Committee on Social Welfare under its charter to maintain an oversight of relevant aspects of the report of the Senate Select Committee on Drug Trafficking and Drug Abuse. It will be recalled that the Standing Committee, on 25 October 1977, presented a report which discussed a number of significant areas of drug use in Australian society and recommended a national strategy for coping with drug abuse. The scope of that report did not extend to opiates or to therapeutic agents with the exception of compound analgesics. For reasons which, I think, will be obvious in the light of the numerous contemporary major inquiries into illegal use of drugs and trafficking in them, including opiates, the Committee does not at present intend to undertake yet another inquiry on opiates. We shall await the results of the current inquiries and keep the matter under review. 
Therapeutic agents, on the other hand, are causing increasing concern among professional health workers and others who are aware of the need for care in the use of drugs available over the counter or on prescription. Much statistical and research information is available. The Committee believes that it should collate and examine this information in conjunction with the views of those who understand the significance of what is happening in the use of such medication and who are concerned. We have therefore decided, as another phase in our continuing oversight, to examine the use and abuse of medication available over the counter or on prescription. We propose to initiate the inquiry without delay so that interested persons may have the opportunity of preparing and forwarding submissions during the next few months while the Committee proceeds with its current reference on the evaluation of the adequacy of Australian health and welfare services. 
I should like to say, in closing, that the Committee will lose the services of two valued members after 30 June.  Senator Brown,  who served as  Chairman  of the former Standing Committee on Health and Welfare, and  Senator Tehan  have both rendered significant service to the Standing Committee on Social Welfare and we shall miss them. I extend to them my personal thanks and appreciation for their hard work and support at all times and for their wise counsel in Committee deliberations. 
The Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  has already detailed and clearly declared to the Senate what is the Government's land rights policy. By her arguments she has made empty the claims of the Opposition which we are debating this afternoon. 

 Senator Cavanagh offered to us some statements on Aboriginal infant mortality which are misleading and not central to the issues we are discussing. I intend to demonstrate to  Senator Cavanagh  in the arguments I shall advance the emptiness of what he has been saying. 
The ACTING  DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Senator Davidson)-  There is no point of order involved. 
I am delighted with  Senator Cavanagh  's comment. At least he was in the chamber during the latter part of this debate.  Senator Keeffe  was not. Questions have been asked this afternoon about why  Senator Bonner  is not speaking.  Senator Bonner,  who is my colleague, was invited to speak in this debate. He has been in the chamber throughout the debate. He has indicated to his colleagues that he is delighted to have those who share his point of view, who support him and who wish to be counted alongside him take his place in the debate and make their positions clear. Had  Senator Bonner  spoken I might not have been able to speak. Had  Senator Bonner  spoken,  Senator Thomas  might not be able to speak. In a debate of this kind when there are few speakers there must be an occasion when  Senator Bonner  will not himself contribute to the debate so that those who wish to be identified as his friends may do so. This is especially true following the episode on the  This Day Tonight  program which was screened last Thursday,  18  May. It is the desire of many of  Senator Bonner's  colleagues to speak publicly and express their support for him. 

 Senator Georges drew attention earlier to statements made by a Minister of the Crown in Queensland. Having watched that  This Day Tonight  program it is my view that what was said that night by the Minister from another State was disgraceful. He disgraced his country. It is a privilege now for me to rise in the Senate to delcare my support for  Senator Bonner,  for his behaviour that night and for the general stand he has taken, to express my disgust at what that Minister said last Thursday and to say that I doubt that it is appropriate for a Minister of the Crown to behave that way in public on television. 
The issue which the Opposition has put to the Senate today concerns Queensland. The issue in Queensland has not been an issue of land rights; it has been an issue of management. The threat to the communities at Aurukun and Mornington Island was a threat to their capacity to manage their own affairs. It is this Government which has responded to the need to protect for those two communities their right to manage their own affairs. Since this Government has intervened these communities have had restored to them on a firm basis a capacity to manage their own affairs more effectively than they could do before. Previously the Queensland Government could revoke by one stroke the reserve status under which the Aurukun and Mornington Island communities live. What is more, it did so. It can no longer do so. The communities at Aurukun and Mornington Island are more effectively protected now as a result of actions by our Ministers and by our Government than they were previously. 
It is interesting that our Government by entering into a process of negotiation with the Queensland Government, bypassing appropriate legislation and by standing up to the Queensland Government has moved some of the way towards a resolution of these affairs. In relation to what has gone on in Queensland, which government and which people fought for the Aborigines in these two communities? It is true that the Haydens, the Cavanaghs and the Keeffes have made a lot of noises from the sidelines for our sins. But it is safe on the sidelines. They are spectators shielded from the real action. All the action that has taken place to protect the communities of Aurukun and Mornington Island, to preserve their rights and to give them a chance to function has come from the Malcolm Frasers, the Doug Anthonys, the Peter Nixons, the Ian Viners and the Neville Bonners. It is very easy for an opposition to make noises. It is up to a government in the end to do the hard work. 
Who actually confronted in a very difficult situation the Government of Queensland on a matter on which the State and the Commonwealth disagreed? I assure Australians that it was not  Senator Keeffe.  I assure him that it was the members of the coalition Government who, by a process of very difficult negotiation, have moved to a solution which has taken those communities to a position of self-management which is better than they had previously. I do not think that  Senator Keeffe  and his colleagues would have been tough enough or able enough to carry out this function. The issues between the Commonwealth and Queensland really rest- I think it is worth setting this out- on a basic philosophical difference. The Queensland Government and its Ministers have expressed on a number of occasions in articulate fashion their belief in assimilationist policies for Aboriginal people. This Government has a different point of view. It is these two different points of view which have led to the clash. The point of view which we held was expressed- I think  Senator Guilfoyle  referred to it- in the second reading speech by the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner).  It reads: 
The Australia we, as a Government, look to is one in which there is diversity and choice, because it is in diversity that people can pursue the lives they want in ways that they determine. Securing land rights to Aborigines in the Northern Territory is a significant expression of this objective. It is an objective that will be pursued in a way consonant with the rights of other Australians. 
And so it goes. We believe in the right of maintaining separate cultural identity if that is what communities want. It is inevitable even with the best will in the world that a government with an assimilationist policy and a government with an integrationist policy will come to clash with each other from time to time because those two policies take a different  view  of what is desirable and will see different solutions to reach their objectives. 
Let me look at the question of land rights, which allegedly is what this debate is all about.  Senator Keeffe  and his colleagues would have had us believe that all merit and all credit rested with them and that only they were possessed of grace. I remind honourable senators first of all of parts of the Bonner report- the report of the Senate Select Committee on Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders presented to the Senate in 1 976. That Committee was chaired by  Senator Bonner.  It examined the environmental conditions of Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders.  Senator Keeffe  was a member of that Committee. That report, in a bipartisan fashion, sets out a number of principles on land rights, expressing views from both sides of the chamber- most of which subsequently were incorporated in legislation. Those who are interested in the report can look at pages 243 to 260 and see the principles set out. If honourable senators want to go further and ask about interest in land rights, what about the Bonner motion of 20 February 1 975 which was offered to the Australian Senate by  Senator Neville  Bonner and was passed unanimously! That motion sets out a basis for land compensation. It reads: 
That the Senate accepts the fact that the indigenous people of Australia, now known as Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders were in possession of this entire nation prior to the 1 788 First Fleet landing at Botany Bay, urges the Australian Government to admit prior ownership by the said indigenous people, and introduce legislation to compensate the people now known as Aborigines and Torres Strait Islanders for dispossession of their land. 
That is the record, and it does not stop there. Who passed the first land rights legislation? Who did not just play around, make token gestures or behave with the inefficiency that characterised Labor's term in office? Who got legislation through? It was, of course, the Fraser Government. That is where the land rights legislation came from- the Fraser Government. I remind the Senate that the Bill was introduced to permit maximum participation by the Parliament. It was introduced, allowed to lie on the table and my colleagues will recall that we were able to get some 20 to 30 amendments to the legislation to improve it before it was finally passed. I was reminded earlier this week at the very important Australian Council of Social Service conference which is going on in Sydney, when Hugh Stretton who was not exactly praising the Government let me assure honourable senators, emphasised during a speech that throughout the history of this nation the implementation and the extension of welfare legislation generally has rested more often than not with the non-socialist governments. It has not been a feature particularly of Labor Party governments. Hugh Stretton 's prime example was the great redistribution of wealth that came through home ownership in the Menzies era and it could equally be applied to matters such as land rights, an area in which this Government has. moved quickly. Our record is less noisy than that of the Labor Party. It is less flamboyant. We simply implement our programs and our policies. It is the Fraser Government which put land rights legislation into reality in the Northern Territory. It is the Fraser Government which fought for the rights of Aborigines in Queensland. In conclusion I remind honourable senators of a resolution which was passed in another Parliament and which reads: 
. we still must express our conviction that if we are ever able to make atonement to the remnant of this people, it will require no slight attention, and no ordinary sacrifices on our part to compensate the evil association which we have inflicted; but even hopelessness of making reparation for what is past would not in any way lessen our obligation to stop, as far as in us lies, the continuance of iniquity. 
As some honourable senators will know, that is a resolution concerning the Aboriginal people and it was passed by the House of Commons Select Committee on Aborigines (British Settlements) in 1 837. Perhaps we should reflect that the issues facing us today are the issues that have faced us since the beginning of settlement in this country and we at least should acknowledge the efforts of the Fraser Government which have moved us along the right road to correct some of the inequities for which our forefathers are responsible. 
-My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. I ask: What rights of appeal are available to citizens who feel aggrieved by decisions of Telecom Australia? Is there any right of appeal to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal? Can citizens seek redress through the Commonwealth Ombudsman? Are there any other avenues of appeal open to them? 
-I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Industry and Commerce. In view of the contraction of the employment base in the pharmaceutical manufacturing industry in Australia over the past several years, can the Minister assure the Senate that, as a matter of policy, the Government continues to support the presence in Australia of a viable pharmaceutical manufacturing industry or has there been acceptance of an alternative view that Australia could equally as well become a distribution point for pharmaceuticals manufactured overseas? 
-Has the attention of the Minister representing the Minister for National Development been drawn to an announcement that Japan 's Electric Power Development Co. has reached agreement in principle with four New South Wales coal companies to supply up to 40 per cent of its steaming coal requirements after 1982? Is this announcement of particular importance to the western coalfields area of New South Wales which are a major site of production of steaming coal? Is the Minister confident that the Wran Government in New South Wales will ensure the provision of the necessary infrastructure such as coal loading facilities which will allow New South Wales coal miners and communities to benefit from this new opportunity? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. Have the members of the Coordinating and Advisory Committees for Aurukun and Mornington Island which are envisaged to be established by the Queensland Local Government (Aboriginal Lands) Act been appointed? If so, who are they? Have the committees yet met? If so, with what result? 
-My question, which I direct to the Minister for Education, concerns an article and an editorial in the 
Illawarra  Mercury  on 2 June 1978 which was critical of the University of Wollongong. Can the Minister explain the circumstances surrounding claims that the University was able to spend up to $80,000 on a duck pond at the same time as it was threatening to discontinue courses because of lack of required finances? Can he assure the Senate that the excellent record, reputation and standard of the University of Wollongong in providing undergraduate teaching is not under any threat? 
by leave- I do not intend to canvass the matters raised by the Minister for Education  (Senator Carrick).  I simply make the point that one of the reasons the Senate has started slowly in some sessions is that no business has been left over from the previous session. There has been a feeling that the situation could be improved if the Senate did not necessarily attempt each session to pass all the legislation which came to it from the House of Representatives. It is worth noting that the program set down for this week does not include debate on all the Bills which have come to the Senate. The Bills before us have been divided into two categories. Some of the Bills will remain on the Notice Paper until the next session. This is a genuine attempt to improve the processes referred to by  Senator Georges.  The Bills for which we seek passage this week are certain essential Bills. Certain other desirable Bills will have to wait over to the Budget session to be dealt with by the Senate as they should be dealt with. I think it is worth putting on record that an attempt has been made to take account of the points raised by  Senator Georges  in order to improve and protect the processes of this chamber. 
-My question is directed to the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in Federal Affairs. Have events as miraculous as those which befell Saul on the road to Damascus occurred recently in New South Wales? Have the scales in fact fallen from the eyes of the Labor Premier of that State? Can the Minister outline the circumstances of  Mr Wran's  conversion to a new and more rational view of the Australian economy? 
-Has the attention of the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs been drawn to the reported remarks of the Secretary of the Wollongong Trades and Labour Council this morning that refugees coming to Australia from Vietnam are not in fact genuine refugees but include former pimps, brothel keepers and other undesirable people? Can she give the truth about this outrageous and unfair statement? 
-My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health, concerns an apparent decision on the part of the Northern Territory Division of the Department of Health to acquire an expensive piece of equipment called a computerised axial tomography scanner. I ask the Minister: How, when and by whom was the decision to purchase the CAT scanner taken? ls it a fact that Tasmania, with more than 400,000 people, has no CAT scanner while the Northern Territory Divison of the Department of Health intends 10 acquire one Ibr a population of fewer than 1 10.000 Territorian.-..' K it further a fact thai the purchase procedure ha.-, been .-.ci in process while the committee appointed to examine high cost technology, such as CAT .scanners, i.s still to report to the Minister for Health? ls it not true that the tender notice which appeared in the  Sydney Morning Herald  on 1 2 April 1978 did not disclose the fact that a CAT scanner of value probably in excess of half a million dollars was included in equipment sought for the Casuarina Hospital in Darwin? 
-Is the Minister for Education aware that  Mr Michael  Farrell, who is a student at the University of New South Wales, claims that his first semester examination results might be withheld because of unresolved arguments over his claim of conscientious objection against the payment of certain student union fees? Will the Minister undertake to investigate whether some action by the Commonwealth Government is possible to ensure that  Mr Farrell  's rights are appropriately safeguarded? 
It would be unreasonable of me not to acknowledge that the wintry weather of 
Canberra may have caused the Opposition spokesman on social security to use Medibank over recent weeks. In his absence  Senator Ryan  has been filling in for him on Bills which are not within the area for which she is normally responsible. These Bills contain many detailed provisions. The problem is perhaps not to range across every provision at this stage of the debate but to try to seek some unifying theme. I listened to what the honourable senator had to say and wondered what the unifying theme was. It seemed to me to be that there should be more of everything at all times, irrespective of the cost and irrespective of the result. 
-My colleague says: 'And no responsibility'. I had not gone that far. This country is facing some real problems in the financing of health costs. Perhaps what we need to do is to examine some of these problems to see what we can achieve. The honourable senator raised a few points. I remind her that deductibles, which she dismissed out of hand, can at least give the hope not just of cost transfer but of real cost reduction. That result is something we should be seeking and encouraging. Deductibles will provide some kind of flexibility. We want to encourage flexibility and choice not just cost transfer between sectors. 
In the same way I would have hoped that when discussing bulk billing the honourable senator would have acknowledged both its good and bad features. It does have good features, such as convenience. As the honourable senator said it has some efficiency associated with it. However, it increases the possibility of fraud in the hands of the unscrupulous. It is interesting to note that some organisations, which appear to have medical officers working in certain clinics funded by the Commonwealth, are also bulk billing their patients. The money from the bulk billing goes to these organisations. We receive complaints that if bulk billing is removed they will lose this extra money to which they were never entitled in the first place. There is no doubt that some doctors who have been picked up and charged with fraud have been using assignment of benefits or bulk billing as one of the ways in which they have sought to defraud the Treasury,  Senator Ryan  as a taxpayer and every other Australian taxpayer. I am simply saying that there are two sides to this and to every other story. 
The honourable senator somehow brought the subject of health centres into her speech. I am delighted that she did that. Health centres were a good initiative of the McMahon Government. 
The first one started in 1972 while we were in office, and I am glad that the Labor Government during its brief period in office had the sense to continue that program. Let us examine whether a real cost problem exists. If one does exist then it is up to this Government, or any alternative government, to tell the Australian people what it will do to control and to contain those costs. I remind the Senate that total health costs or government outlays for health- one can look at either one- have gone up. Commonwealth Government outlays on health have gone up from a little more than $2 ,000m in 1972 to more than $6,250m in 1978. That is an enormous increase. It is a major increase in real terms, not just in dollar terms. The cost per person during this period has risen from $104, 1 1 years ago, to $447 in the financial year 1 976-77. These kinds of increases far outstrip the movement of other economic indicators. If we examine the share of our gross domestic product and if we examine the percentage of Commonwealth Government expenditure in each of these areas, we find that health has continued to take more and more of our resources as each year goes by. There is no doubt that any prudent government will examine whether these health costs are all of them justified or all of them efficient and, if there is a problem, it will at least face the problem. 
It is not only the Government that has become aware that there is a problem in the area of health costs. Honourable senators will have noticed, for example, in some of the national newspapers that health costs are now acknowledged to be a problem for us all. In March of this year the Adelaide  Advertiser  devoted an editorial to health service costs, set out some of the problems, and said among other things: 
The individual, the health funds and the Treasury can stand just so much and the consensus is that a quadrupling of expenditure in 7 years or so is enough. 
I think that that is a fair statement of the kinds of problems that we face. I am not suggesting that that leads us to any particular solution, but there are real problems in the area of health costs and in the extent of those health costs. If we are looking for other sources which would tell us what has happened in the amount of our resource going into health- perhaps the second question to ask is what we receive for it- we could look to Professor Kenneth Cox from the Centre of Medical Education at the University of New South Wales, a very eminent medical educator, who said in a very fair article entitled 'Who owns the problem of health cost care ': 
No government can ignore a health care bill exceeding S5.4 billion. Nor can it be unaware that the medical profession is not constrained in providing services to a public with a virtually unlimited capacity to utilise medical services. 
I think my colleague in the Senate,  Senator Georges,  would acknowledge that that is a fair statement. It gives us one view of the problem. Professor Cox went on to refer to other countries, and said: 
Last year the Blue Cross and Blue Shield plans in the USA collectively lost over $600m, and their combined reserves fell by a third. In Australia the attempt to provide all services for all the population concentrates spending and control, progressively with central Government. 
That is true. He went on in his article in another place to say: 
The Director-General of the World Health Organisation has stated that half the health care expenditure in the Western world is directed to people who will die within the next 1 2 months. 
I do not suggest from that quotation that one stops directing care and resource to people, but we have to be aware that there is a real problem in the health cost area and a need for governments to respond appropriately. This problem requires control, and that control must be a reduction of expenditure of some kind- a reduction of total expenditure, not just intersec.toral transfer. This Government is addressing itself to the question how we can move to reduce total expenditure in the health care area. The Government has a responsibility to place a ceiling on the amount of public expenditure devoted to health care. Already the Government has moved to contain some health costs. For example, the Government has' moved effectively in respect of the pathology problem we had a year ago. However, concern still exists over certain uncontrolled elements of cost increases. I believe that the public is probably ready to accept a greater limitation on the availability of health services imposed by financial constraints. I am saying that to reduce costs we will probably have to reduce our personal utilisation of health services. 
Let us go a bit further. There is evidence of declining marginal return as medical technology develops. For each extra dollar spent, we are getting less in the way of extra benefit for ourselves, our families and our friends. The more extensive and sophisticated health services and techniques have become, the less we have got back in terms of living longer, feeling better or being more healthy. So in the end the Government will have to impose more effective controls over total public health expenditure and particularly over some of the high cost areas that seem to be yielding little in the way of health returns. Today I asked a question in the Senate about one particular form of high cost technology which, apparently, a Government department intends to introduce into its services, even while a Government committee is working on a report in this area. 
Some gallup polls have been conducted into what the public thinks about health costs. It is interesting to note that 75 per cent of Australians support the idea of keeping the national health bill down by offering incentives to doctors and hospitals to keep their costs down. Sixty five per cent of the people surveyed favoured the introduction of no claim bonuses. That is interesting because it is one of the flexible possibilities which we might look at in the future. 
Let us ask what these Bills attempt to do. They attempt to cover a whole range of areas. They attempt to tidy up certain practices.  Senator Ryan  has referred to the option of preventing a crook, such as  Mr Milan  Brych, from receiving rebates to which he is not entitled. Anyone who saw tonight's  This Day Tonight  program will have been sickened by the evidence of yet another tragic case where someone who apparently went to Rarotonga was given inadequate treatment. In that case blank referral forms allegedly had been signed by an Australian doctor and left with  Mr Brych  in Rarotonga where the name of the patient was filled in. There are tidying up provisions in these Bills. 
-The Opposition is not opposed to that. The Bills have a number of other purposes.  Senator Ryan  has referred to some of them. I shall dwell for a moment on one matter to which the honourable senator did not direct attention and that is the Hospitals and Health Services Commission. 
It is worth spending a couple of moments on this subject. I believe I have the support of the Opposition in paying a brief tribute to the Hospitals and Health Services Commission, its officers and the work that it has done over the last few years. Perhaps more than any other body of its kind, it has set out to identify for us the shape of our problems in the health provision, health manpower and health cost areas. Its officers have contributed in a very major way, I think, to the understanding in this country of what our problems are and where some of the solutions might lie. I think it would be unfair not to pay tribute to  Dr Sidney  Sax for the work that he has done as  chairman  of the Commission, to  Mr Paul  Gross, the  deputy  commissioner, and to the other commissioners for the way in which they have made this Commission almost a model when compared with the work of other commissions of this kind. The Commission has been taken over by the newly formed policy secretariat. I am delighted to see that  Dr Sax  will be involved in that secretariat. 
In other provisions in these Bills, the Government has set out to try to make a start- nothing more than that- in providing some rational control over health care costs. It was notable from the speech of the honourable senator who spoke for the Opposition that not one suggestion was offered as to how we could control, limit or contain our total health care outlays. Until members of the Opposition join us in that debate, their speeches are not relevant to the problems of health care costs in Australia today. These Bills, with their various divisions which have been set out by the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  in another place and discussed by  Senator Ryan,  will help us to achieve some of these improvements. 
It is worth mentioning just one of the provisions. A provision in the Health Insurance Amendment Bill will allow for the option of deductibles from health insurance, if it is so desired. I say to the Opposition that comparisons between Medibank and the private health funds are largely invalid. It appears that the populations using the two kinds of health insurance are not comparable in terms of their sickness experience. I am not saying why that should be so. But it appears we already have two dissimilar groups. It appears that the sickness experience of those using Medibank is less than the sickness experience of those using some of the private funds. 
I am talking about the people who have elected to go to Medibank. For the information of the honourable senator, a significant number of young people have joined Medibank by default. These people have an excellent health experience because of the fact that they are young and this fact tends to keep down the total cost of Medibank. This is neither good nor bad. It simply means that some of the comparisons that have been made are not entirely valid. Under a system of deductibles a fund will have the option if it so wishes of rewarding good health behaviour. It is entirely possible that a fund could offer better insurance rates under a deductible system. Perhaps the Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Wriedt)  would qualify for such a scheme if he did not smoke, followed other prescribed habits, maintained his weight at a certain level and took exercise. In this country it appears that most of our remaining major health problems are related to lifestyle diseases. They are related to the way people live, to the drugs they take and to the exercise that they do not take. If, in fact, we can get people, by joining one of these funds, either to bear the first part of their expenses or to modify their lifestyles in some appropriate way, I see this as entirely desirable. 
A deductibles scheme would provide us with the opportunity to move away from community rating for the first time. It would be the first time that we have got away from making everyone carry the same insurance risk. If we are ever to get some incentive into the health insurance system it is essential that community rating be done away with and that experience rating or individual rating be adopted. I welcome the opportunity to do so. We have not yet seen any deductible scheme offered by health funds. When we see the schemes that might be the time to criticise them. 
There are some problems remaining which the Government is continuing to approach. The first is that we do not have the kind of data base that we require or want to enable us to make definitive plans. 
-That is right, senator. So the Government has been very careful not to make any major structural alterations to Medibank. We have introduced provisions in this legislation for the collection of further data; both in the hospital area and the medical services area. The honourable senator who preceded me in the debate drew attention to the fact that we will now even be able to find out what it costs to run the Canberra hospitals. That information was carefully kept from us a couple of years ago when we are told during the proceedings of an Estimates committee that we could not get information on daily bed costs.  Dr Sax  provided daily bed costs for every hospital in Australia in his discussion paper but we were not allowed to have the figures for Canberra. Maybe that information will be provided in the future. 
The Government needs more information and has set out to obtain it. We want to know how governments can best ensure value for money in health dollars spent and that is what we are talking about. I hope that the provisions of this Bill, the extra data that the Government has been seeking to generate and the extra information that is being sought from health funds can be used to give the Government all the information it wants to know about the health experience of our community and the experience of our various health funds. 
These Bills provide some new administrative arrangements. They confer new benefits, up to S7m in one area; they provide new options to end obligatory community rating; they provide some redistribution of costs between sectors; and, we hope, they place some limitation on total costs. But they take account of some  economic  facts which the Opposition never mentions: Firstly, that resources are finite and we cannot spend more than we have available; secondly, that resources have alternative uses which need not necessarily be spent in the health area; and, thirdly, that people have different value systems and different ideas as to how the resources can best be used. We do not think that one can suggest, provide or support a market model in health. We do not believe that a simple market model will work because consumers do not make enough of the decisions. I simply place on record my agreement with the principle that doctors, whether in the personal medical service area or in hospitals, make a major contribution to the cost of health in this country and that providers have to be involved if we are ever to get complete control of health costs.  Senator Georges  made this point to me earlier and I acknowledge it. But we are trying, through the provision of new pathology arrangements, new billing arrangements and new cost sharing arrangements, to get an involvement by the medical profession and the hospital administration. I believe that these Bills provide a rational start on what we hope will be a continuing process of cost containment while maintaining social equity in the area of health care. 
Membership of the Whips union is something people cannot relinguish. Apart from the incumbents I believe that we have a number of ex- Whips sitting around the chamber. They include  Senator O  'Byrne,  Senator Withers, Senator Young, Senator Chaney  and two of the senators who are retiring have been Government Whips in their time. One of them of course is  Senator the  honourable  Sir Reginald  Wright. He was Government Whip and has been one of the models to whom I have turned. The other was an honourable senator from New South Wales, a particular friend of  Senator Carrick, Senator Scott  and me. I refer to  Senator the  Honourable  Sir Robert  Cotton. It was  Sir Robert  Cotton who helped to cement and to establish between the coalition parties the very good relationships which are so characteristic of the State of New South Wales. He might also have got to the Lower House had it not been for  Mr Chifley,  whom he tried to unseat in the Macquarie electorate on at least two occasions. 

 Sir Robert Cotton has been proud of a number of his records.  Senator Withers  has set out most of the facts, but there is one matter to which he did not refer. In fact,  Senator Sir Robert  Cotton was the first candidate in any election in this country to be returned with a million votes. It is interesting that it is a record of which he often tells people he is the first voting millionaire. But he does not even know how good is his record. In fact six times in the history of this country people have had a million votes. It has always occurred in New South Wales. One of the honourable senators on the other side of the chamber,  Senator Mulvihill,  had more than a million votes, but  Sir Robert  Cotton with almost one and a quarter million votes has had more votes in a single election than has any other candidate in this country. He is the only person to have had more than one million votes on two occasions. He is also the first to have done so. He is going to be very much missed by his colleagues in New South Wales. I am reminded that in 1 802, early in the industrial revolution, a book entitled  Cotton is King  was written. That title expresses a view we still hold in New South Wales. 
by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the paper. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
I take this, the first opportunity that has been available to me, to congratulate you,  Mr Chairman,  on your election as  Chairman  of Committees. I draw to the attention of the Committee that when dealing with Standing Orders Committee reports we on the Government side of the chamber do not have a Whip; we have a free vote on any matter that arises. I recall on the last occasion when we debated a 
Standing Orders Committee report the interesting sight of myself and  Senator Georges,  the two Whips, being on one side of the chamber during the vote and our two leaders voting against us on the other side. 
-We carried the day, of course. I am interested in the matter that is being discussed here. I acknowledge the remarks which  Senator Wriedt  has made. When a minority group comes into the Senate it has an entitlement, perhaps in relation to its numbers, to representation on appropriate committees. As a member of the Standing Orders Committee, I agree that the Standing Order as it now exists is defective in that if a senator is not an independent, not a member of the Government and not a member of the Opposition no mechanism exists for him to gain a place on committees. The proposed new Standing Order will remedy that situation, but it will not in any way guarantee any rights of minority senators to sit on committees. The Standing Order, even with the addition of the words proposed by the amendment, still requires that appropriate negotiations should take place; that some agreement should be reached; and that in the event of disagreement the matter should come back to the floor of the Senate for determination. That has always been the case and would continue to be the case. The amendment would merely allow members of a minority group, as it were, to enter the arena; it would in no way guarantee any particular result for them. 
I ask the Attorney-General whether he is aware of concern in regard to the confused legal status of children born following the process of artificial insemination by donor? Have representations on this subject been made to the Government by the Federal Council of the Australian Medical Association? Will the Government encourage investigations into this matter if it does not already have a policy position on the legal status of these children? Finally, does the Government believe that this matter might usefully be referred to the Law Reform Commission? 
There is no need to canvass again the arguments advanced by  Senator Rae.  However, some aspects of this arrangement could give rise to concern. The  President  has advised us that he has tried to make arrangements for research staff to be provided. Those negotiations, as I understand it, are not yet completed. Until they are completed we cannot be quite certain what the end result will be. We can hope that the Public Service Board will agree to the staff ceilings we want and to the levels of staffing we want. 
However, I draw to the attention of the Committee some problems which I think could face us.  Senator Keeffe  knows that every Estimates committee meets in public and that the Press is able to be present and able to report its findings. Of course, if there are research officers they will be research officers to the committee. These committees are bipartisan committees. They are not committees of any party; they are committees of the Parliament. They are not the only committees of the Parliament which have staffing and whose staffing is important. 
I see my colleague  Senator Grimes  opposite. We serve on a legislative and general purpose standing committee which, I think, has a very important function of its own.  Mr President  is working towards a situation in which staff will be made available to the Estimates committees. Under that arrangement staff will not be required to be withdrawn from the legislative and general purpose standing committees. Let us acknowledge that that is what we are aiming towards. The situation would be one in which we would have a staffing stream for the Estimates committees. Perhaps the numbers would be different for different committees and particular levels would be required within the Public Service structure. Particular skills would be sought because I submit that the skills required of research officers for the Estimates committees may not be the same skills we are seeking or require for the legislative and general purpose standing committees. 
I listened to  Senator Keeffe.  I welcome his interjection, and even though he is not in his proper place that is all right. I come back to the question of the legislative and general purpose standing committees. The one on which  Senator Grimes  and I serve has a very heavy program of work on references given to it by the Senate. Those references, some of which have been given quite recently, require a considerable expenditure of effort, time and planning and a considerable amount of programming. The research officers who are servicing that committee are heavily involved in the work we are doing. The work of those legislative and general purpose standing committees could be seriously interfered with if in the provision of staff for Estimates committees it ever became necessary as a regular occurrence for that staff to be withdrawn. The program we have for the next few months will be carried out during the period when the Estimates are being examined. We have a heavy program of report writing and research which is actively being conducted. 
The transitional arrangements which may be necessary may require that some of the research officers of the secretariat, as a once only proposal, have to move over to help the Estimates committees. That might be acceptable, provided we know we can work towards the development of a particular professional stream and that we can anticipate what will happen from within the Public Service, which may or may not have a particular view of Estimates committees and which may or may not have a view that it wishes to promote their development. I would like to be certain that it will not in any way seek to inhibit the provision of the kind of staff that we want, because it would be highly unsatisfactory if on our legislative and general purpose standing committees there was, as any kind of regular occurrence, a movement of staff backwards and forwards to Estimates committees. 

 Mr President has indicated, and I think everyone agrees, that that is not the intention. However, I wish to place on record my concern lest our program or our plans be thwarted in any way. I do not believe it would be in the best interests of standing committees, which are bipartisan committees of the Parliament and which are doing a job which is enhancing the reputation of the Senate, if that were made any more difficult or if it were diminished because we could not get the staff allocation we wanted at appropriate levels. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Transport: Did AUS Student Travel withdraw a brochure which it issued recently in conjunction with Qantas Airways Ltd? Was this brochure withdrawn on the instructions of the Department of Transport because it breached a departmental direction of February 1978? What were the breaches of regulations or departmental directions contained in the brochure? 
-My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. What progress has been made in examining any legal constraints in the Australian Capital Territory which may limit the availability of kidneys and other organs for transplantation? Has any action been taken towards the development of any new systems, such as a contracting out system, or has any move been made to include a space on drivers' licences where people may indicate whether they would be happy for certain organs to be used for human transplantation procedures? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. What is the bed /population ratio for hospitals in Australia recommended in the recent Sax report entitled  A Discussion Paper on Paying for Health Care  and what is the ratio at which the Department of Health is aiming for Australia? I ask the Minister also: When the new Calvary Hospital opens in Canberra, what will be the bed /population ratio for the Australian Capital Territory? Finally, with the opening of the Casuarina Hospital in the Northern Territory, what will be the bed/population ratio in that Territory? 
-by leave-On 31 May 1978 the Standing Committee on Social Welfare received from the Senate the following reference: 
The management and financial affairs of the Ralkon Agricultural Company Proprietary Limited, Narrung, South Australia. 
I wish to inform the Senate briefly of the action taken by the Committee on this reference, which, I am bound to say, has caused the Committee some concern, for it raises as a particular issue the responsibility imposed on legislative and general purpose standing committees by the Senate's current practice of adopting, without debate, proposals to refer matters to them. This procedure, in effect, throws on the committee receiving a reference the primary responsibility for determining whether or not an inquiry would be appropriate. Most committees have limited time to allocate to the screening of references given without consideration and debate in the Senate itself. The Committee members are inclined to the view that in future they may use the appropriate forms of the Senate to ensure that there is a debate on any proposal for a reference to the Standing Committee on Social Welfare. 
I turn now to the subject-matter of the reference. The Ralkon Co. is an Aboriginal farming enterprise incorporated on 2 October 1975 under the South Australian Companies Act by the Point McLeay Community Council Inc. to farm at Point McLeay two South Australian Aboriginal lands trust blocks and one farm acquired by the Aboriginal Land Fund Commission. After receiving substantial funding, totalling approximately $466,000, the company came into dispute with the Commonwealth Department of Aboriginal Affairs and further funding has been refused. 
As a preliminary to any possible inquiry, the Committee obtained brief statements on the history of the company and the background to the dispute from  Senator McLaren,  as sponsor of the reference, from the company and from the Department. On our reading of this information, we were doubtful whether a committee inquiry would be appropriate and believed that a more judicial kind of examination would be desirable. We therefore canvassed other possibilities and came to the conclusion that the Commonwealth Ombudsman might have jurisdiction. 
On 8 June we informed the company of our view that recourse to the Ombudsman could be appropriate and might be available. At that time, the company's response was negative. After receiving and considering all the preliminary information that had been sought, the Committee, on 2 1 July, directly advised the company to ask the Commonwealth Ombudsman to examine the matter. The company has now done so and at the Ombudsman's request we have supplied him with the material in our possession to assist him in making a final decision on the question of his jurisdiction. The Committee has resolved that it will await the outcome of the approach to the Commonwealth Ombudsman and take no further action in the meantime. 
-I move: 
That the Senate take note of the Report of the Standing Committee on Social Welfare on Drug Problems in Australia, presented to the Senate on 25 October 1 977. 

 Mr President, before I speak to this motion I take this, the first opportunity I have had, to congratulate you on your re-election to the high office of  President,  to say what a pleasure it has been working with you and to wish you every success in this parliamentary term. I have already congratulated my colleague  Senator Scott,  but I also take this opportunity to congratulate  Senator Tate  and  Senator Evans  on the maiden speeches which they have delivered in this place already and to say to my colleague,  Senator Evans,  that if his maiden speech lacked at all in its observance of all of the conventions relating to maiden speeches, I am sure it more than made up for this in its elegance and erudition. All honourable senators look forward to hearing a lot more from the honourable senator. 
I am delighted that  Senator Button  has interjected. I want to say what a pleasure it was to help him with some of the procedures earlier today when he attempted to intervene in some business this afternoon. 
-Thank you, senator. In the Sydney  Daily Mirror  of 22 August there appeared a feature article on drug use. The article was entitled 'Should pot be legalised? Viewpoint'. On that page the journalists attempted, by way of interviews with a number of citizens and by way of advancing their own opinions, to address themselves to some of the issues related to drug use and the laws which limit and confine drug use in this country. What came out of the article was not so much the specific matters which were raised but a clear indication that the journalists do not understand all the issues and do not have a clear idea of what is involved in facing up to drug use problems in this country. The point that emerged indelibly is that there are issues, that people are worried and frightened of drug use of various kinds, that many people feel threatened and that many people feel not only concern and fear but desperation and some challenge to values which they have held. It is that kind of issue which is of relevance to the report of the  Senator Standing  Committee which is being discussed at the moment. 
I doubt whether it would be of great value to the Senate if I traverse in detail again the contents of this report. When the report was introduced last October we outlined in quite adequate detail the contents of the report. We went over some of the issues involved, and I am very grateful to the Senate for the standard of debate that followed. As I recall, when the report was presented there was a spontaneous debate which lasted several hours. Some of my colleagues, not members of the Senate Standing Committee on Social Welfare, contributed to the debate. I remember  Senator Wheeldon  and  Senator Georges  making contributions. It is not really useful to traverse all that ground again. I am grateful also to my colleague  Senator Walters  who in her speech on the Budget Papers last night brought to the attention of the Senate, for those who may have forgotten them, some of the main recommendations contained in the report of the Committee. 
The kinds of issues which several senators thought worthy of attention and emphasis in the Australian community include the following matters. Firstly, there is the issue of whether the use of all substances, legal or illegal, should be reduced. That is one issue, It really does not matter whether we are talking about salicylates or whether we are talking about opium. The issue is whether the level of substances used should be reduced. It is an issue which is important in this society. Secondly, there is the issue of whether senators, indeed all Australians, should perceive legal drugs as drugs and not as something different so that, in fact, there is no difference in terms of one's perception of the drug problem between alcohol, which I have enjoyed this evening and which I will continue to enjoy, and marihuana. If one is talking about what is a drug and what is not- one might want to treat them differently or regard them differently- one should remember that all drugs are capable of abuse, and that must be understood if we are to take a proper approach to the issues which drug use presents to this community. 
The third issue which can be seen perhaps in a growth context or an economic context is whether senators will accept the need- I quote from the report- 'as an important national goal to reduce our levels of consumption of alcohol and tobacco'. These are the drugs most seriously abused in Australia and the ones which cause the greatest personal and social damage and the greatest economic cost. That is to say, there is an issue in this society as to whether a continuing growth model is appropriate or supportable in a social sense for us as a society. It is an issue on which there may be different points of view; it is an issue nevertheless. A fourth issue might be the requirement for a national strategy to control general issues of drug use in Australia. 
I think all honourable senators will appreciate that it is not always edifying or helpful if Senate committees or the members of Senate committees continually come before the Senate obsessed by their own reports, their own words or their own ideas and try to present these again and again for the attention of their colleagues. That is not very helpful. It is neither appropriate nor desirable to ignore the responses which documents tabled in the Senate might produce in the general community. If those responses are significant they might tell us something about the work we are doing on committees and the way in which we should proceed. 
Criticism of Senate reports is important, and tonight I intend to identify some of the quite legitimate critical comments which this report from the Senate Standing Committee on Social Welfare has drawn. I also intend to outline some of the favourable comment which has emerged. Again, it is important for us to get some idea some lead on whether the approach we are taking to the work of committees is seen as having some value in the wider community. I think it is important for all senators to make a judgment as to whether any committee- in this case the committee whose report we are discussing- has been proceeding in an appropriate way. 
The most recent response and one which I am grateful to see appeared in the  Medical Journal  of Australia dated 29 August. I guess it must be a pre-publication issue. It is this weekend 's issue of the  Medical Journal  of Australia, and it has a leading article a full page statement entitlement Drug Problems in Australia- An Intoxicated Society'. Clearly, in the way we doctors have we have stumbled along rather behind the game but eventually as a profession have discovered this report, and the  Medical Journal  of Australia has given it some kind of comment. I think it is now 10 months since the report was produced. 
-Thank you.  Senator Button  anticipates some of the comment that I want to make. But I take the most recent comment from this week's  Medical Journal of Australia.  Generally it is really quite a detailed critique of what the Senate Committee had done. It presents to the medical profession through its journal considerable detail and. in talking about the Senate Standing Committee, it makes the following comment:   . . have undertaken the task of reviewing the Australian scene in relation to alcohol, tobacco, analgesics and cannabis as well as more recognised drugs of addiction. They have amassed a large body of important data from their hearings and fully justify a somewhat dramatic title of their report, which does achieve a good deal of what it claimsthat is, to state the problems of excessive drug use, to highlight the harmful effects caused by improper use and to set a standard and reference point for further debate. 
Indeed, if my professional colleagues can make that judgment of the report, I am well satisfied. But there has been wider report, and I am indebted to  Senator Button  for referring to some of it. Probably the wider comment that is most interesting comes from the British journal, the  Lancet.  Many people have heard of the  Lancet;  it is a very widely read medical journal. In January this year it stated: 
This report brings a refreshing touch of realism, honesty and objectivity to the whole issue of drug abuse. 
It went on to say that the report is to date the most comprehensive survey carried out in Australia on the abuse of both licit and illicit drugs. I mention those favourable comments only because, on the other hand, the report has attracted from a number of concerned groups comment of a quite different kind. For example,  Mr C.  R. MacDonald of the Australia Media Council- I think he was talking in relation to our recommendations on advertising- stated: 
Voluntary agency codes would serve the public interest better than further Government bans. 

 Mr David Jack, a sporting commentator with the Sydney  Sun,  stated: 
Australian sport will be dealt a death blow if it loses financial support from tobacco. 
He made those comments in relation to recommendations made in this report which sought to limit the association between tobacco promotion and sporting activity in Australia. If he is right that is a disgraceful situation in which we find ourselves, and if he is wrong the sooner we determine that fact the better. The Minister for Sport and Recreation in mv State commented on the furore about advertising and the promotion of sport by tobacco companies. He stated: 
I do not consider it my prerogative to interfere in the way that sport is administered in NSW. 
I comment on that contribution from the New South Wales Minister only to the extent of noting that it is really an abdication of social responsibility to make that kind of comment in the face of the vast body of evidence, which would indicate that it is the duty of every Minister of a responsible government to act on public health information as firm as that which we have in relation to smoking. But critical comment did not end there. In the December 1977 issue of the  Hotel and Caterer,  which is an industry journal, there was extensive comment under the heading 'Blueprint for the Destruction of the Industry'. Under that heading the report of the Senate Standing Committee was discussed. Blueprint for the destruction of the industry indeed! Apparently that journal was alarmed by recommendation No. 38 contained in the report. This recommendation merely asked the Commonwealth Government to develop and announce a specific policy on alcohol and alcohol abuse, to include a clear statement of the Government 's intention to bring about an overall reduction in consumption. That is very different from advocating the destruction of the industry. 
It brings me back to one of the basic issues which I suggested exists, that it, whether we consider alcohol as a legitimate growth industry in view of the kind of evidence which is emerging of the effects which it is having as a health and social hazard and as the major drug which creates problems in this country. Some other interesting comments were made when this report first appeared. One of the most interesting editorials appeared in the Melbourne  Age.  I thought it put its position in perspective by observing as follows: 
Here we must declare self-interest. The issue of the  Age  which contained the Standing Committee's findings carried advertisements for both alcohol and cigarettes. 
At least that is a more balanced and honest appraisal than has come from some people. The editorial went on to express a preference for voluntary codes of control in terms of advertising, which is the issue that concerned the newspaper, rather than for any advertising ban, which we had recommended and which I continue to recommend. 
It is worth mentioning to the Senate that this report produced last October is already being used as a textbook in medical schools in this country, chapters from the report have been reprinted in the United States and Canada and have been widely distributed to members of the medical profession and other people who are likely to use it, and organisations concerned with the control of drugs and abuse have turned to this document in exactly the way that we hoped they would- to regard it as a flag driven into the ground, as the statement of a clear policy about which they can rally if they happen to agree with the propositions which we have advanced. 
Perhaps as a result of this report being published, perhaps with the natural interest with regard to drug use problems, generally in Australia, extra information has continued to pour in to the Committee since last October relevant to the kinds of problems to which we addressed ourselves- problems related to alcohol, tobacco, analgesics, canabis and general matters of drug use policy. 
For example, honourable senators will probably already be aware of the extra information emerging about the extent of adolescent alcohol use. It is of great importance to this country if the very young are developing unhealthy drinking habits in their early teens, at the ages of 12, 13 and 14 years. The kinds of surveys which have been carried out show that there is a changing pattern of drinking by young Australians. 
Since we published this document we have received new evidence. For example, in 1973, 76 per cent of 14 to 16 years olds, were drinking perhaps once a week or more; now 85 per cent are doing so. There is a marked increase in the percentage of that cohort of Australians who are drinking. Forty-three per cent of male school children were drinking once or more a week in 1973; 51 per cent did so in 1977. Through all these surveys a pattern is emerging showing that, the level- whether it is too low, right or too high does not matter- is rising. A question that I would ask honourable senators is: How high should it go before we decided that we have an obligation to do something? 
I am grateful to  Senator Mcintosh.  Whilst I am perfectly happy during the Budget debate to look at the budgetary aspects of excise measures, I draw to the honourable senator's attention the fact that the Budget moves on excise are directly in line with the kind of propositions advanced in this report. Honourable senators might argue with some of the details or the levels or the quantities but we have advanced here as a desirable social policy the use of the excise to try to control the level of consumption of this particular drug of abuse in Australia. Further, the question of drinking among Aboriginal Australians has continued to have prominence. I served on a Senate Select Committee which reported on some of the problems we met and I am sure that other honourable senators have read the report of the House of Representatives Select Committee on some of these problems. Here is an issue about the abuse of alcohol with which we as Australians have just not come to grips. If it is true, as I read, that at Aurukun and Mornington Island the Queensland Government intended to establish wet canteens against the wishes of the local community, that concerns me in terms of the issues we have raised in this report and in which we are interested. 
Honourable senators may recall also that in the United Kingdom the Alcohol Education Centre and the Medical Research Council did a survey about the relative risks from alcoholrelated diseases. I am sure Opposition senators will be pleased to know that company directors in Britain were found to have 22 times the average mortality rate from cirrhosis of the liver, and of course that disease is largely alcohol related. 
-Too many scotches, you think? Hoteliers and publicans rated next with about eight times the national average, but company directors were 22 times the national average. I must say that I cannot identify from that survey whether members of the various legislatures were included in the surveys carried out. Other evidence about alcohol has emerged and it is worth offering to the Senate.  Dr Chegwidden  of the New South Wales Health Commission has estimated that in 1 974 alcoholism ranked third as the largest cause of death in Australia behind heart disease and cancer. If some exotic infection ranked third it would be seen as a national disgrace if we were not doing something about it. If there was some preventable cause of childhood mortality that ranked third in all cases of death we would be expected to be involved. But we know that alcoholism ranks third and we also know that denial of the problem- denial in terms of individual sufferers and denial in terms of an adequate response- is what we have in Australia today.  Dr Chegwidden  went further and estimated that in 10 years time, if the average consumption of alcohol went up at the rates which we outline in this report, alcohol would probably be the main single cause of death in this country. I do not know whether he is right, but the prediction is frightening and should be taken very seriously. 
The cost to the national economy in terms of loss of work, wages and production probably ranges between $500m and $ 1,000m. It is big business. Nevertheless, I would not want anyone to think that I do not recognise the potential for employment and development of the wine industry and many parts of the alcohol producing industry. I emphasise that I am not aware that any member of the Senate Standing Committee was ever in favour of prohibition of these drugs. In fact, we have not talked about prohibition as a general strategy at all, and I think I speak for my colleagues on the Committee when I say that I still would not see a prohibition policy in relation to illegal drugs as being rational or achievable or desirable. 
Let me say a few words about healthy drinking. I report in an anecdotal sense that I had the opportunity to visit the Hunter Drug Advisory Service in the Newcastle area run by the Health Commission of New South Wales. Excellent work is being done there by  Dr O'Neill,  who has produced an extremely good anti-smoking sticker, which I had on my suitcase for a year, stating: 'Kiss a non-smoker- taste the difference'. It is a very good sticker that has been widely accepted around the country and presents a positive health message. In relation to healthy drinking, the Service has started an intervention program and is able to report that some of the employers are finding measurable improvements in attendance at work, a decrease in absenteeism, among certain groups who have been identified as being at risk. To that extent some of the intervention programs look promising and are adverted to in the report. They appear to be working to some extent. 
I want to go over a few of the new points which have emerged in relation to cigarette smoking because they will give greater emphasis to some of the points we made and a rounding of some of our concerns. Firstly, there is no doubt from the survey figures available that younger and younger children are being recruited into tobacco use, and we know that tobacco is an addictive drug. It is addictive in the same way as any other drug of addiction and the reason people do not stop smoking easily is that the drug is addictive. Figures are available to show that while average smoking levels in the Australian population are dropping, smoking is increasing among young adolescents and women. In 1975-76 estimated total deaths due to smoking and smoking-induced diseases were between 10 per cent and 1 5 per cent of all deaths in 
Australia; that is, between one-tenth and onesixth of all deaths in Australia were smokingrelated. The economic cost to Australia in the same year was estimated at somewhere between $600m and S800m. 
In relation to the use of tobacco in sporting promotions and the use of tobacco by sportsmen, I refer honourable senators to the  Four Corners  program of 18 June last when it was estimated that the leading tobacco  companies  in this country are investing something of the order of $6m per annum in sport and sport promotion. I again remind honourable senators of the newspaper comment I quoted earlier in which a journalist said: 
Australian sport will be dealt a death blow if it loses financial support from tobacco. 
I simply submit to the Senate that this is an intolerable situation. If we have developed a circumstance where it is necessary for organised sport in this country to depend upon the promotion of an addictive drug which we know is one of the major causes of all excess mortality and morbidity in the country we should at least be aware of it and be prepared to do something about it. The tobacco companies appear very expertly to be trying to circumvent the ban on television advertising by using fixed advertising at some of the sporting arenas. Further, the advertising is carefully placed in relation to the cameras. Any honourable senator who enjoyed watching the Amco Cup final at Leichhardt Oval in Sydney will know that the tobacco advertising was to be found on three sides of the ground only. The fourth side of the ground, of course, was the point from which the television cameras provided the main coverage and no tobacco advertising was placed there. Research was carried out by a group from the Sydney Teachers College who found that, in the Amco Cup final in 1977, the amount of time in that final which tobacco advertising appeared on the screen, not just for an instant and not just as subliminal advertising but for a significant time, represented about 20 per cent of the total viewing time for the game. I repeat: Abour 20 per cent of the time of the telecast tobacco advertising was telecast. 
The interest of tobacco companies in sporting sponsorship must be set against the fact that very few sportsmen smoke. If the latest survey shows that about 40 per cent to 45 per cent of the Australian population now smokes cigarettes, only two per cent of top sportsmen who were surveyed are smokers themselves. It seems incredible that sportsmen should feel so strongly about access to tobacco money for the provision of material resources which they require for their activities. 
Further, it has become apparent that people genuinely are concerned about the addictive nature of the habit. Granada Television in the United Kingdom, as a community service, offered some anti-smoking kits. It really did not know what kind of response it would get. It thought that perhaps it would get 5,000 responses. Granada Television received 600,000 requests for the anti-smoking kits when it made the offer to the British community. I repeat: 600,000 requests. 
I would like to say a few words about cannabis and what has happened on the cannabis front since this report appeared.  Senator Grimes,  former  Senator Brown  and I took a view that the correct way of providing a legal framework for the control of cannabis was to maintain prohibition, but to substitute a civil penalty for the present criminal penalty. Not all our colleagues were in agreement. But I think honourable senators would agree that in the 10 months that have elapsed since this report came down, since the discussion paper has appeared from the South Australian Royal Commission- and I must say a discussion paper of a quality rare in public documents in this country- since the evidence has been coming forward in some of the royal commissions and since people of substance in society have started putting forward views, we on the Senate Standing Committee on Social Welfare now appear to be like conservatives, lagging behind in the development of policy in this particular drug area. I submit to the Senate, to my colleagues, that the suggestions that we made last year for changes in the law relating to cannabis, though they were greeted with horror then, are more conservative today than some of the authoritative suggestions which have been thrown into the arena, and are certainly worthy of consideration. 
In relation to the particular drugs which we studied, it only remains to remind honourable senators that the recommendations we made on analgesics such as Bex and Vincents are now being put into legal effect in many States. The promise that we made to the Senate that we would come back and study therapeutic drugs is now becoming a reality as that study is under way. The Royal Commission on illicit drugs is going to produce some significant findings itself. 
It remains only to say a few words about a couple of other issues. The first is the matter which  Senator Mcintosh  raised by way of interjection a few moments ago- the question of excise. The Senate Standing Committee took a firm view on the evidence available to it that the only quickly effective way of influencing consumption levels of legal drugs in Australia is by revenue policies- by varying the excise or other imposts by government. I do not know what purpose the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  had in mind: I do know that I, as an individual senator, wrote to him in advance of the Budget, pressing a consideration of appropriate excise policies for tobacco and alcohol in line with the recommendations that we made in this report. 
I believe that the excise measures will have an effect upon consumption of both legal and illicit drugs in this country over the next year- and I am not alone in that view. The twelfth annual report of the Australian Tobacco Board recognised this. It sets out its concern that excise policies can affect the total consumption of tobacco. That might be of concern to the Australian Tobacco Board, but it delights me,  Mr President.  Excise on tobacco was increased in July 1974 and August 1975. Consumption dropped by something over 2 per cent in 1975 and almost 4 per cent in 1976. There was no excise increase in tobacco in the succeeding Budget and consumption increased by 0.9 per cent in 1977. I have no doubt that the present excise measures will affect overall sales of tobacco and tobacco products in this country, and I believe this is a socially desirable measure. The report of the Australian Tobacco Board concluded: 
Representatives of the Board have expressed their great concern at the fall in consumption which they consider largely attributable to excise and licence fees. 
Perhaps this brings us back to one of the basic issues: What kind of national goal are we pursuing? We are not pursuing a prohibition policy. As I will point out later, that is scarcely compatible with ideas of personal liberty. But neither should we be pursuing or espousing a growth policy in relation to a drug of addiction. Perhaps  Senator Mcintosh  was correct in his subsequent interjection that governments need to examine the ambivalence of some of their policies when they impose excise to reduce consumption and at the same time give support- and I am talking here of governments of every colour; governments of  Senator Mcintosh's  persuasion as well as my own- to tobacco growing and tobacco research. Since I see my colleague,  Senator Colston  in the chamber, might I say that, if he were to read the report, he would discover that we were sensitive to the problems which excise might have for some of the tobacco producing States, not only Queensland but my own State as well. They are problems which could be structural but which we have taken into account. Likewise in relation to the use of alcohol, this year's annual report of the directors of Tooths Brewery has blamed 'increasing governmental controls and imposts' for the lack of growth in the beer market in this country. The directors see as a highly undesirable situation the fact that the beer market has not increased. They go on to observe: 
Any additional significant increase - 
I take it they mean in excise-  will further adversely affect sales and could in the long term be self defeating if its prime aim is to increase government revenues. 
I submit that it is not or it should not be, because the prime social issue is where we want to pitch the level of consumption and where we want to pitch controls by way of revenue policies which will hold consumption down. Many honourable senators will have read John Stuart Mill. In his essay 'On Liberty ' he stated: 
The sole end for which mankind are warranted, individually or collectively, in interfering with the liberty of action of any of their number is self-protection. That the only purpose for which power can be rightfully exercised over any member of a civilised community, against his will, is to prevent harm to others. His own good, either physical or moral is not a sufficient warrant. 
I have quoted Mill's words to raise the final issue which I want to bring to the attention of the Senate tonight and that is the issue of social control. The question is: How inappropriate might social control be or how necessary might it be? The debate concerns social control by someperhaps those in government- on the freedom of action of others. Some people in Australia, adherents to Mill 's philosophy, see any regulation of drug use of any kind, whether the drugs are licit or illicit, to be an infringement of their liberty. I certainly do not agree with that view as a pure statement in relation to all drug use. For example, I would not want it to be thought that I recommend complete freedom of use of narcotics, although I note that all narcotics- opium, morphine and heroin- at one time were freely available across the counter in this country and in most Western countries. In fact, their use became limited or illegal only in this century. 
In relation to the social control of the legal drugs of alcohol and tobacco, I am not advocating that their usage be banned. That would be social control gone mad. Prohibition does not work. It would not be tolerated. It would give rise to the same situation as the social control policies on marihuana have. That is to say, by advocating prohibition we would inevitably have the growth of an organised criminal class determined to provide a supply to meet demand and prepared to take whatever steps were necessary to overcome all obstacles. I seek to bring to the realisation of honourable senators the simple fact that we must do something in relation to alcohol and tobacco. For in terms of personal damage, social damage and economic cost these two legal drugs are causing the greatest problems to our community and the problems are increasing. On a world scale Australia, an affluent country, well situated and well fed, ranks only tenth in terms of scales of health and health performance. We should rank better. It is likely that our rather suboptimal performance in health is attributable to the lifestyle we lead and, in particular, due to some of the drugs which are used and abused, particularly cigarette smoking which causes an excess mortality of enormous proportions and a major public health problem in this country. It is also due to alcohol abuse rather than to any deficiencies in the health care system or the provision of health facilities. 
If people want to improve the health performance in this country, quite apart from the problems such as isolated communities or some of our Aboriginal population, we have to address ourselves to these lifestyle problems rather than imagine that the transfusion of extra resources will do the job for us. This clear evidence of lifestyle induced diseases of immense economic and social significance raises problems with respect to individual liberty in the sense of John Stuart Mill. We have a paradox of a need for some social control against a general desire to accept and stay with the proposition on liberty propounded by Mill and people like him. A number of issues are raised which I think honourable senators might care to consider. These issues have been very adequately set out in a quite brilliant inaugural lecture delivered at the University of Tasmania by the foundation professor of community health at that University,  Dr Norelle  Lickiss. The issues which she has set out are as follows: 
Is there a limit to an individual's right to choose a lifestyle which will seriously increase the costs borne on his behalf by the community and reduce his own contribution to the creating and sustaining of that community? 
That is an issue of which we have to take consideration. She continues: 
Is it ethically justified for a person to embark on a smoking career without contributing to the public purse in proportion to the costs his smoking can be foreseen to engender? The question of how freely an individual man or woman chooses knowingly a self-destructive lifestyle raises further issues. Do these lifestyle induced disorders testify to the concept that our society is indeed a bound society - 
That is restrictive, contained perhaps by our need for drugs-  not a community of free men. 
I do not know the answers but I am attracted to the conclusion of Professor Lickiss' inaugural lecture when she stated: 
It appears that we have ourselves, collectively, by the decisions made in the past, the roots chosen and the situations tolerated, created limits for our own liberty. 
I accept, as an individual senator and as a member of the Senate Committee, the validity of the doctor's comments and of those issues. I believe that we as a society have to answer those kinds of questions in relation to drug use and abuse in this country.  Mr President,  you will be aware that the Senate Standing Committee on Social Welfare has a continuing reference and oversight of drug abuse in this country. The reference was not discharged with the production of this report. It will not be discharged when we produce a further report on the use and abuse of therapeutic drugs. I believe that the Committee will continue to develop the reference by doing further work. It will continue its study of therapeutic drugs. It will continue its examination of the findings of the royal commissions. As far as possible on behalf of the Senate we will exercise the best judgment we can bring to some of the issues which I have brought to the attention of honourable senators tonight. 
I wish to respond to the invitation which came from the other side of the chamber for any honourable senator who wished to make some technical comments to take part in this debate. 
Australia has the world's highest rate of skin cancer. Skin cancers are due to solar radiation- to exposure to the sun.  Senator Messner  in his closing comments, though he might have thought he was speaking in humour, in fact was stating a biological truth. People who do not have a fair skin and live in places with climates with a lot of sun do have a biological advantage. Australia's problem in relation to skin cancer and melanoma is related to the amount of sunshine to which people are exposed. To the extent that it is a problem capable of prevention this matter should attract our interest and attention. 
One of the big difficulties we find in the whole area of health is to identify or to separate out those issues which are effective preventive issues. Any analysis of the economic basis of health care in this country shows that the preventive measures are economically far sounder than treatment measures which might subsequently have to be brought in. The best example that comes to mind is the single greatest preventive measure of the past 10 or 15 years, which I think is in operation in five States and awaiting only the agreement of Queensland and the Northern Territory. I refer to the fluoridation of water supplies, which in one fell swoop has eliminated much dental caries in Australia. It has had the most important effect upon the dental health of Australian children. Yet it is a simple, low cost preventive intervention which has been supported and which has obviated the need for a lot of expensive treatment intervention. 
-Senator Lewis asks: Is it safe? I can assure him that it is safe. Apart from gross prejudice I cannot think of any good reasons for people to object to fluoridation. I must say that in our family we were anxious to have fluoridation even before the Sydney water supplies were officially given this additive. 
Other preventive programs come to mind. The first of these relates to the fact that one of the major health problems in Australia in terms of cancer is capable of preventive intervention. Of course, this relates to the question of the role which cigarette smoking plays in the genesis of disease. We have talked about that at other times; I do not intend to go into it at the present moment. But one of the problems we get into when we talk about preventive medicine is that any statements are simply pious declarations. Many actions which could be taken and which could be effective preventions do not get taken. 
For all these reasons it is highly undesirable that governments should interfere with active prevention programs. I think, as other speakers in the debate have pointed out, that the government impost on the range of products which are the subject of this Bill would have constituted a disincentive to use these products which have been shown to be effective in cutting down exposure to those elements of sunlight which bring about skin cancer of various kinds. It is even less desirable that governments should interfere when they do so by mischance, when they do so unintentionally- when the desires of one department to raise money lead to another department being unable to fulfil its role, in this case a role in preventive health. 
The situation that arose in the present circumstance was that representations were made to the Government pointing out the consequences of any failure to make the adjustments to sales tax which are being made at the present time. The Government has recognised the justice of the case, has recognised the logic of the case and has responded. To this extent I think it deserves to be complimented for having adopted a simple but effective measure which will cost not very much revenue but which will allow another effective preventive health intervention. To the extent that preventive health is going to be cost effective and that most treatment facilities are not cost effective, I think that this is the kind of intervention which we should be seeking more and more in the health area in this country. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Administrative Services. How many people make up the Cheque Section in the Commonwealth Police Force? How many alleged offenders have been identified and are now awaiting further processing before charges can be laid against them in relation to complaints being dealt with by the Cheque Section of the Commonwealth Police? How many outstanding cases are awaiting action by the Cheque Section of the Commonwealth Police? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs a question. Is it a fact that the rate of appearances of Aboriginal youths before the juvenile justice system in South Australia between 1972 and 1977 was five times the rate for all youths in that State? Specifically, it is a fact that 440 out of each 1,000 Aboriginal youths in South Australia- that is, 44 per cent of all Aboriginal youths aged between 10 and 17 years- have appeared before the juvenile court system? Is the incidence changing and, if so, what evidence exists to demonstrate this change? What positive intervention is being undertaken to overcome the problem, which is probably Australia-wide rather than limited to the State which I have used for illustrative purposes in this question? 
I am prompted by the remarks made by  Senator Missen  to rise to speak briefly. I believe, as  Senator Missen  has acknowledged, that a Senate committee does a service to the Senate by bringing in a holding report in a difficult situation. I notice that  Senator McLaren  is at present on the other side of the chamber. He will recall a reference which he gave to the Senate Standing Committee on Social Welfare. That Committee has only gone as far as bringing in a holding statement on the Ralkon Agricultural Co. because that is all that seemed appropriate at that stage. There is nothing wrong with a holding statement when one requires a bit more time to unravel a situation. I think that we would all be in agreement with  Senator Missen  in applauding this course of action. But the honourable senator has laid stress on the inappropriateness of reaching a premature conclusion that certain chemical substances are harmless. The point I want to make is quite simple. It is equally inappropriate for anyone to make any premature conclusions about substances of any kind. It is inappropriate that we make any premature conclusion that they are harmful. 
I was listening to the honourable senator to see whether he would include that in his prescription that people are making premature statements as though there were established facts about these chemicals. I think  Senator Jessop  by way of interjection established the point that nothing is without hazard. There is no such thing as complete safety. If one looks at some of the modern sciences developing in danger theory, one will see that it is not a question of whether things are safe but of how safe or how unsafe they are. What degree of safety are we willing to accept for certain activities? The drug penicillin is an obvious example. It is not safe. 
-The honourable senator draws my attention to the danger of smoking. I am grateful to him. I would not have thought of it had he not mentioned it to me. I hope that my colleague will accept that this holding position should be entirely neutral; that while we await the evidence we should not reach any conclusion as to either the safety or the danger of these substances. That is not to say we should not be wary or careful but we should reach no firm conclusion in advance of the evidence which will be forthcoming from the inquiries. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Acting Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. Is it true that the building situated at 105 Annandale Street, Annandale was built by the New South Wales Government to house migrants with money made available by the Commonwealth and that the building has not been occupied for two years? Is it true that there is a significant shortage of low cost housing in this and other adjacent inner city suburbs of Sydney? Finally, can the Minister explain why any available housing, presumably of good quality, is not being utilised for the benefit of low income earners by the Wran socialist Government? 
Before talking about the substance of the States Grants (Home Care) Amendment Bill, I would like to add to two points made by  Senator Chipp  during his speech. 
The first point is his analysis of the rather gratuitous insults offered by some Labor senators to honourable senators on this side of the chamber, in which it was asserted that honourable senators on this side were unable to cross the floor if that was their desire.  Senator Chipp,  who spoke before me, was quite correct. In the time I have been in this Senate chamber I have seen a number of honourable senators cross the floor. I have never seen a Labor senator break ranks or break Caucus rule, but I have seen many Liberals cross the floor. Indeed, we are the ones who have lost votes, or who have had a true exercise of parliamentary democracy. It comes very ill from the Australian Labor Party members to make that kind of sneering charge. 
The other point  Senator Chipp  made was to establish himself in some hierarchy of parliamentary service. I am sure he would be as interested as any honourable senator to know that he is only half correct. He is correct in saying that  Senator Justin  O 'Byrne is the father of the Senate. But he might be interested to know that  Mr President,  who is in the chair, actually has a longer period of parliamentary service than even  Senator Chipp. 
-Well, that is correct- in this Parliament. 
I thank  Senator Chipp.  Then we will agree that  Senator Laucke  's parliamentary service in two Parliaments establishes him in the hierarchy slightly ahead of  Senator Chipp.  This Bill is concerned with home care services and it is concerned with the subsidy arrangements which will allow for the provision of home care services and for the provision of salaries for approved welfare officers in senior citizen centres. In fact, it extends the capacity for more people to be involved in the programs and to bring services to more aged people throughout Australia. Of that there is no doubt. The only argument can be whether it will achieve this result. It operates to involve several levels of government in sharing in the provision of home care facilities and the salaries of these welfare officers. The argument that has gone on is whether the subsidy arrangements which are proposed are appropriate and whether they will produce social effects of the kind that the Opposition and the Australian Democrats allege they will produce. 
-Many other people allege that too, but of course many people have vested interests of various kinds. The question of whether there will be an effect on domiciliary care of the kind that is asserted- whether there will be any effect which will be deleterious to the best interests of aged Australians- is capable of analysis. I think  Senator Chipp  stated very properly the desirable goals we would like to achieve, but I point out that many pressures operate in our society against domiciliary care for the aged. These pressures are not always just to do with the available support services in the community; they are pressures which are rooted as well in families, which form views as to where their aged should be nursed or cared for. These pressures are involved with the values which are held by the elderly people themselves, by the society in which they live and by the structure of society in a particular community as much as they are involved with the cash available to provide the services for support for isolated, aged, frail Australians. I do not think that any of us would argue with that. Just to keep this debate on some reasonable basis, I submit that domiciliary care is not always the most desirable form of care. In fact, some people benefit from institutional care. It is not true that in every case an elderly person would be better off in his or her own home, although it is generally true. I must say in an anecdotal sense that I have seen examples where people are not only better off in a material way but also are happier and better integrated by being in an institution. I have seen people blossom when they have gone into an institution. 
-The honourable senator might recall that quite apart from my political activities I had some professional exposure to these problems before I entered the Senate. I also remind honourable senators that many Australians enter institutions as a matter of choice. I draw to their attention the residents of self-contained accommodation and hostel accommodation. They are often very happy with the accommodation they are in. They choose it. I draw to the attention of honourable senators the long waiting lists for many of the institutions which are available to people who are not so frail but who want, as a matter of choice, to leave their own environments for various reasons. 
I come back to the point that domiciliary services are good to have in the community. They are right in theory. There is a body of belief in social theory which states that those services should reduce the need for admission to institutions. I would encourage the provision of domiciliary services. They seem humane, effective and efficient. But I do not know in strictly scientific terms- I throw this in as a side issuehow effective the domiciliary services we provide are. I do not know whether they produce some of the beneficial effects we hope they produce. It is relevant to bring this point into the debate because there is a need for us to know more about whether the services we provide for elderly Australians produce lessened admission rates into institutions and a measurable beneficial effect to the aged. 

 Senator Coleman, apart from her endorsement of the high inflation rates of 16 per cent or 17 per cent during Labor's term of office and in spite of her failure to acknowledge that August saw the lowest rise in food prices in this country for eight years, made some unnecessary,  im  proper and, I think she would agree, undeserved comments about the institutions caring for the aged people in this country, many of which are determined to work for the best standards of care. 
-The honourable senator can read what she said in  Hansard  tomorrow. She talked about people who go into institutions suffering under rigid time-tabling. That is not always true. When the honourable senator distributes copies of her speech many of the people who spend their lives dedicated to the care of the aged will know that that is the view of a Labor senator. They can form their own opinions about what she said about the services they offer and the job they do. They can make up their own minds. The debate centres on one argument, that is the assertion that the provisions of this Bill will lead to more people entering institutions. If that assertion is not true, the criticism falls. If that assertion is true, the criticism stands. It is only an assertion. I could try to examine the question by going the other way to ascertain whether when we introduced these home care programs a desirable trend emerged in terms of the rates of institutionalisation. That is indirect evidence only. 
I take the honourable senator's point but I make one statement. I have seen very few submissions that have been anything more than assertions. I believe that this is an area in welfare like all the other areas in which we do not know what has been happening or what is happening now. We do not know whether the rate of institutionalisation will increase or stay the same. Unless people can demonstrate that the rate of institutionalisation will increase there is no argument against this Bill. 
This Bill provides access to the States which the States and local governent can then use for the benefit of aged Australians. In talking about subsidies there are several points which my colleagues have made and which I will reiterate. We cannot say that there has been a cut simply by looking at the subsidy rate. As well as looking at the arrangements required for obtaining a matching grant we have to look at the amount of money provided and the trend':in the allocation of funds to see whether more or less is being made available to the Australian community. It is altogether too slick for people who cannot say that we are providing less to say that they know that we are providing more but that they will discount that anyway because the States will not take up the grants. As we will demonstrate later that is wrong. 
Carefully avoided in any of the speeches by Labor senators was my acknowledgement of the fact that the States are already taking up their share of the grants. The spokesman on social security matters in another place,  Dr Klugman,  said that there will not be a wider program unless State and local governments double their contributions. We know that that is mathematically incorrect. It is fallacious. It is an error. It is not true to say that a move in subsidy from 33c to 50c in the dollar is a doubling of contributions. That was said by the spokesman the Labor Party puts up to advance its case. He made many other cases. He asked why local government should have to contribute on a dollar for dollar basis. He went on to expand the centralist philosophy which is really what people are espousing when they object to this Bill. He said: 
The whole point of having a Federal government and a progressive system of taxation- inasmuch as it remains progressive- is for help to be given to those in need. 
We intend to see that help is given but we intend to do it through a federalist system. 
If the ALP is serious that it is not right for local government to have to contribute on a dollar for dollar basis then I reject that proposition. It is entirely appropriate for local governments or State governments to contribute their share on whatever is an equitable basis to get the greatest number of services for the greatest number of aged Australians. There is no argument there.  Dr Klugman  's statement is entirely without any generosity or foundation. He did not acknowledge, for example, that the States are well off. Even with the mismanagement in my State, New 
South Wales, the deficit in that State is less than $2m in the current year. Our deficit is approximately $2,500m. What is more, New South Wales and other States have moved steadily to reduce their taxes, they have been so well off. The States are in a better position to respond than they were previously. The Minister for Social Security has already indicated that New South Wales and Victoria, the two most populous States in the Commonwealth and the States which between them will take up the bulk of the grants, have already indicated that they will come into the scheme on the new subsidy arrangements. The Budget brought down in New South Wales makes increased allocations for just that purpose. 
One possibility in federalism is that some States may not take up their matching grants. One of the possibilities we have to face is that some States, perhaps on ideological grounds, may decide not to play. They may have different priorities; they may not believe in home care. I guess they would then have to be answerable to their own electors. But, under a Federal system, we will provide the capacity for States and local governments to be involved in these programs. As I have said, the two larger States have already become involved, rather I think to the sorrow of the Australian Labor Party which would have been much happier to debate this issue had it been able to say: 'The States will never play'. The fact is that New South Wales is playing and Victoria is playing. 

 Senator Grimes took the matter further by identifying the problems of local government. I think he put forward some good arguments about the need for local government to have a supplement to a rating base if it is to be involved in welfare provision. I agree with the honourable senator. Local government cannot provide welfare services on a basis of rates alone. Therefore, this Government, through the access it has given local government to funds- through the Loan Council, by the Grants Commission arrangements, and by the 1.52 per cent of income tax collections it has provided- has greatly increased the capacity of local government to be involved in welfare projects. We have seen local government respond and improve its share and involvement in the welfare game. 
Apart from the arrangements to get matching grants and apart from the fact that we are providing a different kind of sharing of costs between the levels of governments, we are also increasing the quantum.  Dr Klugman  said many times that we were going to cut the amounts. That simply is not true. How can it be said that we have cut the amounts when we have deliberately identified in the Budget an increased subvention which is available for these programs. We need to examine the amount which has been allocated. If we look at the Budget we can see the amount. I was attracted to a table which appeared in another place last week. It sets out the amounts which have been provided for home care services, for senior citizens centres and for welfare officers over several years. I have the table and have shown it to the appropriate people. I seek leave to have it incorporated. 
In answer to that interjection, the honourable senator was not in the House at that stage but his colleague, the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Senator Button)  was and he was approached. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="078232197809194_45_1.jpg"></graphic>

If we look at the table we can see- I think  Senator Davidson  and  Senator Missen  set this out- the increased amounts that are available under the States Grants (Home Care) Act. For example, for the provision of senior citizens centres we have provided an extra $52,000 this year, and for the salaries of welfare officers an extra $378,000. 
I am delighted. The honourable senator has rounded off the figure. For the cost of home care services we have provided an extra $1,262,000. That is an extra $ 1 .7m in a total allocation of $ 1 5.5m. 
-As I say again to the honourable senator, New South Wales is participating and the other States are on their way to doing so. If we look at the amount which was being provided and we add in the State allocations, I think the total amount which could have been provided for home care services throughout Australia, with State, local and Federal Government contributions, under the old scheme was of the order of $20. 7m. I hope my arithmetic is correct. Under the new scheme, with a $ 1 subsidy for two of the programs and a $2 for $ 1 subsidy for the remaining program, I estimate that the total amount that can be spread across the Australian community is just under $27m. Again I hope my arithmetic is correct. It is a program capable of wider application and capable of use by more Australians in more places. Under these circumstances, with the States starting to participate, with more money available and with a wider possibility of spreading all these programs, I cannot understand how this potential for more people to get the benefit has not been acknowledged and has not been applauded by the Opposition. 
Some of the critics have made what I see to be a self-serving case. Some of the States would like to have the services and to contribute nothing if they could. Some of the agencies are happy with the game they know and do not feel at all happy about any kind of changed arrangements. But the fact is that we have an extra allocation and we have an extra challenge for the States, one to which they are responding. We are going to ask the States that are reducing their taxes to help increase the services to their citizens. I believe that a reduction is a smaller amount, a smaller involvement, and I see no evidence of a reduction in the program that the Government is offering. Further, I have seen nothing to make me believe that any aged Australian will be forced out of his or her home and into an institution because we have altered the subsidy arrangements for the home care program. The program is still unproven as to what it has achieved. The entry of people into institutions is not totally dependent upon the operation of this program. In the absence of that kind of proof I do not believe that the Opposition has established any case to sustain its very convenient assertions which will do nothing but frighten, upset and make uncertain many old Australians who want to use these services to the best of their ability. I support the Bill. 
-My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. Is the James Kaldis of Kingsford, Labor candidate for election to the New South Wales Legislative Council, the James Kaldis who is active in the presentation of ethnic radio programs for the Special Broadcasting Service? Is the position of co-ordinator of an ethnic radio program one requiring impeccable neutrality? Is it appropriate for a political partisan to have unique access to ethnic radio during a political campaign in which he is a candidate? Finally, if he is elected as a Labor member of the Legislative Council will he stand down from his position as co-ordinator of Greek programs on ethnic radio in Sydney? 
-I present the following petition from 228 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the JAT- Yugoslav Airlines service between Australia and Belgrade is a disservice to most airline travellers because: 
1 ) Persons seeking a visa to Yugoslavia are subjected to standover tactics by the staff of the Yugoslav consulates in order to induce them to fly by JAT. 
JAT travel agencies are understood to function as an extension of the Yugoslav Secret Service UDBA. 
On arrival in Yugoslavia tourists are questioned by authorities as to whether they flew by JAT, and if not they are met with disapproval and severe criticism. 
The quality of service as offered by JAT is below international standards in all respects, and particularly as regards health standards. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Federal Government will immediately and permanently discontinue all further Yugoslav Airlines services between Australia and Yugoslavia. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-Can the Minister for Education inform the Senate of the total cost of the construction of the Ryde College of Catering Studies and Hotel Administration in Sydney? Can he also inform the Senate of the contribution by the Commonwealth to that total cost, and the contribution by the New South Wales Labor Government? 
I preface my question by informing the Minister for Education that the newly elected  president  of the student body at Sydney University is being prevented from carrying out his duties by students who are opposed to him. Will the Minister state the view of the Government as to the desirable standards of operation of democratic procedures and processes on campuses in Australia? Will he indicate to the Senate where the responsibility lies in this country for ensuring that those people who are elected to office in universities can in fact do the jobs which they are elected to do? 

 -Mr President, my question which is directed to you refers to some of the works of art stored within Parliament House about which there has been some concern, and especially concerns at least one great painting of historical significance by the Australian artist, Tom Roberts. What is the condition of this painting and its frame, and is it true, as claimed by a number of visitors to Parliament House, that the frame has been affected by something like borer infestation and that the surface of the painting is deteriorating rapidly and badly and is urgently in need of repair? Are you able,  Mr President,  to advise the Senate of the procedures followed to maintain the art works of the Parliament in optimum condition and, in the absence of such a program, is it possible that we can undertake appropriate measures to protect all these examples of Australian heritage? 
I seek leave to make a brief statement about the arrangements between Whips. 
Leave granted. 
-The traditional arrangements between Whips are generally not matters for the Senate. These, of course, include arrangements relating to the granting of pairs. In view of the division which we had earlier this morning it is relevant simply to record that when the division was called it had not been possible to complete arrangements between the Whips. At that stage the full requirements for pairs were not known by the Whips. For the division which I mentioned only three pairs will be shown whereas under normal circumstances more pairs would have been shown. I simply want to put on record the fact that since the Whips had not completed these arrangements, some senators who will not be shown as having been paired would have been so shown in normal circumstances. 
I present the following petition from 16 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. 
The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respect.fuly showeth that the term of the current staff Elected Commissioner expires on the 22nd October 1978. We pray the Government will direct that this position should continue, and that the Minister will authorise the Commonwealth 
Electoral Officer to proceed with an election, by all ABC staff, of a new commissioner, and your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I present the following petition from 26 1 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of the Commonwealth respectfully showeth: 
In the Soviet occupied Lithuania, Viktoras Petkus, a member of the group to monitor Soviet compliance with the Helinski agreement, was sentenced to a severe punishment at the same time as other Soviet dissidents, Shcharansky and Ginzburg. 
Since Viktoras Petkus, and the group he is a member of, conducted their activities openly, believing that the Soviet constitution granted them some rights not only in word but also in fact, this severe punishment is a blatant denial of human rights recognized even by the Soviet constitution. 
We ask the Australian Government to make representations to the United Nations to adopt a resolution condemning Soviet violations of human rights, and to request the Soviet Government to release the unjustly incarcerated Viktoras Petkus. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. Did a meeting take place yesterday at Oenpelli in Arnhem Land? At the meeting did the traditional owners refuse to endorse the decision to sign the Ranger agreement? If so, is the Minister able to indicate to the Senate the Government's position in relation to the next step in this situation in order to resolve the problems which now arise in introducing uranium mining. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 13 September 1978: 
1 ) How much Federal funding is provided in 1978-79 for programs directed against the use of (a) alcohol; and (b) tobacco. 
How much Federal funding was provided for such programs in each year from 1972-73 to 1977-78. 
I ask the Minister for Education: Is the basis for the abolition of fees for tertiary education at least in part a desire to make such education more accessible to the socially and economically disadvantaged? If so, is the Minister aware of a national study recently carried out which has shown that the abolition of tertiary fees has largely failed to achieve its objective? Is the Minister able to advise us what further study will be necessary and how long it might take before a reliable judgment on this matter can be made? Finally, if the study is confirmed, is he able to say whether examination of alternative propositions is anticipated which might more effectively open up to students from a wide variety of social and economic backgrounds the whole field of tertiary education? 
I am grateful to my colleagues who have brought up this subject for debate and for the contributions which have been made up to this moment. We rarely have the opportunity in the Senate to debate issues which relate in any way to questions of religious tolerance or the rights of religious minorities. Of course, we do not do it, because we rarely have to. In this country, with our backgrounds and traditions, we have a history of religious tolerance and acceptance which makes it difficult for us to understand some of the provisions in other countries and other lands. We are concerned at present because the barbarities and complexities of the Middle East are being intertwined with our own policies and actions and they are, as  Senator Wheeldon  said, being constructed in such a way that citizens of Australia will be involved. 
I read in the  Age  newspaper this morning the article which has been referred to. The first thing that emerges is a point to which  Senator Carrick  referred in his speech; that is, that the facts set out in that article have not been confirmed so far. But, if they are true, they are outrageous. If they are true, an Australian has told the  Age  newspaper that his mother was refused a seat on a Qantas flight from London to Tullamarine via Damascus because she was Jewish. 
In response to  Senator Chipp  's interjection, let me say that I spoke to the gentleman this morning. If that is true, it is outrageous.  Senator Carrick  has said that the facts are not yet known, and I accept that; but they must become known quickly and without any attempt by Qantas to equivocate or to smudge or slide past the facts. The second fact set out in the article is that the airline's reservations staff in Melbourne are not allowed to book Jews on the Damascus flight. If that is true, that is outrageous. The facts have to become known quickly and clearly in answer to that specific point. It is either true or not true. If it is not true, we would like to know what conditions are imposed or what pressures are brought to bear on people of a particular religion in this country not to book on certain flights. But we are entitled, as an urgent first step, to have the facts made crystal clear. If the  Age  newspaper story is wrong, we want to know. If the  Age  newspaper story is right, we want action from the Government. 
This debate really is not about Jews. It is not about Arabs. It is not really about Syria or about Israel. The fact that the Jews and the Arabs in the countries of the Middle East can make a mess of their own affairs is their own business, and that may be a set of facts with which we do not have to be concerned today. If people want to see the central issue as one of discrimination by Syria against Jews, I think that is to misunderstand the issue. I accept the point that  Senator Wheeldon  made about some of the contemporary history that Syria has to live down and the things which Syria is doing, but that is not what this issue is about. The debate concerns Australia. It concerns our national airline. It concerns the view which our Government will take of what our national airline is doing. That is the issue which we are entitled to have addressed by the Government and on which we are entitled to have a response. Honourable senators so far have no referred to our Constitution. One of the very few freedoms guaranteed under our Constitution is in section  1 1 6,  which states among other things: 
. no religious test shall be required as a qualification for any office or public trust under the Commonwealth. 
We are not talking about offices or public trusts, but it is interesting that in our Constitution - 
I thank the honourable senator for his interjection. It was seen fit to lay down in our Constitution, in relation to some Commonwealth matters, that no religious test shall be required as a qualification, and we are talking about an Australian airline which is prepared to impose a religious test as a qualification for the right to travel on its aeroplanes. If one reads  The Annotated Constitution of the Australian Commonwealth  by Quick and Garran one finds the reason that this section was put in. I quote a section of that book: 
The prohibition of religious tests was a denial of power- a denial which was necessary, because otherwise there would have been nothing to prevent the Federal legislature, in defining the qualifications for federal office, to impose such tests. 
That is a nice indication of the ways in which statutory bodies established under the Commonwealth should behave. In that same section the word 'Commonwealth' is used. I quote again from Quick and Garran: 
The term Commonwealth . . . does not mean the Federal community, but the Government of the Commonwealth acting through any of its agencies or instrumentalities. 
I am inclined to believe that what comes out of this is that Qantas Airways Ltd, as one instrumentality, should at least be aware of what the founding fathers were trying to get at and it should be prepared to follow what they were trying to say. Other commentators on the Australian Constitution have dealt with this matter in their work. For example, Lumb and Ryan state: 
This part of s. 116 emphasises the principle of religious freedom. No person shall be subject to penalties - 
Such as not being able to obtain travel-  or any form of discrimination based on his religious beliefs. 
Let us dwell for just a moment on this question of freedom from religious tests. It is a matter of no little interest to me. Certainly, as regards Jews, it was in only 1 846- a short time ago- that the Toleration Act of 1688 was extended to give Jews freedom in English law and the kind of toleration which allowed them to enter into the full communal life in that country. When the Australian Constitution was written, we took steps to try to extend religious freedom here and to exclude tests based on one's religious beliefs forever from the way in which the Government proceeded and, I would hope, from the way in which its instrumentalities and agencies proceeded. Yet, we have here apparently the national airline which is prepared to impose a religious test as to whether I or any other Australian citizen can travel on the particular airline flight of our choice. This brings us back to Qantas Airways Ltd. It is a national possession. I note from the Qantas annual report that it describes itself in the following terms: 
Qantas Airways Ltd, which has completed 57 years of operation, is wholly-owned by the Commonwealth of Australia. 
The report sets out the airlines function which is to develop and to operate international air services as the Australian flag carrier. It carries more than just our flag. It carries our national beliefs, our national standards and our national ethos. This is the kind of argument to which we must address ourselves because it is clear that Qantas does know and has known about the arrangements which it set up with Syria five years ago. The fact that this happened five years ago indicates that governments of both political complexions have been in power while these arrangements have been operating. I think, as other honourable senators have told us, the arrangements include an agreement to Syria's demand that passengers of the Jewish faith of any nationality shall not be able to land in Syria. I repeat that this applies to passengers of the Jewish faith. I agree with  Senator Wheeldon;  there is nothing wrong, if Syria is at war with Israel, with it excluding people of the Israeli nationality as part of that state of war but we are told that people of the Jewish faith should not be allowed to land in that country. 
At this stage I believe the problem facing us becomes quite clear. The national carrier which bears our flag and shows our face to the world has chosen, in pursuit of commercial advantage, to agree to quite intolerable conditions which include a religious test to be applied to Australian citizens who may wish to be passengers on its aircraft. It appears that Qantas is prepared to agree, for commercial security, to place these conditions on access to its services; conditions which are not in keeping with the spirit of our Constitution nor in keeping with the sentiments of this country. I return to the point that  Senator Carrick  made: If the facts are correct, and we want to know quickly whether they are correct, this is commercial harlotry on the part of Qantas. It is an abdication of responsibility in the pursuit of profit. It is not the fault of Syria. It is not the fault of anyone except the airline that would agree to such an arrangement. Now that it has become public, it would be the fault of any government that continued to honour such an arrangement. 
It may be argued that our civil aviation routes to the Middle East are essential. They are not essential: They are very important. The question remains: How much are we willing to pay to keep them?  Mr President,  I put this proposition to you as I develop this argument: There are some prices it is not worth paying. To argue that the Government has no alternative but to accede to the wishes of Syria is nonsense. We do have an alternative. It may be an expensive alternative, but we have an alternative. We are not obliged to place this kind of religious test on people who may wish to travel on our aircraft, whether they be of this religion or any other religion. It has been argued that if Qantas does not abide by these conditions, it may not be able to guarantee the safety of its passengers in Damascus. If that is the case, it should not fly to Damascus. That is the answer to that proposition. 
It may be argued that every other Arab nation may refuse landing rights to Qantas. I would say in defence of this principle that that would be a price worth paying if we had to pay it. It may be argued that a failure to maintain landing rights in the Middle East would incur additional costs due to longer routes and higher air rates. It would be worth it if the alternative were to agree that those people of a particular religious belief could not travel on any flight of our national carrier on which they wished to be passengers. No Australian should have to pass a religious test to use our national airline. The airline's directors should never have agreed to conditions which impose such a test. I have had reason to criticise Qantas before. But I believe this decision should give the airline cause to examine its competence and practices. It is now up to the Government to declare that the situation is inconsistent with its concepts of religious toleration and for it to forbid Qantas to continue to agree to the imposition of these conditions. In the end, there is no price I would not pay to uphold the kind of religious toleration set out in our Constitution and practised in this democratic society. If the price is an alteration in an air route or more expensive fares, it will be worth while paying that price to ensure that principles which set us apart in the world as one of the small group of real democracies are neither lost nor abridged. 
-My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport and relates to yesterday's story in the Melbourne  Age  newspaper claiming that a religious test has been applied to Australians seeking to travel by Qantas Airways Ltd and that instructions exist that the religious test should be so applied to passengers. Is the Minister in a position to advise the Senate whether the information contained in the  Age  article is correct? If that is not yet known, will the Minister undertake as soon as possible to inform the Senate as to the correctness of each of the major matters contained in that newspaper report? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. In view of the revelation that Syrian regulations concerning flights into Damascus are not as Qantas Airways Ltd understood them to be- this apparently resolves problems that were raised in the Senate last week- I ask the Minister whether there was any period during which Qantas believed that it worked under rules which limited the religion of Australians who were able to travel on one of its flights? 
I join with other honourable senators who have already given their support to the Science and Industry Research Amendment Bill 1978 and who have made comments on matters not related solely to the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation but related to wider matters affecting science policy in this country. The debate has been remarkably bipartisan. The theme running through it has demonstrated a great degree of agreement and comprehension of the same issues by both sides of the Senate. 
Debates on science policy have been rare in this Parliament. When they have occurred they have often reflected credit neither upon the Parliament nor upon the understanding which might exist in the Senate on issues such as those to which  Senator Button  was referring. Although the Science and Industry Research Bill, which was introduced and debated in 1949, has been amended a number of times until now no substantial debates have taken place. This is the first chance to debate, in any significant way, the issues which should underline the structuring of CSIRO and its place within Australian science. It is quite instructive to go back to 1949 and to examine the  Hansard  record of the debate that took place then. One realises just how far we have come. In debating the Science and Industry Research Bill in 1949- at that time a most important Bill- the Parliament spent its time in the hysteria of communist hunting. The debate ended up with tirades from one side to the other about who was fighting the communists most effectively. With all the calls for oaths of loyalty and allegations that eminent members of CSIRO were communists and fellow travellers, I think that both sides of the Parliament covered themselves with rather less than glory. The honourable gentleman who led for my party at the time made the following statement: 
It is well known that there are Communists cells in the Public Service. 
I remind honourable senators that a science Bill was being debated. The honourable gentleman continued: 
It is also well known that the Minister in charge of the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research . . . has appointed many Communists to that organisation. 
Later on he said- 
-Senator Button, I am of the view that neither side of the Parliament came out of the debate with very much credit at all. The honourable gentleman went on further- this was part of the issue at the time, a time now thankfully behind us- to say: 
Scientists, from their lofty mental pinnacle, consider that research discoveries should be made available to other nations, but the Government must take a more practical view. 
If that was not bad enough, the honourable member for Reid, at the time a certain  Mr Jack  Lang, entered the debate in 1949 and said: 
The Communists have been allowed to do their deadly work unhampered by governmental interference. Hence this Bill. 

 Mr Lang was referring to the Bill to set up CSIRO in 1949. 
-Thank you very much, senator.  Mr Jack  Lang went on to say further: 
It is the undercover intellectual, the Communist capitalist of industry, the Communist scientist and the Communist public servant- 
And so on. We have a chance tonight to address some of the issues of what CSIRO is about, some of the issues of science policy and some of the questions that have been raised on both sides about the kinds of structures we need and the directions in which we think we are trying to move. May we avoid the kind of disgraceful debate of 30 years ago which did nothing more than attempt to blackguard  Sir David  Rivett who was then head of CSIRO and who, as honourable senators know, was virtually destroyed by the events of the time because he stood up for the rights of scientists to publish their results. 
There is one reason why this Parliament is a more appropriate body to take part in this debate. Perhaps I differ on this point from my colleague  Senator Puplick.  Whatever its defect, there has never been a parliament better prepared by reason of training and occupation to make a useful contribution to a debate on science. There are more people in the Parliament now who have been practising scientists in their own right, who have gone through the rigours of scientific training, who have taken higher degrees in scientific disciplines and who have contributed to the world of research. This is the first time in this decade members of parliament can say: 'We are here to take part in this debate as people with expert knowledge and background. For that reason we want others to listen '. 
The CSIRO which we are talking about today is a very different organisation from that which was discussed in 1949. It has a budget then of, say, $3. 7m. Honourable senators have indicated that the Budget expenditure today is in excess of $140m. Its size and functions are greater, as honourable senators have pointed out. The organisation's scientific and supporting staff and its capacities have risen greatly. Scientific activity in Australia is not a recent phenomenon. It has been going on ever since European settlement. The Royal Society of London supported Cook 's famous voyage to the South Seas and his exploration along the east coast of Australia. The  Endeavour  carried on board a scientist of the very first rank in the world at that time- Joseph Banks. Early scientific activity in the colony is described today as the Banksian era of science. 
During this period new sites for Australian colonies had to be identified and mapped. Unique flora and fauna were being discovered and classified in the colonies. 
Government supported scientists were being appointed in the colonies in the early days of the nineteenth century. Allan Cunningham, a botanist, was based in Sydney from as early as 1816. He not only worked as a botanist but was an explorer as well. Governor Brisbane, the sixth governor of the colony of New South Wales, was an enthusiastic patron of Australian science in the first decades of the nineteenth century. The colony of Victoria conducted a geological survey in the 1850s- quite an ambitious scientific undertaking. By the 1860s there were government astronomers and botanists in most Australian colonies. The universities were founded at this time. Government analysts were appointed and learned societies for science began flourishing. I remind honourable senators that in 1886 we had the formation of an Australasian association for the advancement of science. It is often not realised that it goes back quite as far as it does. Today  Senator Puplick  set out some of the events that occurred early in this century when we moved to set up a more formal structure within government for scientific research and for the support of science. 
Let us examine what we have gained from all this; what kind of scientific activity we have had in Australia; and what is its worth. Without looking at personalities but looking at areas in which Australians have worked, it is rewarding to consider those scientific fields in which Australians have been world leaders. We can think of my profession of medicine, in which we have had world leaders in several areas and have received several Nobel Prizes. We can think of advances in all aspects of agricultural science, largely through the CSIRO. We can think of radio astronomy and optical astronomy in which our particular situation with the clear skies of the southern hemisphere has given us a great advantage. We can think of advances in all forms of energy research- for example, solar energyparticularly through the universities and the CSIRO. We can think of advances in the areas of mineral processing, particularly through the CSIRO. 
I thank the honourable senator for his interjection and I was about to say that with our unique flora and fauna we have been leaders in areas of marsupial biology. I have been paid the courtesy by the Minister for Science  (Senator Webster)  of being able to inspect some of the excellent research institutions which are looking at marsupial biology. We have made notable advances in the biochemistry of photosynthesis, the process on which all life in the end depends. These are all recognised as Australian discoveries. The CSIRO has played a major part in all these. 
Let us look at the CSIRO and ask what it has given back to Australia and what have been some of its contributions. I think it is worth while in a debate such as this- a debate which occurs perhaps only once in every 10, 15 or 20 years- to identify the parliamentary recognition that we have of some of the successful products that the CSIRO has developed and given to the nation and to the world. They include the atomic absorption spectrometer, invented by the CSIRO, which have been very important instruments in measuring small amounts of metals. Now up to 67 elements can be detected and up to 1,700 analyses can be performed in a day on these instruments developed in this country. Over 30,000 atomic absorption spectrometers are now in use around the world. 
We have had the discovery of cobalt efficiency deficiency sheep. I notice in the chamber my South Australian colleague,  Senator Teague,  who would have an interest in the problems that were overcome when it was discovered that some marginal land was capable of supporting the grazing of sheep. Previously the land had been marginal because of cobalt deficiency. We have the InterScan system, at the details of which  Senator Webster  occasionally has given us just a peek. The InterScan system is based on microwave beams which scan to and fro across the sky. We have the development of myxomatosis as a method of biological control of rabbits. The CSIRO finally succeeded in transferring this virus disease to rabbit colonies on a large scale via mosquitoes. Galactochesmistry achievements have been gained by the CSIRO. Again because we are in the southern hemisphere and because of our possession of a powerful radio telescope we are a world leader in detecting new organic groupings in space, whether they are planets or galaxies of different kinds. This work has been done by the CSIRO in conjunction with Monash University, to take up another theme which has emerged from other speakers during this debate. 
The development of self-twisted wool yarn may not sound exciting, but it has been a major development by the CSIRO. It came from the 
Division of Textile Industry in 1961 and, in cooperation with the CSIRO, Repco Ltd later built the prototype self-twist spinners for demonstration to woollen mills. Again, this picks up the theme developed by both  Senator Button  and  Senator Puplick  that we have to encourage this exchange and this co-operation between the CSIRO and different groupings in our society. Over 1,600 of these self-twist spinners have been sold overseas already. 
This debate provides an opportunity for us to examine the CSIRO as part of our national scientific establishment. I think that other honourable senators have tried to do this. What is its function in relation to a national scientific policy, a national policy for science and industrial research and development? It seems that there is a lack of science policy, and the lack of a science policy can have very serious consequences. If I refer back to the contribution made by  Senator Puplick  and draw attention to his passing reference to what happened in Great Britain in the 1910 to 1914 era we can see what the lack of a national science policy can cause. At the beginning of the 1914-18 War Britain realised that Germany held a commanding lead in many fields of science, especially in industrial chemistry and chemical engineering. The British found that they were dependent upon the Germans for many essential components. They could not get chemical precursors from coal tar; they could not get aniline dyes; they could not get optical glass; they could not get magnetos; they could not make drugs; they could not make zinc and tungsten. The Germans could. The Germans were using many inventions and processes which had been developed in Great Britain but which had not been followed through in that country. 
Honourable senators will recall that in Australia during the First World War we found we had no supplies of salicylate, one of the few effective drugs at that time. It was the action of the Australian Government in seeking a method of synthesising this drug which led, I think, to the birth of Nicholas, who are the makers of Aspro in this country. This development resulted from our national need in World War I to synthesise and to develop, as part of scientific endeavour, our own self-sufficiency. The lesson we learnt was that the Germans, through a continuously strong science policy throughout the latter part of the 19th century and early part of the 20th century, had developed the scientific processes as they became available and had pushed them through into industrial production and commercial viability. For that reason, Germany had great advantages over the British which led to the kinds of developments of policy to which  Senator Puplick  has referred and which eventually in this country led to the development of national science bodies. 
I was intrigued when reading the background of this to learn that the Prime Minister of the day, William Morris Hughes, acting in his typical cooperative fashion, actually committed the Government at a dinner one night at the University of Melbourne. He made a stirring speech in which he made the commitment which his rather reluctant Cabinet and parliamentary colleagues later had to go along with, whether they liked it or not. 
I thought that the honourable senator would be intrigued about that account of the kinds of quite useful policy commitments that sometimes can be made at university dinners. I think they are usually made at the end of dinners. 
In this country we have a similar concern about a science policy because it is very hard to discern in any organised form what it is or where it is. Especially, it is very hard to find the kind of logical support for the relation of science to secondary industry, to the service industries, to manufacturing industries- to find the way in which scientific inventions and developments can be carried through. The Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development examiners who came to this country wrote a report in 1974 in which they alluded to our lack of science policy. They set out some background about Australian society from which I want to draw some conclusions. In the report they said: 
Although displaying some features of under-development, Australia has achieved, relatively speaking, a very high standard of living. This is clearly shown by the distribution of employment by sector. Only 7.5 per cent of the population is engaged in agriculture, forestry and fisheries, 1.5 per cent in the important mining industry, 23 per cent in manufacturing and a surprisingly large proportion- 60 per cent- in the service sectors. 
Yet if we look at the distribution of research funds at about that time we find that they were quite differently distributed in relation to the occupations in which the community was engaged. About one-third of our research activity went into the defence area- about 30 per cent. About 18 per cent of our research activity went directly into agriculture. About 20 per cent went from various sources into the industrial area and only about 7 per cent went into health and the social sciences. If we look at the OECD figures on where our population worked and if we look at where the research effort was going, it does not seem that the two lined up in any rational way. 
I take  Senator Button's  point. If I could interpolate, if there is a criticism we have to make of the CSIRO it is that for very understandable historical reasons, due to the emphases that were given to it at its birth, it has had a very high degree of activity in agriculture and minerals and a very small degree of activity in some of the more industrial areas or manufacturing areas. I say that in the hope that we can improve this a bit. I note the existence of Project Score, which is being undertaken by the Department of Science. That project is going to be very important in helping to identify what we are doing and where we are doing it. We look forward to identifying the contemporary share of the research dollar in different sectors in this country. We need to know because we are still waiting for the development of a national science policy, which we cannot achieve until we get some idea of what we are spending and where. I note with very great concern that there is no place now for the social sciences. I am not now confusing in any way the argument advanced by  Senator Puplick  or the argument supported by  Senator Button.  They were talking about something different. If we look simply at the formal social sciences, which are going to be of increasing importance in this country, not only are they apparently not catered for adequately within our national research framework but they are specifically excluded from the activities of a body such as the CSIRO in the provisions that are being proposed and which have been proposed by most people who have examined the Organisation. The Government may be correct in adhering to the recommendations in the Birch report say, but I still find it quite disturbing that we do not seem to be making adequate provision somewhere for research in the social sciences that we so urgently need. 
I am talking about research in the social sciences through any agencies, through any kind of support. We need a national policy in science that would give a place to these kinds of activities. At the present time we seem to be picking up a little bit here and a little bit there, with the CSIRO doing these jobs. What we require is some kind of coherent policy. One might ask why we need a science policy anyhow. In summary, the OECD found the following kinds of things about Australia's science effort: 
First of all, it found a lack of industrial and research policies. It found that our universities were under-funded for research compared with the CSIRO, to pick up the point made by my colleague, a former university professional. The universities were under-funded compared with the CSIRO. It found, when considering the research being done in secondary industry, that there were very grave shortcomings, both in the amount and the quality. It found that the working relationship between the CSIRO and industry and the CSIRO and the universities, though it existed, was still short of ideal. Of course, the OECD pointed towards the creation of the Australian Science and Technology Council, which is now a most important body in terms of the thrust that I am developing towards a national science policy. 
After all, what is a science policy? What should it contain? The OECD examiners in their report defined it in the following terms:  a deliberate and coherent basis for national decisions influencing the investment, institutional structures, creativity and utilisation of scientific research. 
I think that that is a perfectly adequate kind of framework within which we can look at the development of a science policy. It probably has two elements. The first is the management of the system through which national science and technology is delivered. This would have relationship, say, to the universities, to the CSIRO, and to other bodies of that kind. The second arm of science policy has to be the integration of science activity in some way with other national goals and aspirations and policies, which themselves must be stated and clear and understood. I accept the caveats put on this by  Senator Button  in some of his concluding remarks. We cannot insist that all scientific activity relate to some central national goals, but we should at least identify the kinds of goals towards which science policy should be contributing some of the answers. 
We do have problems facing science in Australia today, headed by the lack of a science policy. There should be actual research budgeting in line with a laid down policy. There should be planning for scientific manpower, for the information-gathering function to which other honourable senators have referred, for education of the general public, which has to live with science and the scientists. A science policy has to include mechanisms for the transfer of research results into socially desirable products. It has to include capacity for assessment of new technology. It has to include an arrangement for the transfer of scientific know-how to other countries that may wish to purchase or use it, and I will make the point later, I think in support of  Senator Button,  that if we are to survive we will have to recognise that the development and sale of some or our own innovative capacity and skills, some of the products we can make, are going to be important. 
I hope I have referred to that already, but I agree with it. I have already mentioned Project Score, which is an information-gathering project on science, and I hope the Minister can tell us the stage we have reached with it. Of course, there is also ASTEC, which has been given a rather enormous job in making some statements about the needs of Australian science. Hopefully, it will be given the job of bringing down some policy guidelines within which we can state where we think we are going and what we hope to do. 
If I could just revert briefly to the CSIRO, during its early years David Rivett, as he then was, insisted on considerable autonomy for his .division chiefs, and that was fine. They were able to do their own work without reference to anyone, free from political interference, and that was highly desirable. But with the present multiplicity of divisions, or the present number of institutes, however one wants to talk about it, with multi-disciplinary studies becoming more common, with a greater need for team effort in science and less capacity for individuals to be sole operators in major projects, there needs to be a greater co-ordination of effort within some coherent policy framework. I do not think we can have faith in one man at the bench, following his own interests, necessarily working towards goals which we see as nationally important or desirable, goals which might have very important effects on employment opportunity or other matters such as that. 
There are other matters which we need to get from science policy statements. We need to get clarification of the funding of national science activities. We need to get clarification of the career structures. I think that  Senator Button  has already referred to some of the problems in this regard. We have to recognise that as potential employers of scientists the universities, like the CSIRO, have well entrenched scientific staff members on tenure who are not about to move out. If we want to do something about the very small prospects for qualified young scientists we will have to take on board some of the problems involved in making spaces at times of economic hardship and stringency. 
Australian science has other problems. We will have to do something about making the public debate on scientific matters far more sophisticated than it is at present. We have a tendency in Australia to over-simplify public debates. We see this in matters such as the debates on uranium policy or tariff policy. We tend to take positions, get into our trenches- not at all like scientistsand fire bullets at the other side. We have to do something about making sure that the debate in scientific areas is at a better level for the reasons which  Senator Button  indicated by interjection a little while ago. We also have to recognise that Australia is isolated. Our scientists face particular disabilities not suffered by scientists in, say, Europe or North America. The OECD examiners drew colleagues to this matter in their report. They talked about our geographical isolation from foreign centres of research and learning which made a greater intensity of fundamental research more desirable in Australia than in many other countries. They went on to develop that idea. 
In this country, unlike North America, scientists do not have instant contact with other scientists in the field. They find it more difficult to meet colleagues who are working in the same areas. Relatively few scientists of world standing come to Australia. Although some scientists come, they are fewer than one would meet in other areas. It is common for our scientists to be dependent upon journals for the dissemination of information and that information is late by the time the scientists read the material in journals. Our scientists have less access than some of their colleagues overseas to pre-prints of material prepared before publication. They have less access to some of the communications media. For example, it is not common for an Australian scientist to pick up the telephone and call one of his equivalent colleagues in, say, Washington, Palo Alto or some other centre of" excellence. All these things are important to the scientists working in this country. When we talk about science policy we need to take on board these problems as well as other more mundane matters, such as study leave and salary structures. 
We have to improve relations between science and industry. It is interesting that, relatively speaking, the CSIRO has been moderately inactive in this area. This point was well brought out by the OECD report in 1974. When we look at the problems facing Australian science we have to ask ourselves about the atypical funding structure. Of all the OECD countries only Greece has a greater percentage of its science effort funded by government itself. In this country an unduly great amount of our science expenditure comes from government. It is government funded and government performed. 
-The honourable senator said that that is partly due to the shortsightedness of Australian business. It may also be a lack of capacity to become involved or to respond. I think we have to accept that one of the tasks we have to undertake, as I will make clear in a moment, is to prepare Australian business bettter than it is prepared at present to respond and to take part in advancing science policy. I certainly do not accept the situation that science policy - 
-I was interested in the comments that  Senator Button  made previously about a feather-bedded society. We have to be better able to respond. The CSIRO has not achieved the industrial successes necessary to maintain Australia as a world ranking industrial power. The Organisation might say that that is not its job, but it is the main scientific body that we have working for us. 
-I know nothing about the Academy of Science in the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. If I learnt something about it I could possibly respond to the interjection. I am referring to the nexus between government funding and who carries out the research. In other countries, perhaps the USA, government defence contracts, for example, have been the cornerstone of industrial viability for large numbers of firms and also for the capacity of those organisations to remain innovative and competitive. Many of the defence innovations in some countries have been applied for nondefence purposes. Yet in this country we have an almost complete separation of research in the defence area. We have our defence scientific establishment and our industrial and academic research bodies. That is not good enough. 
-The honourable senator offers an interesting comment which is not really relevant to the debate at the moment. I will take it up with him privately later. 
One of our major problems concerns identifying what are the real needs ahead of Australia. When all is said and done, the needs are to maintain a manufacturing sector which is viable, relevant and capable of employing the large numbers of Australians who want jobs. No matter how I look at the situation, I do not see any other sector in Australian society able to take up the slack and offer jobs. We must do it through the manufacturing sector and we must do it in a world in which we are becoming less competitive. The world is becoming more protectionist. We are competing more and more with countries which have advantages which we cannot match in terms of costs of production. We are not ahead of them in terms of our scientific and marketing skills. In spite of all these disadvantages, we have to find some means of re-establishing and maintaining a manufacturing sector. In this matter innovative research science must play a major role. 
I am impressed by the fact that Switzerland is a prosperous country. It is a country with almost no natural resources. The Swiss have had to live off their wits. They have had to live by developing products which people want and getting out and selling them. Even the products they develop are only in small areas, they can make markets. I was interested in the George Judah Cohen Memorial Lecture for 1978 which was given by a friend of mine, Peter North. He talked directly about the kind of problem which faces us in our society. He said: 
In the long term, we cannot escape the need to have a very significant part of our manufacturing industry operating in world markets in its own right, standing on its own feet. In a world where labour is plentiful, capital is scarce and major markets are distant from our shores, that means a major part of our manufacturing industry depending heavily on incisive identification of demand in small, specialised market niches in other countries for unique and much-needed products produced on a modest scale. 
I think that there is a lot of sense in that kind of analysis and approach. Within that context what have we done about developing a national science policy? Within some of" the universities an academic discipline is emerging. People are trying to develop science policy. I note Griffith Uni.tersity, in particular, where  Mrs Ann  Moyal is running a science policy research centre. CSIRO perhaps needs to link in with this kind of effort. In developing our science policy we need to link it with the science manpower policy. I think other honourable senators have referred to that suggestion tonight. We need to improve communications between Australian scientists and their overseas counterparts. We need to fund more private research through contracting work out. We should do all we can to quicken the commercialisation of our research findings. 
My colleague who gave the George Judah Cohen Memorial Lecture offered his own analysis of some of the things that we might usefully do within a science policy to try to advance the development of our manufacturing sector. He talked about the establishment of a bureau of industrial development, a small task force which should be set up to try to identify these unique opportunities to which we might respond in order to try to win markets. We need to increase our research and development expenditure in what might be called 'experimental development' in moving from the research finding to the commercial application. Not enough money is being allocated at present. As a matter of policy we need to designate several equipment areas in the defence field for Australian procurement. We need to involve more private companies in government funded research and development. We need to educate our businessmen- I take up  Senator Puplick  's interjection here- to develop the entrepreneurial skills which we will need in order to alter our approach to marketing, competition and survival. We need to establish a small national school of industrial design as a centre of excellence to try to help this kind of activity. 
I am concerned now about what the Australian Science and Technology Council will produce. It offers the hope for a national science policy. The statement of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  which was made to the Parliament in 1977 made clear his belief and intention that ASTEC should have a strategic planning role. Indeed, under the Act that established the Council it has been given clear responsibility in identifying the basis of a science policy. To that end I am awaiting a further report from ASTEC on the present state of science policy and the basis for the structure which we should adopt. I think that the Australian science area generally is awaiting a statement of goals and directions, both national and scientific. It is awaiting a framework in which it can operate appropriately. It wants guidelines, funding information and organisational guidelines. We really need these things via Project SCORE and ASTEC before we can be certain that CSIRO is in fact operating in an appropriate manner. At the moment until I know what our national science policy is or what we are trying to do I really cannot say where CSIRO fits into the picture. That it operates well, I have no doubt; that it operates effectively, I have no doubt; but I am not quite sure of its place in a national science framework and I do not think anyone else really knows until we have a national science policy statement before us. 
I urge the Minister to hasten the production of these policy guidelines which are needed urgently for our manufacturing capacity, a manufacturing capacity which my State needs so badly in the next few years. If we as a nation are to live on our wits- I believe that is what our future is- in an increasingly hostile world where we have few advantages industrially, if we are to sell technology and innovation and develop new techniques to keep us competitive, I believe we need a clear framework in which we can develop. It is to the Minister for Science and his department and to CSIRO and such bodies that we look for the policy and those guidelines. 
-On behalf of  Senator Davidson;  I present the following petition from 85 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. 
The petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth: 
That the Termination of Pregnancy Ordinance (No. 16 of 1978) has the effect of prohibiting the operation of private abortion clinics in the ACT. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that Honourable Senators should vote to: 
1 ) retain this Ordinance, and 
reject any move to disallow this Ordinance since its disallowance would enable private abortion clinics to operate in the ACT. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. Did AUS Student Travel Service Pty Ltd make the repayment due to Trans-Australia Airlines, Qantas Airways Ltd and its other creditors on 30 September 1978? Is he able to say whether the repayment of these amounts has been waived? How much should AUS Student Travel have repaid to its creditors by now under the original scheme of arrangement? How much has it repaid? 
As all honourable senators are aware, arrangements made between the Whips are generally not brought on to the floor of the Senate. I think that is a very good practice and a practice which we should seek to continue. I only indicate that the Government has had a heavy legislative program during this period of sittings, but the amount of co-operation has been notable. This has enabled the Senate to operate quite differently from another place, where cooperation is not so obvious and where confrontation is far more the order of the day. I would like to put on record that we like our way of working and we would like the Senate to continue working by co-operation, meeting the needs of all honourable senators wherever possible. 
-The honourable senator who interjects sees all things in terms of his own needs and requirements. He will learn that there are 63 honourable senators as well as him. It might take some time but that message will get through to him. When a statement is presented and a copy has not been in the possession of honourable senators, it is the usual practice to adjourn debate on the statement after some initial comments. That is the procedure which has been followed in this case. It is an entirely normal procedure. 
It is an entirely normal procedure when a statement is presented to enable those honourable senators who want a chance to go away and study the statement to do so. However, what  Senator Georges  has suggested is that this statement is one to which he attaches great importance and is one which he thinks that we should debate at an early stage. I can undertake to start an examination of the possibilities of accommodating his request. Clearly, it does not suit the Government's programming to return to this debate at 8 o'clock this evening. But in general terms I will undertake to raise with my leader the possibilities of returning to this debate in the first week of sittings after the break next week. Perhaps it could be on the Thursday evening- I do not know. May I at least consider the possibilities? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Health whether country hospitals in New South Wales are charged an ambulance fee whenever a patient is transferred by ambulance to any other hospital or institution. Is this fee charged to the hospital whether or not the patient is a contributor to the ambulance fund? Do similar arrangements operate in other States? Is the purpose of this arrangement, and the effect produced, to increase the amount by which the Commonwealth must subsidise hospital and ambulance services in New South Wales in a manner quite inequitable in view of the load it places on country hospitals in my State and, I believe, not in keeping with proper actuarial practice by which insurance risks should be spread amongst all contributors? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. Is it a fact that medical referral forms are issued by doctors to enable authorised specialists to qualify for a higher medical benefits rebate than they could obtain without a referral form? Does this mean that the issue of a form of referral to a doctor is a means to a higher income. If so, does the Commonwealth have any disciplinary procedures available to cover cases where doctors improperly certify that they have referred a patient when in fact they have never seen the patient or know nothing of him- the kind of situation that arose in relation to referrals to  Mr Brych  earlier this year? If this is the case, what are those disciplinary procedures? 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Education. Has the Minister become aware that the continued decline in the score of the scholastic aptitude tests taken in the United States by candidates for higher education has not been uniform and that some schools have maintained their scores in that test? Is he further aware of the claims that those schools which have maintained their scores have been those which have consistently emphasised the three Rs right through high school? What analysis has been done in Australia of the schools from which candidates successful in tertiary entrance examinations come? Has it been possible to show differing educational practices in those schools whose candidates have been successful in gaining entrance to the preferred facilities from those whose candidates have been unsuccessful? Has the difference shown a different educational philosophy in those schools whose students have succeeded? 
-I present the following petition from 3 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. 
The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth that the term of the current Staff Elected Commissioner expires on the 22 October 1978. We pray the Government will direct that this position should continue, and that the Minister will authorise the Commonwealth Electoral Officer to proceed with an election, by all ABC staff, of a new commissioner, and your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
-Is the Minister representing the Minister for Health aware of the statement on 4 October 1978 by Joseph Califano, the Secretary of Health, Education and Welfare in the United States, concerning a goal in that country for the elimination of measles there by 1 October 1982? Is there any similar goal in Australia and if so, what is it? If there is not such a goal in Australia, will the Minister undertake to invite the National Health and Medical Research Council to advise him upon strategies which could lead to the elimination of this serious and now preventable illness from the Australian community within a designated period of time? 
The Senate today has canvassed several issues fairly widely in discussing this motion for disallowance of the Termination of Pregnancy Ordinance. I wish to confine my remarks to two matters only. The first of these is the question of the place, if any, of clinics, whether private clinics or Government run clinics, and the second is the question of social equity and equal access to whatever facilities are available. I start my remarks by saying that I genuinely respect the concern of my colleagues and the views of the very many constituents who have written to me and who have contacted me, even when I disagree with them. I hope that they and my colleagues can understand the position that I wish to put today. It is a position which represents an amalgam of personal conviction and of experience gained over years of counselling many people seeking help 
In the absence of  Senator Grimes  from the chamber, only  Senator Sheil  and I in the Senate today have the capacity to express a view based on our experience as practitioners of medicine, not as senators or people removed from the problem. We speak as people who have been closest to pregnant women, who have had to face these problems and who have had to make some decisions. This debate inevitably concerns the conditions under which lawful terminations of pregnancy shall be, can be or could be performed in the Australian Capital Territory. It is not a debate about illegal terminations. Illegal terminations are illegal. They are unlawful and they should be so treated. It is a debate about lawful terminations of pregnancy and it occurs against a background of existing statute and case law which has determined the circumstances under which abortion is lawful. My belief, and I put it simply, is that I would want to ensure for all Australian women the widest possible access to all the facilities they need if they wish to have a lawful termination of pregnancy. I examine the position, regardless of what happens, to see what effect it has on that principle. 
The Ordinance about which today's debate is concerned seeks to narrow and to limit access to abortion which has been available in the Australian Capital Territory previously under the existing statute and case law. Disallowance will not widen the law or create a vacuum. Disallowance will remove the limitations which are imposed by this Ordinance and will restore the situation which applied previously which denned what was legal and what was not. Disallowance of the Ordinance will revive the law that applied in the Australian Capital Territory before the Ordinance was introduced- that is, sections 82 to 84 of the Crimes Act of New South Wales and the case law. I refer to Davidson's case and Wald's case, commonly referred to by the rulings of the judges as the Menhennitt and Levine rulings. The Ordinance narrows the potential access of women in the Australian Capital Territory to termination of pregnancy when they are legally entitled to it. It alters the law from what it was before the enactment of the Ordinance. Previously, the terminations could be undertaken, as provided by New South Wales law. 
I must say just a few words about the position in which government senators find themselves today in relation to this Ordinance. Traditionally, our parties have not laid down a government policy in socially sensitive areas, in areas which are as divisive as this one tends to be. Traditionally, where personal and moral judgments have been involved, we have had a free vote. In such circumstances, our parties normally have given to all our members a free vote. That is happening on this occasion. I remind honourable senators that it also occurred in a number of matters relating to Parliament and its operation and a number of issues involving a significant element of personal morality. These are situations which attract free votes. They included the Matrimonial Causes Bill 1959, the Marriage Bill 1961, the Death Penalty Abolition Bills of 1968 and 1973 and the Family Law Bill 1974. Most recently, it occurred in relation to a motion moved in the Senate to establish a committee to examine the operation of the Family Law Act. 
All these issues attracted free votes from honourable senators on this side of the Senate chamber. In May 1973, the Medical Practices Clarification Bill in another place attracted a free vote. It was a debate about abortion and its performance in the Australian Capital Territory. At that time  Mr Lynch,  speaking on behalf of the Opposition parties, said: 
The Opposition parties regard this matter as one for a conscience vote. 
In September of the same year there was a debate on human relations. It attracted a free vote. In October 1973 the debate on homosexuality attracted a free vote. But on this issue the Government has broken new ground. This is an abortion issue. Government action has resulted in a narrowing of access to a procedure. It has significantly altered the people's access to the procedure. The Government has taken a policy decision. Regrettably, it has occurred by way of subordinate legislation without its passing through the Parliament. I suppose that this is the way in which administrative law tends to work. But it has created an unfortunate position for honourable senators on this side of the chamber. I would have hoped that with this kind of proposal the Government would have moved to make an offer to the Parliament of the kind of law that it wanted and to have debate on a free vote basis. Leaving those procedural matters aside, let us examine the question of special clinics for abortion. 
The Legislative Assembly endorsed a principle that there should be no free-standing private clinics. But those honourable senators who have read the report in detail will have difficulty in finding any argument to support that conclusion. I certainly found it difficult. It has been put to the Senate today that there is a general view about free-standing clinics. But I submit, with the best will in the world, that there has been very little argument of any substance which has any bearing on the place or otherwise of freestanding clinics, whether private or public, and whether we should support them. I can see no moral difference between lawful abortion carried out in the operating theatres of Canberra's hospitals and lawful abortion carried out in a free-standing clinic. Will someone explain to me the moral difference which applies between those two situations? The Government's policy and the speeches of many honourable senators seem to draw such a distinction. If someone can see the difference, will he explain to me what it is? As far as I am concerned, in each case it is a legal termination of pregnancy. But people have taken a moral position without explaining why one situation is acceptable and one is not. 
The Legislative Assembly and the Government have taken a view on private abortion clinics and have done so, apparently, on a matter of significant principle. But I think they have, in fact, done this on an ad hominem basis. I think they have done it because one of the operators who may wish to move into the field has attracted some criticism. They are responding on an ad hominem basis without necessarily saying so and applying the reasoning to the whole possibility of free-standing clinics. I personally do not think that is a good enough reason. As I said, I am concerned with access, social equity and equality of opportunity. 
The need for clinics does exist. If honourable senators are interested in expert opinion, I refer them to the views of some specialist obstetricians and gynaecologists. Two of my friends,  Dr Truskett  and  Dr Pfanner,  writing in the  Medical Journal of Australia  in 1974, commented as follows in talking about abortion: 
Some attention must be devoted towards where such procedures will be performed, lt has been noted by John and Hackman (1973) that routine gynaecological surgery suffered an increase in the waiting list for admission of 200 per cent after the introduction of the liberalised law in the United Kingdom. This situation arises because of the need for urgent bed usage by patients requiring termination. This same situation is occurring in Australia, and routine gynaecological surgery is being postponed time and again to the patient's detriment, and the training of staff and future specialists is also suffering as a result. Any future developments in this area must take these facts into account, and it could become a matter of considerable importance in future planning to make provisions for adequate centres to deal with the problem of abortion. 
I take it that they were suggesting special facilities. I would take it that abortion clinics for abortions performed lawfully are the kind of answer to which they were looking to protect the needs of those who have to have major gynaecological surgery in the major hospitals and whose rights to admission are adversely affected by an insistence that all terminations take place, first trimester abortions particularly, unnecessarily in the operating theatres of major hospitals. Women from the Australian Capital Territory certainly do use free-standing abortion clinics. They use them in Sydney. Of course, the fivehour bus ride from Canberra to Sydney indicates the hypocrisy that can come into this debate if we say that by excluding free-standing clinics we will in fact be stopping all women in the Territory from using them. It may interest honourable senators to know that of the first 1 ,007 women who were treated at the Preterm Foundation the percentage that came from the Australian Capital Territory- 3.9 per cent- was exactly the percentage which the population of the Territory would represent if it were included in the population of New South Wales. 
The report of the Legislative Assembly predicted the number of abortions which might be expected to be needed annually. It showed that the number of abortions that are being carried out each year in the theatres of Canberra hospitals are far below that figure. What happens to the rest of the women? Mostly they have to take the 200-mile trip to Sydney if they wish to get terminations. It is hypocrisy to pretend that failure to establish a clinic here will result in women not using this facility or not continuing to desire to have abortions. In the absence of good and rational arguments against terminations being carried out in clinics- government clinics or private clinics- I can see neither logic nor equity in what has been proposed. In taking that view perhaps I am an outrider of the debate. Perhaps I am the only person in the Senate who does not wish to condemn private free-standing clinics. But if I am to be convinced otherwise people will have to give me some more rational reasons than those which have to do with their dislike for particular doctors or operations in particular cities. 
What about the question of social inequality or potential inequality- it is the same problem- if the Ordinance stands? That is a real concern to me. If only some people can get terminations or if some people can have less access available to them if the Ordinance stands and if all terminations that are to be conducted have to be conducted in the theatres of Australian Capital Territory hospitals, what will this mean? Apart from the fact that it will mean delays in routine gynaecological surgery, what will it mean for the women desiring termination? It will mean that every woman in the Territory who wants a termination without exception will have to cross three barriers at least. She will have to find a doctor who will deal with her sympathetically. She will have to have certificates signed by a doctor or doctors to indicate that the procedure that she wants is lawful and proper. In the Australian Capital Territory she will then have to go before a terminations committee which must, as an extra procedure, decide if it will approve the application. I was indebted to  Senator Walters,  who indicated in her contribution that the committee vets the applications to weed out what might be frivolous- I think that is the word she used- ones. 
-Inconvenient ones. In other words, there is no objection to my belief that that terminations committee acts as an extra barrier to access. The decision as to whether it is lawful rests with the first doctors who sign the certificates. If they are falsely certifying, they are responsible. The purpose of the extra committee, I think, is just to make abortion less accessible to women in Canberra than it is in other parts of Australia. There is not a State which as a rule for all women insists upon the imposition of a terminations committee between a woman and the doctors who certify her to need the termination and the procedure itself. I find that to be quite objectionable. Since 1970 the terminations committee has rejected more than 50 such applications- about 5 per cent of the total, let us say. More than 50 applications have been rejected. We do not know why they were rejected but I suspect that it is because it was thought that in some way they did not measure up to some standard. My concern is to decide what effects this can produce for the women of the Australian Capital Territory. 
I believe that the committee has been set up to restrict the performance of abortions and that it is certainly doing. If one looks at the number of terminations that have been carried out in the hospitals of the Territory over the last few years one will notice that they are dropping year by year. In 1975, 197 abortions were approved; in 1976, 159 were approved; and, in 1977, 151 were approved. The barriers are there and this is at a time when all the evidence shows that the procedure is becoming more common round Australia and when the Legislative Assembly tells us that each year more than 400 women in the Territory will require a termination of pregnancy. My clinical experience as a doctor taught me that access to medical care of any kind is always unequal. It is not universally available to everyone in society. The workers in the health industry always have particularly good access. They know how to get things done; they know how the system works. That includes access to termination of pregnancies. Those who do not understand the law or the system, those who do not know how to contact people or to say the right things, those who do not offer the right coin with which they can pay for entrance have more difficulty. It is the inarticulate and the powerless who have troubles. One of the worst features of abortion practice has always been unequal access. Truskett and Pfanner, in the article which appeared in the  Medical Journal of Australia  in 1974, expressed the problem as follows: 
The wealthy have always had their abortionists in Australia: Almost always medical practitioners who were skilful for the most part and expensive for a variety of reasons. The poor have always had their abortionists who were usually not medically trained, were unskilled and not always inexpensive. 
Practice has altered since that time but I am convinced that any barriers whatsoever which are put up to make access more difficult will operate unequally, at the expense of the poor, the inarticulate, the uneducated and the powerless because they are the people who always do worst whenever a system is made more complex. As a philosophical liberal, I cannot be a party to any measure which limits access and which once again might direct the poorer, the less articulate and the powerless to any less professional procedure than is available to their wealthier and better educated sisters.  Senator Puplick,  in his maiden speech, quoted with approval the words of Edmund Burke in a speech to the electors of Bristol in which he promised them his service and his duty, but he told them that his conscience remained with him alone. Of course, that is the position that I take today. I do not seek to impose my views on any of my colleagues but I insist on the right to express and follow the dictates of my conscience here. As a doctor I have had to counsel many pregnant women, some of whom with my help have been able to find support to go through their pregnancies. I applaud them. I have had to counsel many pregnant women who with my support have found their way to termination of their pregnancies. If I go back into practice I will doubtless do the same many times again. 
-The honourable senator asks whether I have assisted at terminations of pregnancy. 
-The honourable senator is a nurse, she is married to a gynaecologist and so she would know. I have as a resident assisted at terminations with all the horror and unpleasantness of the procedure. Further, I am an adopting parent with all that that implies for this debate and what it has meant for my family for me to have to take this stand. But I find the possibility of less easy access to abortion for women in the Australian Capital Territory to be present if this Ordinance is upheld. There will be less easy access that is likely to be socially inequitable in its impact and which is likely merely to direct women to Sydney and to the free standing clinics there. Under those circumstances I cannot support the thrust of the Ordinance and I will cast my vote for  Senator Ryan's  motion. Since I believe in free standing clinics I cannot support  Senator Evans's  amendment, which would seek an expression from the Senate that these clinics are not desirable. 
-Is the Minister representing the Minister for Transport aware that travel agents wishing to trade in New South Wales require State registration each year? Can the Minister confirm that AUS Student Travel Service Pty Ltd applied for renewal of its registration in June, that the New South Wales Travel Agents Licensing Board objected to that renewal, that AUS Student Travel is likely to cease operations in New South Wales and that another company has sought to take over and is being challenged before the Travel Agents Licensing Board? Can the Minister assure the Senate that students on campuses in New South Wales and the travel moneys which they have invested will be protected when the commercial improprieties of AUS Student Travel finally catch up with it and drive it out of my State? 
-My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Veterans' Affairs. It concerns claims by a  Mr I.  H. Davies of Nedlands, Western Australia, that there is an association between overseas war service and the occurrence of certain malignant diseases. Is the Minister aware that a limited study done by the Department of Veterans' Affairs failed to confirm the association but that  Dr Metcalf  of the Walter and Eliza Hall Institute of Medical Research and  Dr F.  W. Gunz of the Kanematsu Memorial Institute at Sydney Hospital, both haemotologists of world renown, feel that the departmental study was inadequate? Is the Minister also aware that both doctors expressed the view that the interests of veterans demand the setting up of an independent inquiry involving consultation with recognised authorities in this field of medicine? Is the Minister further aware that the necessary data is available to carry out such an inquiry into the relationship between war service in the tropics and lymphatic malignancies? Finally, will the Minister undertake to ask the Minister for Veterans' Affairs whether he would be willing to set up a more extensive inquiry, as recommended by these experts? 

 - Mr President, in view of the fact that we are still receiving messages and are anxious to be able to receive them during this evening, I move: 
That Standing Order 68 be suspended to enable new business to be commenced after 10.30 p.m. this day. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Transport: Under the Air Navigation Regulations controlling charters, is it necessary for all travellers to be financial members of the charterworthy body both when they book and at the time they travel? 
On behalf of the Senate Standing Committee on Social Welfare, I present a report on ethics in wine promotion. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
-by leave-A longstanding reference from the Senate empowers the Standing Committee on Social Welfare to exercise a continuing oversight of relevant aspects of the report of the Senate Select Committee on Drug Trafficking and Drug Abuse which was presented in 1971. Acting under that reference, the Committee, in October 1977, presented a report entitled 'Drug Problems in Australia- An Intoxicated Society?', which contained specific recommendations to end the advertising of alcoholic beverages. At the same time the Committee noted the existence of several voluntary codes limiting and controlling such advertising. 
The Committee's attention has since been directed to a film which was used by the Australian Wine Board to promote Australian table wines and which appeared to breach standards contained in several voluntary codes for the advertising of alcoholic beverages. The Board asserts that the film is not an advertisement and therefore is not covered by a voluntary advertising code. The Board also asserts that it is not a feature film subject to normal film censorship. 
The Committee found, however, that all films, including documentaries, to be shown in registered public cinemas must be submitted to the Commonwealth Film Censorship Board for registration and classification under a uniform system that applies in all States and Territories. By agreement, the States have delegated to the Chief Censor of the Commonwealth Board the task of registering and classifying all such films. 
The Committee was disturbed to discover that the proper procedures had not been complied with and believes that, but for its inquiries,  Drink No Longer Water  might never have been submitted by the Wine Board for registration and classification as prescribed by law. As a result of our intervention, the Film Censorship Board called for and viewed the film, and has now registered it with the classified 'NRC- an advisory classification warning that it is not recommended for children. 
The Film Censorship Board does not consider  Drink No Longer Water  to be a documentary. It is composed of a series of acted scenes and, in our view, has been prepared in a way that will appeal most particularly to young audiences. By dictionary definition, a documentary is a film in which natural characters or objects are used for educational or instructional purposes. The only educational or instructional feature of this film is the information that there are five varieties of Australian table wines. 
The Committee believes that  Drink No Longer Water,  in some instances set out in detail in the report, breaches a number of provisions in voluntary codes for the advertising of alcoholic beverages. Our view is that there should be an appropriate code to cover all promotional material, however described. 
We express our concern that a Commonwealth statutory corporation has chosen to promote the use of wine by employing material that disparages temperance and abstinence and relies heavily on sexual themes. Our views on the use of such methods in the advertising of alcoholic beverages were made quite clear in our previous report. We seek a change in the attitudes that produce this kind of promotion of alcohol, whether by paid advertising or by other means. Because of our concern over what has happened in this instance we have made recommendations which ask the Commonwealth Government to develop guidelines to cover all promotional material used by its departments and statutory authorities and which ask the Australian Wine Board, as an interim measure and of its own volition, to adopt for future promotional efforts standards laid down in one of the voluntary codes attached to the Committee's report, and to comply with all relevant laws and regulations. Finally, we have asked the Media Council of Australia to examine the need for promotional material to be better defined and to adopt a comprehensive code to cover all such material, however described. 
-I present the following petition from 46 1 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
We as citizens of the Commonwealth, employed in the small business sector of the oil industry, earnestly request our government to implement, as quickly as possible, the package of measures as announced by the government on 31st October, 1978, designed to ensure that many thousands of Australia's small businessmen and their employees be retained in the retail oil industry. 
And your petitioners in duty bound will every pray. 
Petition received and read. 
by leave- I move: 
That the Senate take note of the report. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
In view of many serious allegations being made outside Parliament and in the travel industry, I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Transport: Does Qantas Airways Ltd pay to the Tabros Travel Service of Dulwich Hill, New South Wales, either direct or via  Mr Cassa  of Concord Travel, a percentage turnover on sales? Is this payment called a commission or payment for translation services or something else? To how many other non-International Air Transport Association agents are payments of any magnitude or kind made? 
I further ask the Minister whether there are, or have been, complaints before an industry committee that illegal discounts have been made available by Tabros Travel in issuing tickets which show false destinations, particularly, say, Athens, when in fact the destination is Damascus. Most seriously of all, have there been allegations that baggage at airports has been tagged by Qantas staff for final destinations not shown on the face of tickets? Can the Minister assure the Senate that these further allegations of illegal discounting practices involving Qantas will be answered in a way that will ensure continuing public confidence in the probity of our national carrier? 
by leave- Jonathan Swift once stated: 
A man should never be ashamed to own he has been in the wrong, which is but saying, in other words, that he is wiser to-day than he was yesterday. 
Yesterday, the Senate Standing Committee on Social Welfare in its report on ethics in wine promotion expressed its concern at the Australian Wine Board 's use of a film to promote Australian table wines. Though it was not central to the issues which were raised it was declared both in the report and in my statement to the Senate that the film  Drink No Longer Water  had not been submitted for registration and classification under the prescribed procedures. This statement was made on the basis of advice from the Commonwealth Film Censorship Board. It was given to us by the Board. It was also made on the basis of advice from  Mr Robert  Mayne, National Promotions Manager of the Wine Board. For those honourable senators who are interested, on page 10 of the report presented yesterday, in a letter from  Mr Mayne  to the Committee, the following statement appears: 
Censorship. Drink No Longer Water was made by  Mr Ric  Kabriel of Fontana Films, Sydney, for the Board.  Mr Kabriel  informs me that because of its documentary nature, no censorship process was required and so it was given no rating. 
I have to inform the Senate that since the presentation of the report the same  Mr Robert  Mayne, National Promotions Manager of the Wine Board, has stated that the film was submitted to the Commonwealth Film Censorship Board in compliance with the proper procedures. I should like to read a telegram which was received this morning from Robert Mayne. It reads: 
The film 'Drink No Longer Water' produced by the Wine Board was submitted to Censor and received a 'G' rating (Commonwealth Centre P77/ 1635). Fontana Films advised us that it had not been censored but the distributor Fox Columbia today advised otherwise . . . Robert Mayne National Promotions Manager Australian Wine Board. 
So, this same gentleman has informed us now on two separate occasions of two separate procedures that apparently were followed in respect of the same film. The Committee had further inquiries made this morning and these inquiries have established that the information given to us earlier was, in fact, incorrect despite careful checking at the time. The Committee has now been advised that a film under a somewhat different title was submitted to the Film Censorship Board by a firm of film distributors in December 1977 and given a 'G' classification by the censor who viewed it. We understand that this is the same film which is now known under the title  Drink No Longer Water  and which was viewed by the Film Censorship Board, as a result of the Committee's inquiries, and classified NRC- not recommended for children- by the Film Censorship Board itself. So, the same film has been given two classifications. The *G' classification is now being revoked. 
On the major issue of the format of the film and its suitability for use in the promotion of wine, the Committee's view remains unchanged. However, we express our regret at any inaccuracy which may have been contained in our statement to the Senate yesterday and which obviously was made on the basis of incorrect information. I make this statement on the Committee 's behalf at the earliest opportunity so as to put the record straight. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 24 November 1978: 
Is travelling allowance paid to members of the International Year of the Child Committee when they need to travel or to pay for accommodation to enable them to attend meetings. 
-My question, which is directed to the Minister for Social Security, concerns matters aired in the 3 February issue of the  National Times.  Whilst anxious to avoid any mention of matters which might be sub judice, I ask the Minister: First, was her Director-General quoted substantially correctly in relation to reasons he advanced for placing the word 'Greece' on placards included in certain photographs and also in relation to the view attributed to him- and I quote the newspaper article- that 'the criminal law is stacked to give the defendent the benefit of the doubt- even if someone is found innocent they could be guilty '? Secondly, if he was correctly quoted, can the Minister advise the Senate whether these statements are consistent with her previous assurances to the Senate on 3 May and with the policies and practices of her Department? Thirdly, can she specifically assure the Senate, in spite of anything that her Director-General might say, that those found not guilty of any offence will be so regarded by her Department? Fourthly, and finally, can the Minister comment on assertions in that article that some former beneficiaries living in Greece have had to wait nine months or more for appeals against benefit cancellations to be heard? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 7 November 1978: 
1 ) How many applications were received for National Health and Medical Research Council grants from 1 November 1 977 to 3 1 October 1 978. 
) How many of these were granted in full. 
How many applicants were refused grants of money. 
How many received grants of only part of the amounts sought. 
How many grants were discontinued for projects which had been running 3 years or more. 
What loss of employment has occurred due to dismissal of scientists from funded programs. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 15 November 1978: 
1 ) Under what guidelines does the Terminations Committee set up in Canberra hospitals operate when examining applications for terminations of pregnancy. 
Are these guidelines set down formally; if so, (a) when were they so set down and (b) what are the circumstances under which these guidelines can be varied or altered. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 23 November 1978: 
Is travelling allowance paid to members of the Therapeutic Goods Advisory Committee, including ex officio members who are on the Committee to represent specific organisations. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Home Affairs, upon notice, on 24 November 1978: 
Do members of the National Women's Advisory Council receive travelling allowance under appropriate circumstances. 
I present the following petition from 284 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth that they disapprove of the proposal to withdraw Abortion as an allowable benefit from the medical benefits funds. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that Abortion is kept as an allowable benefit from the medical benefits funds. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
I  present the following petition from 60 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate assembled. The petition of the undersigned respectfully showeth. That: 
Lithuania, a nation of over 3 million people, is deprived of human freedom and those national and individual rights which are deemed sacred in Australia today. 
In 1940, Lithuania was occupied by the USSR in coalition with Hitler Nazi Germany. Lithuania, with a history of seven centuries as an indentifiable State and also twenty-three years as a modern republic, now represents a compelling case study of the violation of human rights by the Soviet Occupation Regime. The Lithuanian nation accepted Christianity in 125 1. By 1386 most of the Lithuanian State had accepted Christianity and Western European culture. 
Those who have the courage to speak out in defence of national and human rights in Lithuania are dealt with by the Moscow government in a manner which is abhorrent to every freedom- minded person in Australia. 
In recent times the following Lithuanian dissidents have been imprisoned in concentration camps: Viktoras Petkus, Balys Gajauskas, Nijole Sadunaite, Algirdas Zypre, Petras Plumpa, Sarunas Zukauskas, Vytautas Kavoliunas, Povilas Petronis, Ona Pranckunaite, Petras Paulaitis, J. Matulionis and many others. 
We ask you to condemn the following methods which the Soviet Regime makes use of to silence dissidents- prison camps, psychiatric institutions, drug therapy and exile in Siberia. We further ask you to intercede on behalf of the above mentioned Lithuanian dissidents in order to free them from their imprisonment. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
-My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. He might recall that I asked him a question on 24 November last concerning certain alleged illegal ticketing and dispatch practices which might have involved Qantas Airways and on which the Minister promised to let me have a reply. Is the Minister able now to say that it is correct that on or about 24 November last year an International Air Transport Association inspector discovered a number of passengers travelling to Damascus on tickets showing another destination and that the baggage of those passengers had been tagged 'Damascus', presumably by Qantas counter staff? Is it also a fact that connecting flights on a Saudi Arabian airline shown on the tickets either did not exist or did not operate on the day indicated? Is the Minister able to advise whether any of the tagging of baggage for final destinations other than those shown on the tickets was carried out by Qantas staff? Is he able to say whether there is any evidence of any breaches of the Air Navigation Regulations? If so, what corrective action, if any, has been taken by the Department? What further action is intended? Finally, can the Minister clearly indicate what role, if any, Qantas Airways Ltd or its staff have had in this incident? 
The Senate is considering the Ministerial Statement of 25 October 1978 made by the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  which alters the eligibility for access to legal aid in Australia. The debate was adjourned at that stage and this is the first opportunity we have had to come back to the subject. Let me acknowledge at the outset of my remarks that the new arrangements which are set out in the statement do improve access to legal aid for some people and diminish access to legal aid for other people with particular problems. It is not my intention to discuss or canvass the details of the particular decision. I believe that that is properly a matter for those with a legal background and legal training. 
I wish to identify in general what I see as the effects to some of the consumers of legal aid, and to offer a few comments on a more general principle which the new arrangements illustrate and which I believe we should discuss. I think it is good for debates of this kind on technical matters in the professional area of some people in the Senate to involve as wide a circle of senators as possible. After all, legal aid is available to all citizens. I could speak as a potential consumer of legal aid. Perhaps my present income would preclude that, but I could speak as a citizen without legal training who may need to consume legal services and may need access to legal aid. Others may speak in the debate as practitioners who see legal aid issues in a different way; practitioners of law who may even be said to have some special interest in the area and in the arrangements which are provided; some interests to declare as well as special views and special skills. 
The Minister in his speech referred to the fact that legal aid prior to the new arrangements was being refused by the Australian Legal Aid Office to people in real need. He also drew attention to the fact that some progress had been made in simplifying some of the legal procedures. He drew particular attention to the greater ease of dissolution of marriage, a situation which had changed since the time when the Legal Aid Act was first passed and therefore might require some different arrangements. He also drew attention to the fact that because of wage adjustments which had occurred generally in the community some people who had been eligible for legal aid in 1976 were not eligible for it in 1978, simply because their incomes had gone up and the guidelines had not altered. The new guidelines laid down by the Minister in general increase the permissible income within which legal aid is to be granted. The guidelines at the same time narrow the scope of services by limiting assistance in the family law jurisdiction to urgent dissolutions and to real financial need. 
We see the Minister on the one hand increasing the capacity for people to take advantage of legal aid by virtue of their income, and on the other hand reducing the capacity of people to have access to legal aid by removing from the available services certain matters which he no longer feels are appropriate. In the statement there is a recognition of legal aid as a service which is available, and is to be available only to certain people who demonstrate need and satisfy certain particular criteria. I think that is important because it makes clear that legal aid in Australia is not a social right available to all, irrespective of need or income. I think we will discuss legal aid more effectively if we do it on the basis that it is a needs based service, not a universal right to all Australians; there is no universal right of access to State financed legal services under which most goverment schemes operate. 
I was concerned when the last Budget Papers appeared and I saw the amounts which had been made available for legal aid and how legal aid services had fared. If we look at Appropriation Bill (No. 1) we discover that if the total appropriation of $ 19.64m available for 1978-79 is utilised, it is only marginally less than the amount of expenditure in 1977-78 which was $ 1 9.9 1 m. Clearly I and many other people would have liked to have seen an increased appropriation. 
I do not deny that to the extent that the price deflator has altered the value of money the honourable senator is correct. Let us acknowledge that fact. We are not denying it. Nevertheless the Government has made available a very considerable amount of money and it is now our job to utilise it in the most effective and efficient way possible to carry out tasks that we see as important. If we look at Budget Paper No. 2 we discover, for example, that the actual expenditure in 1977-78 on the matters covered in Appropriation Bill No. 2 was $80,000 and the amount appropriated this year is $250,000. In dollar terms the amounts expended in the two years are not going to be greatly different. Let us acknowledge that to the extent that there have been changes in the value of money this may represent some real diminution in what is available. The question then arises: How do we most effectively use that money for the community's benefit and for the benefit of those in real need? The new arrangements provide for a few other details. For example they provide for a greater contribution from some clients and a lesser fee for some practitioners for some of the services which they render. I am not going to develop those provisions; I will leave discussion of those matters to  Senator Evans  or to other honourable senators who may be able to tell us in more detail what they mean. 
I want to discuss another issue. These guidelines seek to reorganise the use of resources committed for legal aid. They seek to allocate the money in a coherent way so that it is put to the best use. In general I think this is a highly desirable thing to do. The Attorney-General has indicated how he wants that done. He does not want, in general legal aid services to be used for simple dissolution. He is prepared to see legal aid services used, say, in the family law jurisdiction for cases of real need, for cases of urgent dissolution and for the more difficult matters, which he sets out in his statement, of custody, maintenance, access and so on. But he is going about the other process of deepening access to a greater number of people. In my own constituency work I have had a number of concerns about access to legal aid expressed to me by my constituents. In general the concerns that have been expressed to me have been mostly on the grounds that the income tests have barred them. There has been much less concern about the ambit of availability not being wide enough. That has been my experience in my own constituency work in Sydney. 

 Mr Deputy President, legal aid cannot be considered in isolation and it cannot be looked at on its own. It is not an isolated service. Legal aid is simply part of the whole human services area in which government is involved. It is actually a welfare service. It is no different from the other welfare services. It is of the same quality as the community development services. It is a form of crisis intervention. To the extent that the court provides one of the places where people interlock in the system at times of crisis, legal aid is one of the ways to enable this to happen more effectively. We should examine legal aid services against the same tests by which we examine other welfare measures. We should look at the kind of social effects which are produced. We should look at the place of legal aid in a coherent welfare system in the same way as we look at all other welfare services. I must say that in the debates that we have had on the legal aid services we have tended to take this as an isolated matter which is in some way different. Legal aid is an important service, but it fits into a whole range of services. Whether they are health services, welfare services, housing policies or community development activities, they are all part of the same kind of interventions by government aimed at giving people a better chance. 
I would reject completely any tacit or implicit proposition that has emerged that legal aid is unique, that it is different or that it should be looked at on its own. If we in the Senate are going to look at the matter logically, look at these guidelines and look properly at this statement, we must look at legal aid as part of a welfare system and part of the human services area within that system. In theory and in concept, it is not really different from housing, taxation policy, health, the cash transfer system, the provision of services or community development. They are all part of the same set of issues. They are all important, they are all vital and they are all interlocking. That is the point that I want to make more than any other. We cannot look at legal aid alone; it interlocks with all the other matters. The problems are the same, the limitations are the same and the inhibitions are the same. We are faced with a general set of propositions that we have to attack. The same body of theory could apply across the same areas, perhaps with some slight variations. If in this Senate our concerns are for access for all Australians, for equity, if our concerns are for effectiveness and efficiency, then those concerns can be as effectively examined by looking at legal aid as a welfare service as our concerns can be examined for all other aspects of the welfare system. 
This brings me to the one central unresolved issue in the whole welfare area in Australia. It is the issue of resources and how resources are allocated, and the kind of crisis which is developing in resource allocation in the area of welfare services generally, of which legal aid is only one part. 
I illustrate this point by referring to a medical lecture, one of the annual narrations given in 1976. I refer to the 
Shattuck lecture given by an American named Roy. In relation to medical care he said: 
Three medical facts of life emerge: that we cannot do everything that is scientifically possible for everyone everywhere that if we cannot do everything for everyone everywhere we must decide what we are going to do for whom where. 
The third point he made was quite medical:  that personal health care is only one determinant of health. 
The first two points he made bring us to the kind of central problem we have. We have been allocating into the whole human services area an increasing amount of our resources and we are finding increasing resistance from all governments of all political persuasions to the amount of our expenditure. It does not matter whether it is in health, welfare, legal aid or housing. Sooner or later there has to be a proportion of our gross domestic product above which we cannot tolerate expenditure. I am not going to say what that proportion is. It could be that 90 per cent of our GDP might go into the human services area. Already 50 per cent of all our Budget expenses go in this area. Sooner or later the community is going to say: 'No more'. There is a limit to the amount of resource which it is possible to claim for the human services area. Until we recognise that and until we do something about getting a rational distribution we will continue to find, as  Senator Missen  said by way of interjection, that one area scarcely gets a guernsey and another area, through historic power, keeps getting accretions to its amounts. It becomes very difficult in that kind of situation to have new interventions because they have to compete with established calls upon the national purse. There is a resource limit to what we can even attempt, and there is certainly a limit to what we can do and to what we can do effectively. 
The issue in the resources area is to identify priorities between sectors, certainly between the broad sectors of government activity. Should we be doing more in the human services area and, if so, which areas of government activity will be able to attract less, because in the end, even in the battle between sectors, we can get more for one sector only if we take less for another? Certainly we can utilise any increase in real national wealth but we cannot claim more for the human services area without at the same time demanding that less be spent somewhere else. If we want more for one part of the human services area and the situation is that the community say it cannot increase the commitment to human services above 50 per cent of the Budget, we will have to start saying that some other area will have to have less- I am not saying that that is an inappropriate proposition- but we will have to help to identify which area it is that will get less. 
We have one cash transfer program in this country which each year takes $3.25 billion. The sum of $3,250m goes on one program alone. Its increase each year simply by indexation of the pension is more than the total subvention in most of the community development areas, legal aid and all the other matters. If we want more say in community development, sooner or later we will have to bite the bullet and say that there will be less in some other area or a halt. This is an issue which does not seem to be getting the attention in the community that it should be receiving. The same thing applies within the different sectors, even within health or the legal aid areas. If we want more spent on one area, unless we can increase the total appropriation we will have to start identifying less in another area. 
-The honourable senator talks about efficiency. Who could argue with that? That is a thoroughly admirable statement. We are in pursuit of efficiency but we are also in pursuit of equity, access and effectiveness. They are all different matters. Efficiency is one of them. 
-The honourable senator now brings out particular ways in which he could use money more efficiently. That is fine, but we must acknowledge the principle that, within a fixed subvention, to get more in one area of legal aid we will have to have a reorganisation which would involve taking away from some other activity or area. If the honourable senator says that it should be taken away from the fees payable to private practitioners then that is the suggestion that he puts in. I do not find that inappropriate. There is what economists call a romantic view of resource allocation by which people are apt to identify what should be done without any appreciation of what is available to do it. It is trying to bring the two back into some kind of coherence that is the great unresolved issue today. 
We therefore need, and it is proper to do so, to examine and criticise each sector- legal aid, housing and every other sector- and to look at the total allocation to see how it is distributed and how we can do things more efficiently and more effectively. It is a fact that the AttorneyGeneral has moved to do that or to try to do that in the new guidelines, which I think is very encouraging. He obviously would have thought that he would receive a bigger appropriation. Let me repeat that the appropriation of $ 19.6m is only a couple of hundred thousand dollars less than the expenditure in the previous year. 
-The honourable senator can say what he wishes. It could have been worse. Our job now is to make sure that that appropriation is used as efficiently and effectively as possible. The Attorney-General has moved to alter the eligibility criteria to enable more people at different income levels to be able to use legal aid services and at the same time to remove what he sees as lower priority activities for access to legal aid through the routine dissolution provisions et cetera, which is at least a step on the right road. I think that we must applaud the Government at least to the extent that it has tried to bring some rationality into the way in which the appropriation is to be used this year. 
I repeat that problems it has faced in the legal aid area will have to be faced in other areas if not this year then next year and in the following few years. There is no way, for example, that we can continue indefinitely to increase our appropriations for health as a percentage of the gross domestic product. There is no way that we are going to be able to sustain a situation in which an increased proportion of the gross domestic product is going to welfare programs generally. Sooner or later we will have to face the painful decision that we can no longer work simply by incremental budgeting, that is, taking what we have got and adding something on the top. We will have to work by substitution, that is, removing some services to permit us to add others. The kind of issue which faces us will be neither popular nor painless. Any government that has to do it will attract a good deal of criticism in whatever area is affected and no matter how impeccable the decisions are in terms of logic. No matter which government is in office- whatever its political complexion- it will have to be faced sooner or later. I think these forays into the politics of resources use and allocation are going to be with us more and more. 
I see the statement of the Attorney-General in those terms. I have not attempted in any way to go into the particular matters, to say whether I think solicitors are being paid enough, too much or too little, or to say whether a fee that is being charged is appropriate. What the AttorneyGeneral has done has been to recognise that, within a certain appropriation, if he wants to do justice in one area he can do it only by restricting access in another. This is the first time in the human services area that I have seen the issue faced so boldly. To that extent I applaud the Government and I applaud the AttorneyGeneral. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services. It relates to the invasion of the Commonwealth Parliament Offices in Sydney during lunch hour on 26 February 1 979. I ask: Were the demonstrators removed by State Police even though assistance had been sought from the Commonwealth Police? Can the Minister comment on whether it took half an hour for Commonwealth Police to respond to a call for assistance by an official in the Commonwealth Parliament Offices reception area? Is one reason for the delay the fact that only one Commonwealth policeman is available in the Sydney building and that he, not unreasonably, may have been absent having his lunch when the demonstration occurred? 
-That is right. We are still well within that time scale. I would have thought that it was such a simple request- to invite the Australian Wine Board to accept any of the voluntary codes- that it should not take any time at all for it to respond. The Senate Standing Committee on Social Welfare is watching this matter very closely, watching the passage of the weeks and months. It will no doubt have to raise the matter again in the Senate unless it receives some response from the Wine Board, preferably of the kind that it has sought. 
-My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. It relates to damage caused by space debris crashing to earth in a number of parts of the world. Examples include the recent episode in Canada, the crash of a 10 tonne satellite called Pegasus I in the Atlantic off Angola in September 1978, the crash of a smaller radioactive piece of debris in France and the death of a cow from a satellite fragment in Cuba. Where does responsibility for space debris rest? What international agreements have been made to ensure that those responsible for placing satellites in orbit are also responsible for damage caused? What procedures have been set up to cope with any special problems which crashes of space debris might present to the Australian community? 
If there are no other speakers I shall respond to close the debate. I listened with great interest, particularly to  Senator Rae  and the other honourable senators who joined in this debate. I thank  Senator Rae  for his contribution and his discussion about the dangers in banning advertising. The Senate Standing Committee on Social Welfare report which we are discussing has said nothing at all about banning advertising. Whatever this report is about, it is not about banning the advertising of anything. I am grateful to the honourable senator for remaining to listen. This report made three recommendations only. The first recommendation was that the Commonwealth Government develop guidelines to cover the production by its department and statutory authorities of promotional material. That is not about banning advertising. The honourable senator reminds me that he may have been misunderstood. The second recommendation was that the Australian Wine Board, as an interim measure, and of its own volition, accept one of the voluntary codes for the advertising of alcoholic drinks. What has that got to do with banning? We have invited the Wine Board to go to the voluntary codes which existsthere are several of them- to examine them, to make its own choice and to adopt one of those codes as the standard by which it will produce its promotional material. What has that got to do with banning anything? The fact that this Committee made some recommendations in another report at another time about the banning of advertising has nothing to do with the report before us tonight. This report before us tonight expresses our concern that the Commonwealth of Australia funds statutory authorities which adopt no standards whatsoever in their promotional activities, and which do not adhere to or recognise any of the voluntary codes. I could not think of a more reasonable proposition to put to the Wine Board or to the Senate. 

 Senator Rae raised some very important points in relation to the use of drugs which have to be discussed before we close this debate. First of all the use of tobacco is changing in different age cohorts. If the community is divided into different cohorts it will be discovered that the use of tobacco is dropping in every cohort and in every age group except for the very young, the teenagers, where the use of tobacco is increasing. I am reminded that it is increasing at a fast rate. But use is dropping in the older age groups. The problem we have in this country at the present time is a specific one in relation to tobacco usage. There has been a positive educational effect upon those who feel mortality creeping upon them, and there has been simultaneously an increasing recruitment to tobacco use by those who are in their teens and who believe they are invincible. 
-And who are younger. The issue concerning tobacco use in this country today is the seduction of infants into the use of an addictive drug before they have reached an age where they can make mature judgments. 
Amatil Ltd, one of the tobacco companies, came before the Senate Committee and asserted that the decision to smoke was one for mature people. That was its assertion in sworn evidence. The company said that it was a decision to be taken by mature people. How do they tie that in with the emerging statistical evidence that shows that the people who are being recruited are aged between 10 and 13 years? 
-Senator Jessop is not listening to the argument because I am sure the honourable senator would be one of the first to agree with the evidence which shows that it is the young teenagers in Australia who are being recruited. When looking at advertising we have to decide whether the Hogan image, the Marlboro man, and the various advertising techniques are playing any role in enhancing that seduction of minors into using a product which the law of most States does not permit to be sold to minors. 
I assert, as a person who for some 10 years was director of the family advertising agency, that we thought we were in business to increase markets. That is what we told our clients. When we went out to get an account we said that we would help increase the market. Of course, we had the other objective which was to increase our market share, but it was our belief as an agency that we would increase markets. I believe it is absolute hogwash for the advertising industry and its apologists to come before us and to say that they are not interested in increasing markets and in recruiting people into the use of those products. Of course they are. If anyone saw a very famous advertising man who appeared on  Monday Conference  a year ago, they will remember that he acknowledged- he did not dodge the question-that advertising companies were out to increase the number of users of their products, to increase the market, for example, the use of drugs. 
The purchase of tobacco by people under the age of 16 is illegal in New South Wales. I believe it is illegal in Victoria. If the advertising industry is directing any of its efforts towards that market in those states it is illegally advertising the use of a product to a group of people. We cannot run away from this issue and the advertising industry will not get away by simply asserting, as is  Mr Clemenger  at the present time on behalf of the industry, that what is legal should be freely advertisable. Everywhere such people go they are saying that that is their right; that whatever is legal is freely advertisable. What nonsense. Many honourable senators will have seen an excellent rejoinder by  Mr Alex  Dumas, who is the managing director of Spasm Advertising. He wrote an outstanding article in which the demolished the argument of  Mr Clemenger  and of the industry. What legal right is there to advertise firearms? Yet the sale of firearms is perfectly legal. Honourable senators might recall that in my profession of medicine it is not legal to advertise our services or the products which we sell perfectly legally. 
-Thank you very much, senator.  Mr Clemenger  's assertion of a right that does not exist is nothing more than a self-serving claim or special-interest pleading by a profession which has shown itself as unwilling to face up to its responsibilities. I will come back to the Senate some time during this session with a carefully prepared answer to  Mr Clemenger  's statement because I believe it is an insidious and dangerous claim. He has said that what is legal to sell should be freely advertisable. That sounds attractive but it is just not so. 

 Senator Rae drew attention to his very legitimate concern that we should not attempt to become a nation which wants to control what other people do. Let us examine the libertarian ethic. Let us examine what John Stuart Mill might have said, and let us do it in relation to cigarette smoking and alcohol usage. For the purposes of the argument let us ignore any question of whether passive smoking will harm me. When someone else is smoking is it going to harm me? For example, if the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Chaney)  is having one of his infrequent cigarettes and I inhale the smoke, let us ignore any effect that that smoke might have on me. The effect of cigarette smoking in that model is felt entirely by the user. It is the person who smokes who suffers the damage. In those circumstances, provided that the decision to smoke is made by a mature person, I have no real concern about whether he smokes or does not smoke. 
I believe that the product should be taxed at a sufficient level to cover society for the cost incurred. However, in libertarian terms it is the person's decision and he bears the consequences. My main concern about smoking in this country is that the tobacco companies are deliberately, cynically and continuously trying to develop a juvenile market which, on their own admission, consists of a group of people who are unable to make thenown mature decisions. They told us in evidence that it should be a mature decision. 
Alcohol, on the other hand, is a different matter because the effects of alcohol and other drugs are felt not just by the individual but also by those around him. In terms that John Stuart Mill would have used, we as a society have a legitimate interest in what the effects of that drug use are and where it leads. I say to my colleague  Senator Rae  that his argument is only partly correct. He is quite right to admonish us against state paternalism. He is quite right to warn us about the dangers of moral absolutism. We on the Senate Committee are quite careful in what we produce to avoid anything that could leave us open to a charge of either of those things. 
-The honourable senator has made some statements about education. Unlike the honourable senator, we have studied this matter and actually we have some facts rather than some slogans and some beliefs. The fact is that most people who have studied the behavioural effects of drug education have found either no effect or an effect opposite to the one they want. In other words, drug education put into many areas increases the use of drugs. What that says is not that education is no good but that we have not yet learned the right kind of educational techniques or application to cope with the problem. It also means that the battle is not equal. The advertising industry puts tens of millions of dollars into increasing the use of drugs, but minuscule amounts are put into any efforts, whether they be educational or anti-drug use programs, designed to have the opposite effect. 
The Committee in its report has objected to the quality and the content of a particular form of promotion by a particular Commonwealth authority. This is not a blanket condemnation of promotion. It is not a suggestion that the Commonwealth authority should not engage in promotion. However, it is a plea that the authority at least adopt one of the voluntary codes. It should know that the voluntary codes are promoted by the industry as the best protection against governments coming in and regulating what the industry does. The advertising industry must understand that if it will not accept its responsibilities, if it will not voluntarily regulate what it does, it increases the pressures for government to do something. It is perfectly proper for a committee to ask the Australian Wine Board to join the game, to have some interest in one of the voluntary codes, to accept what it puts up. We have not been on tonight about banning advertising. We have not been on tonight about banning anything. Whilst I thank honourable senators for noting the report, I would not want them attributing to the Senate Committee views or conclusions that we did not offer, or a line of thought that we are not necessarily following in this report to the Senate. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-My question is addressed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. What evidence, if any, is there to support public assertions in the letter columns of the  Medical Journal of Australia  of a possible link between the Monte Bello atomic tests of two decades ago and the later development of some forms of neoplastic disease? If no evidence exists can the Minister state clearly the basis on which the letters might have been written? 
by leave- I move: 
That General Business Order of the Day No. 75 standing in my name and relating to the United Nations Conference on Science and Technology be discharged from the Notice Paper. 
It has been overtaken by another debate. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. Has there appeared an influenza virus very similar to one which caused a world wide epidemic about 20 years ago? Is this going to be the predominant virus causing disease in Australia this year? If so, what arrangements are under way to ensure appropriate protection for other susceptible members of the Australian community? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services. Did the Commonwealth Police Officers Association meet with the Minister for Administrative Services on or about 24 January 1979 and with the former Minister in October 1978, on both occasions to discuss the creation of the Australian Federal Police Force? Was the major issue under discussion the structure of the force and the functions of officers? Did the former Minister and the present Minister each give certain assurances to the Association and, if so, what were these assurances? 
The Senate is debating the first reading of a Bill which is concerned with poultry but, as other senators have pointed out, Standing Order 190 permits honourable senators to wander far from the subject and to discuss matters relevant and not relevant to the Bill. My intention is to move to a matter that is not relevant to the subject of the Bill- one that was raised this afternoon by my colleague  Senator McAuliffe,  who raised for the consideration of the Senate some of the matters that affected the funding of sport in Australia. Parts of the honourable senator's speech were directed to issues related to government funding- whether there was enough or too little, and where responsibility should lie for any of the deficiencies in funding over the years. To those parts of his speech I do not take exception. I might differ on particular conclusions, but the matters were very proper matters to raise in the Senate in this kind of debate. 
The honourable senator also directed part of his speech to an attempted defence of the funding of sport in Australia by the manufacturers or distributors of certain addictive drugs, particularly alcohol and tobacco. It is to those matters that I thought I should respond. I am grateful to the honourable senator for the generous impulses which induced him to speak nicely of me before proceeding to carve up the conclusions of the committee of which I was  chairman.  The criticisms which he offered were significant and it is proper that they be responded to. I am very grateful to the honourable senator for the courtesy he has shown in being present tonight to listen to my response. The honourable senator asked- I think I paraphrase his remarks correctly- what is the average Australian to do after work if he cannot have a drink and a smoke? It is very lucky that the honourable senator's mother and father did not fail to answer that question. One can undertake many other activities which have nothing to do with smoking or drinking but which can be equally pleasant. Those, of course, many people would seek to promote. 
I repeat, the honourable senator asked significant questions that deserve some kind of answer. The proposition which the honourable senator put to the Senate today could be restated as follows: One can justify funding from anywhere if the cause, that is the promotion of sport, is worthwhile. He said that because sport needs the money the arguments about where it comes from are largely irrelevant. He said that if sporting bodies cannot get money from anywhere else why should they not take money from those who will come to their defence and support their particular sporting activities. 
On that basis where would we draw the line on the funding of sport in Australia? Would it be all right to take money which was derived from heroin trafficking? If it would not be correct to take that money why would it be correct to take other money just because it was needed? Would it be correct to take money raised as part of the proceeds of prostitution or extortion? Perhaps because those activities are illegal we might be able to draw a distinction. In moral terms I cannot see how one can argue that because the purpose for which funds are needed is proper it is therefore proper to ignore the source of the funds or the effects which that funding may have on the recipient. I put the view to the Senate that the recipient is no longer a free agent once he has accepted the money. He becomes tied to the person whose products are supporting him. He develops an interest in that person's interests.  Senator McAuliffe  directed most of his remarks to me. I am flattered. 
I thank the honourable senator for the interjection. He may care to understand that the  chairman  of a Senate committee is primus inter pares. He is one of a number of senators. He should reflect that the propositions which our Committee put, which I endorse and promote, are also endorsed by his colleagues  Senator Melzer,  former  Senator Brown  and  Senator Grimes.  The propositions were not made by one person. They were made by a group of people, including the honourable senator's colleagues, in unanimous recommendations. The honourable senator does not deny that. I mention it only to put it on the record and make it quite clear. 
We will put the other honourable senators on warning. I am sure that  Senator McAulffe  would have wanted today to put on record his interest in this matter. He is not an average Australian with no particular concern with sporting administration. He is the  President  of the Queensland Rugby League. When he talks about the importance of sports funding it is appropriate for him to make known to us, just as anyone should make known, that he has an interest in the matter under discussion. 
-The honourable senator said that he did. I am grateful for that. We have to consider the kind of funding which sport in this country requires. I draw a distinction between different kinds of sporting activity. The Life. Be in it' program and similar programs are essentially participation activities. Participation by many people is being sought. The 'Life. Be in it' program has as its goal that people should do more. On the other hand, many of the major sports in Australia are more gladiatorial. Would the honourable senator not regard rugby league as essentially a gladiatorial encounter? It is conducted actively by a few. It has a large number of spectators, often passive spectators, who follow their teams for pleasure and enjoyment but there is very little health promotion or participation by those people. 
What do we have to look for in the kinds of funding that should be accepted by sporting bodies? The Senate Committee to which the honourable senator referred made some recommendations. We recommended that the Commonwealth Government ban the advertising of alcoholic beverages, whether by corporate advertising or by exhibiting the brand name in a planned fashion, in all the areas under Commonwealth Government control such as airports. We recommended that the Federal Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development as he then was and the State Ministers responsible for youth, sport and recreation appeal to all sportsmen and women throughout Australia not to lend their names and prestige to the promotion of alcohol or tobacco. We recommended that the Commonwealth Government make any grants to sporting and cultural bodies conditional on their not accepting money from manufacturers and retailers of alcoholic beverages or tobacco. We also recommended that the Commonwealth Government investigate the possiblity of indemnifying such bodies for loss of revenue, at least in the short term. 
I daresay that the honourable senator has not read our report in sufficient detail to be aware of that rider to our recommendations. I accept the point that worries him that we cannot propose simply that one source of revenue be cut off without at the same time proposing in a responsible fashion that there be some attempt to indemnify those who would lose the revenue. Where does that leave us? Should we appeal to the sporting administrators in this country to look responsibly at the sources of money which they obtain or raise for the promotion of their sporting activities? I remind the Senate of the words of Stanley Baldwin when talking of the Press lords. He said: 
What the proprietorship of these papers is aiming at is power without responsibility- the prerogative of the harlot through the ages. 
Sporting bodies cannot accept the power which is given to them by money raised through sponsorship without accepting the responsibility which goes with that money. I have not heard in the argument which the honourable senator put or in the arguments which I have heard from other people connected with sport any attempt to undertake a responsible examination of what that sponsorship might mean. It is not given for no purpose. It is given by the tobacco companies and by the liquor interests with a very definite purpose. It is given as a promotional activity to enhance the sales of their products. It is given as a political activity, as insurance to build the base of support for them against attempts by government to regulate some of the effects which they produce. The honourable senator said that the Confederation of Sporting Bodies represents 5.7 million people. That is an interesting figure. 
The honourable senator said that it is practical. That is a very cynical view. He would remember the words of Oscar Wilde who said: 
What is a cynic? A man who knows the price of everything and the value of nothing. 
The purpose of sponsorship is not altruistic. Tobacco companies and liquor interests do not support sporting activity because they have big hearts. In fact, I saw in the paper today that one particular form of sponsorship was being removed because it was not thought to be effective in terms of its impact. The aim of such sponsorships is to increase the acceptability and use of these products. It is part of a campaign being conducted by the pushers of legal drugs to overcome the effects of any ban on access through the electronic media. It is promotional activity the same as any other promotional activity. Its goal is increased use of these products. 
If the sporting bodies, whose case  Senator McAuliffe  presents, do not understand that they are part of the distribution chain by taking this sponsorship money then they are deluding themselves. If they become locked into a situation where they cannot survive without that money, where they have allowed themselves to expand solely because of money they take from the drug interests, then that is a tragedy even greater than a lack of funding. It is a tragedy to see members of an Australian rugby league team run on the field with KB logoes on their jerseys. It is distasteful to see the Australian cricket tests sponsored by Benson and Hedges. It is distasteful to see Steve Rixon and Dennis Lillee endorsing and promoting the sale of beer through television advertisements shown in my city. It is unfortunate that John Newcombe, a national hero, should have lent himself to the promotion of Cinzano. So it goes. Not only do we want to look at the question of sponsorship but we want to look also at the question of cult heroes, which is what our rugby league players and our cricket heroes are, lending themselves to promotion of these products. 

 Senator McAuliffe quite correctly and appropriately drew the attention of the Senate to the economic benefits which flow to government through government's revenue activities in the area of tobacco and liquor. 
-The figures were well known to me. My only sorrow is that they do not include figures for excise on wine, but if the honourable senator cares to read my report he will see we advocate such an excise as well. What the honourable senator failed to give to the Senate is the other side of the ledger. The gross figures which are coming into government have to be balanced against the costs of these drugs. In two places in the report, which the honourable senator has obviously seen, there is an attempt to give the information that is known about the costs and benefits of both alcohol and tobacco. They are not known with the kind of precision we would desire. But what is emerging from the study of  Dr Garry  Egger in New South Wales, for example, is that whereas in 1972 tobacco was probably a net money raiser for government, in other words the amount coming in from excise exceeded the amount going out in terms of health costs and pensions, by 1976 that was no longer the case. At present tobacco is cost ineffective. It is a net revenue loss owing, of course, to the very sharp rises in health costs and the advances in social welfare benefits and so on. It is cost ineffective. The honourable senator may wish to draw attention to the excise we receive, but he would be more honest with the Senate if he balanced that against the costs which are incurred by society at the same time. With alcohol the figures are much less clear. 
-The honourable senator will know that with alcohol we are moving towards a situation, we think, where the costs and the benefits are probably coming into balance; but we need better studies to clarify that point. We as a committee found the subsidy paid for tobacco growing impossible to understand. I am sure the honourable senator would agree that the only consistent line for us to take, holding the views we held, was that those subsidies should be looked at with a view to their gradual phasing out so that any imposts fell first on imported leaf and last of all on domestic production. We would have to examine what the effects would be locally. 
The Senate Standing Committee on Social Welfare did not promote, has not promoted, is not promoting and will not promote prohibition of any legal drug use. We are not in the business of prohibiting or seeking to have prohibited the use of alcohol. We believe that most people use alcohol responsibly. We are not in the business of promoting the prohibition of tobacco use. We are in the business of stabilising and reducing the very high levels of use in our present society. Surely that is a modest aim. Our objections to the funding of sport by tobacco companies and liquor interests are that it is designed to increase the use of these products, to have more people using them and in greater amounts. It is no argument for the honourable senator to come before us and to say that because 5.7 million people through their sport have become dependent on such funding, the funding is justified. I will say here what I have said publicly in the last few days. It is a tragedy for sport in Australia that lock, stock and barrel it is being acquired by the liquor and tobacco interests as just another tool for them to use in their general promotion and their general sale of products. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 20 February 1979: 
1 ) Has there been a drop in reported rubella activity in Australia similar to that which has occurred in the United States since 1969. 
What is the Australian experience in rubella vaccination and what problems remain to be overcome in eradicating this disease in Australia. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Veterans' Affairs, upon notice, on 20 February 1 979: 
What were the 'substantial practical problems 'in transferring the functions of Repatriation Tribunals to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal, referred to in the Minister's Press Release of 27 November 1978. 
Honourable senators would realise that this amendment was offered to the Senate tonight and that Government senators would naturally want an opportunity to examine it and to examine it in their party room. I understand that the Orders of the Day list Senate committee reports first. Therefore this Senate committee report will remain high on the Notice Paper. I believe it will remain probably at the top of the Notice Paper for consideration as the next Order of the Day under General Business. I am sure the Senate will understand that the Government would want an opportunity to examine the amendment that has been raised. For that reason I move: 
That the debate be now adjourned. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Motion (by  Senator Chaney)  proposed: 
That the resumption of debate be made an Order of the Day for the next day of sitting. 
I address my question which is in three parts to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. It concerns the failure and proposed takeover of AUS Student Travel Service Pty Ltd, an event which sadly I anticipated more than a year ago. First, is the  President  of AUS Student Travel at last on record as saying that the company is unable to trade in a financially viable manner? Secondly, in relation to the proposed takeover of AUS Student Travel by a Swiss owned company, can the Minister advise the amount that has been repaid by AUS Student Travel to Qantas Airways Ltd and Trans-Australia Airlines? Can he identify the total present indebtedness of AUS Student Travel to Qantas and TAA? Thirdly, what new arrangements are proposed to enhance the prospects of repayment to Qantas and TAA of the large amounts owing to them? 

 - Mr President, following a promise given by  Senator Carrick  to  Senator Wriedt  I seek leave to move a motion for the discharge from the Notice Paper of a General Business Order of the Day. 
Leave granted. 
Motion (by  Senator Peter  Baume)- agreed to: 
That General Business Order of the Day No. 2 1 9, standing in my name, relating to the report of the Manufacturing Industries Structural Adjustment Study Group be discharged from the Notice Paper. 
-Is the Minister for Education aware of the article that appeared in the  Monash Review  of December 1978 indicating that many new teachers do not acquire information about or mastery of basic teaching techniques during their first year of duty? If this finding is correct, or likely to be correct, what response is being made by the Government to ensure a more adequate professional performance by new teachers during the most vulnerable and uncertain period of their professional life? 
-Has the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications seen an article which appeared on page 107 of the  Sun Herald  dated 25 March 1979 and which details step by step a number of ways in which marihuana can be used and is being used currently by children? Is the Minister aware that the article is being passed around primary schools in Sydney and that it has raised considerable concern amongst many parents and teachers? Whilst acknowledging that the Fairfax chain is known generally as one which is socially concerned and responsible, and on the basis that the use of marihuana, even if decriminalised, will remain illegal, will the Minister indicate whether the publication of this kind of article is properly a matter to be deplored? Will he further indicate under what circumstances the Government would relate the appearance of such articles to the responsibilities of a group such as the Fairfax group which is a licensee in the electronic communications media. 
-My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health, arises out of the Birmingham smallpox disaster of last year and the subsequent administrative arrangements which are being considered in Britain to end the present voluntary system for controlling laboratories handling dangerous pathogens such as smallpox virus. Is it known what laboratory situations exist in Australia which could give rise to disasters similar to that which occurred in Britain, whether associated with smallpox or with other pathogen induced diseases? Is it possible to inform the Senate of the control measures by which such pathogens are contained and any untoward effects made known publicly? 
-My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, concerns the former Prime Minister of Pakistan,  Mr Bhutto.  I ask: Has  Mr Bhutto  been under sentence of death? Is the Minister aware of expressions of concern about his safety and conditions from people, including members of the Senate? Can the Minister advise us as to the present state of affairs in regard to  Mr Bhutto? 
I address my question to the Minister for Social Security. Did a committee from the Housing Commission of New South Wales, the Office of Child Care, the Kindergarten Union and the New South Wales Department of Youth and Community Services report to the Minister in December 1977 that there was no significant unmet need for long day care in the New South Wales suburbs and areas of Glebe, Airds, Macquarie Fields, Lethbridge Park, Hebersham, Shalvey or Windale? Did the committee indicate that the main unmet need was for sessional pre-school care in these areas? Is there any reason not to accept the validity of these findings? 
by leave- Having made a statement concerning the Kakadu National Park document I am now in a position to inform the Senate that the documents were made available to the offices of the Leader of the Opposition, the Deputy Leader of the Opposition and the Opposition Whip. I cannot understand it. Whatever happened was not our error. 
-My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs. While acknowledging that the Government is planning to increase certain drug penalties, can the Minister indicate whether there is any truth in widespread newspaper reports that the Government is proposing anywhere to introduce mandatory life sentences for any drug-related offences? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. For how long have the revised air navigation regulations now been in force? Assuming that the period is around three years, is the Minister able to advise the Senate of the number of prosecutions or other disciplinary actions which have been instituted during that period for breaches of the air navigation regulations? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 20 February 1979: 
1 ) What is the incidence of breast cancer in Australian men and women compared with the incidence in American mcn and women. 
Has the incidence of breast cancer in Japanese men decreased in comparison to American men. 
3 ) What work is under way to try to identify any environmental factor which might help protect against this particularly common form of cancer 
I seek leave to make a personal explanation. 
I seek leave to make a personal explanation. 
-My question is directed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister, who is the Minister responsible for royal commissions. Is the Minister aware that a report prepared by the Crime Intelligence Unit in New South Wales and handed to the Premier of that State in Parliament recently makes serious allegations which intrude, inter alia, into organised crime and drug trafficking in Australia? Does the Minister know whether the Wran Labor Government in New South Wales has furnished or, if not, whether it is prepared to furnish this potentially vital information to the Commonwealth Royal Commission into Drugs in order to assist this nation to deal more effectively with problems in the illegal drug trade? 
Before I address the Senate on the subject upon which I wish to speak, I want to say how pleased I am that  Senator Coleman  seems to have caught up with the health problems of Aboriginal children and how pleased I am that she referred to the report of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs which dealt with this subject. I am interested also to indicate to the honourable senator that a committee of the Senate, chaired by one of her colleagues,  Senator Keeffe,  for some years worked on the same subject. If she cares to look for the report she will find that these problems were outlined some years ago with the same feeling and concern. 
I rise to draw attention to an episode which occurred earlier tonight in the Senate when  Senator Chipp  accused me of breaking an agreement on procedures.  Senator Chipp  's accusation was false. At no time had any arrangement been made in discussion with either of the two Australian Democrat senators to allow  Senator Chipp  to proceed to make an immediate second reading speech on his private member's Bill. I repeat that: At no time had any arrangement been made to allow  Senator Chipp  to proceed to an immediate second reading on his private member's Bill. The Australian Democrats senators had indicated their desire to proceed but I had not indicated agreement.  Senator Chipp  later made it clear in the debate that followed what in fact had been discussed between us. He had asked for an assurance that his private member's Bill would be brought to a vote before the end of the session. I had indicated that I could make no such arrangement.  Senator Chipp  and I were not alone when that conversation took place earlier tonight. 
At no time did I say that  Senator Chipp  could proceed with his second reading speech today. In conformity with usual Senate procedures, a first reading has been allowed and a second reading speech has been arranged in accordance with established practice. It might interest the Senate then to know what is established Senate practice. In order that I would not take too much time I have obtained what has happened to private members' Bills since the Fraser Government came to office. I think the Senate has had about six such Bills before it during that time. The first Bill was introduced on 7 April 1976. It was the Aboriginal Councils and Associations Bill 1976. It was read a first time. It did not proceed to a second reading. The second reading was made an order of the day for the next day of sitting. No second reading speech was delivered and the Bill lapsed at prorogation on 28 February 1977. The next Bill was the Aboriginal Land (Northern Territory) Bill 1976 which was also read a first time. The second reading was made an order of the day for the next day of sitting. No second reading speech was delivered and the Bill lapsed at prorogation on 28 February 1977. On 15 September 1976 the Aborigines and Islanders (Admissibility of Confessions) Bill was introduced. It was read a first time. The second reading was moved by leave, a speech delivered and the debate adjourned. It lapsed at prorogation on 28 February 1977. It was restored to the Notice Paper on 10 March at the stage reached before prorogation, and it lapsed again at the dissolution of the House of Representatives and the Senate on 10 November 1977. 
On 8 November 1977, the Commonwealth Employees (Employment Provisions) (Repeal) Bill was introduced to the Senate. It was read a first time. Leave was refused for a motion for the second reading. A motion was moved for the suspension of Standing Orders to move the second reading forthwith. That motion was negatived. No second reading speech was delivered. The second reading was made an Order of the Day for the next day of sitting and the Bill lapsed at dissolution. 
The other three Bills are more recent. On 7 June 1978 the Parliamentary Contributory Superannuation Amendment Bill (No. 2) 1978 was introduced and read a first time. I think honourable senators will remember that this Bill was introduced during the last week of service in the Senate of  Sir Reginald  Wright. On 7 June the Bill was read a first time. Leave was refused to move a motion for the second reading to be moved forthwith. It was moved that the second reading be made an Order of the Day for the next day of sitting. An amendment to that motion was moved but was out of order. There was then a move for the suspension of Standing Orders, which was negatived. The second reading was then made an Order of the Day for the next day of sitting and the second reading was moved and the debate adjourned on Saturday, 10'June 1 978. The second reading was moved, as promised. 
I turn to the other two Bills. The Aborigines and Islanders (Admissibility of Confessions) Bill 1978 was read a first time. The second reading was moved. The Bill remains on the Notice Paper. Finally, I think  Senator Colston  will remember his private member's Bill, the Constitution Alteration (Holders of Offices of Profit) Bill 1978, of which notice was given on 14 November. It was introduced, by leave, on 15 
November. Leave was refused for the second reading to be moved forthwith, but by arrangement the second reading speech was made on 24 November.  Senator Colston  will know that it is now item No. 46 of Orders of the Day under General Business. 
It has also been referred to a Senate committee, I am informed by way of interjection. The Bill is a most interesting one. The practice of the Senate is in the Senate's hands, but the practice that has emerged is that the second reading speeches on these Bills are delivered when the Senate sees fit and appropriate. The Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Carrick)  indicated tonight that that procedure would be followed. I repeat what I have said: There was no arrangement with  Senator Chipp  for any variation of that procedure and for him to have said otherwise in the Senate was a misstatement of fact. 
-Later on in the order of business the tabling of a report from the Senate Standing Committee on Social Welfare is listed. Before reaching the report itself, I wish to comment on the fact that there have been reports in a newspaper and on a radio program about the fact that the report is to be tabled, together with some comment on its content. I regret that an error on my part gave rise to these reports. Last night I gave what I meant to be a background briefing to two journalists. My intention in doing this was to ensure that the report was given adequate attention in the media on its tabling. I realise now that this was an error of judgment on my part, for which I apologise to the Senate. 
-On behalf of the Senate Standing Committee on Social Welfare I present the report on the Committee's reference on evaluation in Australian health and welfare services together with the official  Hansard  transcript of the evidence and a submission received by the Committee subsequent to the taking of evidence. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
Does the Minister for Education recall his answer to a question in February 1977 in which he assured me that he had asked the universities, through the vicechancellors, to ensure that procedures were available and that, if necessary, reforms would be made to ensure that democratic procedures could apply on campus? Is he aware that now on the campus of the University of Sydney there have apparently been gathered the required number of signatures to compel the holding of a student referendum, but that the Students Representative Council seems unwilling to hold it? Will he undertake to draw to the attention of the Vice-Chancellor of the University of Sydney the sentiments which he has expressed previously and indicate our desire that the Students Representative Council on campus be asked to ensure that all actions it takes are scrupulously fair and in keeping with the democratic goals the Minister espoused publicly two years ago? 
I seek leave to move a motion. 
Leave granted. 
I move. 
That the Senate take note of the report. 
On 2 June 1976 the Senate gave to its Standing Committee on Social Welfare a reference on the evaluation of the adequacy of Australian health and welfare services with four particular subreferences, lt is now my honour to present to the Senate the Committee's report on this matter. It is entitled  Through a Glass, Darkly  and represents the first of two companion volumes which will eventually be placed before the Senate. The second volume, not yet printed, consists of seven specially commissioned papers prepared by experts to cover aspects of evaluation too often ignored by Australian policy makers and not adequately dealt with in submissions made to the Committee. In particular, these include a paper to represent the views and concerns of agencies and another dealing with the problems which face any one of us as clients, as users, of our health and welfare services. 
This has been an exceedingly difficult inquiry to conduct and to bring to fruition. It has required of the Committee that it should encompass a number of concepts of social theory and that it should organise a diffuse subject in a way which would lead to completion of its task. Because of the difficulties, the Committee sought from you,  Mr President,  and was granted, permission to obtain the services of a consultant. Professor Stephen Leeder, Professor of Community Medicine within the University of Newcastle, has assisted the Committee since 3 1 May 1 977 and has made a significant contribution to our deliberations. We thank him and his university for their co-operation. One feature of the inquiry has been the variable quality of evidence from some Federal Government departments and the contrasting excellent quality of evidence from, for example, the Councils of Social Service. 
Evaluation is about knowing. What we have sought to assess is what mechanisms exist within the health and welfare systems in Australia that will enable anyone to know anything about how the various parts of the system work. What we have not sought to assess is how any particular agency or service operates in this  country.  We have not allowed ourselves to become arbiters of a particular program operated by a particular person or a particular agency. It is not known what benefits flow to Australian society from initiatives represented by annual Federal Government expenditures which had been $ 1,900m in 1970-71 and which rose to more than $ 10,000m in 1 977-78. This represented about 38 per cent of total Commonwealth expenditures last year. Although expenditure on health and welfare dominates annual budgeting at Federal Government level, little seems to be known about what effects this is producing. 
Questions we have addressed include the following: On what basis do the health and welfare systems make policy and administrative decisions? Do the health and welfare systems know what needs exist in the community? Do the health and welfare systems know what each is doing, or should be doing, or what each has achieved over any period? These questions are not impertinent. Nor are they improper. They are central to the determination of whether our system or any system is or can be effective or efficient, or whether it is even the right system within which health and welfare services should be developing and operating. Nevertheless, for the purposes of this inquiry we have accepted the present system of health and welfare as the framework within which we examined Australian practice. We have to report to you,  Mr Acting Deputy President,  that we are unable to present the answers to those simple questions after three years of endeavour. 
In this report are gathered our Committee's findings. They are sombre and depressing. A committee of six senators cannot claim particular expertise in sociology or social theory, but it does claim a powerful position in seeking information on behalf of the Senate- even information not generally available. In spite of this powerful position, we could not obtain many, if any, of the answers to important questions which we sought- partly because people had not considered them and partly because they are challenging and difficult. We quite deliberately chose the title  Through a Glass, Darkly  to emphasise our concern that too little is known in the human services area in Australia. Too little is known of the working or effects of the Australian health and welfare system to enable proper and necessary decisions to be made for its management. 
It appears that in Australia we do not know with any clarity what are our major needs or what is their dimension. It appears that we do not know the extent to which current interventions are adequate or whether they allow unmet need to remain; and it does not seem clear to us that there is adequate commitment to the regular determination of these needs or of deficiencies in programs allegedly designed to satisfy them. For all we know, in Australia there could be people who are starving or neglected, isolated or frightened, or whose needs are unseen; and Australia as a nation could remain comfortably unaware of any of the problems. There is little active seeking or measuring to guide us. 
While the Committee has expressed its dissatisfactions with the way programs are developed, it is not unaware of the high value placed by consumers on many existing programs or benefits: and we certainly do not believe that serendipity cannot ever be one basis for effective intervention. On the question of needs, their importance and their determination, we must record our concern as a committee at the quality of evidence given on 4 July 1 978 by the Department of Social Security. This is discussed in the report where some verbatim evidence is quoted with disapproval. A supplementary submission by the Department dealt more adequately with the question of need. Foreshadowed in July 1978, it was not received until 9 March 1979, after the report had already been finalised for printing. In order that justice should be done to everyone, I have tabled the supplementary submission of the Department of Social Security and I make clear my view that it presents a more civilised and appropriate response than that given in oral evidence eight months earlier. We are indebted to the Director-General of Social Security for making available recently a publication which recounts some State experiences and approaches in evaluation in the United States of America. Entitled techniques for needs assessment in social services planning, it states: 
The theme and recommendation of this manual is that much of the necessary planning for social services begins with a valid needs assessment. Subsequent decisions regarding which problems are to be resolved (to what degree) by the provision of social services and what methods will be used are best based on a thorough identification of the incidence and magnitude of problems and needs of persons in the State. 
This has been the view of the Committee throughout the inquiry. We are gratified that it is a view which the Director-General of Social Security as well now seems to have endorsed. 
Apart from need, and its determination and delineation, there are other areas of gross inadequacy in Australian practice. Evaluation activity cannot proceed without agreed strategic goals and program objectives, without clearly stated standards, without data adequate in amount and quality, or without evaluation technologies and people trained to use them. All of these components are inadequately available in Australia. It seems inescapable that the health and welfare system has operated without clearly identified policy goals and program objectives, without an adequate system of social indicators, without clearly stated standards of provision or performance, without adequate evaluation technologies, without a pool of people trained to use such technologies as are available, and without resources committed to measurement and to knowing in the health and welfare services. We do not know, generally speaking, where we have been, where we are travelling now, where we should be travelling, or even whether our method of getting there is appropriate. 
The Committee believes that the time is ripe for progress. We have made proposals for better evaluation practice which are low cost but which demand a commitment to better outcomes of programs. We have been careful not to use the non-government sector as a scapegoat for all the inadequacies in the system, but have tried to identify inadequacies in both government and non-government sectors. We have also noted the shortcomings of parliaments, ourselves included, in responding to, in encouraging and in demanding appropriate evaluation activity. Unless parliament plays a major role in encouraging, oversighting and undertaking evaluation activity, there will be very little improvement. 
We have recorded and noted not only the shortcomings of the system but also the recent and increasing commitment of many persons, many agencies, many government instrumentalities and many departments to improving evaluation technology, commitment and practice. While we have addressed the shortcomings of the system, we have been careful not to criticise, at any time or in any way, managers of agencies whose resources have already been committed and stretched to service their clients as best they can. Because evaluation capacity and capability have been improving rapidly world wide in the last few years, we are hopeful that the situation in Australia might improve soon. If this report can serve as some stimulus to and as a basis for better practice in Australia, we shall be well satisfied. Whilst we would all want efficient health and welfare services, what we are seeking more than anything is services that are effective in doing something useful for the community that they have been established to serve. 
The requests, recommendations and judgments contained in this report are not only proper; they are the minimum we could ask of prudent managers utilising enormous resources on behalf of society. If a health and welfare system, whether in the government or the nongovernment sector, cannot make itself effective and rational, reasonable observers may be led to conclude that the system itself is inadequate for what society expects from it. 

 Mr President, it remains to me to express my personal thanks to my fellow Committee members for their continued application to a difficult task. The Committee is also grateful for the co-operation and assistance of State governments, of Commonwealth Government departments, of many voluntary agencies and of a large number of individuals who made submissions and gave oral evidence. It is a pleasure once again to thank the Australian Government Publishing Service for its very practical assistance. 
Finally,  Mr President,  it is a privilege on behalf of the Committee to thank a dedicated Committee staff for a quite monumental job during this inquiry. I commend the report to the Senate. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, concerns the contribution of different member countries of the United Nations to that organisation's budget. Can the Minister indicate what percentage of the United Nations' budget is contributed by Australia, New Zealand, Israel and Saudi Arabia respectively? Which of these countries contributes most in terms of a percentage of its gross national product to the support of the United Nations and which country contributes least? 
-Does the Minister representing the Minister for Health generally endorse the conclusions of Professor Opit and Doctor Dunt about policy concerning the installations of computerised axial tomography head scanners in Victoria? Can the Minister comment specifically on steps open to the Commonwealth if it decides to implement the recommendations to discourage both the installation of more CAT scanners in private practice and the free access by all practitioners to CAT scanners? Can the Minister ensure that studies similar to those done in Victoria are undertaken elsewhere in Australia with a view to developing a national policy on this matter? 
I address a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. Did the National Therapeutic Goods Committee recommend in November 1976 that the Government take immediate steps to ensure that drugs which have commonly proved dangerous to children be packaged in childresistant containers? What action has the Government taken to implement these recommendations in this, the International Year of the Child? Can the Minister give the Senate any information as to when an appropriate order is likely to be forthcoming? 
On behalf of  Senator Bonner  I present the following petition from 1 1 citizens of Australia: 
To the Honourable the  President  and Members of the Senate in Parliament assembled: 
The petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the plan to obliterate the traditional weights and measures of this country docs not have the support of the people; 
That the change is causing and will continue to cause, widespread, serious and costly problems; 
That the compulsory tactics being used to force the change arc a violation of all democratic principles. 
Your petitioners therefore pray: 
That the Metric Conversion Act be repealed to ensure that the people are free to utilize whichever system they prefer and so enable the return to imperial weights and measures wherever the people so desire; 
That weather reporting be as it was prior to the passing of the Metric Conversion Act; 
That the Australian Government take urgent steps to cause the traditional mile units to be restored to our highways; 
That the Australian Government request the State Governments to procure that the imperial and metric systems be taught together in schools. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Treasurer, follows on other questions which have been asked. In view of the known fact that wine, partly because it bears no excise, is at present the source of the cheapest alcohol in Australia, can I receive an assurance that in spite of attempts to pre-empt calm consideration of  the matter the  Government will consider any report of the Industries Assistance Commission on a proposed wine excise or on protection levels on its merits, and that in making its decision the Government will consider the social as well as the commercial effects that would flow from any decision it made? 
-My question to the Minister representing the Minister for Health is prompted by certain expressions of concern  within the community regarding measles vaccination during measles epidemics. I therefore ask: Has the United States Public Health Service Advisory Committee on Immunisation Practices recommended the use of measles vaccine in children exposed to natural infection up to 72 hours previously? Does a recent report from Finland suggest that live attenuated measles may be usefully administered to contacts for up to 14 days after exposure, without ill effect? Is it also true that all Australian States have now adopted a standardised basic immunisation schedule? Finally, is it opportune for all doctors concerned with child health to encourage the use of proven safe immunisation practices, and should Australia be pursuing vigorously vaccination against, and elimination of, measles? 
I address a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport. It follows the question asked earlier by  Senator Rocher.  Does the Government's policy in relation to international air fares and cargo rates represent a policy of deregulation such as  President  Carter is at present espousing elsewhere in the world, or is it a policy of adherence to regulatory arrangements such as the Air Navigation Regulations, even under the new air fare schedules which have been announced recently? 
My question to the Leader of the Government concerns an answer he will recall having given on 23 May 1979 regarding a second Sydney airport. Since then has the Minister seen comments attributed to the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition,  Mr Lionel  Bowen, and to statements made by the Mayor of Ashfield, Alderman Herman, and can he say whether these comments are an accurate representation of the situation with respect to a second airport in Sydney. 
-I direct my ques  tion to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. To which of the countries listed in the answer to Senate Question No. 1060, placed on notice on 1 June 1 977, does Australia continue bilateral aid? Are there any further countries to which Australia gives bilateral aid and which have been suggested by Amnesty International allegedly to have used torture? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice, on  20  February  1 979: 
Was any attempt made to determine whether there might have been any teratogenic or abortogenic excess in Council and Forestry workers in New South Wales with an increased exposure to the chemical 2.4,5-T, as described in the  Medical Journal of Australia,  18 November 1978; if not, will the Minister seek such information, in view of the current controversies concerning 2,4.5-T in another State. 
-My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. I remind the Minister of the recent publication of an evaluation of the Victorian Liberal Government's initiatives in the area of random breath testing. If the results showed a drop of 25 per cent in serious injuries and a drop of 70 per cent in deaths over a period of random breath testing, compared with a control period, can the Minister advise whether the Northern Territory plans to test the program? Is she aware that the New South Wales Labor Government steadfastly refuses so to do? Does she endorse the value of social interventions which reduce death and injury to Australian citizens- often innocent citizens in the case of drink drivingand does she know whether there is any intention to introduce such a program into areas where the Commonwealth has an executive function? 
I would like to speak to this motion.  Senator Carrick  is not here. As Leader of the Government in the Senate he has numerous duties. After the debate on the urgency motion and after presentation of the papers with which he was associated he left the area of the Senate and proceeded to his own office, and then to somewhere else in the building. I am sure that if the bells rang he would be here for a division. I believe he is performing his ordinary duties as Leader of the Government in the Senate. 
Obviously this is a matter which  Senator Carrick  would like to know about at the earliest opportunity and to which he would want to respond. He will respond in his own way when he knows what is going on. We on this side of the chamber find ourselves at a disadvantage. It may not be necessary for such a motion to be moved. If there has been an error or if  Senator Button  can produce 'pinks' or 'greens'-  (Quorum formed).  When the quorum was called I was speaking to the motion moved by  Senator Walsh. 
In accordance with the tradition concerning private members' Bills, I move: 
That the debate be now adjourned. 
Question put. 
-Has the Minister representing the Minister for Health seen a report in the Press from the drug rehabilitation agency, We Help Ourselves, suggesting that a critical situation in drug use exists across Australia and that an even more critical situation might exist in the next few years? Does the Minister agree that the figures quoted are important and that rational public policy will be most effectively offered on the basis of accurate measurements of the problem? In light of that, does anyone know what are the real usage levels of the drugs in question, and is there any firm basis for the kinds of projections the agency has made? 
-My question is directed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. Is there at present crippling dislocation of public transport in the State of New South Wales with trains not running, with a threat of a stoppage by Government bus employees and with the threat of yet another strike at the Caltex refinery, which endangers all road transport in New South Wales? With whom does responsibility for these services rest? If it is a State responsibility, can the Minister assure the Senate that the Commonwealth Government will monitor closely the mounting dislocation to community life in the State of New South Wales and that the Government will offer such assistance as it can to the Wran Government to help it to restore normal community functions? 
I give notice that, on the next day of sitting, I shall move: 
) That, if the Senate be not sitting when the Standing Committee on Social Welfare has completed Volume Two of its Report on Evaluation in Australian Health and Welfare 
Services, the Committee may send this Volume of its Report to the  President  of the Senate or, if the  President  is unavailable to the  Deputy President,  who is authorised to give directions for its printing and circulation, and in such event the  President  or  Deputy President  shall lay Volume Two of the Report upon the Table at the next sitting of the Senate. 
) That the foregoing provision of this Resolution, so far as it is inconsistent with the Standing Orders, have effect notwithstanding anything contained in the Standing Orders. 
I ask the Minister for Education whether the  AM  program of 6 June 1 979 included the following statement from the Deputy Leader of the Opposition in the Senate: 
Current expenditure for universities and government schools has been fixed at the same amount as it was for last year. Having regard to continuing inflation that means a reduction in the current expenditure on education. 
Is that statement true or false? 
I believe it is proper to respond to the comments made by  Senator Georges.  Honourable senators recall that last year  Senator Georges  expressed the same sentiments when very many reports were brought in at the end of the session. In general there is no disagreement with the point which  Senator Georges  sought to make. We have no disagreement at all with that point. It is highly undesirable for practices to occur which could in any way limit the capacity of Parliament to debate or examine reports. 
It is worth noting that last year the list was very much longer and that steps have been taken to try to cut down the number of reports that come forward in this way. I believe, in fact, that we have made some progress in that direction. It is quite clear that although the lists have been reduced and the number of reports being presented is not as great as it was last year, the situation is still not ideal. I hope that we can examine the matter further and take on board the points that the honourable senator makes. 
I seek leave to continue my remarks later. 
Leave granted; debate adjourned. 
I move: 
1 ) That, if the Senate be not sitting when the Standing Committee on Social Welfare has completed Volume Two of its report on Evaluation in Australian Health and Welfare Services, the Committee may send this Volume of its Report to the  President  of the Senate, or, if the  President  is unavailable to the  Deputy President,  who is authorised to give directions for its printing and circulation, and in such event the  President  or  Deputy President  shall lay Volume 2 of the Report upon the Table at the next sitting of the Senate. 
) That the foregoing provisions of this Resolution, so far as it is inconsistent with the Standing Orders, have effect notwithstanding anything contained in the Standing Orders. 
I should like to explain briefly the reasons for moving this motion. As the Senate will recall, when presenting Volume One of the Committee's Report, entitled 'Through a Glass Darkly', I foreshadowed the presentation of a companion volume containing seven important papers commissioned by the committee during its inquiry. These papers contain aspects of evaluation not adequately dealt with in submissions presented to the Committee. The printing of Volume Two has not been completed. The Committee is of the view that if it is received from the Printer during the recess it should be made available immediately for use in association with Volume One of the Report. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-The Senate is dealing with the Health Insurance Amendment Bill 1979 and the National Health Amendment Bill 1979. Both these measures have been discussed and debated in detail in another place as well as having been debated for some little time here. I listened carefully to the last  speaker, Senator Harradine,  and I assure him that many of his colleagues in the Senate understand and share his concern for the family, for its place, and for the stresses under which families are operating more and more in Australia. I say no more than that. A number of people are anxious to examine issues of horizontal equity, and I will come back to that later in another sense. Those issues of horizontal equity include the capacity of families to enjoy the same standard of living as that enjoyed by single income earners with no responsibilities. We are aware of the problems. A number of us are working in that area. 
My colleague  Senator Walters  has dealt with some of the details ofthe Bills as they affect personal health costs. She dealt particularly with some of the measures brought down by the Government. It is important to bear in mind, however, that these Bills were brought in by the Government as part of a mini-Budget. The Bills are revenue measures and at the same time give new benefits in certain areas. The details of the Bills have been discussed adequately here and in another place. They must be seen as part of an economic statement by a Government anxious to proceed responsibly in its primary task of financial management for a nation. 
I wish to refer particularly to a couple of matters related to the Bill.  Senator Walters  indicated that there is a need to discuss the new nursing home provisions. There are many kinds of inequity in society. There are issues of vertical inequity- the kinds of issues where people have the same needs but different resources and therefore certain people cannot satisfy their needs adequately. But equally there are issues of horizontal equity between people who have the same income but whose needs might be different. Different kinds of issues in the nursing home area have been particularly galling over a period. There are pressures on our time but I was surprised that  Senator Ryan  did not point out the fact that the proposition in this Bill to introduce a system of asking nursing home patients, wherever they are being nursed, to make payment for those services is a perfectly equitable measure. 
-Senator Ryan says that the Australian Labor Party is opposed to that measure. She might be interested, if I remind her of it, in what her colleague in another place, the honourable member for Prospect,  Dr Klugman,  said when speaking in the debate on this legislation in that House. He is recorded at page 2845 of the House of Representatives  Hansard  of 4 June as having said: 
I realise . . . that it is a question of equity, that there are similar people in nursing homes who have to contribute $50.75 a week or $7.25 a day towards their upkeep and why should not people in public hospitals make a similar contribution? There is that point to the argument and I accept it. 
I think that  Dr Klugman  's point is one from which we cannot get away. We have had in this country a system under which we have said to people: 'There is a provision for nursing home care on a contributory basis'- the contribution is argued and fixed in the Federal Parliament from time to time- 'but you will pay only if you are in what is called a nursing home; you will not pay if you are in what is called a public hospital '. This has brought about some distortions of its own in the whole system of institutional care. 

 Senator Walters talked about the number of hospital beds in excess of requirements. Some of them are not hospital beds at all; in fact, some of the so called hospital beds around this country are nursing home beds which incorrectly are called hospital beds. They are operated at a level of luxury and staffing as if they were hospital beds. That is not necessary. They divert resources unnecessarily from other areas. 
Patients, allegedly hospital patients, are sitting in those hospital beds. They are in fact in need of aged persons' care because they are frail. Their need is real enough and the beds are there, often in small country towns. That they should be used is fair enough. But why is it wrong, if they are nursing home patients as we understand the term, that they should be properly classified in that way? Their sisters and brothers in nursing homes already make a contribution. Is the Labor Party seriously suggesting that it is all right for a contribution to be made by a nursing home patient in a nursing home but it is not proper for such a contribution to be made by a nursing home patient who happens to be in a spare bed in a public hospital? That argument defies any kind of logic. The Bill at least will pick that up. To the extent that it will free some resources to help other people in need in the health area, I think it is something which we should promote. It should also help in getting a more realistic measure of the number of hospital beds which are really being used as hospital beds in the different States and we might be able to plan our health services with some greater degree of reality. Rather than trying to close down whole institutions, we might come to realise that in some of the small towns in my State the institutions have to be kept because they are valuable. But we should come to regard them for what they are- as valuable places for long-term residential care of the aged who do not want to leave their district. 
Once again, in all these types of debates we see confusion between health care, on the one hand, and health financing on the other. The financing in the health system is no guarantee of any kind of outcome at all. You can have the best finance system with the worst outcomes. What matters is the kind of care and the structure within which it takes place. The financing issue- and I am speaking from my place- is in fact a question of who pays what from which sector of the economy. So if $6 billion is being paid, which sector it comes from is really a secondary question, though an important question. A lot of the changes about which people become so passionate are questions of intersectoral transfers of cash. There is nothing in these measures likely to increase total health costs. There is something in these measures which hopefully can lead to a decrease in costs. 
I particularly welcome the proposed hospital inquiry. This inquiry provides the possibility for more effective and more appropriate use of" our resources and especially of our hospital resources into which so much of" our effort and where so much of the money goes. Less acute hospital beds would bring us back into line with other countries. How is it that the Canadians can get by with 3.1 acute hospital beds per thousand in Ontario and we in Australia seem to need 6.5 per 1,000 people. We are over-bedded in terms of hospitals in this country. Until we start to identify this problem and work towards some proper bed-population ratio, we will never come to grips with the health care problem. When I listen to some of the arguments put up in this debate in both Houses by Opposition members and senators, I ask myself: Are they responsible and are they in pursuit of some social goal. I cannot determine what social goal is being pursued. I see the debates as a stunt because in every case with every measure we put up here what we get from the Labor Party Opposition is that it opposes every tax measure and every attempt to raise income. It opposes every measure that does not increase outgoings. It wants more services in health, more in welfare and less taxes, if you please! A simple rule of public finance is that if that is done to the system, it cannot be paid for. It is not credible and it is not responsible. 
The amendments which have been moved by the Opposition are identical to the amendments which it moved in another place. The amendments to each of these Bills have the effect of negating the Bills and their goals. They have the effect of negating the purposes of the legislation. For that reason, the Government is unable to accept or agree with either of the amendments and we will vote against both of them. 
The fluoridation of water supplies is carried out as a preventive health measure of great importance. Fluoride is a natural constituent of surface and underground water. Most Australian water supplies are deficient in the chemical. Therefore, it is added to the water supplies of about 67 per cent of Australian people. On 2 1 April this year the Australian Broadcasting Commission program,  Four Corners,  a program which I enjoy watching and which I admire for some of the subjects it raises for public discussion, screened a segment featuring an anti-fluoridation message. This program has given rise throughout the community to some concerns and to some issues which should usefully be made public in this place. One of the results has been that the authorities in the Shoalhaven area have stopped their fluoridation program and intend to hold a public referendum. I understand that the authorities in Forbes have done the same. 
I will set out briefly the sequence of events associated with the program. During March 1979 the  Four Corners  team produced a segment which it called 'Shades of Doubt'. The program included some dental scientists, together with people who spoke against fluoridation. The request for the program came through the Health Commission of New South Wales and involved a dental scientist. The point is that is of most concern is that the program, which made the assertion that fluoridation causes malignant disease, or cancer, did not involve any experts from this country who have made a specialised study of cancer and its causes. There was no representative from the Australian Cancer Society. There were no representatives from the Cancer registry in New South Wales or in other States. There were no representatives from the State cancer councils. There were no Australian epidemiologists who are concerned with cancer and its likely causes. I believe that in this way the program was unbalanced, which was very unsatisfactory. The New South Wales State Cancer Council heard of the program, in fact, before it actually went to air. It became aware of it when advertisements began to appear for the segment some days before its screening. It approached  Four Corners  on the day before the program was produced. 
The program featured the claims made by an American Ph.D., a man of some learning, a man named Dean Burk. He was introduced by the program reporter  Mr Charles  Wooley as 'Doctor Dean Burk, an eminent American cancer specialist'. That is an incorrect description for this man. 
He is not a cancer specialist. He has been involved for some time in  anti-fluoridation  campaigns- that is his right- but the Australian Broadcasting Commission should have been careful how it introduced him. 
The problem that rises may be encapsulated if we refer back to the basis of modern science. The modern philosopher who has guided science is Karl Popper. He has said that if something is scientific it has to be falsifiable. One had to be able to prove it is wrong. If you cannot prove that it is wrong, it is not science. It may be myth or it may be some polemical statement. The problem with the  Four Corners  program is that many of the statements made were simply not falsifiable. They were put in such a way that they could not be treated scientifically. This has been the case with many of the issues which have been raised by Dean Burk and his associate,  Dr  Yiamouyiannis,  in relation to anti-fluoridation campaigns. I have previously brought to the attention of the Opposition Whip, and I now bring to the attention of the Senate, a segment from  Consumer Reports,  the journal of the United States Consumers Association, for July and August 1978. It sets out some of the activities of these people. I seek leave to have a column and a half of that journal to be incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The article reads as follows- 

RAISING THE SPECTRE OF CANCER 
The first big target was Los Angeles, whose City Council had voted in September 1974 to fluoridate the water supply. The NHF's ammunition was a study by  Dr Yiamouyiannis  that purported to link fluoridation to an increase in cancer deaths. The study and a couple of publicity handouts that accompanied it were eventually reviewed by various public health officials, including Thomas Mack, M.D., of Los Angeles, an associate professor of community medicine and an expert in cancer epidemiology. (Epidemiology is a branch of medicine that studies the incidence, causes, and control of a disease in specific populations.) The nature of the Yiamouyiannis study is apparent in an excerpt from  Dr Mack's  review: 
I cannot begin without commenting on the form of the documents you sent me,'  Dr Mack  stated. 'Despite the gravity of the question addressed, the form of these sheets is that of a propaganda flyer rather than a serious scientific effort. Specifically, there is no indication that any of the material was ever prepared for submission to a reputable scientific journal ... All over the documents one finds . . . conclusions emblazoned essentially in the form of slogans, without cautious interpretation or restrictions. For these reasons, the reader must immediately presume that objectivity has never been considered  . . At the same time this bias is so pervasive and obvious, the mistaken logic so gross and naive, that the reader assumes the author to be, however competent in his Ph.D. field, totally unaware of the principles of epidemiology.' 
Most people are unfamiliar with the principles of epidemiology, however, and a Ph.D. degree can sometimes lend credibility even to claptrap. In Los Angeles it evidently did. The scare tactics of the NHF and other antifluoridationists scored a stunning victory over dental health: 
There is no evidence that fluoride increases the incidence or mortality of cancer in any organ.' (from a study by the Royal College of Physicians). 
Around the beginning of 1975,  Dr Yiamouyiannis  also joined forces with  Dr Burk.  Like the National Health Federation,  Dr Burk  is a leading advocate of the worthless cancer drug Laetrile (Consumer Reports, August 1977), and he shares the NHF's aversion to fluoridation. 
The collaboration produced a study claiming that 25,000 or more excess cancer deaths occur annually in U.S. cities that fluoridate their water. The assertion was based on a comparison of death rates for specific cancers in some counties that were fluoridated compared with some that were not. In July 1975, Representative Delaney entered the study into the Congressional Record and called for 'an immediate suspension of all artificial fluoridation. ' 
The National Cancer Institute reviewed the study and was unimpressed. Unlike a proper epidemiological study, it had failed to take into account widely recognised risk factors known to affect the death rate from specific types of cancers. Using the same data, the NCI reanalyzed the study, taking into account such influences as ethnic composition of the population, geographic location, socioeconomic status, and other fundamental risk factors. The purported differences in the cancer death rates promptly disappeared. Undaunted, Drs Burk and Yiamouyiannis bounced back with another study. This time they compared overall cancer death rates for 10 large cities that were fluoridated versus 10 large cities that were not. Again, the fluoridated cities came out second best. Over the 20-year period studied, cancer death rates in the fluoridated cities purportedly increased 10 per cent more than in the un fluoridated ones. In December 1975, Representative Delaney entered the study into the Congressional Record and demanded that all (foundation be stopped. 
If anything, the new study was even more amateurish than the July entry. In the judgment of one NCI official at the House subcommittee hearings, it represented 'the worst piece of work that has been done to date on fluoride' Drs Burk and Yiamouyiannis had somehow managed to ignore the most fundamental factors involved in cancer mortality rates- age, sex, and race. Old people die from cancer more often than young people; men have a higher cancer death rate than women; and blacks a higher one than whites. Unless those factors are taken into consideration, the results of a cancer-mortality comparison would be meaningless. When NCI scientists reanalysed the Burk- Yiamouyiannis data, they found that the difference in the cancer death rate was due entirely to the age and racial make-up of the respective populations. Fluoridation was irrelevant. 
-That article sets out some of the rather unsatisfactory background to the work which these people have done. 
The central question whether fluoridation causes cancer has been examined by a lot of people. I do not want to spend a lot of time on that question today. It is an important question and it is desirable that something is put on public record to identify the vast body of literature which has been prepared on this matter. I have available to me a table which was prepared by a Commission which reported to the Governor of Minnesota, and which has summarised many  studies which have been done on the association of malignant diseases with fluoridation. I have shown this table to the Opposition Whip, 

 Senator Georges. I ask leave to have it incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 


<graphic href="081232197906086_62_0.jpg"></graphic>

-The table shows that many studies in many parts of the world have been unable to verify an association of the kind that was claimed on the  Four Comers  program. The program has caused concern and complaints have been expressed to the ABC and have been investigated by the ABC. I must say that the ABC has really taken some trouble to investigate the complaints in some depth and to make, I think, a very adequate response to the various dental groups. I would like to identify also an extract from a letter written by  Mr T.  S. Duckmanton, General Manager of the Australian Broadcasting Commission. It was written on 30 May 1979 to  Mr Graeme  Dunn, the  President  of the Dental Health Education and Research Foundation, in which the ABC admits that there was probably a lack of balance in the program. I seek leave to have that extract incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted: 

 The extract read as follows- 

Following lengthy and detailed discussion, the Commission expressed the view that the program of 2 1 April should have provided a full opportunity, either by way of statement or interview, for the presentation of the considered views of a number of professional bodies concerned with the fluoridation issue. While of the opinion that the public has the right to be informed about potential hazards, as well as potential benefits from any mass medication program, the Commission considered that the first program on the fluoridation of water supplies did not adequately present that range of professional opinion which, by its exclusion from the program, gave rise in some quarters to allegations of biased and inadequate reporting. 
I believe that it is right, proper and essential for programs like  Four Corners  to continue to investigate any matter which they think is of public interest. The title used, 'Shades of Doubt', is not a bad title. If  Four Corners  thinks there is an issue affecting fluoridation, vitamins, medication or tobacco, it should be allowed to investigate the subject. The concern that many of us have is that the ABC, because of its very great capacity to influence the views of a lot of people, has a special responsibility to ensure balance and justice in the programs which it produces. If it is to cover something like the cause of cancer, which is likely to create anxiety in a lot of people, it has a special responsibility which I do not believe it discharged properly in this case. That responsibility is to balance up the particular program. The views it chooses to push on the issue of fluoridation, I am not going to argue about; but I place on record my concern about the way the program was constructed. I hope that  Four Corners,  because of the dramatic impact that it can have, will ensure in future that it does achieve balance in its programs, even at the expense of the dramatic impact of the segment that it screens. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bills read a first time. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs: Is it true that the Australian Soccer Federation has put certain proposals to the Minister concerning visas for overseas footballers wishing to play in Australia? Is it also true that these proposals satisfy the requirements of both the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs and soccer administrators in Australia? Can the Minister indicate whether these proposals present any difficulty which would be likely to hinder their immediate implementation? 
My question of the Leader of the Government is in several parts. Did  Senator Wriedt  yesterday attempt to make comparisons between the tax revenues of the Whitlam and Fraser governments? Were his comparisons valid or were they deceptive? Was he comparing similar numbers of years? Were his comparisons in dollar terms or in real terms? Can the Minister advise in general terms what would be the effect of applying a price deflator to the figures? Finally, can the Minister advise what promises the Australian Labor Party has made on tax policy? 

 - Senator Georges has suggested that the Minister may care to respond to the point that he raises, but we are considering a report to the Senate from the Standing Orders Committee for which the Minister is not responsible. The Minister is presenting motions on behalf of the Committee to the Senate merely to open up matters for discussion. If there is any answer to the question whether these recommendations are proper or adequate, it should come from the Standing Orders Committee itself, not from a member of the Executive. It is a committee of the Senate which has put this recommendation before the chamber. 
I am coming to that. It may well be that the Standing Orders Committee operates in a reasonable fashion, but its members do not agree on every point. The Standing Orders Committee may well have gone through this very argument as to whether it is adequate to note the item or whether the Senate should take more affirmative action. I wish merely to indicate that the Committee was well aware of the fact that this was, as it were, a minimum response, but considering the circumstances and the progress being made in improving departmental representation, it was felt to be enough for the moment. If anyone has to answer for it, it is those of us who are on the Standing Orders Committee. In all justice, it is not the function of the Minister to answer for the report that is before us. 
I support what  Senator Missen  has said and indicate that I think the proposal that  Mr President  should report to the Senate from time to time is in itself a very considerable and powerful sanction. It is one we should adopt and should encourage to develop even further. I feel obliged to respond to some of the points made by  Senator Mason.  The Government has undertaken to respond to reports of Senate committees; it has not undertaken to agree with them. I am the  chairman  of a Senate committee and I have been a member of Senate committees. Clearly, I have a vested interest in our recommendations, but I recognise that many competing views go into the making of public policy. I think I quote the honourable senator correctly when I say that he indicated his belief that certain proposals should have been adopted. 
-Senator Mason and his colleagues thought that they should have been adopted. What is important is that the Government should consider the reports and respond to them, and that response itself becomes a basis for further public argument. That is what we have to seek. The making of policy is the resolution of competing views of the world. It may be that other people see a particular problem quite differently from  Senator Mason  and his colleagues. We have a promise from the Government that it will respond within a certain time. We have a proposal that  Mr President  will keep us up to date on any failure to respond. That is all we require, and I believe that from the point of view of the Standing Orders there is nothing else that we should be recommending at this moment. The view of a Senate committee is not an imperative. What we want to see, though, is that it is taken into consideration by any government. If it is not considered and a response is not prepared everyone in the Senate should know about it from time to time. I think it is most appropriate that  Mr President  has undertaken to be the means by which the Senate is kept informed. 
I think some response to  Senator Cavanagh  's argument is required. No rights exist in this place in isolation. The rights that people have on urgency motions or matters of public importance are often exercised at the expense of the rights of other honourable senators to take part in other debates which they think are important. As Government Whip, one of the less pleasant jobs I have is to ask my colleagues sometimes not to deliver speeches which they have prepared and which they want to deliver on other matters on the Notice Paper. We are not looking at an absolute right; we are looking at how we balance up the rights of different honourable senators to make the best use of the time available in this place to the greatest benefit of everyone. 
-Senator Watson says that it is particularly so at the end of a session. Despite his short time here he knows when the real squeeze goes on. I understand what  Senator Cavanagh  is saying. One of the issues that faced the Standing Orders Committee was whether two hours was adequate time for a subject to be developed and argued and for the Senate to understand it. Each honourable senator will have to make his or her own decision. I think that two hours is enough for the merits of any case to be made apparent to the chamber. If we limit debate to two hours, we stand to gain extra time for other debates in which senators have an interest and in which they want to participate. So we gain on one hand what we give up on the other. In the same way I have a feeling that anyone who cannot make a case on a matter of public importance in twenty minutes really wants to re-examine his or her technique or the case he or she is trying to make. Most cases can be made fairly concisely and with great force within 20 minutes. 
The Standing Orders Committee obviously has been trying to seek a compromise. There are no absolutes in this matter. The proposed Standing Order has a lot of attractive aspects. The option now is to choose among different kinds of procedures. The two hour limit and the limit of 20 minutes on the first two speakers has appealed on balance to the Standing Orders Committee. Honourable senators have listened to  Senator Cavanagh  's argument and will weigh it up but let me put the other view. The Standing Orders Committee believes that honourable senators will be better served by the proposed Standing Order which is before us and and that we will, in fact, not be giving up our rights but will be enhancing them in other areas. 

 - Senator Evans in his succinct address drew attention to considerable legal argument about the processes which are involved in the Bill before the Senate, namely, the Customs Amendment Bill 1979, and made some comments about the functioning of the Narcotics Bureau. He did not say a lot about the social goals of legislation which is designed to control drug use. In my contribution I will not be covering the ground which he covered- that is an area with which I am not familiar- but will move instead to discuss some of the social problems which I think are raised by this Bill and by Bills like it. The Bill is designed to do three things: To expand the investigatory powers of Customs officers, as has been outlined by previous speakers; to increase the penalties which may be imposed for certain kinds of offences; and to introduce a new type of penalty designed to exact more severe punishment on commercial traffickers than has been the case. 1 presume that the Bill has as its broad aim a reduction in the use and availability of illegal drugs. I presume that that is the base on which it is constructed and to that end, if it broadens investigatory powers, even having listened to  Senator Evans's  caveats, I think that it should be supported for the new powers that it will give to the Bureau and for the new capacity it will provide to interrupt supply chains for some of the drugs. In that it will increase penalties for those people in the business of promoting the use, or sale, or distribution of illicit drugs, some other questions arise which I think we at least have to examine tonight. 
Like other speakers in this debate, I applaud the Government's goal. I applaud any bill which has as its goal a reduction in the use of any drug. I think we have said before that substances which alter mood are all drugs and the general social goal should be a general reduction in drug use and a particular reduction in the use of those drugs which are damaging or which have damaging social effects. But I raise some questions about the assumptions, the ideological framework and the perception of the drug problem which underlie the provisions of the legislation before us. I do that in a slightly shamefaced way for reasons which my colleague,  Senator Melzer,  who is in the chamber, will appreciate. We are members of the Senate Standing Committee on Social Welfare. Two years ago the Committee made specific recommendations in relation to trafficking in cannabis. At that stage the Committee did not concern itself with opiates, but no doubt had it been doing so, it would have made similar recommendations in relation to opiates. In relation to cannabis the Committee made recommendations which the proposals in this Bill do pick up. If I am now going to say some slightly questioning things about those proposals, I do it against the background that the Committee sought increased penalties for those people engaged in trafficking. I am reminded of recommendation 68 of the Senate Standing Committee, which was: 
That the maximum prison penalty and fine Tor trafficking in marihuana be raised to levels more appropriate to the quantities involved in seizures. 
Certainly we could not have asked for a government to do more to implement that recommendation than is being done now. The Committee made another recommendation: 
That the penalties for the importation, manufacture and sale of hashish, hashish oil and all purified forms of tetrahydrocannabinol be substantially increased in accordance with the principle of introducing higher penalties adopted at the meeting on drug abuse held by Commonwealth and State Ministers on 1 October 1976. 
Those recommendations were unanimously endorsed within the Senate Standing Committee. The recommendations to increase the penalties were endorsed by the Liberal Party, the National Country Party and Labor Party senators who made up that committee. I take it that none of those committee members would now disagree with the principle of endorsing action to implement those particular recommendations. 
The point that we made again and again in that report was that our recommendations were part of a coherent whole, a set of recommendations that had a unity and a purpose in relation to drug use. It is not really of much use simply to bring in new penalties for one part of the activity in the drug scene while doing nothing at all about the rest of the recommendations which we saw as complementary and essential. That was October 1 977, and we hope before too long, say, before the end of 1979, that there will be some response from the Government to that particular Senate Standing Committee report. 
The Committee recommended specifically that a national strategy be adopted to identify the national problem of drug use, to deal with it in a coherent way, and to set a series of goals, for the nation in relation to drug abuse, goals which it does not have, which it never had, and which it still will not have even when we pass this Bill. In this nation there are no goals which really guide people in terms of drug control policy, except goals that there should be no use of illegal drugs. There is no comprehensive understanding of the problem of drug use. For example, we have a National Standing Control Committee on drugs whose terms of reference specifically exclude the two great drugs of abuse in this country, tobacco and alcohol- things like this may at least introduce fragmentation into our attempts to deal with drug problems and to develop policies for it. The Committee's declared strategy consisted of seven points, and they have been promoted by the members of the Senate Standing Committee. They have previously been presented in the Senate, and I have a copy of them before me. In  order to save the time of the Senate, I seek leave to have them incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

Australia has no declared aims in the area of drug abuse beyond well meant, but ultimately empty, calls for its eradication. The community needs a firm, agreed objective to ensure a concert of purpose. It is imperative that all governments declare a set of clearly stated goals and evaluate the success of programs aimed at achieving those goals. 
The Committee urges the Commonwealth Government to declare the following seven-point strategy, developed fully in Chapter 1, as its approach to drug abuse. The Commonwealth having provided the lead, State Governments should then be encouraged to make similar declarations. 
Total elimination of drug abuse is unlikely, but government action can contain the problems and limit their adverse effects. Control of drug abuse requires a long-term commitment within a publicly declared program with clearly identified goals, and with time frame, monitoring procedures, financing arrangements and standards all specifically stated. 
All drugs are not equally dangerous and all drug use is not equally destructive. Control efforts should therefore concentrate on drugs having the most adverse public health effects, particularly where use puts others at risk. Programs should give priority to individuals abusing high-risk drugs and to compulsive users of any drugs. 
Efforts to reduce the supply of and the demand for drugs are complementary and interdependent, and Commonwealth programs should be based on a balance between them. 
Existing programs aimed at reduction of supply and demand must be broadened. In the reduction of supply, a higher priority should be given to increasing international co-operation in preventing the illicit production of drugs. In the reduction of demand, increased attention should be given to prevention, constructive early intervention and better access to rehabilitation services. 
Drug abuse is primarily a social/medical, not a legal, problem, though such abuse may have important legal consequences and aspects. 
Management must be improved to ensure the maximum effect from resources committed to drug programs. Better interagency co-ordination is required. More attention must be paid to the setting of priorites with Commonwealth law enforcement efforts focused on high-level traffickers and Commonwealth resources focused on habitual users of high-risk drugs. 
The Federal Government has particular responsibility for giving national leadership in coping with drug abuse. The States have an equally important role, especially in the direct provision of services. No national control program will be effective unless all governments co-ordinate their activities. The Commonwealth Minister for Health should have primary responsibility for Commonwealth action relating to all forms of drug use and abuse. 
-This measure has been introduced to implement in passing some of the recommendations of the Committee but without the associated recommendations which do bear upon the problem. For example, if I look again at cannabis use, which the Senate Standing Committee considered, recommendation 68 tried to set down what the objective of the policy to control the use of cannabis should be. I am unaware of any national statement on what the policy should be, and the extent to which it agrees or disagrees with what the committee recommended. The Committee recommended in another recommendation that an appropriate diversionary program be developed and instituted for both possessors of and traffickers in cannibis. We recommended, and this relates to something that  Senator Evans  was saying about the Narcotics Bureau: 
That the functions of the Australian Narcotics Bureau and relevant State and Territory law enforcement agencies be expressed in terms of community patterns of drug use, and that failure to effect these patterns appropriately be considered prima facie evidence of inadequate performance requiring re-evaluation of the roles, structures and funding of such agencies. 
Our objective, of course, was to put these agencies into a position where they could ask for more resources if those which were available to them did not allow them to achieve the effects on community usage or on availability of drugs which their goal should set as their prime target. 
The fact that we are mentioning cannabis at all is partly because of the artificial tradition that cannabis is included with the narcotic drugs when it is not a narcotic. It is interesting that the Select Committee of this Senate in 1971 asked then that action be taken urgently to remove cannabis from the inappropriate classification in which it existed to a more appropriate classification, and the Senate Standing Committee in 1977 repeated and endorsed the same request. No action has been taken, at least no action in Australia, to open up at international level the kind of discussions which will be necessary before we can start to classify these drugs in what are appropriate and proper ways- not to list cannabis as a legal drug, which I do not endorse but not to list it as a narcotic drug when it is not, or to include it under the same kind of legal provisions, generally speaking, that are attracted to other kinds of drugs. 
I am aware that it was made as far back as 1971, but I think people have been asking for that kind of action for a long time. I am just concerned that sooner or later, is spite of bureaucratic convenience or government convenience, this recommendation is taken up and acted upon, and that Australia takes a lead, because the present convention and the action we have taken under it are inappropriate and inaccurate. They are not proper. 
The honourable senator asks what is the case for having codeine there. Codeine is a morphine derivative. I would think that we could clear up some of those points which are awkward. The thing about codeine is that in this country all the codeine used is produced in Tasmania. Therefore, any laws relating to its importation do not apply. I do not think it involves a customs law, coming from Tasmania, though I sometimes wonder. 
The assumption that large scale trafficking is the central problem in drugs is an assumption only. Demand and supply are interwoven, and which one comes first is a matter of guesswork at the present time. To see the drug problem purely as the activities of unscrupulous dealers exerting their will on innocent victims is really to misunderstand the problem. That there are unscrupulous dealers and that we should attack them is not in dispute, but demand for drugs must also exist. Without demand, the market will collapse. 
Let me give the Senate an example. The use of LSD was widespread in our community, until it became known to the users of the drug and to the culture in which the drugs were used that it was a dangerous drug, that it was bad news. When that happened the demand dropped and the market had to follow. If people are to convince us that they are talking rationally about the drug problem they will have to relate demand and supply and not assume that attacking the supply side alone will solve the problem. It will not. Surely the experience of Prohibition in the United States earlier this century - 
I note that there is a new Opposition Whip. Experience in the United States in the second and third decades of this century should have taught us that to act only on the supply side is the quickest and surest way of ensuring the emergence of a criminally controlled illegal supply situation. Our concern should be with drugs that do social damage, and in saying that I draw the attention of honourable senators to the outstanding report of a committee, under the chairmanship of Professor Ronald Sackville, which appeared recently in South Australia. The report has been too little noted, too little read and too little praised. 
-My colleague says that it has been too quickly dismissed. It was far too quickly dismissed for what were quite unworthy parochial political reasons. In that report Professor Sackville and his colleagues said: 
In our view, then, the objective of social policy should be to minimise the harmful consequences of the non-medical use of drugs. 
That should be the goal which we follow. We should be concentrating most concern on the most damaging drugs and least concern on the least damaging drugs. We can not eliminate the use of these substances, and we should acknowledge that fact. The Sackville report also points out that many people assume, quite incorrectly that government policies and actions can readily influence the extent to which drugs are used nonmedically. Whether drugs are used or not depends upon a lot of social factors as well as upon the laws that operate. Where a mass demand for drugs exists people are willing to flout the law, just as they are willing to flout the income tax laws and certain other laws where their own standards are offended. Further, increasing the penalties for some of these drug offences does not of itself have any effect whatever upon the likelihood of detection. Doubling or trebling the penalty does not mean that anyone is a whit more likely to be detected. It may mean in fact that it is worth someone 's while to take extra precautions, to put extra tax on the product on the way to the consumer, to take greater risks in protecting himself. It may even be that the police will be more reluctant to lay charges as the penalties increase. 
I return for one moment to the second reading speech of the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  in the House of Representatives, one or two sentences of which were misunderstood by the Press. Dealing with commercial trafficking the Minister stated: 
The penalty for these offences is to be life imprisonment without the option of a fine. Life imprisonment without the option of a fine is also to be the required penalty for a second offence involving a traffickable quantity of drugs. 
The Minister did not mean that at all. Those sentences gave rise to considerable public misunderstanding. What he meant to identify was the maximum penalty in each case, and I think I can remind the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  that I asked a question of him in this place to ascertain whether there was any mandatory requirement for life sentences for any of these offences. He was able to assure me that there was not. However, there has been quite considerable correspondence in the Press about mandatory life sentences for certain offences. I think there has been a misunderstanding of what appeared in that speech. In 1 970 a provision was inserted in the South Australian Narcotics and Psychotropic Drugs Act under which the courts in that State were required in certain circumstances, in the interest of 'rehabilitation', so-called, to impose a sentence of imprisonment. That requirement was repealed in that State in 1972, apparently because the judges considered it too inflexible to be useful. Of course, mandatory gaol sentences are not appropriate, here or anywhere else. As I will point out later, the courts have used their own standards in the imposition of sentences and even now they are not using the maximum sentences available. What is the purpose of the penalties which are being proposed in this Bill? In social terms, what is the purpose? Is the purpose to punish those who use the drugs? Is it to deter people from carrying out these activities? Is it to punish or to deter the traffickers? Is it to exact retribution on behalf of society? We should know what the purpose is. 
-The honourable senator suggests that it could be for revenue purposes. I really think that is not so. The Government believes that it may have a deterrent effect; it may wish to exact retribution for what it considers to be wrongdoing. It is quite true that the community is anxious about the use of certain illegal drugs. It is anxious and disturbed about trafficking in these drugs. There has been a widespread demand for heavier penalties for certain activities, particularly as they relate to dealers and traffickers in drugs which at the moment are illegal. As Professor Sackville points out, these demands reflect the belief that the enactment of more stringent laws involving ever more severe penalties for law breakers and the allocation of greater resources to the relevant agencies will overcome the drug problem. At the very best, as Professor Sackville says, that belief oversimplifies the position. 
It tends to over estimate the effectiveness of the law as a deterrent and it underestimates the difficulty of disrupting the various sources of supply of drugs, many of which are interchangeable. The Full Court of the Supreme Court of South Australia set out the factors taken into account when penalties are fixed and implemented. In explaining that the South Australian legislation had two purposes the court said: 
The first is to punish wicked people who attempt to corrupt others by sale or persuasion or who by their activities increase the general supply of the drug. The second is to protect citizens in the community from commencing to use the drug or from continuing to use it. 
The court went on to say: 
Very severe sentences are clearly required when a degree of wickedness is comprehended in the offence, more so when an offence of this sort has been repeated. (But a) desire to rescue an addict is perfectly consistent with a desire by an appropriate sentence to warn the unaddicted offender and thereby to deter him from becoming an addict or regular user. 
A fine, a bond ... or a suspended sentence will often be the right sentence to carry out the legislative intention. A lumping together of all offenders as wicked people who must all go to prison will not. 
Here is a group of judges saying that, as one of the purposes of the law, they wish to punish wicked people and, as a second purpose, they wish to deter users. We know that our law makers have indicated a desire to punish the commercial drug traffickers who, they feel, have been too leniently treated in the past. That is a sentiment with which I would not disagree, especially when we look at the small penalties that can be imposed by way of fines or attachment of property. But I hope-- 
I mean the Government that is making these laws. 
I thank the honourable senator for the point of constitutional practice which he made clear to me. We know that most of the opiates in this country are imported except, as I think was said earlier, the codeine produced in Tasmania. Honourable senators should realise that the use of opiates has been illegal in this country only since 1905. It was quite legal until then for a person to use as much opium as he or she wanted to use. Opium and morphine have not changed since then. People could use as much of these drugs as they liked until that stage. In fact, in 1905 a large number of drugs contained opium. They included Perry Davis painkillers which contained opium. Bonnington's Irish Moss contained opium and morphine. Powell's balsam of aniseed contained opium alkaloids. Only in 1905 when we controlled the use of these drugs did we, in fact, set the stage for the illicit market which arose. The benefit we received was that the amount of use of these drugs also dropped at that stage. 
It is fashionable to say at the present time that we have an epidemic of heroin use or an epidemic of drug use. 'Epidemic' is a medical word which has a particular meaning and which relates to a rapid spread of infection from an agent introduced into a community. It appears that in some American cities the spread of heroin has followed that kind of pattern, but only temporarily. The use has tended to even out. The most recent surveys from the United States of America do not indicate rising rates of use of heroin over the last year or so. I am not suggesting that I favour heroin use, that I am not alarmed by heroin use or that I want heroin use in this country. Of course, I do not. But we should make as dispassionate and as cold an examination of the facts as we possibly can. We should avoid those people who want to tell us about epidemics and imminent danger, especially those distinguished visitors to this country who often make their pronouncements before the mandatory 72 hours in Australia. They cannot be experts on our drug problems if they have been here for only 72 hours. They tell us how much we should spend and how big our problem is. They usually do it in such a way as to include the kinds of recommendations which just happen to serve some selfinterest they have in an organisation which they are promoting or with which they happen to be associated. 
The Sackville Royal Commission in South Australia tried to estimate the number of heroin users. The range of estimates the Royal Commission arrived at was between 500 and 1,500. It is pretty difficult to be exact when confronted with an estimated rate of use over a two-year period of between 0.4 and 1.3 users per 1,000 of South Australian population - 
It is the best extrapolation the Commission could make from the surveys available and it is better than just the pure kinds of guesstimates that are often promoted in the daily Press by those who want to be dramatic rather than factual. So we do have a problem but I am not sure how big it is. I am not sure how serious it is. I am not sure that it is getting worse, and I am not sure that other people know either. 
I turn now to consider the question of penalties. I do not want to argue that there should not be penalties for those who are engaged in illicit drug trafficking. I would like to be clear why we are imposing them. I am perfectly happy to exact retribution in appropriate circumstances. I notice that my colleague who is going to speak next in the debate is shaking his head. 
-The presence of a law symbolises public disapproval and I am perfectly happy to have a punishment available further to indicate the kind of disapproval which the community has. Of course, I will mention later the opinion of Lord Devlin. He holds the view completely opposite to that of John Stuart Mill on this matter and it is a view which I find a little disturbing generally. He thinks that the protection of morality is enough reason to have these harsh laws. But if the aim is to deter the use of drugs, we should examine what the evidence is for deterrence and we should examine what the practice is in the courts. The maximum penalties already available in every State of Australia are just not being used by judges. 
The maximum penalties for trafficking in opiates and cannabis are not being used at all. Table 7.4 on page 247 of the final report of the Sackville Royal Commission gives the figures on the outcome of charges involving different drugs in all courts. We find that 20 per cent of the charges involving opiates were dismissed. In 42 per cent of cases a fine was imposed, in 4 per cent there was a bond, in 13 per cent of cases the accused received suspended sentences and in only 13 per cent was a term of imprisoment imposed. 
-This was in 1977 in South Australia. A further 7 per cent were convicted without penalty. Let us look at the position in the New South Wales higher courts. Out of the 56 people convicted in New South Wales in 1 976 for cannabis trafficking, 18 attracted no gaol term, six attracted a gaol term of less than two years, but only seven out of the 56 people involved attracted gaol terms in excess of four years. Let us look at opiate trafficking in the same State-New South Wales. In 1976 of the 51 people who were convicted of opiate trafficking, three received no gaol term, nine received a gaol term of less than two years, eight received a sentence of between two and four years and 31 received a sentence of more than four years. In the New South Wales lower courts, only 54 per cent of those who were trafficking in opiates were imprisoned, only 25 per cent of those who were engaged in cannabis pushing were imprisoned, and so it goes on. 
I am making the point that the penalties available now, which can extend to prison terms of up to 20 or 25 years, are not used by the courts. Honourable senators can ask: What is the need therefore for increased gaol terms? I do not object to people going to gaol for drug trafficking. I would just like to make it quite clear that they are not having the available sentences imposed upon them now. A heroin wholesaler was given a sentence of  151A  years in Perth in April this year. That is the biggest sentence ever imposed in that State for that particular offence. 
-The honourable senator said he was a non-user of drugs. So what are the courts trying to tell us? The courts are trying to tell us that the judges, whose business it is to determine the sentencing practice, do not wish to avail themselves of the sentencing power they already have. I do not argue with that. They are the professionals. They are the people who know what sentences to impose. But it makes a pretty thin case if we say we must increase the gaol terms. 
I think that the question of the extra pecuniary penalties is quite separate. It is something that has been lacking and it is something that I think we need. All that Murray Riley, a former New South Wales policeman, received was a 10-year gaol sentence with a non-parole period of five years, for his massive importation of cannabis, although the maximum penalty available in New South Wales was then 1 5 years. This makes one wonder, specially if one looks at the penalties for other kinds of offences, say in Victoria. The maximum penalty for murder in Victoria is life imprisonment. The average sentence in Victoria for that offence is life imprisonment. The maximum penalty for manslaughter is 15 years, but the courts tend to impose a sentence of four years to 10 years. For drug trafficking the courts have tended to impose fairly modest gaol sentences although they have had available to them extensive powers of imprisonment. In fact in 1977 the courts chose to impose average sentences of 3.8 years for trafficking offences. 
There is no good evidence at the moment to suggest that there is a strong deterrent effect from increased punishment. In New York State in 1973 laws were enacted increasing the penalties for the possession and trafficking of drugs. The new laws proposed a sentence of from 15 years to life imprisonment for major trafficking in narcotics. In addition there were mandatory maximum life terms for all narcotic drug sales, for the possession of narcotic drugs in quantities in excess of one ounce and for a variety of possession and sale offences involving LSD, stimulants, hallucinogens and amphetamines. By mid- 1976 the State of New York had spent some $76m in administering the new law. However, a recent study has found that heroin use remains as widespread as it ever did. It differs little from the levels of use in other east coast cities in the United States. Of course one cannot assume automatically that the situation might not have been worse had the law not existed, but the evidence that the law has exerted a beneficial effect cannot be uncovered. That study in one city in the United States did not yield a promising result that deterrent follows from increasing the penalties which are imposed. 
-The honourable senator is correct in saying it increases the price of the drug. In Singapore in 1975 the law was amended to provide for a mandatory death sentence for anyone possessing more than 15 grams of pure heroin or 30 grams of morphine. At the stage I looked into the matter 1 6 arrests had been made under the law with nine convictions. A further 3 1 suspects had been charged and were awaiting trial. Singapore has now reported some success in bringing its drug problem under control. However, it is very difficult to determine whether it was the new law that produced that effect. Most of Singapore's heroin is brought in by Malaysian guest workers who commute daily to work on the island. Each smuggler carries a very small amount across the causeway. As a result, detection has been virtually impossible and most of the heroin will continue to get in. There are indications that heroin addiction continued to increase in Singapore after 1975. Let me outline the arrest rate for heroin offences which is not, in itself, a reliable indicator of community use. In 1974 there were 110 arrests; in 1975, 2,263 arrests and in 1976, 5,700 arrests. According to some investigators no sets of legal restraints have so far been successful in reducing the heroin problem to negligible levels. I refer to heavy penalties, police action or addict treatment. The reason for this failure is thought to lie in the fact that those who become thoroughly addicted tend not to recover. The Le Dain Commission in Canada stated: 
Despite massive expenditures over a period of many years on a wide variety of treatment programs, their success rates continue to be unacceptable by ordinary medical standards. 
It may well be that we do not know what to do to get people off heroin if they are really addicted to it. It may be that  Senator Georges  is correct in saying that all we do is push the price up and increase the efforts people make to get the drugs. I am not suggesting for one minute that we do nothing about the situation. I am suggesting that we take the most hard nosed view of what we are doing and try to determine whether it is effective. If it is effective, let us say so. If it is not effective, let us also have the courage to say so. There is no real evidence that the deterrent effect of the heavy penalties is what we wanted it to be. 
So what should we conclude? First of all, there is very little evidence that the imposition of tougher penalties has anywhere had a marked observable effect upon the amount of drug trafficking or the amount of drug use. Unless we can produce the outcome measures and reduce the usage, reduce the amount being imported and the amount of trafficking, all the things we do will be worthless. Perhaps I had better amend that statement. They are not worthless. Perhaps if we had none of these things, use would be greater. What I meant to say was that the measures are not effective enough. 
We should say to people like our narcotic officers: 'Your task is to prevent the entry of material into Australia'. Every year that more material gets in the Narcotics Bureau's goal is not being achieved. We will then have to decide whether we restructure the Bureau or support it more adequately and whether we come to understand that legal sanctions, on which we depend so entirely in Australia, are themselves not enough to control the drug problem. Certainly they are not enough to control the illegal drug problem. 
-The honourable senator talks about causes, and the causes have to do with social development programs. In this Bill we are looking at effects, at drug use, at how we control it and at how we stop certain people importing drugs. All I am saying is that if we are not achieving what we set out to achieve we should acknowlege the fact and revise the methods which we have used. 
I would again emphasise the need for a comprehensive strategy to attack and control drug use generally. That comprehensive strategy must acknowledge that in a nation where we glorify the use of certain legal drugs we are increasing the likelihood that people will turn to other drugs. It is impossible to concentrate only on the illegal drugs in a society where drug use is encouraged and promoted. As I may mention in a debate soon to come up, a program issued at the Country Rugby Union Carnival this year in Sydney contained a message from the  President  of the Country Rugby Union in New South Wales, a  Mr Rowlands.  He thanked the sponsors, W. D. &amp; H. O. Wills (Aust) Pty Ltd, for the carnival.  Mr Rowlands  said that it was up to all those who attended to encourage, promote and exhort the use of products of their sponsors. Anyone who adopts that kind of framework has no right to come back and say how much he deplores the drug problem and drug use generally. As a drug using society we must develop a comprehensive strategy. What we do at the moment is quite irrational. We designate certain substances as illegal and impose sanctions on their use; we supply too little support, too few diversionary programs, too little rehabilitation; and we say to the narcotics officers and the police: 'It is your problem, chum; we will have nothing more to do with it'. Therefore, we get what we deserve. 
This Bill does a number of things that I believe are absolutely necessary. The investigatory powers that the Bureau needs must be made available to it. The ability to impose certain pecuniary penalties upon the big dealers will at least be a practical demonstration to them of the disapproval of society. My only concern is that, so far, such measures have had little deterrent effect upon the problem that they are intended to correct. I beg the Government to look once again at the need to adopt a comprehensive strategy in combating drug use and drug use problems. The recommendation of the Senate Standing Committee may not represent an ideal solution, but it at least represents a start in filling what is at the moment a policy vacuum. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. I ask: Are registered health insurance organisations required under section 76(2) of the National Health Act to furnish a copy of their financial accounts and statements for the previous financial year to the Permanent Head of the Department of Health by 30 September each year? Which health insurance organisations in New South Wales failed to furnish their 1977-78 financial accounts and statements to the Permanent Head of the Department by the required date? Was the penalty provided under the Act for failure to provide this information imposed on any of these organisations? When were the required statements and financial accounts furnished and which organisations have still not furnished their 1977-78 financial accounts and statements as required? Finally, will the Minister approve contribution rate increases and benefit changes from 1 September 1979 for any organisations which have not furnished their 1977-78 financial accounts and statements as required? 

 -Mr President, I wish to ask a brief supplementary question. I take it that the fund that is operated by the Health Insurance Commission is Medibank. If so, am I correct in understanding that its report for 1 977-78 remains in unaudited form? 
-The National Health Amendment Bill (No. 2) 1979 seeks to amend section 84 of the National Health Act to allow for an increased charge for pharmaceutical benefits from $2.50 to $2.75 per item. I am delighted to have heard the speech of the honourable senator who preceded me,  Senator Mason,  and to have heard his advocacy of frugal government, of a leaner, more efficient kind of government. I have no doubt that those who espouse such an approach would find the cost saving involved in this measure, $5m in the current year and $7m in a full year, to be thoroughly to their liking. For my part, I want to approach the matter from a completely different angle. Cost savings may very well be made.  Senator Mason  adopted the approach to cut things to the bone, to pare away, to remove benefits, and to charge more. But there are social effects - 
-The honourable senator used the words 'a frugal approach'. I took it, when he talked about a frugal approach, that he meant what he was saying. I would like to take a different approach. I would like to think of drug use problems in relation to efficacy, to need, to equity and to efficiency. Those are the issues which other honourable senators have raised today. Those are the things which are important. I must say that when I heard  Senator Mason's  address I was reminded of the story by Edward Lear who described the English gentleman who came downstairs, jumped on his horse and galloped madly off in all directions. The honourable senator did encompass a fairly wide area in the contribution which he made. 
What is involved in this Bill? All that is involved is a proposition as we have heard before in the Senate, that patient contribution per prescription should increase. There are proper arguments that arise as to whether that increase is an appropriate amount having regard to the changes in prices, whether it will create hardship, whether there are anomalies. I acknowledge that  Senator Colston  made a point which seemed to me to be a very telling one, that there will be an interregnum for certain people.  His  argument, I think, cannot be challenged as to the facts. Those are the kinds of things which relate to this Bill and the issues which are before us. 
The measure should be seen as part of the Government's proposals in the Budget on health generally. They can be summarised fairly simply. First of all, the Commonwealth Government intends to make a very major contribution to the States in respect of the costs of their hospitals; an amount of some $1,1 94m to enable the States to conduct their business. 
Of course, while discussing States, I wondered when  Senator Mason  said that we should take action to punish drink drivers. It may interest him to know that we live in a federation and most of the power does not rest with us. It rests with the sovereign States. The honourable senator represents one of the sovereign States. I am amazed to hear him recommend to this place that we should take action in an area which is theirs. No doubt it is a thoroughly centralist view that would diminish and downgrade the view of the States that would have that authority coming to us. 
It was also announced in the Budget that the foreshadowed independent hospital inquiry would take place with the powers of a royal commission and it would investigate the kinds of things which some honourable senators have been advocating. It was announced that the interim report would be available for us by 30 June 1980. I am sure that all honourable senators would agree that, whatever our views on the provision of health care, an independent inquiry into hospitals is needed. We should take into account the experience of the South Australian inquiry where the Public Accounts Committee carried out an investigation which showed not just inefficiency, but the grossest kind of inefficiency and dishonesty. 
-Rampant throughout South Australia's hospital system, as my colleague  Senator Messner  indicates. Of course, the Commonwealth is introducing this measure to increase the cost of a prescription. I will look at that point again in a minute. The Commonwealth is also proposing to go further in limiting drug provision. The Commonwealth is going to re-examine the range of drugs available under the pharmaceutical benefits scheme with a view to reducing the range and type of drugs available. I think that one can examine quite coldly whether that is likely to be a good or a bad thing. I give the view of one who has practised medicine over a number of years. I have no doubt myself that the range of drugs generally available today, from my own clinical experience, is unjustified either on the basis of need or value in terms of whether things really work. 
I must indicate that my colleagues  Senator Melzer  and  Senator Grimes  and I are members of a Senate committee examining this matter at the moment. We are under some disability because we cannot discuss the evidence that we have received or where the committee might be in its thinking but from my own general knowledge, I would say that the range of drugs is greater than needed. I could not determine that many of the drugs have a particularly beneficial effect. I could see that if it was handled with sensitivity and care, a move to reduce the range of drugs available could be undertaken without abridging the rights of anyone. That would include appropriate provisions to protect pensioners and those in need who do require a wider range of drugs available in a subsidised fashion rather than the people who are socially more secure and who need a narrower range of drugs particularly of a life-saving or highly effective kind. 
During the debate a number of propositions have been offered. One is that it is doctors who determine drug use in our community. I think that  Senator Grimes  makes this point. I hope  Senator Grimes  will agree with me when I say that the medical profession about which he was speaking is a great profession with generous and noble traditions. Despite the conduct of certain individuals from time to time, it is a great profession with noble traditions and in the area of drug use doctors take their responsibilities very seriously.  Senator Grimes  suggested that the price of drugs, whether they were listed or not, would not of itself alter prescribing habits of doctors. I would like to say to my colleague  Senator Grimes  that I think he is incorrect. The fact that a drug is available on the pharmaceutical benefits scheme is a very great stimulus to the use of that drug. My contact with the pharmaceutical companies over many years indicates that they place very high importance upon the listing of a drug as a pharmaceutical benefit and they place a high value on the extension of a listing from a restricted listing to a general listing. The companies have no doubt that the doctors will prescribe more when the listing provisions are liberalised. 
I take it that there has been no real objection today to Australians who have an adequate income, who have an intact family, who are not in need and who are not special cases, paying the extra 25c. The 25c more or less compensates for the movement since the last rise. I take it that the argument has centred around the hard cases, around people who have genuine needs and problems or who are special cases. It has centred around the large families, the poor, the disadvantaged and the people for whom the payment of costs may be difficult. Members of the Opposition have proposed that areas of hardship may be involved. What does the new increase of 25c mean? Honourable senators should remember that a packet of cigarettes costs somewhere between 90c and 95c. As honourable senators will realise, I do not know that through personal experience, but I am reliably informed that that is the cost of a packet of cigarettes. The cost of 10 ounces of beer, a middy in New South Wales, is about 47c. Most prescriptions are for a month's supply of a drug, or a course. In the case of an antibiotic it would be a 10-day or a seven-day course and for longer-term drugs there would be a months supply. The increase per prescription is of the order of a quarter of a packet of cigarettes or half a middy of beer. 
I take  Senator Georges  's point; $2.75 represents six middies of beer, two and a half packets of cigarettes, 14 pulls on a poker machine or about half a cinema ticket. That does not alter the fact that we must be concerned about special cases. However, we should not lose sight of the fact that the average wage in Australia is of the order of $245. 
-That is a different ideological position. We have different values on this matter. I will offer my view for  Senator Georges  's edification. It is that we should be concerned particularly with those who need help and we should be less concerned with the affluent middle class like me and honourable senators here who need no assistance in the provision, certainly, of short term courses of drugs. I would then like to suggest that the issue now comes down to how one approaches or handles the areas of difficulty. I was disappointed when I heard my colleague  Senator Grimes  advancing what are really hypothetical cases- large families with all the kids sick, with this happening and that happening. I would like to know what evidence we have that this kind of hardship actually occurs. I am sure it is occurring here and there, and I am sure that if we can identify exactly where the hardship and need is we can respond. 
I am reminded that yesterday in another place the Minister for Health (  Mr Hunt)  stated that the Government is now in the process of developing a proposition which would overcome the concerns people have for disadvantaged folk who may have special needs in this area. The Government accepts the fact that special cases require special responses but one cannot argue about special cases and try to say that a general conclusion follows. This measure is for all members of the community who take drugs under the pharmaceutical benefits scheme. For most of us there is no hardship in buying the drugs we need and paying $2.75 a prescription. I believe that the individual Australian uses approximately four or five prescriptions per year under that scheme. For the average Australian we are talking about something like $10 a year to be spent as their contribution to prescriptions. For pensioners and certain other groups the costs are higher and that should be recognised. My own preference was for the scheme that operated some years ago where a more extensive list was available to pensioners and a more restricted list was available to those in the general community. 
I must say one more thing. The Budget did not just increase the price of pharmaceuticals. As  Senator Colston  pointed out in his contribution, it also extended the right of access to pensioner health benefit cards. Access to those cards will carry with it the right to free medication. So, the Government is taking steps in a number of areas, which  Senator Guilfoyle  has already identified, to extend the pensioner health benefit to a number of other groups in need in the community. Each of those groups will now have access to pharmaceuticals at no cost to themselves. On several occasions honourable senators have gone through the arguments about what should be paid per prescription. I do not think the argument really is about the pharmaceutical companies or the medical profession. The argument is about cost sharing; it is about subsidies and the set of values which one holds. The Government's values are that the costs in this area for the general population are best shared between the Government and the individual consumer. Special provisions must be made for the special cases. 
There is nothing in the arguments I have heard this afternoon which makes a compelling case for not proceeding with this legislation, especially in light of the promise by the Minister for Health that he is examining the issues and any problem areas. The price rise proposed is in keeping with cost movements. It will maintain the cost of pharmaceuticals at the level they were, in real terms, when the last cost increase occurred. I commend and support the legislation. 
-Can the Minister representing the Prime Minister outline the effects that would flow to Australian industry and its competitiveness and to industrial harmony from any implementation of the Australian Labor Party's Adelaide decision to repeal all penalties for strikes against arbitral decisions of the Commission or a conciliation committee and the prohibition of action by the Commission to insert or register clauses in awards or agreements excluding the rights of workers to resort to industrial action'? Can the Minister also indicate whether such action by the Labor Party would mean one rule for the unions and another for the rest of the community? 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. Does Great Britain's membership of the European Economic Community require it to offer medical registration to doctors from all EEC countries? In the event that not all these doctors normally would be able to obtain automatic registration in Australia, what provisions exist to cover the registration in this country of doctors registered in Great Britain by virtue of that country's membership of the EEC? 
On behalf of the Senate Standing Committee on Social Welfare I present volume II of the report of the Committee's reference on the evaluation of Australian health and welfare services. I presented volume I of the report, together with the official  Hansard  transcript of the evidence, on 3 May 1979. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
I seek leave to make a brief statement on the report. 
Leave granted. 
-On 2 June 1976 the Senate referred to its Standing Commitee on Social Welfare the matter of the evaluation of the adequacy of Australian health and welfare services. On 3 May 1979 I presented the first of two companion volumes of the ensuing report entitled  Through a Glass, Darkly.  I am pleased to note that volume I attracted widespread interest and that, of the 2,400 copies originally printed, few remain. As a result of this public demand for the report, a second printing has been ordered. Might I observe in passing that the  National Times  for the week ending 8 September 1979 contained an article headed, 'Examining whether "good works" work', under the by-line Adele Horin, which stated: 
The Fraser Government established the Senate Standing Committee on Social Welfare under  Senator Peter  Baume in 1976, to report on evaluation . . . 
Clearly, no Government establishes a Senate committee. This Committee is the servant of the Senate. It is now my honour to present to the Senate the second volume of this report. The volume consists of seven specially commissioned papers. Some were written by academics with Australian and overseas expertise and others by professional people who have been active in programs and services in health and welfare. The papers were commissioned when it became clear to the Committee that there were important areas that were not adequately covered in the submissions or in published material. We believe that the papers are valuable additions to the body of knowledge available and we hope that this volume will help to improve the understanding of evaluation in the Australian health and welfare context. This is the first time that any Senate committee has produced a volume of commissioned papers such as this and the Committee will be looking with interest at the way in which it is received. 
I wish to take this opportunity to thank the authors of these papers who generously gave their time and energy to assist this Committee.  Dr Lois  Bryson wrote a paper on the views of clients, What People Think of Welfare Services. The Rev. John Davoren, contributed a paper on The Evaluation of Health and Welfare Services in Australia, With Particular Reference to Agencies. Frances Donovan wrote a paper on Evaluation in Relation to Standards of Performance. Paul Gross contributed a paper on Recent Evaluation Activity in Australia. Professor Rosemary Sarri wrote two papers, one on the history and development of evaluation in the human services- a view from the United States- and the other on methods of evaluating effectiveness of human services. Also, a paper was written jointly by Anne Stevenson and Wendy Chew on need and demand in the making of planning decisions in the evaluation of health and welfare services. The Committee is extremely grateful to these people and I am sure that their work will assist all people interested in evaluation theory and practice to understand this very difficult and complex field. I commend the report to the Senate. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. I ask him whether the code of practice agreed upon between broadcasters, the Tobacco Advisory Committee and the Department of Health and Social Security in Britain includes the following note: 
In the case of signs displayed at sporting or other events the manufacturers have agreed that if the event or part of the event is to be televised, signs which might otherwise be exposed to television may be completely obscured for the duration of the period of television coverage. The television authorities, who are responsible for taking the necessary action, have been informed by the DHSS that such signs should be covered. 
Since this would ensure a more effective compliance with the Government's ban on advertising of cigarettes and tobacco on electronic media, will the Minister undertake to examine the British provisions with a view to their being applied in Australia on the same basis of agreement between industry and government as has occurred in Great Britain? 
I direct a question to the Attorney-General. In the coin theft scandal involving  Mr David  Gee and  Mr James  Miller Henderson, were coin dies stolen from the public collection? If so, where are these coin dies now and what action is being taken to restore them to the Australian public? If they are not in the possession of the proper authorities, is it possible that they could be used again to reactivate or perpetuate the coin scandal? Finally, what measures are being taken to ensure that public collections can be protected from the activities of unscrupulous coin experts? 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Prime Minister. Is the Prime Minister aware that the rates of retirement of Public Service officers due to invalidity differ markedly between the Australian States? Is he aware of any reason why there should be any real difference in health status of officers in one State as opposed to officers in another State? Is there any reasonable way of explaining why five out of six officers who retired in Victoria during January to December 1977 did so on the basis of invalidity, while only half of the officers who retired in New South Wales did so for the same reason? Will the Prime Minister undertake to have administrative procedures carefully examined to see whether management in some States or those assessing people for invalidity should review existing administrative procedures, especially as it is argued that there is greater gain to an officer who retires on the ground of invalidity than there is to one who retires on the ground of age? 
I think it is important to respond to  Senator Cavanagh.  My understanding is that the report was made available to the Opposition in the normal way. I think  Senator Cavanagh  's point is a very reasonable one, that that should have taken place. However, the difficulty facing Ministers is a real one. In the case of the committee of which I am  chairman,  if a report is brought down which relates to the Minister for Health, we would expect that the response from the Government would come down to this chamber, since the Senate committee made the report. But obviously the Minister for Health in another place would want it to be presented there because it related to his portfolio. I think the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Senator Chaney)  has taken the course of action which is most appropriate for the Senate. The report has been put down in another place in response to a committee of that place, and it has been put down here to make sure that this chamber has the information. It was made available to the Opposition in the usual way. 
-My question to the Minister for Science and the Environment has been prompted by the Australian Association for Humane Research and relates to experimentation involving animals. Is the Minister able to advise what statistics equivalent to those kept by the British Home Office are kept in this country relating to the numbers and species of animals used for experimentation? Has this experimentation been performed for medical or commercial purposes? Is any information kept on institutions which use live animals for research or teaching? Is any kind of register kept which would enable concerned organisations to obtain this information? 
Very briefly, before  Senator Puplick  rises to speak on another matter, I add my name to the comments that have been made by my two colleagues, Senators Missen and Harradine. I became aware of this matter because of material which was forwarded to by by the Australian Committee for Human Rights in the Soviet Union and Eastern Europe which has among its honorary members a number of members of this Federal Parliament including  Senator Tate  and myself from the Senate and  Mr Hodgman, Mr Ruddock  and  Mr Simon  from another place. The Australian Committee for Human Rights in the Soviet Union and Eastern Europe is worried, as we are worried, by the dissidents trial in Czechoslovakia, and has sought to provide information which it hopes will go to the Australian people and will bring this matter to full public attention. 
I think that the day is past where the denial of human rights can go very long undetected. One of the things that Amnesty International, and groups like Amnesty, can do, is to make sure that we can spread out as far as and as wide as we can the systematic torture and deprivation of human rights that is going on around the world. It is not only the Amnesty people in safe places like Australia who are making protests. I do not know whether my colleagues mentioned this in the chamber, but inside Czechoslovakia itself 23 1 citizens in July of this year signed a letter of protest to  President  Husak. That act itself must have required a very great amount of courage. Thousands of letters have gone to the Czechoslovak Government from all over the world. In fact, the trial was delayed because the Government of Czechoslovakia is sensitive to the very bad publicity which is attracting to it for what is quite remarkable repression and denial of rights. It is not only that country, but there are many countries in the world. I recall that I was a member of an Amnesty mission to Indonesia a few years ago. When Amnesty International wanted some more information on Indonesia a delegation from Australia went there. We then were investigating in another part of the world under another kind of political system the same kind of systematic imprisonment, denial of freedom and denial of due process. 1 think that  Senator Missen  and  Senator Harradine  tonight have raised a matter which is important, which is concerning many of us and which we would like to make known to our colleagues in Australia. I think that we should make known to the representatives of the Government of Czechoslovakia that members of this Parliament are watching very closely what transpires in that country and will be watching very closely for reports of trials and for what happens to this little group of people whose only crime was that they stood up for the rights which they should enjoy and for the rights which all their fellow citizens should enjoy. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services. Did registrations of interest in the purchase of the Fawnmac group of pharmaceutical companies close at 2 p.m. on 2 July 1979? How many potential purchasers had registered interest by that date? When is it expected that decisions might be announced or negotiations completed on the sale of this group of pharmaceutical companies. 
I have indicated that that seems to be an appropriate course of action, which some of us would want to support. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Health: Has a disaster plan been adopted by hospitals under Commonwealth control, such as repatriation hospitals or Australian Capital Territory hospitals, to cope with emergencies such as bombing or other major civil disasters? Does the plan cover all the matters mentioned, for example, in the article which appeared in the  British Medical Journal  in February this year? Is the plan regularly practised and updated? Can the Minister indicate the means by which its appropriateness is regularly reassessed? 
-My question, which is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Transport, concerns the new fare structures that have been agreed between Australia and other countries. I ask the Minister: 
Would infringements of the agreed fare structures by any of the airlines involved be contrary to the interests of the travelling public, of ethical travel agents and of best airline operations? What arrangements has the Federal Government set in train with other countries to ensure that international airlines observe the new fare schedules? Will these new arrangements involve amendments of the Air Navigation Regulations? Will the Government undertake to seek the views of the air travel industry with a view to producing a better system of compulsory selfpolicing than that which was operated in Australia for many years by the International Air Transport Association? 
The Senate is debating a motion to take note of the Budget Papers. I wish to say a few words tonight about the tobacco industry and the tobacco lobby. May I first declare an interest, that is, that I am a shareholder in two tobacco companies. This is a very necessary measure. If anyone wants to attack the tobacco industry, it is necessary to buy the minimum number of shares one can- I think five shares, in each of the companies- to make sure that one receives the material which they put out and has a right to attend their annual meetings and to ask questions. 
In an editorial in May 1979 the  British Medical Journal  had this to say: 
Those who read newspapers or journals published 100 years ago are often surprised that determined campaigns had to be fought in opposition to child labour or baby farming or in favour of clean water or sewage systems. One hundred years hence there will be similar surprise at the delay in taking tough measures against smoking; but, even with the tradition of Simon and Chadwick, Britain is now lagging behind several other civilised societies in its action against tobacco. 
The same editorial said:   . . in the United Kingdom the number of workers directly employed in the tobacco industry is about 36,000; every year the number of deaths due specifically to smoking.related diseases is at least 50,000. 
It is also necessary to point out that people who smoke are not necessarily happy with the habit. In the  West Australian  newspaper dated 6 September, a  Mrs Hazel  Russell of Parmelia had published a letter in which she said: 
I am a cigarette smoker. I smoke about 30 cigarettes a day, not because I want to but because I cannot stop. 
I want to recount some of the latest events in the battle which is going on between the tobacco industry and its lobby and the health industry, which is attempting to mount an anti-smoking campaign on the north coast of New South Wales. Our concern is for the public that the manufacturers seek to ensnare in their addictive and damaging activity. The tobacco industry continues to challenge any association between smoking and ill health. The evidence for this association is now overwhelming. The evidence first began to appear in 1960. In 1962 with a report by the Royal College of Physicians entitled: Smoking and Health'. In 1964 an advisory committee to the Surgeon-General of the Public Health Service in the United States published a report entitled 'Smoking and Health'. That report discussed the results of some prospective studies of the incidence of illness. The committee had this to say: 
In all seven studies, coronary artery disease is the chief contributor to the excess number of deaths of cigarette smokers over non-smokers, with lung cancer uniformly in second place. For all seven studies combined coronary artery disease accounts for 45 per cent of the excess deaths among cigarette smokers, whereas lung cancer accounts for 1 6 per cent. 
Some of the other categories of diseases that contribute to (he higher death rates for cigarette smokers over nonsmokers are diseases of the heart and blood vessels, other than coronary artery disease . . . cancer sites other than lung . . . chronic bronchitis and emphysema 
Since these diseases as a group are responsible for more than 85 per cent of the higher death rate among cigarette smokers, they arc of particular interest to public health authorities and the medical profession. 
This is not the statement of some enthusiastic backyard scientist. This was the committee of the Surgeon-General of the United States. This report was backed up by reports which followed later. In 1971 the Royal College of Physicians published another report reviewing the evidence entitled 'Smoking and Health Now'. In 1977 the College published yet another report this time entitled 'Smoking or Health'. There was no longer a possibility of having both. One cannot continue to smoke and be healthy. It is either smoking or health. In that report the Royal College of Physicians- again not some backyard organisation, but one of the top collections of doctors and by the way people who, unlike the tobacco industry, have no vested interest- had this to say: 
Cigarette smoking is still as important a cause of death as were the great epidemic diseases of the past. 
It went on to say: 
Most of the recent slow-down in the rate of improvement of life expectancy, and half the difference in life expectancy between men and women, can be attributed to the fatal effects of smoking. In all, an estimated 2 1,400 deaths in men and 3,750 in women between the ages of 35 and 64 in 1974 were attributable to smoking. 
The report goes on and on. It makes the point that a long term study of the British doctor's records shows that of those aged 35 and over more than twice as many smokers as nonsmokers died before reaching 65. 
-On average a smoker shortens his life span by about  5M  minutes for each cigarette smoked, not much less than the time he spends smoking it. If a smoker gives up smoking his extra risk of dying before his time disappears in 10 to 15 years. The Royal College of Physicians made that statement. The latest report to come out is another from the Surgeon-General of the United States of America which appeared this year. Again it is called 'Smoking and Health'. Again it is not the report of some backyard organisation. It states that the 1979 report reinforces the major conclusion from 1964 that cigarette smoking is a health hazard of sufficient importance in the United States to warrant appropriate remedial action. The cigarette industry still refuses to acknowledge any link between the activity of smoking and the occurrence of illness. Why? It is quite clear why it refuses to accept it. To do so could have implications for it. It would require the industry to undertake responsible action in the interests of the public of a kind which it does not desire and which it has not undertaken until now. The industry does not wish to acknowledge the facts related to smoking. 
Early in 1978  Mr Joseph  Califano, then Secretary of Health, Education and Welfare in the United States, had this to say about smoking? 
Those who ignore these facts are indulging in the most dangerous kind of wishful thinking; they are, quite literally, whistling past the cemetery in their search for a way to rationalise a habit that can become a dangerous dependency. 
The few- mostly in the cigarette industry- who attempt to refute this overwhelming consensus of the experts are a selfinterested minority. 
I am interested to hear  Senator McAuliffe  interject. We will recall that he has a vested interest in cigarette promotion through the money that comes from cigarette manufacturers to the Queensland Rugby League.  Mr Joseph  Califano went on: 
Their attempts to deny the overwhelming medical evidence about smoking and health are in essence, an attack upon science. 
The promotional activities of the cigarette industry worry many of us. The social goal which we are seeking is one which was set out by the World Health Organisation Expert Committee on Smoking Control. I quote its recommendation: 
The Committee recommends that non-smoking should be regarded as the normal social behaviour and that all action which can promote development of this attitude be taken. 
One cigarette company has acknowledged the link between smoking and ill health. That was the Sobranie company. In its 1977 annual report the  Chairman  of the company tried to claim that moderate smoking was acceptable. Nevertheless, he stated:  lt is irresponsible, in the light of present medical knowledge and advice, to deny that excessive smoking may produce highly deleterious results. 
The industry has failed to marry up its economic goals with its social responsibility. The fact that something is legal is not in itself justification for irresponsible behaviour by the proponents of the activity, just as the fact that something is illegal is not in itself justification for irresponsible behaviour by its opponents. Yet the argument of legality is used by the tobacco companies to justify anything they do. Combined with a studied and deliberate refusal to acknowledge the dangers of smoking they give themselves a wide licence for any kind of activity. The World Health Organisation Expert Committee on Smoking Control had this to say about the industry: 
The tobacco industry has presented, and will continue to present, a formidable barrier to smoking control. An example of this is its studious avoidance of acknowledgment of the risks of smoking. The common view of all those seriously concerned to reduce smoking is that no worthwhile progress can be achieved unless governments are prepared to put the interests of public health before those of private tobacco enterprise . . . The international tobacco industry's irresponsible behaviour, and its massive advertising and promotional campaigns, are, in the opinion of the Committee, direct causes of a substantial number of unnecessary deaths. 
The promotional activities include the funding of sport. The Queensland Rugby League, of course, the Country Rugby Union of New South Wales and many other sporting bodies draw upon the blood money. In some of the advertising there is an association of smoking with food. I draw the attention of the Senate to an interesting Marlboro display which has gone up on the North Coast of New South Wales recently in which the advertisers are trying to link food with cigarettes. It is a nine square display which, square by square, reads: 
Marlboro. Sweets. Marlboro. Flavour. Cigarettes. Flavour. Marlboro. Snacks. Marlboro. 
I table this photograph for those who may wish to see it. Another activity of the industry is extensive Press advertising. Its electronic advertising continues because it is able to circumvent the regulations in ways not permitted, for example, in Great Britain where the British Broadcasting Corporation has moved to bring about more effective compliance with the ban on electronic advertising. It also advertises extensively through the print and display media. I observe here that the States of Australia have been slow- I would even say recreant- in not passing laws to complement the Federal legislation on tobacco advertising. The North Coast of New South Wales is a very active health region. It did a survey recently to find out what people knew about the health risks of cigarette smoking. It discovered that 30 per cent of the citizens of the North Coast region did not know that there was an association between smoking and lung cancer and that 70 per cent did not know that there was an association between smoking and heart disease. Therefore, it designed a program to try to do something about this. No doubt it was observing the suggestion of the Surgeon-General in his 1979 report in relation to public policy where he said: 
The decision to smoke is a personal decision, but once this is said, it remains unquestionably the responsibility of health officials to ensure that smokers and potential smokers are adequately informed of the hazards. 
The trouble with the anti-smoking campaigns is that in the past they have been generally poorly designed. They have been directed to an elite audience. They have been directed to the scientific audience. They have worked only for those people who have understood the message, and some people have. The medical profession has stopped smoking. Surveys have shown that over the last 15 years the smoking rate for doctors has dropped from something over 40 per cent to something under 15 per cent. With that diminished smoking rate there has been shown to be a diminished death rate and an improvement in health. It has been shown that the middle aged and the elderly, the aged cohorts in our community, have reduced their cigarette smoking. But teenagers are increasing their cigarette smoking. Some disturbing evidence has been given in this regard. In the  Canberra Times  of June last year there appeared an article from Adelaide in which it was reported that 22 per cent of 9-year-old Australian boys and 5 per cent of 9-year-old girls are smokers, according to a survey which had been conducted for the National Health and Medical Research Council. 
There is a real problem. Therefore, the North Coast health region has designed and put into action a new kind of health promotion program -not the old kind of elitist program. It has planned an anti-smoking campaign. It has organised professional marketing advice and the professional design of its print and electronic media advertising. It has produced a series of stickers which, I might say for those who come to my office, are being distributed widely in the Parliament. They contain messages such as: 
Smokers- please suicide elsewhere. 
Smoking is a dying habit. 
Kiss a non-smoker. Taste the difference. 
Smoke-free zone. 
The region is putting out T-shirts and organising community activities and it has engaged in an extensive Press, radio and television advertising program which began in May of this year. It has taken on the manufacturers in a limited region to see what it can do to increase awareness and to alter smoking habits. It seems to be effective. It is sufficiently effective that it has caused the tobacco industry to mount a concerted campaign to get rid of what it is doing. The tobacco industry has moved against its entire advertising package but in particular against its package in the print advertising media. A number of spot surveys have shown that awareness of the campaign is high and that information transfer is occurring, although the major evaluation will take place next year. The cigarette companies have moved into the North Coast, have increased their advertising in favour of smoking, have changed their marketing practices and display methods and have also moved to try to prevent and damage the whole campaign. 
Of course, there have been some encouraging developments in other parts of Australia. In Sydney this month the Barclay movie theatre withdrew some cigarette advertising when its program was for children. Bobby Fulton and 
John Berne, rugby league players of great distinction, have both lent their names and photographs to anti-smoking promotional literature. But the print advertisements which have been put out on the North Coast are very dramatic advertisements. They are well designed and very effective. I will make these seven advertisements available to my colleagues by tabling them. The seven advertisements carry the following headlines: 
How many ' heart starters ' will it take to stop your heart for good? Quit. For life. 
A simple plan for your average smoker to get to Hawaii and back. Free. Quit. For life. 
Smoking has a nasty habit of turning lovers into just good friends. Quit. For life. 
Which twin will die first? Quit. For life. 
Guess which twin is the ex-smoker? Quit. For life. 
In the short run you will lose your breath. In the long run you could lose a leg. Quit. For life. 
The lines you get from smoking are no laughing matter. Quit. For life. 
Those advertisements have had a move made against them by the cigarette industry. They have been withdrawn. They have been banned, while a most amazing series of events has taken place. These advertisements were submitted by the Health Commission of New South Wales to the solicitors who advise it- Messrs Dawson Waldron in Sydney, who, we understand, act for many of the cigarette advertisers and are renowned in the field of advertising examination. Their judgment, according to the information given to me by the Health Commission, was that the advertisements were satisfactory. 
This is not the first time we have had difficulties. In 1977 the Anti-Cancer Council of Victoria tried to get some anti-smoking advertisements on television, to be shown close to the telecasts of the test matches. These were refused. I quote from a letter written by  Dr Nigel  Gray: 
We booked time on Channel O for the purpose  of showing  this advertisement and were informed that 'anti-cigarette' advertisements were not acceptable during or adjacent to the cricket telecasts and replays. The grounds were quite clear: (I) The station regarded anti-cigarette advertising as in conflict with the corporate objectives of the Benson and Hedges Company. (2) The Benson and Hedges Company is the prime 'off television' sponsor of the cricket and is thus entitled to freedom from competition in or around the cricket telecasts, regardless of whether or not they choose to advertise on television. 
That is great reasoning- 
The Benson and Hedges Company has contracted to be a major sponsor of cricket ON television and, as such, is entitled, on this ground, to freedom from competition as above. 
So, a television station is not prepared to take anti-smoking advertisements because it is taking promotional money from a tobacco company. There was another little episode this year, to which one of my colleagues- it may have been  Senator Lewis-  referred a few months ago. A health message had been put on tape by the Royal Australian College of General Practitioners, and the anti-smoking message which the RACGP had put on tape for general use was forced to be taken off on complaint, I think, from the tobacco industry. I cannot be certain of that. 
Let us look at what has happened on the North Coast. Certain advertising agents acting on behalf of the tobacco manufacturers complained about the radio, television and Press advertisements. They complained on the basis that the voluntary codes for advertising, including the code for tobacco advertising, had not been complied with. But these advertisements were not advertising tobacco. If they were advertising tobacco, they should have adhered to the code for advertising tobacco. But they were not doing so. The interesting thing was that the television and radio advertisements were very quickly back on air after examination by the Federation of Australian Radio Broadcasters and the Federation of Australian Commercial Television Stations. But the Press advertising was submitted to the Australian Publishers Bureau- a specific body which censors print advertising in this country. All the advertisements were complained about. In a moment I will give the Senate some details of the complaints. The Media Council of Australia said that it believed that sufficient grounds were present to sustain the complaints and requested substantiation of certain facts from the Health Commission. No evidence was taken from the Health Commission when the complaint was heard. It was an ex parte judgment. There was no apparent right of appeal. There was simply an instruction that the MCA thought that there was a case and that the advertisements were to be withdrawn. 
The Joint Committee for Disparaging Copy wrote to the Regional Director of the Health Commission,  Mr McKay.  Its letter included the following statement in support of its decision that the advertisements were to be removed: 
The complaint was lodged on behalf of Phillip Morris Ltd by its advertising agent, Leo Burnett Pty Ltd, on the basis that claims made in the abovenamed advertisements are false and the statistics quoted are in fact misleading and serve to disparage their products. Furthermore, the complainant believes the advertisements to be dishonest in that unsupported generalities are gratuitously applied to individuals. The result being that the campaign denigrates a product group whose sale and advertising is legal and governed by Federal and State laws, and by the Voluntary Code for the Advertising of Cigarettes. 
It is also contended that the campaign contravenes many aspects of the Media Council's Advertising Code of Ethics, a copy of which is enclosed  for your  reference. 
It said further: 
Accordingly, and until such time as you submit the requisite documentation in support of the various claims made inclusive of statistical data for appropriate determination by the Committee, all advertising in the 'Quit for Life' campaign is to be forthwith suspended, and your assurances to this effect should be forwarded within seven (7) days from the date of this communication. 
The Health Commission, not surprisingly, wrote back, saying: 'Please tell us exactly which bits you are objecting to. They are seven large advertisements with a large amount of material in them. Surely the complaints were not to every matter in every advertisement'. On 28 August the Regional Director wrote  Mr Hughes,  the Secretary of the Joint Committee for Disparaging Copy, a letter in which he said: 
I am most anxious that this matter be dealt with as soon as possible as suspension of the ads will have a disrupting effect on our campaign which is just beginning to be effective. 
I am sure that spurred the industry on. The letter continued: 
The Committee's request for supporting data on such a generalised complaint provides me with some difficulty because of the enormous amount of material which exists on the hazards associated with smoking. The provision of support data is difficult and I would appreciate your assistance in ascertaining the specific claims which the complainant wishes to dispute to allow the early provision of support data. 
Further letters dated 30 August, 3 1 August and 3 September were exchanged. But it was not until two days ago, not until 24 September, almost a month after the advertisements had been suspended, that any specific complaints were made available to the North Coast health region. I have a telex of the letter in which the specific complaints were made known. I have shown that telex to  Senator Walsh.  He advised me that there would be no objection to its incorporation. I seek leave to have it incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 


 Senator P. Baume, Parliament House Canberra 
QUOTE OF LETTER SENT TO REGIONAL DIRECTOR, HEALTH COMMISSION OF NEW SOUTH WALES NORTH COAST REGION FROM AUSTRALIAN PUBLISHERS' BUREAU DATED 24 SEPTEMBER 1979. 
Dear  Mr McKay, 
Re: Quit for Life Campaign/Print Advertising 
In accordance with your request, the Bureau has now placed before it those claims made in the Quit For Life print advertisements to which substantiation is sought, accordingly I set out hereunder the basic complaints. 
"In the short run you will lose your breath. In the long run you could lose a leg". 
Substantiation is called Tor to demonstrate the relationship between smoking and the instances or gangrene, together with the relationship of death from  perivoral  vascular thrombosis and smoking. 
"How many 'heart starters' will it take to stop your heart for good?" 
Substantiation is called for covering the claim that nicotine in cigarette smoking is the addictive poison and its subsequent effect on heart action/blood pressure and heart stoppage. 
"Guess which twin is the ex-smoker". 
Substantiation is sought on the question of the difference claimed in the ventilatory function between smokers and non-smokers. 
"Which twin will die first?" 
Substantiation is sought covering the claim that nonsmokers can expect to live longer than smokers as well as the claim that those who quit smoking can expect a greater life expectancy. 
"The lines you get from smoking are no laughing matter". 
Substantiation to the claim that smoking causes wrinkles. 
"Smoking has a nasty habit of turning lovers into just friends". 
Substantiation that smoking has an adverse effect on sexual ability. 
In the case of the advertisements above, substantiation is also sought covering the cardiac efficacy of an anti smoking intervention which is an underlying claim made in each of the said advertisements. 
"A simple plan for your average smoker to get to Hawaii and Back. Free" 
There is also a query concerning the relevant travel costs quoted which it is believed could be easily adjusted. However, the underlying complaint regarding life expectancy also applies to this advertisement. 
The Bureau looks forward to you comments. 
Signed: W. L. Hughes Acting Secretary. End quote. 
Grayndler For 
V. McKay Regional Director North Coast Region 26 September 1979 5.20 pm 
I thank the Senate. My concern is not directly a concern about the advertising industry. It is acting as an agent for the tobacco industry. My concern is that the cigarette manufacturers have moved to delay the provision of the information which the North Coast health region needed to get these advertisements back into the print media, and that on the basis of an ex parte judgment there was an unconscionable delay in making essential information available. I believe that the tobacco industry is determined to try to stop, to inhibit, to destroy this campaign for healthy life style and this 'Quit Smoking' campaign, that it has decided to stand and fight, and that it has decided that the Lismore region will be the place where it will do this. I believe that the industry is not going to be too concerned about how it goes about doing this job. 
Let me finish with a couple of quotations concerning the industry. The first of them is from  Sir George  Godber,  Chairman  of the World Health Organisation Expert Committee on Smoking Control. He says: 
I am urging you, and anyone else who will listen, to believe that the promoters of tobacco products want more people to buy them and to go on buying them through their lives. The result of that can only be- if they succeed- that more and more people will die earlier than they need; that more babies will die young; that more work will be lost through illness; and worst of all, that men and women will spend the last years of their lives as respiratory cripples. 

 Sir George Godber puts that down as the inevitable result of the failure of a society such as ours to take on the tobacco industry head on and to introduce a sensible public health policy which will sell the virtues of non-smoking and sell the virtues of moderation. The final quotation I give is from the Australian Cancer Society. In an editorial some time ago, it said: 
The tobacco industry will remain as a wealthy influential and irresponsible force for ill health in the community. Reasoned argument and evidence does not modify the industry's opinions. 
In conclusion, I say that I do not object to the industry fighting if it thinks tobacco promotion has been unfair. I do not object if it thinks there is some gross irregularity in advertisements as regards truth. But I believe that it has engaged in a war of attrition and I believe that it has not responded with the speed with which it should have responded. What it has attempted to do is to disrupt one of the few very positive campaigns for a more healthy lifestyle in our community. I believe that the industry needs to look to its public image and to its public responsibilities. It has shown precious little public responsibility to date. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. Has there been a case reported from Australia of a woman eight weeks pregnant who received a smallpox vaccination? Did this woman subsequently give birth at 24 weeks gestation to an infant who could survive for only one hour, and from whose body the virus used in the smallpox vaccination was recovered? Is it not a fact that vaccination is contra-indicated in pregnant women and that it is probably not needed against smallpox now in many, if any, circumstances because the disease has been eradicated? 
What steps are being taken to advise medical practitioners of the dangers of inappropriate vaccination in pregnant women or in other patients such as those with blood disorders or malignancies, or in persons on special medical therapy? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 19 September 1979; 
1 ) Do Commonwealth Pathology Laboratories generally provide a non-coronial autopsy service performed under proper conditions by competent morbid anatomists; if not, does this mean that in areas where the Commonwealth Pathology Laboratory provides either the only service or else the main service, non-coronial autopsies are generally not available. 
How is it proposed that the community should obtain such services if a basic comprehensive service is not provided by Commonwealth Pathology Laboratories in areas where they are the main pathology providers. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Treasurer. Does the Insurance Act provide penalties for each day an organisation undertakes insurance business which is not authorised under the Act? Have these penalities been levied on any organisation in respect of unauthorised insurance business provided since 1 September 1979? Has the health maintenance organisation operated by the Geoffrey Edelsten Foundation since 1 September 1979 become an authorised insurer under the Act? 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for the Capital Territory. Which Australian Capital Territory ordinance prohibits the sale of tobacco to children under the age of 16 years? Is it a current ordinance? Does it accurately identify the current limitation on sales of cigarettes to minors? Have there been any prosecutions or has there been any enforcement of the ordinance in the past two years? 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Health: What legislative safeguards and penalties are provided to ensure that all organisations providing health insurance benefits and /or pre-paid health services have their operations registered under the National Health Act? Is the health maintenance organisation operated by the Geoffrey Edelsten Foundation in the western suburbs of Sydney registered as a benefit organisation under the National Health Act? If so, from what date was this registration effected? 
-My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. There are five parts to the question. Firstly, are Telecom Australia workshops throughout Australia taking steps to equip themselves for the manufacture of subscribers ' apparatus on a production basis notwithstanding the ready availability of these goods from Australian manufacturers? Secondly, is Telecom purchasing overseas components for this type of unit on a duty free basis while other manufacturers presumably pay the duty? Thirdly, are the units produced by Telecom being sold or leased to subscribers? Fourthly, should these units be regarded as goods produced for purposes of trade? Fifthly, does it follow that the duty-free purchase of such components may be in breach of the Customs Act requirement that 'Goods imported by the Commonwealth are duty-free but not if they are intended to be used for purposes of trade'? 
My question, which is addressed to the Minister representing the Treasurer, arises out of very serious allegations made by  Dr Arnold  Mann in the letters column of the  Canberra Times  on 16 October last.  His  allegations included assertions that tax may not have been paid on moneys collected as fees for services rendered by some salaried medical officers, including  Dr Mann,  the money having gone into trust funds which themselves may not have been validly constituted. In view of the specific and very serious nature of the assertions, will the Treasurer confirm the accuracy, as they affect tax, of the matters alleged to be facts in  Dr Mann's  letter? Will the Minister advise the Senate whether there appear to be arrangements operating in hospitals not properly satisfying tax and trust obligations. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I refer him to a recent statement by  Mr Farouk  Khaddoumi, head of the Palestine Liberation Organisation's political department, that the Arab oil producing states would use the oil weapon to influence next year's presidential elections in the United States. I ask the Minister: Has any oil producing country attempted to 'use the oil weapon', to use  Mr Khaddoumi  's words, to influence Australia on any matter and, if so, with what result? Can the Government assure the Australian people - 
I note  Senator O  'Byrne's interjection. Can the Government assure the Australian people that it would not allow itself in any way to be party to the kind of oil blackmail suggested by the Palestine Liberation Organisation? 
-Has the Minister representing the Minister for Health seen criticism of committees of inquiry into overservicing expressed by the General Practitioners Society in Australia in its journal? Did the Society in that article talk at all of public interest, or was it a self-interest statement? Did it do justice to the Government's position or to the committees? 
It is desirable that I intervene in the debate to make a few points in response to some of the comments that have been offered by  Senator Cavanagh.  First, the Government appreciates the view that the Australian Democrats have expressed and understands that those honourable senators will vote with it on this matter. It is grateful for that assurance. The motion which has been proposed allows for General Business to be brought on tonight if the essential parts of the Government's program can be dealt with. There is no attempt to prevent General Business from being brought on. 
-Senator Cavanagh intervenes. It is up to people such as  Senator Cavanagh-  a point on which I will elaborate in a moment- to decide whether they will continue the practice of frustrating and slowing down the business of the Senate. That matter is in their hands. Debate on General Business will be available tonight, as it is always, if the Government's program can be completed. That program was set out earlier in the week, well in advance, so that honourable senators would know, week by week, what was required. It is necessary to record that this week certain activities have taken place- they are activities to which I do not object- which have systematically slowed the achievement of the Government's program. For example, there has been a refusal to grant leave to incorporate speeches. 
-That is within the right of an Opposition but it is an activity which slows down the passage of business. Quorums have frequently been called. That also slows down the passage of business. Additional speakers have been called, in Committee deliberations particularly, and there has been a refusal to permit Bills to be debated cognately. All of those activities are entirely within the rights of an Opposition, and we have not complained but I point out to people such as  Senator Chipp  who wish to take part in the debate that whenever that kind of delay is imposed their rights as senators are abridged. 
I wish to respond to a point that  Senator Grimes  made and to place on record the fact that the delay in passing the social service and associated health and repatriation Bills in another place was due, at least in part, to the Government's responding to a request by the shadow Minister in that place and as a result of special arrangements being made to allow him to attend an Estimates committee hearing. We could have had the Bills before us a little earlier had that shadow Minister not had other matters before him. 
Finally, I think that it is necessary to say that when I first came to this place I was a member of the Opposition. We then had a Labor government composed of people, such as  Senator Cavanagh,  who are now complaining. I learned then what happened to General Business in the last weeks of a session when one was dealing with a Labor government. None of the consideration of which  Senator Cavanagh  now speaks was given then. Honourable senators have complained of the use of the guillotine. I remind them that we first learned of its use from a Labor government. In fact, the most famous guillotine of all, one which applied to 43 Bills, including a conciliation and arbitration Bill, was imposed by then  Senator Murphy.  It simply is not right for Labor senators with that record of sin to begin to preach virtue. For our part, we are very anxious that all honourable senators should have a chance to make a contribution on every issue that comes up but I do not think that anyone can pretend that if certain time-wasting activities are employed it will not result in the truncation of the program at the end of a given week or period. Whether that program proceeds slowly or rapidly, now or in any other week, is entirely in the hands of each honourable senator. 
I thank the Senate. The Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  has just brought in a statement setting out the Government's response to a Senate committee report. The report contained 35 recommendations. The Minister has had the response to each of those recommendations incorporated in the  Hansard  record. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENTLeave was not granted. 
In that case, I now seek leave to have those 35 responses incorporated. 
The ACTING DEPUTY PRESIDENT-Is leave granted? 
I am again asking for leave. 
I will withdraw my request for leave and carry on with my speech. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

I address a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Veterans' Affairs. Is it a fact that veterans have a choice of seeing either ophthalmologists or optometrists when they seek attention for eye conditions for which they have entitlements? Is this choice given as a matter of principle to veterans as well as to all Australians? Can the Minister confirm that there are no current or proposed instructions that all veterans must use either ophthalmologists or optometrists when they need eye care? 

 Senator GUILFOYLE For eligible Veterans' Affairs patients requiring eye care the choice between ophthalmologists and optometrists rests with the patient's local medical officer, not with the patient himself. All treatment at the expense of the Department of Veterans' Affairs must be initiated by the medical officer. The patient may not initiate treatment himself and may not go direct either to an ophthalmologist or an optometrist except on referral by his medical officer. To this extent the options open to Veterans ' Affairs patients are not as wide as those open to Australians generally. The medical officer has a discretion as to whether a patient's eye condition is such that he needs to be referred to an ophthalmologist or whether he could be referred to an optometrist. In country areas medical officers may refer direct to local ophthalmologists. In metropolitan areas ophthalmological referrals are to the Department's outpatient clinic, although in Sydney a trial is being undertaken whereby medical officers may refer patients direct to local specialists, including ophthalmologists. Referrals to optometrists in both metropolitan and country areas are to the optometrist of the medical officer's choice. 
No doubt in so referring medical officers have some regard to the preferences and the wishes of the patients, but this is secondary to the medical officer's assessment of medical need. The current policy has been operating since early 1978 and was adopted only after careful consideration of its implications and of the views of the various representative organisations. I should mention that both the Royal Australian College of Ophthalmologists and the Australian Medical Association did not support the Department's allowing a veteran to be sent to an optometrist by a medical officer. Quite a number of medical officers have availed themselves of the discretion to refer eligible Veterans' Affairs patients to optometrists but the pattern varies between States and between metropolitan and country areas. The effectiveness of the revised policy has recently been reviewed and this has confirmed that the basic discretion should remain. No changes in the policy are planned at present. 
-The Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  has responded to a report by the Senate Standing Committee on Social Welfare which contains 35 recommendations. The Government's response has come down virtually within the six months which was provided for iri the promise of the Government last year or the year before. For this the Committee is grateful. It has been a fairly significant report to deal with and the Government has done so expeditiously 
The response is in two parts, namely the Minister's statement, which she read, and the schedule of specific responses to each recommendation which has now been incorporated into the  Hansard  record. To the Committee the important part is the response to each recommendation because those recommendations are prescriptions for actions and the reponses are commitments on the part of the government. They are significant recommendations. They relate to goal and objective setting, the generation and dissemination of data, standard setting, the measurement of health status and the measurement of social circumstances from which we can impute need, and evaluation of technology and expertise. 
Of the 35 recommendations, three have been rejected, several have been referred to the States or are still under consideration and about 30 of the recommendations have been accepted in whole or in part. For the acceptance of 30 out of 35 recommendations the Committee is grateful. The three recommendations which were rejected included proposals to make Commonwealth governments identify the real costs of welfare programs. These were rejected- this can be read from the schedule- because they were too expensive or not practicable. At the very least this is an unfortunate situation; the claim that the proposals are too expensive or not practicable scarcely convinces the Committee. It cannot be too expensive or not practicable to take steps to identify the true cost of government programs. One result of this rejection of our recommendations will be the continuation of the situation where the costs of government programs are understated in the Budget Papers, because their administrative costs appear elsewhere. Administrative overheads are shown other than in the program line item. This will leave nongovernment welfare agencies less advantaged for their administrative costs are included and their programs may therefore appear to be more expensive. I acknowledge the 30 recommendations which are accepted and I will not carp further about the few that were passed by. 
It is necessary to offer a few comments on the statement brought down by the Minister. She stated: 
Over the past four years the Government has, in fact, reviewed very carefully every health and welfare program. No Government has carried out a more rigorous assessment of its programs or initiated more community consultations and continuing research. 
I acknowledge the activity of the Government and have appreciated the ability to participate in, for example, Public Service Board seminars on evaluation or seminars run by the Department of Health on evaluation activity. Nevertheless, I must remind the Senate that just two years ago the Department of Social Security included in its revised submission to the Senate Standing Committee two statements, which I will quote. On page 6 it said: 
But at the moment there is limited activity in this area -  formal research of community needs-  -because of the lack of resources and the fact that the technology is very much a ' new art '. 
At page 12, it stated: 
Departmental data is suitable for monitoring the extent an J nature of program inputs, but is not suitable in most cases for the conduct of 'outcome evaluations', i.e. those concerned with the assessment of program effectiveness and program efficiency. There is room for improvement in the collection of both internal and external data. 
Those statements are from one of the departments actually involved in health and welfare programs. The Department's submission merely reinforced other comments by the Royal Commission on Australian Government Administration, by the Bailey Task Force on Co-ordination in Welfare and Health and by the Commission of Inquiry into Poverty, all of which set out areas in which evaluation in health and welfare is inadequate and continues to be insufficient in amount or quality. The Minister is correct in stating that the situation is improving. But I think we have to place on record again and again our concern that it is not as good as it should be. 
The Minister's statement also contained the following comment: 
It must be recognised that the Senate report did not point to any specific programs which were out of control. No particular areas of unmet need or waste were outlined . . . 
I make it clear that the Senate Committee was not talking about financial control primarily; the Committee was talking about effectivenesswhat programs achieve. That no specific programs were included was quite deliberate on the part of the Committee. Lest there be any misunderstanding, the Committee could have quoted examples from a whole range of areas. In particular, it could have sought to know from a range of programs who gets what. That is the big unanswered question in welfare in this country today. Generally, we cannot answer that question in social terms. Generally, we cannot say how much of our resources, our help or assistance gets to the wealthy who do not need it or how much gets to the professional middle men and women who run the services and how much actually gets to clients in need. Just concentrating on the programs and services for families and children, the Committee could have asked: Why do we not know who is receiving the benefits from the Children's Services Program or from family allowances? Do we know who provides and who benefits from the provision of resources for women's refuges? What do we know about the worth or effectiveness of the counselling services of the Family Court of Australia? We do not really know whether or how society would be benefited by more of these counselling services. How is it that at State level we cannot compare institutional with family foster care for children, although the Commonwealth is extensively funding both? Nor do we know the extent of the need for such foster care. 
So it goes on. The Committee could ask questions about youth unemployment and about migrant youth unemployment; everywhere we go there are questions which we cannot answer. The Committee could very easily have provided specific examples but we chose not to in the context of this presentation. The question of who gets what is critical and at the present time often cannot be answered. Whether or not the Committee chose to burden its report with specific programs in no way alters the reality that little is known. The Minister's response also contained the following statement: 
Nevertheless, evaluation clearly must play an important role in the Government's health and welfare programs. 
With that we agree. The statement went on: 
We must know that mis-spending of public funds is not occurring. 
We agree with that statement as well, but we make the point again and again that that is only one part of what we want to know. There is a kind of social audit which goes far beyond the money costs and far beyond what the AuditorGeneral will want to look for if we are to have a system of which we can be proud. The Committee suggested at one time that it thought the health and welfare system was out of control. It did not mean that it was out of financal control. Our report identified that we lack techniques for estimating the need for government programs, that we lack facilities to undertake evaluation of many programs and that, as has been indicated in a number of reports to government in recent years, we lack data on the majority of our health and welfare services in regard to whether they are achieving any objectives, let alone their specific objectives. If we add to that the steady increase in the percentage of the Budget and the gross domestic product going to human services, as well as the fact that the social returns are unknown, the Committee stands by its assertion that control is lacking- certainly control in terms of social return and social outcome. 
The importance of this report to the Committee has been in the recommendations. The force of the Government's response has been its response to the recommendations. In accepting 30 of the recommendations, the Government has indicated that it may reject our diagnosis but it is accepting the prescription. It may reject our analysis but it is accepting our proposals. For that we are well satisfied. We thank the Government. The Committee looks forward to returning to this area some time in the future and seeing whether, as a nation, we have made the progress which we hope to do. 
I remind the Minister for Social Security of her response to the inquiry of the Autistic Children's Association of New South Wales about funding assistance for a hostel. She said: 
Government has indicated its intention to the continuance of the triennium program into the next financial year i.e. 1979-80. Your proposal has been listed for consideration for funding. 
Is the Minister able to say whether it has yet been possible to identify new projects for funding for the 1979-80 year? Is she able to advise the kinds of delays which organisations may expect because of the size of the waiting list for grants? 
I ask the Leader of the Government: What damage to the national economy is likely to occur if the crippling transport strike in the city of Sydney continues? Is another oil refinery stoppage likely to affect the economy of New South Wales? Does it seem that the Wran Labor Government is able to control either industry or that its actions are contributing to the settlement or prolongation of the dispute? Will the Federal Government undertake to watch the situation closely in case it can render constructive assistance to help the Wran Government out of the industrial corner into which it seems to have painted itself? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 30 August 1979: 
1 ) Are different procedures allowed in the checking applied to spirits prepared for sale to the public by large and small operators. 
Are large manufacturers and bottlers checked for the purity of their spirit and for payment of excise after thenproducts have been bottled. 
Are certain small operators, on the other hand, able to pay excise on bulk spirits. 
Have there been any cases of small operators adulterating their spirits after it has left Bond; if so, have any prosecutions of such cases come before the Courts in the Australian Capital Territory or elsewhere. 
What action is proposed to ensure that the same procedures, in regard to the point at which excise is payable and inspections carried out, be initiated for all manufacturers and bottlers of spirits for human consumption. 
-I give notice that on the next day of sitting I shall move: 
That the following matter be referred to the Standing Committee on Social Welfare: 
Continuing scrutiny of relevant aspects of the reports of the Standing Committee on Social Welfare 'Through a Glass, Darkly', tabled in the Senate on 3 May and 1 1 September 1979. 
-I remind the Leader of the Government in the Senate that yesterday I asked him a question about the threatened oil industry strike in New South Wales and the damage it would do to the economy of my State. Is he able to advise the Senate of any action that the Commonwealth Government plans to take in relation to the threatened strike in New South Wales by oil refinery workers? 
-On behalf of the Senate Standing Committee on Social Welfare, I present a report on annual reports referred to the Committee, together with the official  Hansard  transcript of evidence taken. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 

 - Mr President, I seek leave to make a statement in relation to the report. 
Leave not granted. 

 -Mr President, I seek leave to give notice of a motion arising from the report. 
Leave not granted. 
by leave- I give notice that, on that next day of sitting, I shall move: 
That the following matters be referred to the Standing Committee on Finance and Government Operations: 
Reports by the National Health and Medical Research Council on work under the Medical Research Endowment Act during 1976 and 1977; 
Annual reports of activities under the National Fitness Act, for the years 1975-76 and 1976-77; 
Fourth annual report of the Albury-Wodonga Development Corporation, for the year 1976-77; and 
Seventh annual report on the operations of registered medical and hospital benefits organizations, for the year 1976-77. 
My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. It now being November, and the National Health Act providing that the audited accounts of registered health funds should be in the hands of the Director-General of Health by 30 September each year, can the Minister advise whether those funds that last year defaulted on providing audited accounts by the required date- especially Medibank Private, which functions as the Health Insurance Commission- have this year submitted audited accounts by the date required under section 76(2) of the National Health Act? 
by leave- Any assertion by  Senator Chipp,  however gracefully put- I must acknowledge that he did speak very gracefully- that his failure to vote in the Committee of the Whole last night was in any way attributable to me is incorrect The assertions contained in the Press release which was issued today and which the honourable senator read to the Senate contains some inaccuracies. At the time that  Senator Chipp  said he obtained what he called his understanding,  Senator Chaney  and I were discussing the evening's program and whether we were likely to sit beyond 1 1 p.m. I do not recall giving  Senator Chipp  any understanding that the Senate would rise by 1 1 p.m.  Senator Chaney  and I were discussing the possibility that the Senate would or could continue beyond the normal adjournment hour.  Senator Chaney  advises me that he has no recollection of such an understanding having been given. On the contrary, he does recall my advice to him that it would be the Minister in charge of the Bill,  Senator Durack,  who would finally decide whether we sat on. 

 Senator Evans advised me today that he recalls telling  Senator Chipp  at about 10.30 last night in relation to the Human Rights Commission Bill- I am using  Senator Evans'  words- 'I do not think we can assume there will be no votes tonight'. The decision to sit beyond 1 1 p.m. was not finally taken by the Minister until very close to 11 p.m. Whilst there was no anticipation that there could be a close vote, two matters require emphasis. Firstly, one Australian Democrat vote last night- I think  Senator Chipp  said that there could have been only one Democrat vote because  Senator Mason  was sickwould not have affected the outcome of the division and, secondly, no honourable senator can properly blame any other honourable senator for his failure to vote in this place when this is occasioned by his going home to bed before the Senate adjourns. 
-My question is directed to the Minister representing the Minister for Health. Did the recent Royal Commission on the National Health Service in Great Britain, chaired by  Sir Alec  Merrison, recommend in paragraph 2.6 that the first objective of the National Health Service should be 'to encourage and assist individuals to remain healthy'? Did the report go on to examine ways in which this might be achieved? Which of the recommendations of that Royal Commission in the United Kingdom are presently being implemented in Australia? 
It is correct to say that a couple of hours ago there was an agreement between  Senator Evans  and myself that we would attempt to have a short debate on this matter, but that arrangement was predicated upon certain things happening. Among them was that the Opposition would show the Government the usual courtesies and decencies when it came to bringing down the Government's responses to the reports of the Senate committees. The first of those decencies is that reports be incorporated, as is normally done.  Senator Cavanagh  refused the Government leave to incorporate a series of responses. Thus, we had a clear indication from the Opposition that it did not wish to co-operate with us on this matter. When the report, which could not then be incorporated, was finally tabled,  Senator Missen  sought leave to move a motion. It was granted and he spoke to the motion. I must say that he spoke as briefly as he could but longer than the Government had anticipated. While he was speaking I went across to the other side of the chamber and informed  Senator Evans  that the Government could no longer adhere to the arrangement and would not be able to agree to there being four speakers.  Senator Evans  knew of that while there was still an opportunity to decide which of the Opposition speakers would take part in the debate. 
I emphasised that the debate has not yet been completed; it can occur later. The Australian Labor Party has not attempted to establish why at this stage of the legislative program there is any urgency to pursue this matter- for one committee to take up the time of the Senate. It is up to  Senator Cavanagh  and people like him. If they are determined to refuse the Government leave to do the things that will expedite the program the Government is not prepared to make the time of the Senate available to disrupt its program. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs. All Australians will be aware of the shooting of  Mr Tony  Joyce in Zambia in the last 24 hours. Is the Minister able to give the Australian Senate and the Australian public any information and any up-to-date account of this tragic event? 
