Is the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations aware that a number of people who have been given National Employment and Training scholarships for retraining courses have ordered their life and financial commitments within the bounds of the $96.80 a week payments? Can the Minister inform the House what consideration will be given to these people under the revised arrangements for the NEAT scholarships? 
I direct my question to the Treasurer. Is it a fact that one of the greatest restraints on the growth of small business in Australia is small business 's inability to retain earnings without punitive rates of interest? Is the Treasurer willing to consider the impact of Division 7 taxation on small business in view of the fact that large public companies do not suffer from these same restraints? 
I also extend my congratulations to the  Chairman  of Committees and to the  Speaker  of the House on his election to his high office, an ancient office which in itself embellishes the parliamentary system which we in Australia are so privileged to enjoy. I take this opportunity to thank the electors of Bowman for their support and confidence in me at the recent election and to affirm allegiance to the Crown of my electors. I am very mindful of the trust that they have given me. I offer to the people of Bowman my personal assistance at any time in any difficulties they may have. I see my new role to a great degree as that of an ombudsman for the people of the electorate and as someone who can assist and contribute to the building of the society of tomorrow, for this is one of the very real responsibilities of government. We must be willing to co-operate with the community and individuals so that we can achieve a society that is just and progressive, and one in which the individual can attain self-achievement and reward for personal effort and enterprise. 
The Federal electorate of Bowman is in fact one of the largest in Australia with some 84 000 voters. It covers more than 800 square miles. It is a very diverse electorate which contains heavy density population areas, industrial estates, a large rural community, the very rich and the very poor. Industry ranges from 2 large oil refineries, meat processing plants and clothing manufacturers to mineral sand mining on the islands of Moreton Bay and to the small crop farmers of the Redlands. There are 3 large housing commission areas as well as new private housing areas which are being developed. In fact the area is one of the fastest developing in Queensland and it is because of this rapid expansion that so many of the problems of the area exist. 
Unemployment is rife in some sections of the electorate, as it is in many parts of Australia. Much of this unemployment must be attributed to the collapse of the small businesses in the area. One clothing factory has closed completely, another is employing 50 people whereas it used to employ something like 160, a number of meat and process workers have been stood down, and so the list goes on. 
We as a government have a very real responsibility for small businesses throughout Australia, because it was the small businessman, the Australian who was prepared to get out and have a go, who was prepared to work hard, who helped build this nation and who made it great. Even today some 42 per cent of the population is employed by small businesses, so it is essential that we support them and help make them strong and viable, not only to provide job opportunities but also to enable a growth in this area to contribute to economic, industrial and social well being. The abolition of quarterly income tax payments will help small businesses but I believe we should be making an even greater contribution than that. The right to work hard and to profit by that hard work is an honourable one. 
What is wrong, for example, in encouraging in our schools and colleges courses which promote the ideology of the private entrepreneur? We should be providing courses for managerial, accounting and professional skills. We should be establishing groups to provide advice and guidance for existing companies and organisations to improve present business practices and techniques where required. One of the biggest problems that is facing small businesses nowadays in Australia is the absence of specialised staff with managerial skills. As a government, I believe that we can help too in a very real way financially. Cash flow problems are some of the greatest that are faced by small business. The House, I believe, must give serious consideration to amending the present system whereby 50 per cent of all after tax profits must be distributed to shareholders by private companies. Yet public companies can retain all profits to continue their growth. I was pleased to see that there was some action on this particular subject following my question to the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  this morning. In my opinion small businesses should not necessarily be looking for grants or handouts from the Government, but perhaps we could make another real contribution by acting as a guarantor for approved small businesses in loans from private financial institutions. Although this is probably revolutionary in its concept, it would cost the Government virtually nothing, following an investigation into the viability of the individual projects concerned. 
If we are to get the unemployment figure down and productivity back to a growth situation we must act now to let existing businesses thrive again and to give incentive to new enterprise. It has always been my theory that big business has the capacity to look after itself, no matter what the political complexion of a government might be. It is, however, small business which contributes in a very real way to the nature of the community by providing the employment for the local area and by providing support and help for local charity, sporting and community groups. I must express my disappointment in the fact that no representative of small business was included in the National Economic Advisory Committee. I trust that this will be rectified soon. I was also disappointed that the new investment allowance did not cover the first $1,000, but the reduction from $1,000 to $500 will certainly partially help to alleviate the problem because the first $1,000 is the most important to the man who runs the corner store, a local garage and workshop, a small fruit and vegetable farm, the fisherman or the clothing manufacturer. These are the people who in fact need it most. Too often we tend to rationalise the small businessman with the big businessman. We clump their problems, expenditures and budgets together. Unfortunately, the result has meant the demise of many small businesses. As a government we have a responsibility to understand all sections of society, to appreciate their individual problems and to make an honest attempt to seek a solution to those problems. 
An electorate such as Bowman, because of its nature, has more than its fair share of social problems too. I mentioned the situation regarding housing. This is one area where something must be done quickly. An estimated 4000 people in my electorate are waiting for welfare housing. For Queensland the last Federal administration proved to be guilty of gross neglect in this area. It is interesting to compare the 1975-76 estimate to the 1974-75 estimate of payments to the States for housing. Queensland's budget was cut from $44,576,000 to $22,020,000, while New South Wales, South Australia and Victoria received the same financial allocation as they received the year before. The smaller States of the CommonwealthQueensland, Western Australia and Tasmania- had their allocations reduced when inflation alone was eating into real housing costs. It was the smaller States which most needed this Federal financial support in this important aspect of society 's development. It is policies like these which cause thousands of Australians, especially in my electorate, to wait and pay exorbitant rents which could otherwise go towards their own home. Because in Australia home ownership is a basic way of life, government does have a responsibility to help young marrieds single parents and those with temporary financial difficulties to achieve home ownership. It is my opinion that it is often too easy for governments to seek short term economic benefits at the expense of long term social standards. If we are genuinely to believe in the concept of home ownership, we should stand back and plan for the long-term future- not just continually patch up a well worn mantle. 
We should be doing more than just providing a homes savings grant. We should be looking at ways to relieve the financial burden positively, especially for young married and single parents. We should be debating in this House ways of reducing home payments in the early years of marriage when financial pressure is greatest. We should be encouraging more lending institutions to take into account more combined husband and wife salaries in loan applications. In the field of housing, as in many other fields, the community is its best doctor. We should be encouraging the community to tackle its own problems and we can do this by ensuring that those on low incomes have the financial assistance necessary to have some choice in their own environment and lifestyle. No longer can we stand back and let people be slotted into a lifestyle from which there is little chance of advancement. A colleague of mine in the Queensland State Parliament,  Mr David  Byrne, summed up the situation by saying recently in that place:  'A depressed environment is self-perpetuating; a depressed society is self-destructive. People for whom the material side of life has been fraught with misfortune often cannot rise from their misfortune to change their society. There are those who try and succeed; there are those who try and do not succeed; there are those who do not try; and there are those who cannot try. Towards this latter group the Government owes its greatest responsibility, not to give them handouts but to create the climate and the environment for human endeavour. 
It is my hope that during my years in Parliament I will be able to assist greatly in the development of the community of Bowman. As I have stated, housing and small business form an integral part of the community, but there are other facets which would go a long way to developing that sense of a community in the electorate. In Bowman the suburbs of Wynnum and Manly and the bayside areas surrounding Cleveland and Redland Bay are self sufficient in so many ways. When a community moves towards its autonomy we have an obligation to encourage other areas of government likewise to develop and accept a responsibility for providing services to that community. In particular, I would like to pay attention to the medical faculties in these rapidly expanding areas. Wynnum, with a population of more than 38 000, has no public hospital. The nearest, the Princess Alexandra Hospital in Brisbane, receives more than 130 ambulance cases from Wynnum alone each week. There is no direct public transport to the Princess Alexandra Hospital from these areas. The concept of a hospital to serve both Wynnum and Redland Bay as well as the nearby islands is a project to which my efforts will certainly be concentrated. There has also been much talk of a rapid electric rail service to the outlying areas of Brisbane and to the suburbs surrounding Mount Gravatt. Such a project is long overdue in a city the size of Brisbane and should not be baulked by State and local government authorities in Queensland. I see federal co-operation in these projects as providing real service to community development as well as mopping up so much of the local unemployment. 
During the years ahead of me in the Parliament I hope I will be able to make a very real contribution in fields of national importance. My background is that of a journalist, broadcaster and administrator. I have been employed in the electronic media, in Brisbane radio and television for the past 13 years. The Australian media is at an interesting stage. I intend firmly to defend their independence and to encourage their growth. I must congratulate the Government on its disbanding of the Department of the Media- a bureaucratic monster that achieved very little, if anything, for the industry except to swamp it in unnecessary red tape and to require a percentage quota which ran many stations into financial difficulty and had the effect of reducing program standards rather than improving them. The whole structure of the electronic media should be reviewed both in the commercial field and the Australian Broadcasting Commission. I hope that this Government will consider undertaking an investigation as soon as possible into the situation we have in Australia; a system of double censorship standards for commercial and ABC stations, and the situation of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board which must find it very hard to achieve self-justification except in maintaining equipment and transmission standards. It is in fact really an organisation with no teeth at all as far as policing program standards and commercial content is concerned. 
I believe we should be encouraging the Australian program producers to be making quality programs with a view to an export market overseas. Only by generating finance from these sales can we ensure the growth of quality television production in Australia. Quality Australian programs have already been sold to overseas markets successfully. I have the greatest respect for programs made by ABC radio and television, but the whole nature of the Commission should be examined before wholesale sackings of ABC staff are made, especially in the production departments. The operations of the Commission should be scrutinised and efficiency studies undertaken, especially in the field of middle management. 
As a newly elected member to this House I am fully aware of the position I hold in helping to shape the events of the nation and of society. Already in my brief term of office I have seen situations that reflect little justice for those underprivileged sections of my electorate that cruelly perpetuate depressed environments. They make me realise how we can tend to over exaggerate the benefits of our society. Such situations can very easily emotionally blind wise judgments. I intend to carry out my duties with a feeling of responsibility but with a sense of proportion. I believe one should have a passionate devotion to a cause, but I am aware that unless that passion is guided by a sense of responsibility it can be wasteful and indeed harmful to society. I know that I am young and idealistic, but I hope that my stay in this House does not breed that cynicism which has become so prevalent of late. I conclude by quoting from  Sir Winston  Churchill those elements which best show my philosophy of liberalism as opposed to that of my colleagues on the Opposition benches.  Sir Winston  Churchill said: 
Socialism seeks to pull down wealth; liberalism seeks to raise up poverty. Socialism would destroy private interests; liberalism would preserve private interests, in the only way in which they can be safely and justly preserved, namely, by reconciling them with public right. Socialism would kill enterprise; liberalism would rescue enterprise from the trammels of privilege and preference. 
My question is directed to the Treasurer. He will be aware that small business is grateful for the change in Government policy in lowering the effective exemption rate on the investment allowance. Is he also aware that because of the present economic situation many investments, when the allowance is deducted, will create a tax loss situation? Will he inform the House whether these tax losses can be carried forward to succeeding years so that incentives to invest now will not be curtailed? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Health. Following the Prime Minister's statement to the House yesterday that cigarette and tobacco advertising on television and radio will cease from September this year, will the Minister advise whether this ban will be applied only to the electronic media, or will he be initiating moves, along with State authorities, to ban also cigarette and tobacco advertising from the Press, billboards and movie houses, and through the sponsorship by tobacco companies of sporting events, sporting teams, cultural and community groups? 
-Has the Attorney-General received a report from the Commonwealth Police regarding allegations suggesting breaches of the Banking (Foreign Exchange) Regulations? Can he inform the House as to the result of the police investigations? 
Has the Minister for Foreign Affairs completed the review of the outstanding invitations extended to overseas leaders which were left by the previous Government? In particular, has the Minister been able to give any further consideration to the visit to Australia by Archbishop Makarios? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. In view of the recent Press reports that the abolition of the Department of the Media has happened in name only, will the Minister advise the House what has happened to the staff of this Department, particularly to the senior officers, and how many of those officers have actually left the Public Service? 
Has the Prime Minister seen reports that some left wing unions intend to mount a series of rolling strikes against the Government because of the changes to Medibank? Can he see any justification for this line of action and what is his reaction to it? 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
As the Australian Broadcasting Control Board is charged with the development and administration of the commercial broadcasting industry in Australia, who are the present members of the Board, and what are their (a) terms of appointment, (b) qualifications and general experience and (c) prior experience in the radio and television industries. 
I would like to draw the attention of the House tonight to an article which appeared on page 5 of this morning's  Australian  and which was followed up this afternoon in the Sydney  Daily Mirror.  The heading of the article in this morning's  Australian  was: 'TV unions join forces to fight for local content'. The article went on to say that the television producers and entertainment unions will be joining forces next week to try to force the Australian Broadcasting Control Board to increase Australian program percentages on commercial television. They also intend to thrash out the situation over residual payments for repeat programs. I certainly have no argument with that. Those payments have been argued about for a number of years now and in fact one particular commercial network has already offered to make those payments. I personally believe that those payments for repeat performances are fully justified. 
But really it is about time that the unions and the Australian Broadcasting Control Board, and indeed some of the advisers to the present Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson),  whose portfolio covers the electronic media, took stock of the whole situation regarding commercial television and especially took stock of what is described by that much bandied phrase 'Australian content'. It would seem that there has been almost an obsession during the past few years with getting a big percentage of television programs, and to a great degree it has worked. But the real problem is that we have quantity and not quality in our television programs in this country at the moment. The old tag which was given to television stations some years ago- that they were given a licence to print money- no longer holds water. Right now the capital city stations are, admittedly, quite viable. They have had some pretty lean times these past few years, and the country stations certainly are not in such a happy situation even now. One would hope that the forthcoming inquiry into the media would help to rationalise the situation. 
In the meantime I would like to make a suggestion. Firstly, let us decide whether or not we want quality television in this country or whether we want quantity in television programming. Secondly, we have to decide whether we and the television industry should be looking towards an export market for our television production. We have to decide whether we will allow the industry to be rebuilt in that way, just as happened with the Australian film production industry which is now enjoying quite good successes overseas. Incidentally, quite a deal of government assistance has been given to the Australian film industry over the past few years. However, there has been no assistance for the producers of commercial television programs. Perhaps this is a very real way in which we can help with government assistance. Perhaps we should be looking for an export market for our television programs. 
I believe that rather than have a percentage quota or points system on programs, perhaps we should be urging the television stations to be spending percentages of their revenue on television program production, because money certainly is a problem in the production of television shows in this country. Perhaps I can give a few comparisons. The average budget for an Australian television drama series of one-hour programs at the moment is between $25,000 and $50,000. We are up against a situation in the United States of America where a one-hour program might cost as much as $250,000 to present. 
I believe it is up to the industry to achieve its own rationalisation. I believe also that it is up to the unions to look at their own house. Over the last few years we have seen a big development of the organisation called Actors Equity. I have no particular hassle against Actors Equity except for the fact that it has reached the stage where it has attracted a lot of non-talent to its ranks. It is very easy these days for someone with little experience and very little talent to say that he is an actor and become a member of Actors Equity. I think honourable members will find that so much of the unemployment that is talked about in the acting profession comes from this particular area. Therefore I hope that the union will look at this situation when it is talking about its unemployment problem. 
I would hope too that the industry in Australia looks to its own house as well. Rather than running around making these huge percentages of Australian programs, let us look for quality; let us do something constructive and encourage and train Australian writers for television because this is one of the biggest single problems the industry in Australia faces. We have to solve the problem of a lack of professional writers. 
So we need writers. We need fully trained production officials and fully trained technicians. If we can get that sort of rationalisation, that sort of quality into our television programming and look towards overseas markets, I am sure we will be building a much better, bigger and viable enterprise and that Australia will take its place in the world as one of the leading production nations in the television field. 
-The Broadcasting and Television Amendment Bill 1976 refers to the areas of advertising of tobacco and cigarettes on television, the licensing of translator stations, community aerial systems for television and allowing the licensing of radio and television broadcasting translator stations. The decision to ban cigarette and tobacco advertising from radio and television stations goes back to 1973. It was planned that the phasing out of this type of advertising should be taken over a 3-year period to enable stations to develop alternative sources of revenue. Although the stations have had 3 years to look at this situation, all is certainly not rosy within the industry. I look especially to the situation with regard to country radio and television stations. The decision to ban tobacco and cigarette advertising from radio and television will put a considerable strain on the television stations and the radio stations in the country. Meanwhile, it is true that television stations in the capital cities are undergoing somewhat of a boom in regard to advertising revenue. Most of the capital city television stations certainly have made provision to take up the slack caused by this dropout of radio and television cigarette advertising. 
We can argue loud and long as to whether the banning of cigarette and tobacco advertising from radio and television will have any appreciable effect on the consumption of cigarettes in Australia. Medical evidence shows that 90 per cent of lung cancer cases causing 4000 deaths a year can be directly related to cigarette smoking. However, from figures I have been able to gain, it would seem that there has been very little appreciable difference in the consumption of cigarettes and tobacco products in countries such as the United States and Great Britain where the advertising of cigarettes and tobacco has been banned for some years. 
I  took the  opportunity to obtain some figures from the Parliamentary Library which show the per capita consumption of tobacco and tobacco products in the United States and the United Kingdom over the last 10 years. In the United States in 1970, the per capita consumption of tobacco and tobacco products was 4.40 kilograms. In 1974 it was 4.25 kilograms. In the United Kingdom in 1970 the per capita consumption was 2.55 kilograms and in 1974 it was 2.71 kilograms. They are interesting figures. I think that the drop in per capita consumption in the United States probably could be more directly related to the anti-smoking campaign than to the elimination of cigarette and tobacco advertising from radio and television stations. The interesting comparison is the position in the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics where there have been massive increases in the consumption of tobacco products during the last few years. Of course there is no advertising in the USSR; so maybe we have more of a social problem than an advertising problem. 
It is rather discriminatory, I think, that we particularly single out radio and television stations. If we are to be realistic about the whole business of cigarette advertising surely we should be looking a little further than just banning such advertising on radio and television. Under the terms of these amendments to the Bill we will still have the situation of cigarettes being advertised on billboards around sporting grounds. It will be possible for cigarette companies to advertise their products through sponsorships of programs of sporting events, cultural activities and other areas where the Commonwealth does not have any real control. 
Admittedly it has been agreed that the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  will pursue with the State Health Ministers proposals to work towards uniform legislation to control cigarette advertising in areas where the Commonwealth does not have these powers of control. However, it seems to me that there will be very little difference in the forms of cigarette advertising from those which are already in existence. If we are to be realistic in controlling this advertising, then we should be looking to the other areas. I do not think we will ever really see the day when cigarette advertising is eliminated from newspapers, magazines or roadside billboards, or indeed from those sponsorships I previously mentioned. In this respect, this part of the legislation could be considered somewhat discriminatory. 
I was interested to hear the comments of the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  in regard to the advertising of certain products, especially on television. I remind him that some rather strict controls have been laid down by the Australian Broadcasting Control Board, the Australian Association of National Advertisers and the Federation of Australian Commercial Television Stations in regard to the content of advertisements that are shown on television stations. One would hope that all those bodies would be showing a very real responsibility in making sure that the advertising did comply with a standard that was acceptable to the general community. 
As I said earlier, there are some very great struggles to survive amongst the radio and television stations in country areas at the moment. The second section of the changes in the Broadcasting and Television Amendment Bill 1976 will help this situation because it is this part of the Bill that provides for changes concerning the licensing of television and radio translator stations and the community television aerial systems. This is a far-reaching part of the Bill. These new provisions will help to give Australia a much wider coverage and a much better coverage and, as far as commercial stations are concerned, a much more economic situation than existed previously. It is a fact that commercial television especially is a vital link in our national communications system. It plays a most important role. This is confirmed by the tremendous audiences that commercial television stations receive night after night. 
It is interesting to go back through the history of the radio and television industry in Australia. From its very early beginnings until the early 1970s it developed and prospered into one of the finest broadcasting systems in the world. I suppose that government policy in those days could be considered as one of benign neglect. But that benign neglect did have a purpose in that it built up a most viable and enterprising commercial radio and television system and a national system of which we can be quite proud. However, one of the big criticisms that can be made- this can be levelled, too, at the Australian Broadcasting Control Board- is that over the years there has been this lack of planning in respect of technical specifications especially in the radio and television industry. 
In many areas there are still some very real problems with regard to good radio and television reception. In regard to television, I think of a situation that exists in my own State of Queensland. I refer to areas such as the Gold Coast where there are problems of reception from the local stations based in Brisbane. At the moment, probably the best television reception that Gold Coast residents can get is from a station based on the mid-north coast of New South Wales. It provides a news service that emanates from Sydney and local areas. This is not to say that the Brisbane stations are missed completely by the Gold Coast but there are some particularly bad areas, especially in some of the major populated areas such as those around Burleigh Heads, where it is virtually impossible to get the local signal from a Brisbane station. It seems to me rather ironic that these people could be watching programs emanating from Sydney or from the middle of New South Wales rather than from Brisbane. Over the last few years there have been big moves afoot to pressure the Government into making provision for a decent television signal to be beamed into the Gold Coast from Brisbane. Similar situations exist in other areas of Australia. 
The provisions of the new Bill will make it possible for repeater stations to be established in community of interest areas as well as in areas of difficult television reception. Not only country centres will be affected by the new provisions relating to community of interest. Indeed, in some of our capital cities there are problem areas for television reception. There are some bad reception areas in Sydney and in parts of Adelaide as well as Melbourne. It will be possible now for the signals into these problem areas to be vastly improved to provide the people of those capital cities with A 1 quality television reception. 
The situation with regard to radio will be vastly improved as well. As I said earlier, over the past few years, many country radio stations have been experiencing great difficulties, so much so that in 1974-75 some thirty-four of Australia's 1 18 commercial radio stations failed to make a profit. It is a very sad situation indeed when licensees of some country radio stations come back to the Government with their licence in their hands and say: 'Please take this from us; we cannot make a profit'. That has almost been the situation over the past few years. These amendments will help to rectify that too. The big advantage that country commercial radio stations have over our national broadcasting system is that they can provide services of a local nature to the far flung areas. That is why in a country such as Australia it is essential that every assistance possible be given to the country radio stations to ensure their survival. 
The new provisions will make it possible for repeater stations to be attached to country networks, to provide local service and local information in the far flung areas. They will also assist in opening up new audiences for these remote stations which will provide a more viable advertising market for the stations. Probably in the not distant future we will be able to put up a communications satellite over this nation and from this satellite we will be in a position to beam the length and breadth of Australia radio and television signals of high quality. This would be of great advantage to the Australian Broadcasting Commission. In the long run it could be a major cost saving factor as well, but we will never get this situation as far as country radio stations are concerned. They are there to provide that local service and that is really what the provisions of this Bill are all about- to make sure that the local service is viable and can be heard by the people in our far flung areas. 
The same, of course, can be said of the amendments to the Bill concerning the community antenna systems whereby it will be possible to license major reception facilities and to feed these facilities by means of a cable into homes in which reception is difficult. I understand that a system such as this has been undergoing trials for some years now in parts of Adelaide. Australia, because of its very nature, because of its remote and far flung population, relies to a very great degree on an effective, efficient communications system and these new provisions will provide such a system. 
I would like to make a further point as regards country repeater stations or translator stations for radio. As I have mentioned, country radio stations do provide a great local service which is of interest to people in these far flung communities. The people in these communities are also subjected to some quite serious situations from time to time. I think of floods and bushfires especially. There should be provision in the Act to enable these new repeater facilities in times of crisis in a given area actually to go on the air from the transmitter in a purely local capacity to provide vital and often lifesaving communications and information. 
Another problem that ties in with this aspect of the broadcasting industry in Australia has been in existence for many years now. It is the incredibly high land line costs. People in country areas look to their radio not only for local information but also as a source of entertainment and a source of information about what is happening in the major capital cities. In the far flung parts of Western Queensland the broadcasting of racing services on Saturdays is a very real example of this, yet the cost of land lines to bring this service to the stations, to my mind, is really quite ludicrous. A station in Western Queensland, for example, would have to pay $5,000 to $6,000 a year in land line charges just to broadcast a racing service on a Saturday afternoon. On the amount of revenue that is available to these stations the impact of these high charges is frightening. 
The new provisions in this Bill are certainly going to be very welcome indeed to the licensees of Australian country, and in some cases provincial, radio and television stations. I am sure that many honourable members are eager to see just what evolves out of the present departmental inquiry into the electronic media in Australia. One would hope that the results of this inquiry will assist the Government in taking a decision on assistance to the commercial radio and television industry, the ABC and public and access broadcasting, to enable them to become much more efficient and viable enterprises than possibly they have been in previous years. I welcome these amendments to the Broadcasting and Television Act. To my mind they are long overdue and they should be welcomed by virtually all areas of this vital industry. 
On a previous occasion in this House I mentioned just how diversified were the activities in my electorate. It is a very big electorate and part of the area that it covers are the islands of Moreton Bay. 
Indeed it is a most beautiful place. For many years it has been visited by hundreds of tourists every year, and that is the reason for my speaking in this adjournment debate tonight. The tourist industry that has been built up in the Bay islands area- I think especially of North Stradbroke Island and Point Lookout- is undergoing tremendous pressures at the moment and it looks as though the tourist industry in that area of Queensland could come to a grinding halt. I think that we should go back in time a little and have a look at just what effect the tourist industry has had on this part of Queensland. The tourist resort of Point Lookout was begun in 1934 by the Kennedy family and, as a result of their venture on this island, the first post office, the first accommodation, the first shop and the first transport across an old bush track to this area of the island were established. The resort was taken over by the defence forces during World War II and was re-established after the war. Consequently a special barge service was set up between the mainland and the island to provide the first transport to the island. 
Since then a number of different organisations have been established there and, as the honourable member for Griffith reminds me, we have the Claytons guest house, the Headland Chalet, Samarinda resort and the Stradbroke Hotel set up there. But now costs are overcoming them. In the last few years the wages factor has resulted in a big downturn in the service that has been provided to the visitors to that pan of the world, so much so that it has become completely a family concern, with families running these individual organisations. 
The Point Lookout-Stradbroke Island Tourist Development Association is appealing to the Government at the moment for some long term loans at low interest rates to help them get over their particular problem. Indeed this is a problem facing the whole of Queensland and many other areas of Australia. I think that this remedy could get the tourist industry back on its feet again. 
The responsibility for this aspect of the tourist industry should not be left only to the Federal Government. I believe that State governments have a very real role to play in the rebuilding of the tourist industry, as has local government. Let me give an example of some of the problems facing the operators of resorts on islands off the coast of Queensland. In the case of Point Lookout on Stradbroke Island a particular organisation is seeking to develop new facilities to attract more tourists. This will cost quite a deal of money. In addition, the local council asked the organisation to provide a 100 per cent bitumen car parking facility for every cabin in the complex. That in itself would cost between $60,000 and $70,000. On top of that the local authority wanted the organisation also to provide $10,000 towards the cost of making a new road. So that project was shelved because, with the total costs heading to well over $100,000, it was not a viable proposition. So we need understanding from State and local governments as well. 
I will continue with what I was saying about the need for long term loans at low interest rates for rebuilding the tourist industry at a later date. It is a matter that I think should be brought to the attention of the Government and one which should be acted upon very quickly before the vital tourist industry in Queensland and other parts of Australia comes to a grinding halt. 
Last week during a debate in the House I mentioned the particular problems that were facing the tourist industry in the Point Lookout, North Stradbroke Island area of the electorate of Bowman. At that stage I had little time to express the fears that I have for the tourist industry, not only in my own electorate or in my own State but indeed throughout Australia. Since then, with the help of the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  and the honourable member for Evans  (Mr Abel),  I have undertaken quite a deal of work in this regard. I was pleased yesterday to see that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  now recognises the problems that exist here and has ordered that a committee be established to investigate the problems of the tourist industry in Australia and the structure of Qantas Airways Ltd. 
I feel it is essential that the people of Australia and indeed the members of this House know exactly what the situation is in the industry at the moment. Australia has in fact suffered a decline in tourism growth during the last few years and many of our tourist resorts and organisations allied with the tourist industry now find themselves in dire straits. Despite the fact that Australians have an ever increasing leisure time available to them the industry is going backwards. Tourism is very important commercially. Ten per cent of our national work force is directly employed in travel, accommodation, catering and entertainment 
In 1974 the industry earned $187m in foreign exchange. It achieved gross sales to the order of $3,000m in that same year. An efficient and progressive tourist industry offers Australians a wide range of opportunities for their leisure time. There are a number of reasons why the tourist industry in Australia is finding itself in the trouble it is in now. This coming year there will be a tourism deficit of about $285m. This situation has occurred because of the opportunity for Australians to travel overseas. They will be travelling this year at a record level. It would seem from forward estimates that they will be spending in the vicinity of $ 162m abroad. The tourist drain accounts for almost 10 per cent of the nation's invisible payouts. The actual outflow of tourist dollars is probably underestimated in the travel section of our balance of payments figures because it does not include spending by Australians on air and ship fares paid to the foreignowned carriers. Because of the service that foreign-owned carriers are now providing there is a real tendency for Australians not to fly with our own national airline. Obviously one has only to look at the service that is provided on the ground by our national airline to see why people are tending to move towards the overseas carriers. 
We can do a number of things for the tourist industry. We can try to make it more attractive to holiday here in Australia. There have been suggestions that holidays spent here become tax deductible. The Government could give all sorts of guarantees to investors in the Australian tourist industry. It could apply a system of double tax deductibility to the industry on all its promotional costs in attracting people from overseas. We could apply the 40 per cent investment allowance to all new tourist investment. It would seem that it will be hard to discourage Australians from travelling abroad. The opportunities are still there at reasonable rates because of the highly developed nature of the overseas tourist industry and the assistance that governments overseas have given to help their own tourist organisations. So if we are not going to stop this drain of Australians overseas we have to start looking at bringing tourists here. 
I notice that in the 1976 Budget Papers an amount of only $3m is provided by the Australian Tourist Commission to encourage overseas visitors to travel to and within Australia. This is not a lot of money when one considers the markets that have to be covered and the cost of promotions within those markets. The real fact of the situation is that at the moment it is just too expensive for most tourists from overseas countries firstly to come to Australia and secondly to travel around inside Australia. This is discouraging them. Two prime markets at which we should be looking at the moment are Japan and America. Indeed, this is where I hope the investigations into the Qantas fare structure and the protection of Qantas will be looked at very seriously indeed. At the moment the standard fare on the Sydney-Tokyo run is in the vicinity of $1,300. There is no excursion fare between Australia and Japan. Yet an Australian can buy a ticket and fly to London via Tokyo for $1,004 return and have a stopover in Tokyo as well. This situation seems to me to be quite ludicrous, in as much as we are the only International Air Transport Association conference nation in the world where off line airline carriers cannot participate in a fare which is available to on line carriers. I believe this must be changed. At the moment the excursion fare applies only to specific points. These points are cities that are served by Qantas and/or its pool partners with the exception of Tel Aviv and Damascus. That means that people from some of the big travelling nations such as Scandinavia, Switzerland and indeed the Eastern bloc countries, cannot have the availability of excursion fares to Australia. Prior to 1 December 1974 excursion fares on the 45 to 180 day line applied to all points in Europe. Of course this has ceased and it has cut off quite a large potential market. 
We have to look at the Qantas-IATA cartel situation if we are to attract foreign visitors. At the moment we have situations in which jumbo charter flights loaded with tourists from Japan are flying every week to places like Fiji. There are cheap excursion fares from Japan to Honolulu and to the west coast of America. German organisations are setting up big charter flights into Bangkok and Bali but because of the structure we have here, with the protection that we have here, those tourists cannot make that extra step to come into Australia and bring in that extra foreign capital. 
Inflation and the exchange rates are not helping the situation either. But the industry in 
Australia has a lot to contribute by way of self help. Frankly, a lot of our tourist attractions do not provide accommodation of a standard that would be acceptable to a lot of these world travellers. Some of the Barrier Reef islands are an example of this. Within Australia there will have to be more packaging of holiday tours. We have seen the result of one organisation- the Pioneer coach system- which has introduced its Aussie pass which provides cheap travel around Australia. This is the type of thing that many more of our tourist operators will have to provide. 
I believe that the operators must also become involved with community groups such as unions to provide these package tours at cheaper rates within Australia. The industry is suffering at the moment from an unemployment rate which is 20 per cent higher than the average for all industries. Increasing penalty payments, high wages and the introduction of equal pay have all helped along with inflation to lead to the higher tariffs and fewer job opportunities within the industry. For example, one can acquire a top quality room in a Singapore hotel for about $8 a night and in Honolulu for about $14 a night. To gain the same standard in Australia it costs at least $20 a night. The people employed within the industry have to look to themselves as well to try to stem this tendency. The manager of one Brisbane hotel told me that he would like to close the doors at lunchtime on Saturday and re-open again at 9 o 'clock on Monday morning because it is not possible for him to operate profitably during the weekend because of this wage structure. Perhaps the people employed within the industry could consider working a 5 -day week over any span of days so as not to attract the huge weekend penalty rates to help to stabilise the industry. 
We as a Government must play our part as well. We must assist in a positive way. Over the years there has been little in the way of cooperation between the industry and government. There should be co-operation between Federal, State and local government and tourist organisations. This is an industry that can provide real economic benefit to Australia. It is an industry that needs our help and we must very soon look to providing that help if the industry is to survive in a viable form. Therefore I welcome the appointment of the committee mentioned by the Prime Minister to look into the problems of the tourist industry in Australia. I trust that it will conduct a real and meaningful examination of the situation that exists regarding the protectionist attitude towards Qantas on fares into Australia. Australia needs overseas tourists. We need them soon because, as I said the other night, if we do not get them here soon the whole tourist industry will come to one big grinding halt. 
-The honourable member for Hunter  (Mr James)  is certainly regarded as the veritable fountain of knowledge. 
Although the waters flow freely from that fountain, they are often a little muddied. The honourable member presented a most entertaining exercise for us tonight. It may not have been the greatest study in economic diplomacy or economic management. But it was certainly most enjoyable. We are here to talk about the 1976 Budget. The 1976 Budget can possibly be best summed up with the words of the editorial in the  Australian Financial Review  of 18 August. It stated: 
It is the type of Budget the Australian electorate voted in favour of 9 months ago ... it is probably the Budget which Labor's last Treasurer would have liked to bring down. 
The editorial also said that it was the strategy which was the best one for Australia at the moment and, if persevered with in an intelligent and non-dogmatic fashion, would see Australia on the mend. That is really our prime objective at the moment, namely, to get Australia moving again. 
There are some aspects of the Budget that I would like to look at tonight. One particular aspect which pleases me is the improvement in the division 7 taxation situation. This is a tax which I believe for so long has been quite discriminatory. Small business is, after all, the very backbone of our economic situation and it is most pleasing to me to see that the Government does attach such importance to the spirit of free enterprise which small business symbolises. The increase of one-fifth of the amount of after tax income which a private company can retain without incurring division 7 tax must be welcomed by all. The fact that no change is being made to the 10 per cent retention allowance for property income or to the rule that there be no retention allowance for dividends that one private company receives from another is worthy of note. The small business world has certainly been under great pressure during the last three or four years. It is an area that we must help because our economy and so many job opportunities depend on small business, ranging from the owner operated corner store through to small companies. 
Australians themselves identify with those who, by their own efforts and hard work, seek to improve their position in life. This spirit of enterprise and individualism does offer the best opportunity to the individual to be master of his own destiny and to reap the reward of achievement. Small business manifests the competitiveness so essential to our free enterprise society. It provides jobs and security for almost half of the Australian workforce. Initiative, good service, dependability and expertise are the common threads that form our small enterprises. We must support those whose work life is involved in small business. Sustained growth is essential to the national economic, industrial and social well being of the country. 
There are aspects of small business that still need a great deal of work, research and assistance, and I would hope that through the coming years, this Government will move to help the small businessman more and more. We can help in education- we can encourage trade, professional and educational organisations and institutions to become actively involved in assisting persons to acquire managerial and other skills. We can encourage and support specialised management training programs. This is an interesting aspect because for many years, virtually nothing has been done in Australia. Admittedly governments are now taking an interest in this type of help for small business. We do have a report to the standing committee of industry Ministers on Commonwealth and State programs, of assistance to small business and it is most pleasing to know that the Government in Queensland now is finally establishing a small business bureau. Until now so much of the training and help and assistance for small business has had to come from outside individuals and private organisations. 
I would like to pay tribute during this Budget speech to the effort that has been made by Professor Geoffrey Meredith and his Department of Accounting and Financial Management at the University of New England. For many years now, he has been working hard to assist small business. For many years he has been putting forward the case for small business adviser consultant training and organising of program units. It would seem that there will be further help corning from the various Commonwealth and State governments, and I would urge them to get this program under way just as soon as they possibly can. Governments can help by offering advice, assistance and suitable courses of study in model accounting and costing systems to those who are contemplating an entry into the small business sector. They can encourage too the proper research to ascertain educational and other means and to make that information available to the people who need it throughout the country. 
Some of our State governments are now encouraging publications and other ways of assisting small business. Once again, to a great degree over the last few years, this has been left to people like Professor Geoffrey Meredith. Governments can encourage suitable bodies to establish counselling services staffed by persons having acquired expertise to advise on technological improvements and the modernisation of business practices and techniques and they can undertake promotional programs designed to encourage small businesses to fully utilise these self help schemes. 
As I said earlier this Budget is making positive moves to ease the financial pressure on small business. There are other ways that we can help in a real financial way. We could make loans available at reasonable interest rates. We can guarantee loans in the private sector to be approved for small businesses. What I would like to see is the establishment of a fund to promote continuing research into the problems and development of small businesses. I would like to see the provision of subsidies to approved small business associations to help them to get these schemes under way. We could also undertake financial assistance to trades, professional and other educational journals conveying this small business information. 
But all businesses, large and small, certainly will welcome the moves in the direction of the valuation of trading stock. In this highly inflationary situation that we have been experiencing in Australia firms have had some quite serious problems financing the rapidly growing costs of their level of trading stock, and they have had problems too with financing the soaring costs of replacing their plant and equipment when depreciation allowances for taxation purposes were based on previous costs. It is good to see that the views stated by the Matthews Committee are starting to be implemented. It is a substantial step that the Government has taken in this system of trading stock valuation adjustments. Let us hope that it is persevered with so the Government can continue to offer this means of getting our industries stabilised once again. 
The moves to assist the mining, oil and coal industries certainly have been welcomed by those industries and should be welcomed by the community at large. The resulting trading frenzy on the floors of the stock exchanges around Australia indicates what a welcome move this has been. In my State of Queensland the moves to enable the coal industry to reduce the coal export duty have been welcomed. Queenslanders, and indeed this Government, have regarded this as a most inappropriate form of taxation. It is good therefore that the duty from non-coking coal and coking coals will be reduced by some 25 per cent from $6 to $4.50 per tonne and from $2 to $1.50 per tonne this year. The reduction of the coal export levy is going to mean a difference for a number of the smaller companies in Queensland and some in New South Wales in that they will make a profit for the coining year rather than a loss. It is a great incentive, too, for companies to undertake new projects. The burden has been eased and I am sure that these moves and other moves to come in this direction will be of great assistance in opening up new projects in some of the more remote areas of Australia, in providing employment opportunities, and in stimulating other sections of industry in the provision of equipment for these new enterprises. 
Also, the crude oil levy will assist many of our oil exploration companies who have been experiencing costs that have been so high that they have made the commercial production from new oil discoveries a most unattractive investment proposition. It is good that the oil industry is now free of the production excise in any new discoveries that may be made. Once again, the results on the floor of the stock exchanges indicate what a welcome move this has been. 
The Government this year will be spending a massive 25 per cent of its total outlay in social security and welfare. The new family allowances will assist some 300 000 low income families with in excess of 800 000 children involved. It has been a most beneficial and welcome move. This was a priority for the well being of the low income areas of our society, and it is making a great contribution to the stability of these families. I have a number of depressed areas in my electorate of Bowman and I know from speaking with many of my constituents what a welcome move the introduction of these vastly increased family allowances has been. 
The move to assist handicapped people in this Budget is another initiative that should be more than welcomed. I am pleased to be associated with a Budget that does give such a high priority to the provision of adequate facilities and care for handicapped people. The provision and operation of sheltered workshops and therapy units in the training centres is vitally needed throughout our community. An amount of $30m has been provided for these continuing commitments and for new projects. I was pleased to see, too, that in the year 1977-78 the total amount will be increased. Not only will we be providing for the continuing commitments but yet another $10m will be provided for new projects. In 1978-79 that sum will be doubled to $20m, in addition to the continuing commitment. It is an area in which we should be vitally involved. Over the next 3 years $225m is to be provided for the accommodation of 15 000 aged people, and that is another move that will be welcomed by the community. 
The Government has always said that it is committed to protecting pensioners against inflation and it has honoured that commitment. Pensions will be tied automatically to any movements in the consumer price index. Now there will be 2 six-monthly increases- in November and in May. Moves and statements have been made by many pensioner organisations within the community that I represent to pressure for quarterly increases in the various pension services. I realise that the Minister is looking at the situation and one would hope that when the economic situation does settle down this could become a further measure of assistance. As far as age pensions are concerned, the move to abolish the property component from 1 1 November this year and to replace the existing means test with a test on income only is a welcome one. The special clause which will ensure that no existing pensioner will suffer a reduction in pension as a result of that change is a good move too. 
In Australia at the moment there are some 1 183 000 age pensioners and this number, I understand, will increase by some 27 000 during the coming 12 months. It is a big commitment that we have given to the age pensioners. It is a commitment that will ensure that their pension has real spending power. More importantly, once inflation is reduced those who have saved for their retirement will be protected. The thrust of the Budget is the reduction of the inflation rate. This, coupled with the incentives offered to business, will get Australia back on its feet economically and enable it to provide the employment so very urgently needed in our community today. I commend the Bill. 
It was not my intention to speak on this Bill, but after hearing some of the claptrap that has been spoken in this House, not only today but also during the debate last night, I felt that I should make a contribution and see whether I could set the record straight on some of the aspects that have been touched upon. After  0Vi  years in the commercial television business, covering all facets of it, and, prior to that, about 3 years in the radio business, I trust that some of the people on the other side of the House will take some note of the comments I intend to make in the next couple of minutes. 
The commercial industry- especially the country station- was grateful for the leeway that was given so that it could make up the time and cost involved in the implementation of colour television and the eradication of cigarette commercials from the air. I agree with previous speakers that in some of the country areas there are supreme difficulties in physically keeping the stations on the air. We must remember that the commercial television stations in the country provide a local service; that is the all important thing. The Australian Broadcasting Commission! am not criticising it here- provides a fine service in country areas; but because of its networking arrangements it has not the facility to provide the local content, the local news and the local information that can be provided by the country stations. So it is essential that we maintain our country television stations as viable enterprises so that they can be of real service to the country people. 
The controversy regarding  Alvin Purple  has been raging. Quite frankly, I do not think that technically it is a terribly good production. It is a program that certainly will attract big audiences in its early stages, purely because of the publicity that is involved. The same technique was used, as the honourable member for Corio  (Mr Scholes)  mentioned, with  No. 96  and  The Box.  The network with which I was connected was involved in those programs, and I know how these processes work. Publicity certainly gets the program on the air, but the program must have appeal to maintain its continuity. Those programs have been on for some time. I understand that their ratings are down now. I am not sure how much longer they will be with us. The situation with regard to  Alvin Purple  is interesting because it is one of the most expensive half-hour comedy productions ever produced in this country. It has cost the ABC more than a million dollars to produce the 13 episodes. That is a lot of money, for a television production when one considers the cost per head of population in this country. One wonders whether the ABC would not have been better advised to go into something that was perhaps a little more constructive. 
We heard the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young)  talk about the standard of Australian television. I would dare to go so far as to say that Australian television is some of the finest television in the world. If people travelled overseas and saw some of the programs provided by networks in other countries, I am sure they would agree with that. It is interesting to note, when we talk about the business of Australian production, that in England the local content is only 48 per cent, whereas in Australia we are heading for a percentage of well over 60 per cent. If we are to be completely and utterly realistic about television production in Australia, the first thing we have to realise is that we have to get rid of that content quota, because the greater the content quota the less money there is in the whole television cake to provide quality production. This is where we are missing out. In Australia we have not the money with which to make quality television production. We are improving. With the facilities and the resources we have available, most television networks are doing a fine job. I include the ABC in that remark. As I said once before in this House, if we are to be fair dinkum about Australian production we have to forget the quotas; we have to look at the amount of money allocated to television programs; and most importantly, we have to look towards supplying an overseas market. This is the way we can get our money back. The ABC has proved that it can do it with joint production. It has done it with programs such as  Rush,  which has proved immensely successful overseas. I think  Rush  is a program of which we in Australia can be justly proud. It is a fine program. We can see just what revenue the Australian film industry is starting to bring into Australia at the moment. It is good to see that this industry is continuing to be supported. It will become a much more viable enterprise as these overseas sales are made and as we make a real impression on the overseas film industry. In the field of television, I believe that we have to forget the idea of providing huge quantities of Australian programs and to look at starting to make a little quality. 
We have heard screams coming from all sorts of organisations, including Actors Equity, about the amount of work that is available in Australia. We see the figures that appear in the newspapers every so often about the number of actors who are unemployed. I put this proposition to the House today: Many of the people who claim to be actors who are out of work could not act their way out of a paper bag. One member of Actors Equity who is out of work at the moment is Bob Hawke. He had to join when he appeared in a television production. The actors in Australia who are of quality and who have proved themselves are getting a lot of work. Somebody mentioned the situation of Graeme Blundell who is involved in the  Alvin Purple  controversy. In how many productions has he appeared in the last 2 years? He has more work than he can handle. He is doing exceptionally well. Unfortunately, because of this rash of Australian television productions and the cheaper kind of production, people came into the industry who really have no right to be there and who really cannot produce the goods well enough to be able to stay there. 
There is another aspect of Australian television productions at which we should be looking. This is one of the real causes of some of the problems that we have with quality productions in Australia today. We have the actors; we have the technicians; we have the production people now; we have the directors- all of whom are competent and do a very good job. But one area in which we are particularly short of talent is writing. There is a very real shortage of good writing talent for film and television here in 
Australia. That is one area that we should be promoting. That is one area that we should be encouraging in a very real way. So, let us clear the air. Let us get rid of some of the claptrap that has been talked over the last few days. If we are to be fair about it, let us get down to looking at producing quality programs and not quantity of programs. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Transport. Has the Minister received reports of alleged breaches of the new Air Navigation Regulations and, if so, has any legal action been taken by the Department? Was Qantas Airways Ltd named in any of the alleged breaches? 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice: 
1 ) What Federal assistance is available to professional fishermen in acquiring new boats for use in Australian waters. 
How many new fishing boats went into service in each of the years 1974-75 and 1975-76. 
Is the Minister for Post and Telecommunications aware of the section of the annual report of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board which indicates that a number of country commercial radio stations may have to cease the relay of news bulletins because of the high cost of landline and telex charges? Will the Minister consider reviewing this cost situation so that this essential service can be maintained? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Health. Is the Minister aware that there are a number of residents of private nursing homes and their families in my electorate who are facing severe hardship because of the present level of subsidies for nursing homes? Has the Minister received the report from the committee investigating the problem and can he give the House any indication of when details of the report will be announced? Can the Minister assure the House that nursing home patients will not suffer severe financial difficulties as the fees in private nursing homes continue to escalate? 
Has the Acting Treasurer any evidence to indicate to what extent the 40 per cent investment allowance has been accepted by Australian businesses? Is he satisfied with the result so far? Is there any real evidence of a flow-on effect into other industry? 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1 ) How many Australians travelled from all international airports to overseas destinations in 1 975- 1 976. 
How many of these passengers were carried by Qantas. 
) How many Australians departed from the Brisbane International Terminal bound for Britain via Asia during that period. 
How many of the passengers referred to in Part (3) were carried by (a) Qantas and (b) British Airways. 
Is consideration being given to the introduction of Boeing 747 aircraft on the direct Brisbane-London service by Qantas. 
If so, which route and which stopover ports would be used by this service. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
1 ) Is it a fact that bands attached to the Army, Royal Australian Navy and Royal Australian Air Force are not permitted to play God Save the Queen if requested to do so at an official public function. 
If so, who issued this order. 
Is he prepared to withdraw this directive so that God Save the Queen can be played if specifically requested by an organisation. 
Has the Minister for Transport seen reports in the Press today that Qantas Airways Ltd is under investigation by the British police for illegal fare cutting activities in London? Can the Minister inform the House whether this fare cutting is now the usual practice for Qantas overseas or, indeed, here in Australia? 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice: 
1 ) How many jobs were available for the June quarter at the Commonwealth Employment Service Offices at (a) Wynnum, Qld, (b) Mount Gravatt, Qld, and (c) Woolloongabba, Qld. 
How many of these vacancies were filled at each office during that period. 
How are available jobs registered at these offices. 
-We seem to have got off the subject a little in the last few minutes. The Air Navigation (Charges) Amendment Bill 1976 seeks to facilitate a 15 per cent increase across the board of charges relating to aircraft use of aerodromes, technical facilities, weather and search and rescue operations and these increases will be effective from 1 December. The costs of services allied with the aviation and aircraft industry are enormous and for many years now they have been of serious concern to various Commonwealth governments. Although there has been some objection in some areas of the airline and general aviation industry to this proposed 15 per cent increase across the board it should be remembered that this is a lot less than the increased proposed by the previous Government which was thinking of an increase in the vicinity of 300 per cent for general aviation charges. Civil aviation is vital to Australia because of the very nature of the country. One of the biggest problems faced by the Government is the fact that we must provide a full range of world class facilities in nation of small population where the volume of traffic is very much lower than it is in other countries. As well, we are faced with a situation where there are long haul internal routes, for which air transport facilities must be provided and maintained. Our costs here, too, differ considerably from those of other countries. Despite the problems faced by the Government in providing and maintaining these facilities, Australia's record in this area is a very proud one. We are regarded as having the toughest regulations in the world but, obviously, this toughness has paid off as demonstrated by our safety record over the past 50 years. 
If we are to maintain this standard and improve our facilities, we must be prepared to look at all ways of financing the proposals. There are many areas of growth and improvement that have to be under constant review. I would like to give one or two examples. One example, of course, is the announcement by the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  of discussions he is to have with the New South Wales Government on the future planning of the Sydney airport facilities. Sydney Airport is indeed a real headache. Even now both Ansett Airlines of Australia and Trans-Australia Airlines have half of their fleet scheduled through Sydney Airport between 7 a.m. and 9 a.m. every day. As well, because of the curfew arrangements, this is the peak hour for international arrivals. Often aircraft have to hold for long periods because of the density of traffic in the area. 
Australians tend to travel early each day on our domestic airlines. This fact emphasises the difficult situation in Sydney, especially as airline timetables are hinged to traffic movements in Sydney. It would seem to me that the provision of dual runways and runway extensions into Botany Bay are essential. However, the cost involved is tremendous. The cost factor has already been made very obvious in the situation of the proposed new Brisbane Airport complex. One can only hope that the Minister has that plan constantly under review. It seems to me for a number of reasons, not the least among them being the cost factor, that the Brisbane Airport plan must be adopted as soon as possible. All Queensland Liberal members have a full knowledge of this proposed complex and, I am sure, share with me the utmost concern about getting the project under way as soon as possible. 
The Commonwealth has the land for the project; it has the designs; it has the support of the people of Brisbane, especially the people of the Wynnum North district in my electorate who live under one of the airport's flight paths. The proposed complex would enable all take-offs and landings to be made over Moreton Bay. Brisbane would become a curfew free airport and this would open the way for the full range of international aircraft regardless of their loadings or weight. The safety factor involved at present also would be overcome. At the moment many take-offs and landings are facilitated over the city. There is a very real danger, should an aircraft such as a DC9 lose an engine on take-off. An emergency plan has been instituted by the Department should this occur. There is a particular problem in this case with the high rise buildings being built in Brisbane. Cranes used on these constructions often intrude into air space. One hopes that the Minister will be able to give the go-ahead for the new Brisbane Airport complex as soon as possible. 
These are just 2 examples of projects that must proceed. Of course, the funds that would be involved would be considerable. If this Government were to undertake a program that was based on an entirely 'user pays' principle, Australian airline passengers would be priced out of the air. Even now the domestic airlines are going through a non-growth period and operators are worried by the present price structure of airline fares. The consequence has been rationalisation of services by the major operators to try to remain at a profitable level of operation. One wonders just what would have happened if the formula under the previous Administration for air navigation charges had been applied by it. Actually, there are indications of a small growth returning to the domestic operators in coming months and the decision to increase the air navigation charges by only 15 per cent should help this slight recovery to occur. 
I say this because the 15 per cent increase in the charges will add only 06 per cent to the total cost structure of the operations and, therefore, should add only a small amount of the cost of an airline ticket. One of the interesting aspects of this legislation is a revised scale for charges to the international airline operators. A new scale of charges is aimed at the recovery of the cost of airway faculties in proportion to the actual use of the facilities. Therefore, an operator flying from Singapore to, say, Brisbane, Sydney or Melbourne will be paying at a greater rate than on a New Zealand-Australia east coast flight. This system will be in operation for 12 months and, I understand, will be reviewed at the end of that period when the air navigation charges come up for review again. Another change proposed to be introduced by the legislation is the 10 per cent interest charge on airline operators who do not pay their air navigation charges within 45 days. This is designed to provide an easier workload for the Department as well as an incentive for a quick payment of the fees involved. 
One criticism that has been levelled in recent days at the cost of Australian air navigation charges has come from some members of the tourist industry who claim that the charges contribute to a great degree to the high cost of passengers coming to Australia and travelling by air within Australia. There may be some justification, to a degree, in some of these charges. Our landing charges are higher than those of most other countries. For example, the cost of landing a Boeing 747 in Sydney is $3348 compared with a cost of $2,465 in London, an all-up price of $ 1 , 1 39 in San Francisco, and $976 in Athens. But it would seem to me that there is a little more involved than just these charges. One has to look at costs of fuel and staff in Australia. These factors really help to make the difference. However, it is worth bearing in mind that they do contribute to a degree to the high cost of internal air fares. Bearing in mind the great problems faced in financing our airline facilities, we do try to help to stimulate tourist traffic, both into and within Australia. Airlines claim that they pay one-third of the entire costs of Australia's meteorological services through air navigation charges. They say that this is perhaps a little unjust. If this claim is correct, perhaps there is room for adjustment in this area. 
No doubt this and other measures to assist the airline industry and, indeed, the tourist industry will be recommended in the reports of the Industry Review Committee. I think that the Minister should be congratulated for establishing and supporting this committee which, of course, is headed by  Sir Lenox  Hewitt and is comprised of such leaders of the aviation industry as  Sir Reginald  Ansett. I know that the Committee is looking towards a reasonable contribution from the industry to pay for a percentage of the cost of facilities. It is a most significant inquiry as so much of the development of the nation, including its defence capacity, depends on a strong and viable aviation industry with its support facility. Aviation cannot be denied to the people of Australia. Aviation is not the fat cat that it has so often been reported to be. I believe that saturation point has almost been reached and that the industry can do little more to pay its way. I think it will be recognised that the measures proposed in this Bill are equitable for all concerned. Certainly the domestic operators have accepted the proposed formula and the moves have been welcomed by the general aviation industry. 
The international carriers through the International Air Transport Association, have offered no alternative to the proposed formula although they have been asked to submit one which is equitable to all airlines operating into Australia. The Minister, I believe, made this offer at an IATA meeting in August but no formula has been forthcoming so far from the international airlines. I am sure that all honourable members will eagerly await the reports of the Industry Review Committee. But in the meantime we support the new charges as an equitable solution to the problem. I commend the Bill. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, frankly, I am quite amazed that the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  had the gall to introduce as a subject for discussion as a matter of public importance: The threat of political control over all forms of broadcasting. I spent 13 years in the electronic media, in radio and television, and in the years of the Labor Government I was in a position of management responsibility with a metropolitan television station. My mind goes back over those 3 years to some of the events that occurred under that previous Administration. Let me illustrate, if I may, what I believe are very real examples of political interference and political control in the electronic media in Australia. 
I take the Leader of the Opposition back through those 2 terms of office of the former Administration. I remind him of the number of events that he declared on behalf of his Government to be of national importance. The former Government forced Australian Broadcasting Commission stations and commercial stations throughout the length and breadth of Australia to broadcast across the nation under the guise of events of national importance what amounted to no more than Labor Party propaganda speeches. How many times was the economy referred to as an event of national importance? It certainly was. But, as a result of the way in which these telecasts were handled, they were certainly no more than Labor Party propaganda. 
Let us go back to the time of the establishment of the Department of the Media. If we turn our minds to that period prior to 1972 and to the discussions that went on with groups such as Actors Equity we will recall that we saw a tremendous advertising campaign based around the  It's Time  theme when we saw virtually every second actor in Australia on television every Sunday night at 2 minutes to 8, singing that song. Should we not ask ourselves: What was the deal? The deal was to try to increase the amount of Australian content in television and to institute the points system for television. What did this point system do? It did nothing more than stifle any imagination or experimentation in Australian programming. 
The Department of the Media was known within the industry as the 'Department for Propaganda'. The former Minister for the Media, who has just spoken- the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass)-  had the most unenviable nickname in the industry in those days-'Dr Goebbels'. That Department was virtually nothing more than a propaganda department. How many tens of thousands of dollars of taxpayers' money was spent by the previous Government virtually every night of the week on commercial television stations around 
Australia on 30 second and 60 second commercials extolling the virtues of the Labor Government? It was taxpayers' money that paid for these commercials. 
I refer to the stacking of the Broadcasting Control Board. The former Minister for the Media,  Senator Douglas  McClelland, brought in Jack Neary and BUI Davies. I have nothing against Jack Neary; he is a pioneer of the entertainment industry in Australia and has certainly made a fine contribution to our entertainment industry. But he was a very close personal associate of  Senator Douglas  McClelland. Then, when the honourable member for Maribyrnong took over as the Minister for the Media, he appointed  Dr Geoffrey  Evans and  Dr Patricia  Edgar to that body. What contribution did they make to the Australian Broadcasting Control Board? 
Let us look at the pressure that the unions managed to exert on the radio and television industry through the Minister for the Media. I refer to the situation of a television station in Brisbane which, because of union pressure, was forced to introduce a full news service costing tens of thousands of dollars in a market that was already saturated with news programs. I refer also to the subject of children's educational television. The Government forced commercial television stations to program in prime time children's television programs which were subject to Government guidelines. What an absolute disaster that was. Every Saturday afternoon we saw these programs on commercial television throughout Australia. These programs achieved extremely poor ratings. The highest rating that any of these prescribed programs ever achieved in the Brisbane market was 3 points. This represented about 1800 viewers on a Saturday afternoon in a market of the size available in Brisbane. But the television stations were forced to screen these programs. 
The Green report has been long overdue. It is the first major investigation into the industry since 1942. At the outset, it should be made perfectly clear that we cannot look at the Green report bit by bit. We have to look at it in an overall sense. No valid or constructive attitudes can be developed if we look at these aspects in a superficial way. The report suggests a blueprint for the development of the Australian broadcasting system in the years ahead. It is the first initiative of this type since 1942. Nothing had been done in this field since television was introduced to Australia in 1956. It not only reviews current situations but also it looks ahead to the new technologies such as those about which we have heard so much. 
I refer to the system of satellite telecasting and the situation of cities wired for cable radio and television transmission. There are many new technologies that we must be looking at and planning for for the future. At the moment it would be possible for Australia to put a satellite into space and to beam all its radio and television transmissions from that satellite. These are the sorts of innovations that we have to be looking at. These are the things that our planners must be involved with. The spectrum that is used by radio and television stations, whether AM or FM, is a very rare commodity. The fact that the industry grew up without any technical guidance is one of the biggest problems that has been faced by the industry in years past. 
In many ways, licences and frequencies were issued indiscriminately. I remind the honourable member for Maribyrnong that some of the licences that he issued under the Wireless and Telegraphy Act of 1905 were issued to stations without any public hearing whatsoever. He just went ahead and issued the licences. Some of these are fairly doubtful undertakings as well. This is the area that we must be looking at. It is the area in which the Government must be planning if we are to have a rational and constructive approach to future radio and television transmissions in Australia. This is exactly what the Green report has set out to do. It is for many of these reasons that this inquiry was undertaken. I have given ample evidence that this report was long overdue and that action had to be taken soon. 
In the section dealing with broadcasting engineering issues, the report points out that changes to the present arrangements must be made against those impending developments in technology. It will not be a take-over of the system. We must have progressive planning for the future of the industry. The trend to integrate our facilities is already established. I was interested to hear the Leader of the Opposition mention that he was most concerned about the possibility of a number of stations using one transmission mast. I believe there are about 70 shared masts in Australia. If honourable members opposite and the Leader of the Opposition would like to go outside Parliament House and look at Black mountain, they will see a prime example of the sharing of transmission facilities. 
The main feature of the Green report is that something had to be done and done soon. I commend the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson)  again for what he said today. He pointed out that so many aspects of that report are open for public debate and for debate in this House because there is a full spectrum of the industry and areas of its operation that must be debated publicly and must be considered. I know that some mention was made earlier of the situation regarding the transfer of part of the responsibilities of Radio Australia to the Department of Foreign Affairs and the Department of Overseas Trade. Anyone who reads the report will see quite clearly that it says that Radio Australia should continue its operations within the Australian Broadcasting Commission. It also says that the guidelines concerning the strategy and target audience for Radio Australia should be considered. An interdepartmental committee is presently considering the operations of Radio Australia and will be making a submission to the Government on future developments, particularly the future expansion of its transmission facilities. But there is no suggestion that Radio Australia should be taken over by the Department of Foreign Affairs. 
I commend the Green report to all honourable members. I should like to encourage as much public debate as possible on so many of the areas that it covers. There is one area that is of concern to a number of people in Queensland who have already contacted me, that is, the transfer of the symphony orchestras from the ABC. Some talk has been going around that in actual fact the ABC will be throwing them out altogether. The report says that they should be transferred to the Australia Council. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. The discussion is now concluded. 
Could the Minister for Post and Telecommunications tell the House what aspects of the Green report are to be instituted immediately by the Government? Has the Minister directed his Department to proceed with any other proposals of the report? Has a senior officer of his Department called an interdepartmental meeting for 2 December to establish the guidelines for the granting of licences for frequency modulation radio stations in accordance with the Green report recommendations? 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice: 
1 ) How many aircraft movements, by aircraft type, were there at Brisbane Airport during each of the years 1974-75 and 1975-76? 
What revenue did these movements represent to the Commonwealth, by way of landing charges? 
Which international airlines used Brisbane Airport in 1974- 75 and 1975-76, and what were the total movements by each airline? 
asked the Minister, representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
What are the rights of a member of the House of Representatives to inquire, on behalf of constituents, into specific cases in the Department of Social Security. 
In particular, (a) can a member inspect departmental files on behalf of a constituent, (b) is a member obliged to deal only with a departmental head, (c) can a member require specific explanations or clarifications from departmental officers on cases in respect of which a member is making representations and (d) in cases of extreme hardship, requiring immediate determination can a member request immediate examination of a specific case. 
-Three weeks ago the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  brought into this House a matter of public importance concerning political interference in the media. Anyone who read the speeches on that matter would realise the folly of the move. Unfortunately this afternoon we have heard quite a deal more along the same lines as we were dished up on that Wednesday 3 weeks ago. One of the prime accusations that the Leader of the Opposition seemed to have made this afternoon was that this Government is prepared to stack the Australian Broadcasting Commission. The honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  was to have spoken in this debate. He spoke to the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass)  about incorporating in  Hansard  a 9-page document. It is a fairly enlightening document. It is a transcript of an interview with  Mr Marius  Webb, the staff elected Commissioner of the Australian Broadcasting Commission, at the eighth interstate executive meeting of the ABC Staff Association in Sydney on 18 November 1975. In reply to the Leader of the Opposition 's comments on stacking the Commission I quote from page 3 of that transcript.  Mr Webb  was asked whether staff representation on the board of management would be supported by the board of commissioners. In reply  Mr Webb  said: 
The Commissioners are all now Labor appointees. Although a couple of them its a bit hard to work out why. Connie Benn, Richard Harding, Haskett Lashwood, Smith and Harris and Jacobsen are all pretty much on side. Harris is a funny mixture. He is a typical pin-stripe suited businessman in many respects and yet he seems to be about the only contact Clem has with the Commission. He makes extraordinary judgments. We had to view the TDT program of the week before because there had been an outcry because Carlton was supposed to be biased- the interview with Fraser- and everyone decided that Carlton had been fairly subjective in his selection of facts in the introduction to the interview. Harris went so far as to say that he thought he was very biased but he liked his reporting like that. 
-That was  Mr Marius  Webb. The Leader of the Opposition wondered exactly why this legislation was coming into the House. This legislation is a direct result of the Green inquiry. It is interim legislation to change the very nature of the broadcasting system. This had to be done for a number of reasons, some being technical. We heard honourable members this afternoon speaking of the problems in the allocation of frequencies. Frequencies in this country are very special resources, resources that are fast running out. A number of problems have arisen from decisions of the past few years. Because licences were issued under the Wireless Telegraphy Act of 1905 the spectrums were becoming overly full. One of the major recommendations of the Green report was for a restructuring to sort out technical requirements. This is included in the legislation. 
The Green report is the first major investigation since 1942 into the media and the problems that face it. It will help in establishing frequency modulation radio in Australia. It will help to get the whole spectrum sorted out. It will help in the proper establishment of public broadcasting stations. It will help in a very real way, I think, to make the ABC a much more efficient and much more viable body. I would like to talk to members of the ABC Staff Association as I had the pleasure of doing in Brisbane on the Friday before last and also when its delegation visited Canberra. I do not really think that the ABC Staff Association does itself a lot of good in putting out publications such as the latest edition of  Channel-  it is the Staff Association magazineand another little gem of a brochure from the Media Workers Council whose address is care of the ABC Staff Association at St Leonards, N.S.W., called  The Facts on the Media Takeover.  Some rather stunning statements were made therein. Nine out of the 12 statements were completely incorrect. This legislation does not deal with things like disbanding the Australian Broadcasting Commission's symphony orchestras. This legislation is not dealing with the subjects stated in this brochure. This legislation is to set up a new system for the governing and allocation of technical aspects of the broadcasting industry in Australia. The ABC Staff Association should be aware of the moves in this legislation to make the ABC a much more viable enterprise. The legislation certainly will make the ABC a much more efficient exercise. I believe the ABC must be accountable to its shareholders; and the shareholders, of course, are the taxpayers of Australia. 
I am not here this afternoon to bash the ABC. I am here to make some constructive suggestions to members of the ABC Staff Association and to show them just how they will be assisted by this new legislation. One of the biggest problems that I have found in my talks with members of the ABC is that they do not have enough room to manoeuvre with management and that they do not have the opportunity to become involved in decisions which affect the ABC. Written into this legislation is the provision for consultative councils that will operate between the Commission, the management of the ABC and all arms of the Staff Association. It will give an opportunity to members of that Association, technical people, members of Actors Equity and everyone who is connected with the ABC to become involved with the management processes of that organisation. It will take the ABC away from the Public Service Board. This has been one of the real problems of the ABC. ABC staff morale has been particularly low during the time I was involved with the industry. Because of the public service nature of the ABC it was very difficult for people with talent to progress within that organisation. Consequently there is a big bureaucracy within the ABC. It is very hard for people of real talent to make any progress in the ABC. This legislation, by allowing the Commission to be able to negotiate conditions and salaries and to make provision for people to work their way up the ladder into areas of real decision-making, will assist staff to a marked degree. That aspect and the fact that there will be real worker participation, because this legislation gives consultative councils some real teeth, will certainly help the ABC Staff Association to get deeply involved in the ABC. 
The other aspect of this legislation deals with the formation of a Broadcasting Council and a Broadcasting Tribunal. As I said at the beginning of my speech today, one of the reasons for the changes in the structure of broadcasting in Australia is a real effort to get politics out of the media. I firmly believe that politics should not be involved in the media. Certainly in the last few years it was. We saw it not only happening in the ABC but also in the commercial sector. There will be a split of functions between the Broadcasting Council and the Broadcasting Tribunal. We will see the disbandment of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board. The technical aspects of the operation of the Australian Broadcasting Control Board will become part of the Postal and Telecommunications Department. A very real need exists for the Department to play that part in that aspect of broadcasting. 
As I mentioned earlier, the allocation of frequencies is a very real worry. The stations have to meet technical standards. We want our broadcasting system to be one of the most technically perfect in the world. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  mentioned problems associated with the Broadcasting Council. The Broadcasting Council will be an advisory body that will be established to represent the interests of not only the ABC and commercial broadcasters but also the public broadcasters. The Broadcasting Council will discuss problems that are facing the industry and will take initiatives for the benefit of the industry. One point about which I am a little worried in that regard is the fact that the Council does not really have the necessary teeth. It is to be established as an advisory group. It will not make hard and fast decisions. 
If the Minister is prepared to consult with that Council and to listen to some of its arguments concerning the various aspects of the media, well and good. But under the present terms of this legislation it would be possible for the Minister not to take any notice of what the Broadcasting Council might say. On the other hand, the Broadcasting Tribunal will be established to grant licences, to renew licences and, indeed, to suspend licences. It also will have the capacity to make public inquiries into various aspects of the media and to involve the public and all interest groups in those inquiries. I understand that the Minister has in mind that one of the first jobs for the Tribunal will be to investigate the whole aspect of self-regulation, of Australian content and other allied areas that involve the media in its every day operation. 
With the introduction of this legislation and the establishment of the Tribunal sometime after 1 January, the rules that were set up by the Australian Broadcasting Control Board will apply for some time. We hope that the Tribunal will get under way as soon as possible and will make these investigations, especially in the field of selfregulation. Self-regulation is an interesting example. I have done some study on this and have observed how it operates in the United States of America. In actual fact, there is probably a much tighter control of media in the United States because of self-regulation than we have ever experienced in Australia. It would seem to me that if special guidelines could be set up for all branches of the media the Tribunal in this respect could achieve a great measure of success in the broadcasting field. Self-regulation is -  
-I am speaking of standards that will be set by the Tribunal after a public hearing. Everyone can be involved in the public hearing. It will be a chance for the ABC, the ABC Staff Association, commercial broadcasters, public broadcasters and members of the public to go along and to discuss the standards that should apply. Standards, of course, are another point which has been brought forward. We have been accused of trying to do away with Australian programs and Australian content. I do not believe that that is so. I would think that the most ardent commercial broadcaster is most interested in the development of the Australian television industry for the simple reason that Australian programs get ratings. While the Australian programs are getting ratings- they are getting ratings right now- the commercial broadcasters are interested. 
If we as a Government want to make a very real contribution to improving Australian television standards, why do not we, as a Government, look at the possibility of providing subsidies for television programs? We have provided subsidies for a number of years- since the time of the Gorton Government- to the film industry. We have provided money for that industry in Australia. Australia has now taken its place amongst some of the world's great film producers. Our films are doing exceptionally well. Why cannot the same be done for television? One of the biggest problems that has been facing television in this country over the last few years- as was rightly mentioned by the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass)-  is money. It is true that the American television producers can afford to spend $500,000 on a television program. The highest amount spent in Australia on a television program is some $50,000 only. Much has been said in this House over the last few months about the quality of Australian television programs. We should provide support for the Australian television industry to go ahead and to make quality programs. whlen we talk about Australian content one would hope that we are talking about a quality program rather than a cheap quiz type program that may cost next to nothing. 
If we examine some of the problems that exist at the moment under the present points system, we find that many television programs are working with budgets of $30 and $40. That statement is not untrue because I have seen programs produced for that amount of money. That is pretty frightening. I do not think that that is really the sort of content in which we should be interested. We should encourage quality programs. We should be helping Australia look towards an export market for its television shows. A number of Australian television producers have managed to crack the overseas markets and they have done exceptionally well. One hopes that this inflow of dollars from overseas countries into the Australian networks and into the Australian production houses will help the industry to establish itself as one of the leading television producers in the world. That, of course, applies also to the ABC because the ABC has had some rather marvellous successes in the last few months with some of its joint productions. I refer to programs such as  Rush  which have been sold overseas and which have done very well indeed. Of course, this is an important point about the ABC. When the ABC is given a go and the real talent within that organisation is given an opportunity to express itself the ABC can hold its own as a leading production house in the world. This legislation is designed to help the ABC do just that. No longer must the ABC be a home for burnt out disc jockeys or some of the dropout media hacks. We must encourage the very real talent within the ABC so that it may become a leading production house in the world. 
I am not completely happy with all the aspects of the Green report. Indeed, much more public debate needs to be held on that particular report before many aspects of it reach the legislative process. As I said at the beginning of my speech, the Green report is being acted upon in this legislation only inasmuch as we have a new structure for the broadcasting system. In actual fact, many aspects of the Green report are highly frightening and need a great deal of public discussion and public debate before we think about bringing them into operation. I should like to warn honourable members about some of those things that are happening now. One of the aspects about which I am not particularly happy is that the Green report recommends that the Commonwealth take over all transmission facilities for radio and television in Australia. To my mind, that sort of action would be frightening. The justification for that recommendation is that with so many additional stations coming into spectrum at the moment we will have technical problems with literally hundreds of television and radio transmitters scattered across the country. This certainly has not happened overseas. I am sure it would not happen in Australia under this Administration. I believe it would be frightening if one body controlled every transmitter and tower in the nation. What would happen if industrial problems occurred during a time of crisis? Every transmitter in Australia could be switched off and all our communications could be broken down. Other aspects similar to that are contained in the Green report and I think they ought to be looked at carefully before they finally become part of the legislative process. 
There is one other aspect of the current legislation, that is a result of the Green report, about which I am not 100 per cent happy. I am referring to proposed new section 1 1 Ida ( 1 ) (a). I ask the Minister whether, later in the debate, he can explain to the House the exact implication of that clause. It is the clause which concerns the operations of the present Department. We know that the Department is to be used for planning purposes and we know that it has a real role to play in the planning of our technical services and in the allocation of frequencies within the spectrum. Before I am completely happy with that clause, I should like the Minister to inform me what else is involved with the Department. To my mind this is a grey area. If this power were in the wrong hands perhaps it could involve some political interference within the media that should not occur. Perhaps the Minister could explain that clause to me later in the debate. 
I think that the broadcasting industry ultimately will find that many advantages are contained in this legislation before the House today. 
I repeat my statement to the Australian Broadcasting Commission that some of the provisions in the Bill, so far as the staff consultative bodies are concerned- for example, the opportunity for advancement, the opportunity for better remuneration and the opportunity for better negotiations as far as working conditions are concerned- can be of great advantage. May I say to the public broadcasters too, that now is their opportunity to be recognised as a legitimate part of the broadcasting system in Australia because their licences will be on the same standard and plane as those of the Australian Broadcasting Commission and the commercial television and commercial radio industries in Australia. I support the Bill. 
I will keep my comments on this clause brief. We are dealing with the establishment of the Broadcasting Tribunal in this clause. I think this is one of the better parts of the legislation. Apart from the fact that the Tribunal will be issuing licences, it also has responsibility to determine such matters as Australian content. If we are perfectly frank and perfectly honest with ourselves, our history in regard to legislating about Australian television program content is an absolute disaster. If we have only 37 per cent Australian content on the air at the moment we have nobody to blame but ourselves and the bureaucrats who meddle with the system. 
We did have a percentage system. It was very easy for commercial television stations to fiddle that system. It was easy for a station to increase its percentage as it could put on cheap programs. There were many ways and means of getting around that system. We saw another attempt to increase Australian content in programs when the Department of the Media was established. It introduced the points system which, quite frankly, was absolutely catastrophic. If Australian content has dropped to that 37 per cent we can refer to that points system and blame the low percentage on it. That system was completely and utterly unworkable. 
I agree with some of the comments of the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp).  I thought that some of the points he made were very good. Who are we to arbitrate on the tastes and the requirements of the Australian population? We have tried it. We tried it with the points system. We tried it in the area of children's programs which I mentioned in a speech earlier when the guidelines for commercial television stations were set down. Some expensive children's programs were made but nobody watched them. What is the point in making such programs if they are not accepted by the community. It is time that we brought together those involved in the industry including the general public, members of Actors Equity and others in the area to sort out the whole problem. The Broadcasting Tribunal could take such steps. I believe that this is what is meant by selfregulation. It is an opportunity for the whole community to come together, to examine the problems that exist in Australia and to make some constructive suggestions. The industry could then investigate ways of improving the system. 
I congratulate the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson)  on moving those 2 amendments. It has been of some concern to me that there has been a possibility of political interference, especially as some political parties own radio stations. Let us face the facts. If a government was not quite above board it would be possible for it to make grants to radio stations owned by its political Party. The amendment makes the section clear. As the Minister adequately explained, the new section takes the politics out of the media in that respect also. I ask the Minister whether he would explain proposed section 1 1 1D.( l)(a) which states that it shall be the responsibility of the secretary to the Postal and Telecommunications Department:  to ensure the provision of services by broadcasting and television stations in accordance with plans for the development of the, system of broadcasting and television in Australia, being plans from time to time approved by the Minister . . . 
Could he give us a brief explanation of the plans of which he is thinking and whether he is quite satisfied that there cannot be any political interference through the back door under the terms of that new section? That really is the only section which still provides a little grey area as far as I am concerned. 
asked the Attorney-General, upon notice: 
Are all books, magazines and motion picture films imported into Australia in commercial quantities now free of censorship by Commonwealth authorities. 
If not, what guidelines are used by Commonwealth officers to determine whether a publication should be banned. 
How many publications, whether in print or on film, were rejected by the Commonwealth in the year 1 975-76. 
What were the titles of these publications, and what was their country of origin. 
Does the Commonwealth have any arrangements with the Queensland Literature Review or Film Review Boards, established by that State Government, to cover the import of such material through Queensland ports. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
1 ) Can he say whether there are plans to establish an AM radio station in Indonesia broadcasting on 300 000 watts. 
Has he been informed as to whether Papua New Guinea plans to establish ultra high powered AM stations. 
Is there any way that Australia's AM frequencies can be protected from interference by any overseas high powered stations. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Is the Film and Television School producing a film covering a number of the issues raised in the Green Report. 
If so, (a) what are the objectives for such an exercise, (b) who will be scripting and directing the production, (c) who will be participating in front of the camera, (d) does the school intend to sell or distribute the finished product and (e) is this film being funded entirely by the School from its normal appropriation. 
Is the Minister for Transport aware of a Brisbane  Sunday Sun  Press report on  6  February that both Ansett Airlines of Australia and Trans- Australia Airlines plan to spend $ 10m on new terminal facilities on their present locations at Brisbane Airport to handle passenger traffic until 1990? Does this indicate that all plans for a new airport complex in Brisbane have been scrapped, or is there still a possibility that the relocation of the runway system will go ahead to alleviate the noise problems in the Wynnum area in my electorate and in areas of the electorates of Griffith and Lilley? 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
What are the present guidelines for children's television programs to be telecast on both Australian Broadcasting Commission and commercial stations. 
Has he directed the new Australian Broadcasting Tribunal to review the situations. 
) If so, is a report on the subject expected. 
I direct my question to the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security. Is the Minister aware that the Queensland Council of Social Service has had to dismiss three of its four staff members because of its present financial situation? Is the Minister also aware that the director's position is also in jeopardy because of lack of finance? Can the Minister inform the House whether QCOSS has approached the Government for financial assistance? Can the Minister detail whether moneys will be forthcoming to enable QCOSS to continue at an acceptable level of service to the community or whether alternative methods of funding are available? 
-At a time when unemployment is foremost on our minds one would think we would be looking towards all tiers of government for complete co-operation to try to overcome what I believe is the greatest social problem that we have in Australia today. During this past week or so in Brisbane I have encountered a number of examples of a situation that has developed between developers, the people who want to expand their businesses, and the Brisbane City Council in relation to charges that the Council imposes upon those who want to undertake development. It happened in my electorate of Bowman when a group of businessmen from a light industrial estate based on Lytton Road in the Hemmant district came to see me about this problem. It would seem that a number of companies wanted to expand and therefore provide more employment for people in that area. 
One case concerned the establishment of a new shed to house some materials and some machinery that was directly concerned in the manufacture of a series of boats. On application to the Brisbane City Council the company was told that before it could have approval to proceed with the construction it would have to provide in the vicinity of $8,000 for site approval. I am pleased to see that the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  is in the House tonight because he could be very interested indeed in what this $8,000 was to be used for. In fact it was to be used for the provision of road works and kerbing and guttering. The interesting thing is that Lytton Road has just been declared an export road and will be the major access road for the new Brisbane port and that moneys for that will be provided by the Commonwealth and State governments. In addition to the $8,000 the company was also asked to provide $ 1 1 ,800 to be used for the provision of underground power. This is interesting because on my investigations, and indeed on the investigations of this company concerned, the Brisbane City Council had no plans whatsoever for the provision of underground power in this area. The technical officers to whom I spoke told me that it was physically impossible to provide underground power to that area. I know that local governments have an awful problem making ends meet. The financing of local government is a desperate situation. Perhaps one can understand a request for $8000 for site approval, because that is, in fact, a Council regulation. But the provision of underground power is Council policy. It is not written into the regulations or ordinances of the Brisbane City Council. The net effect has been that this particular company and 7 or 8 others in this district now have no intention of expanding their businesses and thus providing the employment so desperately needed. 
I do not think that the Queensland Local Government Department is completely without blemish. A report came out in 1968 on the operations of the Brisbane City Council. That was the Bennett report. The report said that there were many instances where the Brisbane City Council was operating outside its limits and was excessive in its demands on developers and people in industry. As far as I know, the State Government has made no move to enforce some of the recommendations that came out of the Bennett report. This situation has continued since 1968 to such a stage that it would seem that the Brisbane City Council can ask for almost anything from someone who wants to expand his business. The other frightening part of this aspect of the City Council 's operation is the fact that all these messages about the provision of finance for underground power and site approvals are given orally. Nothing is ever put on paper. In fact, repeated requests to the Council result in a completely negative response. It seems to me that something is rotten in Denmark or perhaps rotten in Brisbane. 
It is a Labor council but, as I say, the Queensland Local Government Department is not completely without blemish either. We hope that we will see some rationalisation in order to overcome some of these problems and excessive demands, not only in the City Council area but also in local government areas throughout Queensland so that development can go ahead and provide the jobs which are so desperately needed. 
Those of us who sat in the Senate to attend the opening of Parliament by Her Majesty the Queen have gained a most unique experience and privilege because we have witnessed the fulfilment of the Constitution of Australia. The Constitution states that the Parliament of the Commonwealth is comprised of the Queen, the Senate and the House of Representatives. On that day we witnessed the living meaning of the words of the Constitution. I am sure we realised just how proud we were to be part of this Parliament and part of a nation that can live and work in the freedom that is this democracy. I am sure Her Majesty's presence is something that we will never forget and I am sure others join with me in reaffirming their personal loyalty and the loyalty of their electorates as well. 
In her Speech Her Majesty made special reference to the development of Australia since her first visit in 1954 and the commitment that the Government has to creating the correct conditions so that the people of Australia can continue to advance their social, economic and cultural achievements. There must be an increasing commitment to freedom, opportunity and equality so that people can make their own choices and live their lives in the way that they think is best. The opportunity in Australia is potentially boundless, provided that government creates the right conditions for people to realise their personal potential. But government can only create the conditions; it is up to the individual then to grasp the opportunity and exploit it to the full. 
Australians traditionally have been a people who have been prepared to have a go. I believe that is the reason we are a nation which places a great reliance on our small businesses, the epitome of the purest form of capitalism. During the past 15 months the Government has created a vast improvement in conditions for the small businessmen. Initiatives by the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  during 1976 will substantially assist them at the end of this financial year, especially through the stock valuation provisions, the distribution of profits and of course the investment allowance. I do not believe that small businesses are looking for Government handouts. As long as they have the incentive for expanding existing businesses and creating new ones and being rewarded for their efforts, they will prosper and provide the employment opportunities so desperately needed in this country. One could well ask just where our unemployment has come from. If one looks at the situation one would tend to think that it has come from the collapse of those small businesses, especially since the end of 1973. 
Of all the social problems that the nation is facing at this time, surely unemployment must be the most pressing. Indications are that the peak has been reached and we must surely hope so. I am sure that all members eagerly await the Norgard report into the operations of the Commonwealth Employment Service. It would appear to me that a major investigation of job opportunities should be carried out throughout the nation, because although the nation does have most serious unemployment, a great percentage of the available jobs are not registered with the CES. The Government, I believe, must move more quickly in developing a real manpower policy. Really, this can be a criticism of post war administrations of Australia that no real manpower policy or study was ever seriously adopted. Despite the high unemployment rate, one hears almost daily of job availabilities for which there are no suitable applicants. The study of Australia's educational system and its relationship to the needs of the work force until the turn of the century should play a vital part in solving some of our problems in the years to come. If the figures that indicate that 40 per cent of the unemployed are under 21 years of age and that 75 per cent have no dependants are established, it would seem that a deal of responsibility for the unemployment rate must in fact fall on our education system. Too frequently we hear of firms which just will not employ young people because they have not the qualifications to be able to produce the goods. Perhaps for too long we have concentrated on introducing initiatives into our system and have ignored what must be a basic of our education system- producing people who are qualified and confident to take their place in the work force. Surely this must continue to be the prime objective of our schools and colleges. 
If 42 per cent of our employment is provided by small businesses, it is in our interests to encourage and educate the young people to take their place as entrepreneurs in the nation. I believe that we should be encouraging in our schools and colleges, the ideas and ideals of private enterprise as well as providing courses for management, accounting and professional skills. As well, there should be more and more provision to improve present business practices and techniques because small business needs these specialised managerial skills. 
Productivity seems to be improving. But if we want this trend to continue, we must let small business thrive and give the incentive to the creation of new enterprises. Local governments, of course, do have a very real part to play in helping to support local business in their communities. I was pleased to hear today that the Queensland State Government is going to undertake an investigation into council charges in the Brisbane metropolitan area to try to help this situation along. This is a subject I spoke about last week during an adjournment debate. It is good to see that some action has been taken. Brisbane is a city which, I suppose, is typical of many areas in Australia. Recovery in some areas is spotty, but it is good to hear that a contract for something like two million pairs of work shorts have been granted in Brisbane for export to the United States market. This, of course, is a direct result of the Government's decision to devalue the currency. On a sub-contract basis, this will provide a great volume of work for some time for seven or eight other factories in the Brisbane area. It is good to see that some companies are taking the initiative to get Australia back in the world market place. Another example is that a major spirit and liqueur manufacturer has once again begun to make inroads into the world markets. The primary industries of Queensland are eagerly looking forward to vastly increased sales overseas again. In the case of the small crop farmers in the Redlands area of my electorate, the devaluation does provide a form of protection for the local fresh and processed fruit and vegetable market. These men have been worried in the past few years that imports of passionfruit pulp, especially from areas such as Taiwan, Fiji and Sri Lanka, would affect substantially their livelihood. It is good to know too that the Queensland State Government is continuing its work at the Redlands Horticultural Station at Cleveland into new strains of fruit and vegetables to assist these growers in reaching not only new Australian markets but also the overseas markets with the best possible fruit and vegetables that they are able to produce. 
What does distress me is the change in our society which was fired by the previous Government. It is that change which I see as being one of the major forces we have to reverse in Australia today. I think Prince Philip hit the nail on the head when he told a meeting of lord mayors and shire chairmen at the Brisbane City Hall recently that everyone today wants to eat his private cake at public expense. It is very easy today for the government to spend money. It is very easy for a government to win electoral appeal by increasing education spending, by increasing health spending, by increasing social welfare spending or by increasing subsidies to a number of industries and concessions to many employment areas in the community. But it is not very easy for a government to say: 'Can we afford this?' It is probably more difficult today for a government to be economically responsible than it was in any of the other 77 years of our independence. 
Let us not kid ourselves. Just because a government increases spending in some areas, it does not necessarily mean that we improve the quality of service. There are many areas where we could improve that quality without spending another dollar. If a government is going to give something to someone in the community, then someone else has to pay for it. If a government is going to give increased health cover, then the community will have to pay for it. I suppose it boils down to the simple equation that if you expect the government to spend more money in a certain area, it has to either take money from another area of government expenditure or it has to ask your neighbour to give it that money. I personally believe that any society which becomes dependent on a government for its livelihood, or any society which becomes dependent on a government for initiative, for innovation, for assistance, is a society that is going to find itself in irreversible difficulties in the future. 
There is a need today more than ever before for people themselves to be their own initiators, for people themselves to strive to become independent, for people themselves to become less dependent on governments, but at the same time, there is a need today for governments to keep out of people's lives, except of course in those cases of extreme hardship where the society as a whole accepts a responsibility for welfare. We should be endorsing that principle because we, as government supporters, know that the rights of the individual must be preserved. What greater rights can there be than for that individual to go about his business to determine his life in his own manner with a minimum of interference from anyone else. To those who believe that this Government has not kept its electoral promises and has not put this economy on the right direction, I say this: Within the constraints of our present economic situation, we have made a significant number of moves in the right direction, in the direction that will help not only businesses, but also the average wage earner, the family man, the everyday citizen in our community. 
There are a number of people today crying out for cuts in taxation and taxation reform. Indeed, we would all like to see that. But let us not lose sight of the fact that the present taxation system under which we are working is a Labor Government taxation system and, frankly, the rebate system which the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  put forward to this country has been one of the greatest rip-offs we have seen in the taxation system for a number of years. As far as I am concerned, the quicker it goes, the better. The Government has already made a number of significant financial moves in the area of taxation and in the financial year 1976-77 the Government will have foregone over $1,1 95m in revenue that would otherwise have gone into its coffers. In the next financial year of 1977-78 the Government will have introduced tax cuts and taxation assistance to the order of over $2,079m, making a grand total in those two financial years of over $3,274m. Although the previous Government was keen to introduce wage indexation, it gave with one hand and it took with the other, because it refused to introduce personal taxation indexation. What that meant to the community was that with every wage increase, most of it was taken in taxes. So, in effect, the Government had 2 bites of the cherry. It told the working man that it was appeasing his economic situation in the fight against inflation by giving him wage increases; yet at the same time it was helping out its own situation by increasing the flow of money into its own coffers. 
In the period of the Whitlam Government, collections from individual taxes nearly doubled from $4,090m in 1972-73 to $7,7 14m in 1974-75. In the financial year just ended- 1975- 76- which again was based on Labor's taxation scheme, there was a further increase to $8, 600m. There is no need for me to point out to honourable members the significance of those increases in taxes collected by the Federal Government. Let me detail those taxation cuts which the Government has already initiated, because I believe that those people who are now calling for further tax cuts can sometimes ignore the magnitude of tax reforms which have already been introduced. If there are to be further calls for tax cuts, we, as a government, have a number of choices. We can further prune our government spending, we can raise our own money- the effects of that are to restrict money on the open market and thus increase interest rates- or we can create a bigger deficit by printing money. I suggest to those present today that all those courses would be disastrous in economic terms for this country. 
The indexation of personal taxes in the year 1976-77 will amount to more than $990m in forgone revenue. Next financial year that will mean a decrease in burden to the Australian taxpayer of over $ 1 ,050m. Personal income tax indexation is a reform that the Labor Government refused, and indeed feared, to introduce. It is a reform that we have taken the responsibility of implementing in an effort to preserve individual spending power, in spite of the side effects of inflation. I give an example in practical terms of what this tax indexation means to the average wage earner. The tax paid by a person receiving an income of $7,000 a year in 1976-77 is approximately $1,230. In 1977-78, under the tax indexation scheme, the tax will drop to $1,071. The annual reduction is $ 159. That means $3.06 in weekly terms. For the person on $12,000 a year the saving is $229 annually. Related to weekly deductions it is equivalent to $4.40. I think tax indexation will be something real and tangible that the wage earner will certainly appreciate. 
I mention in more detail the taxation incentives which were passed on to the business sector, in particular to the small business sector. After all, small businesses employ 42 per cent of the work force. The Government introduced the investment allowance. I believe it is one of the most extensive and generous tax allowances ever offered to small business in Australia. This year it will amount to over $200m in terms of forgone revenue, and in the next financial year it will be over half a billion dollars in forgone revenue. Company tax indexation, the first stage of which will commence in July of this year, will relieve business incomes of the burden of taxation resulting from inflation. That will result in a tangible saving of over $400m to businesses. As well, we have introduced some taxation incentives for the mining industry and the petroleum industry. Also, we have, through Division VII of the Income Tax Assessment Act, given that very much needed assistance to smaller and medium sized firms by altering the distributional requirements for private companies. That alone will amount to a saving of $2 5 m next financial year. As well our easing of some of the provisions of estate duty, together with the income equalisation deposits given to those people on the land so that they can protect themselves from the fluctuating effects of income, will add to a total taxation saving of over $ 1 8m in 2 financial years. To state that this Government has not already undergone some taxation reform is plainly incorrect. This year our taxation savings have amounted to over $1 billion. Next year they will be over $2 billion. These reforms are tangible proof that this Government means business. 
I can appreciate that there are some indicators, such as unemployment, which do not paint an impressive picture. I would like to deal with that in a few moments. Almost every week we can pick up a paper and see that one company has announced record trading profits for the year. On the next page we can read that another company is in financial difficulty and needs assistance. This, I think, points to one of the most striking features of the economic times in which we are living. Recovery is occurring, but it is patchy. It is occurring in certain industries but not in others. It is occurring within industries in one area but not in another area. So this is the type of situation which we as a government must analyse, which we are trying to assess and through which we are trying to make the economy recover. Above that there seems to be an overlying trend which indicates that things are picking up. For example, the real gross non-farm product between the December quarter 1975 and the September quarter 1976 rose by almost7 per cent. This occurred despite the reduced level of government expenditure. In Queensland alone are signs of recovery in the building industry. Admittedly these are patchy at the moment- from suburb to suburb. There are buoyant levels of new motor vehicle registrations for the second half of 1976 in Queensland. This suggests that that State has shared in the strengthening of consumption which has become evident throughout Australia as a whole. In the year to January 1 977 these car registrations were 13 per cent higher than the figure for the previous year. The corresponding national figure was 2.6 per cent. Civilian employment in Queensland increased by over 3200 between November 1975 and November 1976, although this has not been sufficient to bring about a decline in the level of unemployment. It compares with no change in employment levels for the year to June 1976. The Government's devaluation decision led to an investment in the area of natural resources. This will flow on to the manufacturing industry after the usual time lag. I think we can say that there are definite indicators which lead the Government to believe that we are on the road to recovery. 
The consumer price index figure which was produced in February this year shows that the annual inflation rate, with the Medibank component removed, was 10.8 per cent in 1976. When one compares this figure with the 16.7 per cent for the first half of 1975 it shows that the rate of inflation is certainly on the way down. Let us look at 2 things in respect of inflation. In the fight against inflation all of us must be prepared to accept some restraint. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  told the Young Labor Conference in 1975: 
Inflation today is undoubtedly and almost solely due to wage claims and increases. 
That was the Leader of the Opposition speaking to his Party faithful. The same person today is supporting his colleagues in the Australian Council of Trade Unions who are pressing for further wage increases. The honourable member forOxley, in his 1975 Budget Speech, said: 
It does employees generally no good to get higher and higher money incomes if the results are just higher prices, a severe squeeze on profits, a slump in new investment and a contraction of job opponunities. 
Yet these are the same men who are leading the Australian workers foolishly into believing that wage increases will be their salvation. Therefore I have great pleasure in supporting the motion and opposing the amendment. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 10 March 1977: 
What plans are envisaged for the transfer of the Capalaba Post Office, Queensland, from its present to a more central location. 
When is the proposed move. 
Will the status of the Capalaba Post Office change from non-official when the move takes place. 
What will be the cost to the Commonwealth of such a move. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 16 March 1977: 
1 ) What were the (a) quantities, (b) value and (c) countries of origin of the following imports into Australia during the period July to December 1976: (i) processed passionfruit, passionfruit pulp or passionfruit juice, (ii) processed mango, (iii) fresh and processed beans, (iv) fresh and processed potato, (v) canned tomatoes, (vi) fresh and processed strawberries and (viii) fresh and processed mushrooms. 
Are health checks made on all imports of fresh and processed foods on arrival in Australia; if so, what forms do these checks take. 
Have the imports of the products mentioned in part (1) caused concern to Australian growers, and have there been any reported cases of Australian growers being materially affected by these imports. 
I direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security. Is the Minister aware of a great deal of concern among some pensioners that they may have to forgo pension increases during the proposed prices-wages freeze? Can the Minister clarify the situation for the House and advise exactly what is to happen to pensions during the proposed freeze? 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice, on 10 March 1977: 
How many persons were registered for unemployment benefits at the Commonwealth Employment Service Offices at Wynnum, Qld, and Mt Gravatt, Qld, in November 1976, December 1976 and January 1977. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 10 March 1977: 
1 ) Which international airlines applied for new or additional landing rights in Australia during 1 976. 
Which of these applications have been (a) approved and (b) rejected, and what was the reason for the rejection in each case. 
Were any of the applications directly involved with landings at Brisbane International Airport. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 24 March 1977: 
1 ) Does Australia accept migrants from Rhodesia. 
If so, how many Rhodesians were accepted for migration to Australia during 1976. 
What special criteria apply to prospective Rhodesian migrants that do not apply to applicants from other countries. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. Following his appeal for submissions from operators of citizen band radio equipment as to what they see as the future of the medium in Australia, can he inform the House what reaction he has had from those operators? Can he also indicate when a Government decision will be made on the future of CB radio? 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 15 March 1977: 
1 ) Can he say whether there are plans to establish a hospital in the Wynnum/Redlands district of the Electoral Division of Bowman. 
What approaches have been made by the Queensland State Government to the Commonwealth for assistance in the project since December 1975. 
Is the Commonwealth prepared to assist in the financing of a hospital in this rapidly developing area: if so, to what extent. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 30 March 1977: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to reports that British Airways will be providing direct Sydney to London services of less than 24 hours duration from April 1977. 
If so, will Qantas provide an equally fast service between Sydney and London. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 30 March 1977: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to the report in  Travel Trade  of 7 and 2 1 March 1 977, in which the Executive VicePresident of Thai International,  Mr Neils  Lumboldt, accuses the Commonwealth Government of bias in regard to landing rights by that carrier into Melbourne Airport. 
If so, is this accusation justified: if so. what changes to the bilateral agreement are being contemplated by the Commonwealth to allow Thai International to service Melbourne. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Science, upon notice, on 19 April 1977: 
What funds have been allocated to the CSIRO Research Station at Cleveland, Qld, in 1975-76 and 1976-77. 
What is the nature of the work being conducted at this Station. 
I should like to make some brief comments about this Bill. With the takeover of the South Australian and Tasmanian rail systems, the Australian National Railways is now responsible for about one-fifth of Australia's rail network. It covers something like 8000 kilometres of track. The Australian National Railways Amendment Bill is designed to tighten a number of grey areas related to the transfer of the Tasmanian and South Australian systems to the Australian National Railways and to update other minor areas of the Australian National Railways Act 1917. It is now nearly 2 years since the transfer of the Tasmanian and South Australian systems. I would have to agree with the honourable member for Braddon  (Mr Groom)  that the transfer must have been one of the greatest rip-offs of the Commonwealth Government in history. But this Government is now pledged to meet its obligations. Consequently the final transfers related in this Bill are being executed through this piece of legislation. The rationalisation is necessary if we are to conduct the Australian National Railways on a commercial basis as a statutory authority. The Bill will also rationalise the situation of employees by settling areas, such as retirement superannuation, in line with the Commonwealth provisions. 
Since the Commonwealth first became involved with railways, with the turning of the sod at Port Augusta in 1912 to the connection with the Western Australian system at Kalgoorlie, it has been the Commonwealth's role to provide an efficient service for both goods and passengers at the least cost to the community. The Australian National Railways has provided services to remote areas of the country and has played a major part in the operation of the main east-west standard gauge link. Now, of course, there is the added responsibility of the Tasmanian and South Australian sections, which have a $45m deficit hanging around their necks at the moment. The problems of the railways, their services and the financial burdens that they impose are certainly going to be with us for a long time. It is reassuring to know that the Government has already received the report of the committee of inquiry headed by  Dr Stewart  Joy into the whole Tasmanian system and the establishment of the standard gauge link from Adelaide. It will be very interesting to see just what does evolve from the discussions. 
Debate interrupted. 
It is true that the problems confronting Brisbane airport have been debated in this House on a number of occasions. Yesterday, for example, a matter of public importance was brought into the House by the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns).  But I think it would be true to say that never before has there been such a concerted effort and so much concern shown by the members from Queensland about the problems that confront the airport at Eagle Farm. Right now some 1 8 members- the entire complement from Queensland- are urging the Government to take some action and to take it very soon. They include the 17 members from the Government side of the House and the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden),  who is joining with us in this crusade. Brisbane international airport is causing some very serious concern. As was pointed out yesterday, 5 basic problems confront the airport. The present runway is inadequate in relation to its length, its angle and the strength of the runway, and there are 2 more factors which I think we should consider very closely indeed. Firstly, there is the growth in size of Brisbane and surrounding areas. Secondly, and this is probably the most important aspect of the Brisbane international airport as it exists at the moment, there is the situation of the facilities for instrument landings. 
The International Air Pilots' Federation has granted Brisbane international airport an orange star, which means that it is not up to the standard of other international airports around Australia. The Federation has done this because of the situation of the instrument landing system. At the moment that system operates at only one end of the runway, and that is the end which faces out over Moreton Bay. It is a physical impossibility to introduce an instrument landing system on the western end of the runway. The city of Brisbane has spread out right to the airport perimeters and there is no room for expansion there. The traffic into Brisbane has increased dramatically over the past few years. We heard yesterday that in the March quarter alone this year there were some 8147 aircraft movements, and although that was a decrease of .02 per cent some 488 000 passengers had passed through the airport in the particular quarter, representing an increase of 4.4 per cent. 
Although there was that slight drop in the number of aircraft movements, it should be realised that between June 1975 and June 1976 there was a dramatic increase in the number of international aircraft using the airport. For example, there was a 150 per cent increase in the number of Boeing 707 movements. They rose from some 430 in June 1 975 to 1067 at the end of June 1976. The DC10 was introduced into the Brisbane service, and there were some 153 movements there. British Airways introduced their Jumbo service, their Boeing 747 service, into Brisbane. In the meantime, the movements of VC10 aircraft had gone from 537 to 567. We also saw the introduction of a new service to the South Pacific by a group called Air Pacific and the introduction of a BAC- 1 1 1 service to undertake those routes. There was a dramatic increase there in that some 300 per cent more BAC-1 1 1 aircraft used the airport at the end of 1976 than the figure indicated at the end of 1975. The rise in the total there was from 104 to 352 aircraft movements by that company. 
The traffic is increasing, and the increase in the international traffic as well as in the domestic traffic is causing other problems as well. In previous years it had been possible to direct most of the traffic in from the eastern end of the airport. Now we are told by the authorities that that traffic is so dense that both approaches have to be used. I could relate that back to the instrument landing system. There is no instrument landing system at the city end of the airport runway, and because of the very nature of the runway none can be installed there. So it is imperative that we look for a new location for the present strip. The lengthening of the present strip is not good enough because we cannot provide that extra safety facility. I know that all Queensland members join with me in urging the Government to get moving on the project, to get the relocation of the Brisbane airport under way as soon as possible. We have to do it not only for the increased traffic but also for the safety of the travelling public. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Transport. Is it a fact that the air transport section of the Department of Transport has embarked on a cost recovery program from civil aviation of 80 per cent? Will the Minister confirm that this program has now resulted in a return of 1 14 per cent? Is the Government embarrassed by this result? Will the Minister indicate what move he will make to rationalise the situation? 
-Last night when the debate on this Bill was interrupted I was speaking about the fact that the Joy report had been completed and submitted to the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  for consideration by him, his Department and the 2 State governments involved. We had debated the situation of railways in Australia and had decided that rail services were still most essential. But we did admit that they had to be subsidised to a very great extent. To expect them to be converted into profit making bodies by some magic stroke was beyond the realms of reality. 
We must continually be looking for that much needed improvement in efficiency to provide more attractive and economic services in our railways. The Australian Railways Research Development Organisation has a very real part to play in co-ordinating State and Commonwealth operated services and in giving advice on technical and policy planning for Australian railways. Although a great deal has been achieved in recent years there is still a very great need for rationalisation and particularly the modernisation of our systems. The railways are bedevilled with aging rolling stock which contributes to present inefficiencies and high maintenance charges. There is a great need to upgrade much of the track and there can be delays because of outdated freight handling systems. It has also been estimated that there is a shortage of some 3000 freight wagons in Australia for use on the interstate systems. In the report of the Department of Transport for 1973-74 it was suggested that 20 per cent more freight wagons were required as so much of the potential rail freight had to be diverted to other forms of transport. 
However, it would be unfair to say that our railways are a complete disaster. In the last 20 years significant advances have been made. It is possible now to travel between all States on a standard gauge, thanks to the Government acting on the recommendations of the Wentworth Committee. Vast sums of money have been spent in the upgrading of existing standard gauge lines. The dieselisation of all systems is complete and there have been vast improvements in the signalling and control systems within the networks of our various railways. There is, of course, a future for the railways. Rail continues to be best suited to the carriage of freight over middle and long distances and is certainly a very real force in the handling of bulk freight. As the energy crisis looms before us we are reminded that the railways do give a better return on fuel consumption compared with road transport, using less than one-third per tonne kilometre of fuel. As far as passenger traffic is concerned, walking and cycling are the only modes of transport which use less energy than do the railways. Australian National Railways is in passenger transport business as well with more than 130 000 passengers using the trans-Australia line in 1974-75. We also now have an obligation to look after the interests of passengers travelling in both South Australia and Tasmania. Tasmanian Railways, of course, now provide virtually only freight services with the Tasman Limited from Hoban to Wynyard being the exception. One wonders what can be done to improve the Tasmanian system, bearing in mind that its has narrow gauge, the short haul nature of rail traffic moved and the type of construction that was devised for the tracks. Tasmanian Railways has taken an absolute hammering from road operators during the past 10 years or so. 
It is interesting to note that the Joy report indicates that the Tasmanian system is the worst in Australia and that, on the surface, there would seem to be not future for Tasmanian Railways. However, because of confidence in the timber industry and in the bulk freight lines the suggestions of the Joy report could mean that Tasmanian Railways could be with us for a long time to come. It would seem that if the Joy report is accepted the 2 passenger services operating in Tasmania would cease in the not too distant future. The South Australian situation is somewhat different with the South Australian Transport Minister, under the terms of the agreement, still having a great deal of say in the future of that system concerning the closure of lines, the reduction of services and the number of people who are employed within the South Australian system. I sympathise with the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon).  It must be an extremely difficult situation at times for the Federal Minister for Transport to deal with his South Australian counterpart. It would seem that some of the accusations that come from that State are beyond the realms of reality. One of the most recent of those particular matters concerned the alleged reneging of the Commonwealth on the transfer which we are debating tonight. Another was his claim that the Commonwealth did not intend to go ahead with the Tarcoola-Alice Springs Railway. Both have proved to be completely false. One would hope that in the future there will be much closer co-operation with the South Australian Minister. 
As I said at the beginning of my speech, the Commonwealth was ripped off in its deal with the South Australian Railways but it is now up to the Commonwealth to make the most of the situation. The fact that the Minister for Transport, even though the Commonwealth has a financial responsibility, must have the concurrence of the South Australian Transport Minister to close lines on reduced services could be a good example of just how that co-operation could work. If nothing more, the Commonwealth, not being so closely involved with the specific situation, could be in a better position to be more objective in measures that politically could be difficult for a State government to face, such as the closure of lines or the reduction of personnel. Quite often when a Une is closed it will bring howls of protest from the citizens affected, even though half a dozen people may have been using that particular service. 
Obviously, there are areas in the legislation before us tonight which are of particular interest to employees of the railways in South Australia and in Tasmania. For example, it wil certainly give employees in South Australia the option to join the Commonwealth superannuation scheme. Clause 13 repeals section 54 of the Act. Section 54 set the retiring age at 65 years, with the option to retire at 60 years, with the permission of the Railways Commissioner. All employees will come under the jurisdiction of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. This matter has been discussed in the debate. The amendments are important to these new areas of operation of the Australian National Railways. I support these amendments and look forward to the speedy passage of this Bill. 
asked the Minister for Construction, upon notice, on 28 April 1977: 
1 ) What Commonwealth works are (a) under construction and (b) proposed in the electoral division of Bowman. 
What is (a) the total cost of these projects and (b) the cost of each individual project. 
What Commonwealth projects have been completed in the electoral division of Bowman since December 1975. 
What was (a) the total cost of these projects and (b) the individual cost of each project. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Science, upon notice, on 19 April 1977: 
1 ) Where are Australian bases located in the Antarctic. 
) What is the strength of the manning at each base. 
What ships are chartered by the Commonwealth to service these bases. 
From which company are these charters made. 
What is the cost of these charters to the Commonwealth. 
Do these ships contain any scientific facilities to be used by Australian scientists. 
If not, what consideration has the Government given to purchasing its own ship, and what would be the estimated cost of such a project. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Science, upon notice, on 19 April 1977: 
1 ) Does Australia have any facilities to service its Antarctic bases by air. 
If not, has consideration been given to providing such a service. 
What are the technical difficulties involved in such an operation, excluding lack of landing strips. 
! asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 28 April 1977: 
1 ) Who determines the flight path to be used by aircraft arriving and departing at Brisbane Airport. 
Is there in existence a designated flight path, for departing aircraft to southern ports, over Mud Island and thence over Redland Bay to the main air corridor to Sydney and beyond. 
If so, is there any technical reason that would prevent this being used as the usual route for departing aircraft under normal weather conditions to ease the noise problem in the Wynnum area of the Electoral Division of Bowman. 
If not, is it possible for those in authority to issue an instruction to this effect until such time as a new runway complex is constructed at Brisbane Airport. 
I will not detain the House for too long. Tonight we learnt that the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson)  announced that the Government has approved the introduction of a licenced citizen band radio service in Australia. I am sure that most honourable members will agree with me when I say that it is probably not before time. There is a great deal of merit in a citizen band radio service. However, I do not think the Government's problems have ceased with the legalisation of citizen band radio. During the last two to three months I have made it my business to look at the problem of CB radio from both sides, namely, from the side of policing the service and from the side of the operators. Quite frankly, some of the implications of CB radio are very frightening. I shall give a couple of examples. In my home city of Brisbane, we have learnt that CB radio has been used by drug rings, by SP bookmakers and in a number of robberies which have been uncovered by both State and Commonwealth police. We have seen it interfering with television services. 
The citizens of Toowoomba had a problem with it because one section of the police radio in Toowoomba was virtually taken off the air one night by the operators of CB radio. The Australian legalisation will enable the 27 megahertz band to be used for 5 years and then it will be transferred to the ultra high frequency band. The fact that the 27 megahertz problem has not been overcome by the decision of the Government is the area which is of concern to me. Obviously, we can register CB radio sets but that does not mean that we will stop interference, that we will stop the pirate use of CB radio sets. At the moment the section which is attached to the Post and Telecommunications Department is desperately understaffed. I do not think it would be fair if I told the House the number of members of that staff who are trying to control CB radio operations in Brisbane. Quite frankly, the situation is frightening. They have had a devil of a job over the last few months in trying to keep the whole matter under control. 
Only last week one of the licensed inspectors of the Department was involved in an altercation with an operator of CB radio when the inspector went out to check on a matter. I understand that litigation is following. Inspectors have had problems. They have had problems with truck operators who have been using the radios illegally to warn people of weighing station checks and of police locations. They have had problems with people using CB radio for illegal advertising. They have had problems with people using incredible amounts of power to get the signal from one side of Australia to the other. In Brisbane one set which was seized was attached to a power plant which generated enough power to operate a small commercial radio station. That is an amazing situation. Obviously the appeal must go out to the Minister to check the situation in relation to his inspectors as fast as he possibly can. With the number of inspectors he has at the moment, I cannot see that he will overcome the problems which CB radio has been causing and will continue to cause until such time as CB radio is transferred to the UHF frequency. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 1 9 April 1 977: 
1 ) Have investigations by his Department into the illegal use of Citizen Band radio revealed evidence that the medium is being used by some criminal elements to assist their operations. 
If so, has evidence been forthcoming that groups such as drug pushers, SP bookmakers, prostitution rings, and thieves are involved, and has action been taken by his Department to advise State police forces of these activities. 
If so, what State police forces have responded to this advice, and what arrest have been forthcoming. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Veterans' Affairs, upon notice, on 25 May 1977: 
What are the guidelines set down by the Department to enable private persons to be warrantees for persons receiving pensions from the Department of Veterans ' Affairs. 
Are the credentials of the warrantees checked by the Depanment prior to that right being given. 
How often are the warrantees reviewed by the Depanment. 
For how many persons receiving Veterans' Affairs pensions do  Dr Noel  Hall and  Mrs Noel  Hall of 129 Windemere Road, Ascot, Queensland, act as warrantees. 
For how many persons receiving Veterans' Affairs pensions does  Mr Bashir  Mohammed Deen of 246 Randall Road, Wynnum West, Queensland, act as warrantee. 
When was the last review undertaken by the Department on the number of pensions falling under the jurisdiction of the persons referred to in parts (4) and (5). 
7 ) On what basis do these persons claim the right to act as warrantees. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 10 March 1977: 
1 ) What excursion or special fares are available to Australians travelling by air to points within Europe. 
Do the same fares apply to Europeans flying to Australia. 
Is it a fact that substantial numbers of persons of European origin, especially of Swiss and Scandinavian descent, nave no cheap fares available to them. 
If so, will he consider the approval of excursion fares to these countries to enable a two way flow of travellers to take advantage of concessional fares available to people connected with other European nations. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 30 March 1977: 
Has Air New Zealand been heavily fined for breaches of the international Air Transport Association regulations in its dealing with a Melbourne company; if so, what was the fine. 
Has the Depanment of Transport investigated Air New Zealand operations in Australia, and have any contraventions of the Air Navigation Regulations by the company been uncovered; if so, what reprimand has been made by the Government. 
Have any other international carriers been charged with contravention of the regulations since April 1 976. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 25 May 1977: 
1 ) What are the guidelines set down by the Department to enable private persons to be warrantees for persons receiving pensions from the Department of Social Security. 
Are the credentials of the warrantees checked by the Department prior to that right being given. 
How often are the warrantees reviewed by the Department. 
For how many persons receiving Social Security pensions do  Dr Noel  Hall and  Mrs Noel  Hall of 129 Windemere Road, Ascot, Queensland, act as warrantees. 
For how many persons receiving Social Security pensions does  Mr Bashir  Mohammed Deen of 246 Randall Road, Wynnum West, Queensland, act as warrantee. 
When was the last review undertaken by the Department on the number of pensions falling under the jurisdiction of the persons referred to in parts (4) and (5 ). 
On what basis do these persons claim the right to act as warrantees. 
asked the Minister for Transport,  upon notice, on 26 May 1 977: 
1 ) Are Qantas and foreign international airlines permitted to carry passengers between Australian capital cities in competition with the domestic carriers, provided that section of a journey forms part of an international ticket. 
If so, on which routes are these operations undertaken and by which international carriers. 
Has any estimate been made as to the annual value to the international carriers of this traffic. 
Is the value referred to in part (3) considered to be a direct loss to the Australian domestic airlines. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 26 May 1977: 
1 ) Is it possible for a domestic passenger to purchase a ticket on a Qantas or other international airline flight, for travel between 2 Australian ports. 
If so, under what conditions are these tickets sold. 
Which international carriers offer this service and between which Australian airports. 
How many Australians are estimated to have used this form of travel during 1 976. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 26 May 1977: 
1 ) How many passengers have taken advantage of the Apef fares being offered by international airlines between Australia and Great Britain. 
Do these fares also operate from Britain to Australia for British and European passengers. 
If so, how many British and European citizens have arrived in Australia since the introduction of the Apef fares. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 26 May 1977: 
1 ) Has the West German airline, Lufthansa, or its charter subsidiary, Condor, applied for landing rights at Brisbane International Airport. 
If so, does the company propose in the application to bring a minimum of 235 German tourists to the Gold Coast each week on package holidays. 
Has he made a decision as to whether approval will be given for landing rights for the company. 
If the application has been rejected, on what basis was the rejection made, bearing in mind the depressed state of the tourist industry. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 30 May 1977: 
1 ) Are Australian commercial airlines permitted to sell their unwanted aircraft to other Australian airlines; if not, why not. 
To which companies and nations were Australian commercial aircraft sold during 1976. 
What was the type of aircraft referred to in part (2), and what amount was realised for each sale. 
How many and what type of commercial aircraft were imported into Australia in 1976. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice, on 1 June 1977: 
1 ) What approaches has the Prime Minister received from the Brisbane City Council requesting financial assistance for the staging of the 1982 Commonwealth Games. 
What form did the Brisbane City Council submission take and to what extent does the Council want Commonwealth participation. 
Is he satisfied that the submission represents a true indication of what moneys will be required to stage the games; if so, when will he announce the Commonwealth's allocation to the Council; if not, what further details are required from the Council to enable a decision to be made. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 27 May 1977: 
1 ) Has the Music Broadcasting Society of Queensland Ltd applied for a licence to operate an FM radio station in Brisbane. 
) If so, on which date was the application received. 
3 ) Has he decided whether he will grant this licence. 
If so, when will the licence be announced, and from which date will it operate. 
5 ) Has this group conducted test broadcasts in Brisbane. 
If so, on which dates were these broadcasts made and for what duration. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 1 June 1977: 
1 ) Does he intend to issue frequency warrants to operators of television and radio stations in Australia; if so, for what purpose. 
Does he intend to follow the course outlined in the Green Report at pages A 130 to A 1 32 in this regard; if not, what procedures will be adopted. 
Will frequency warrants automatically be granted to every holder of a broadcasting licence, following the granting of a licence by the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal. 
Will the same conditions apply for renewal of licences. 
Will the Australian Broadcasting Commission stations also be granted a frequency warrant; if not, why not. 
Under what circumstances would a warrant be withdrawn from an operator. 
Would frequency drift be considered just grounds to revoke a warrant; if so, would the ABC also be subjected to this provision; if not, why not. 
What action would be taken prior to his final decision to revoke a frequency warrant. 
After 30 years of broadcasting in Australia, why, in 1 977, does he consider it necessary to institute such a system. 
Under the system of frequency warrants, will a broadcasting licence holder be unable to operate a radio or television station should his warrant be withdrawn; if so, will it be primarily the listening or viewing public who will suffer from the blackout of a radio or television station. 
Can he say whether in the United States of America the Federal Communications Commission imposes fines on operators who breach broadcasting regulations. 
1 2 ) If so, has this system been considered for Australia; if not, why not. 
Would this system be more advantageous for the Australian listener or viewer, rather than a complete withdrawal of a licence. 
14) Is he prepared to reconsider the whole matter of frequency warrants in the interest of the radio listeners and television viewers of Australia. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 1 June 1977: 
1 ) Is it still the intention of the Government to establish a Broadcasting Council; if so, when. 
What will be the composition of the Council and its functions when it is established. 
To what degree will the Council be involved in the future planning of the broadcasting industry in Australia. 
-Can the Minister for Post and Telecommunications tell the House what the current position is in regard to the postal dispute? 
! asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 26 May 1977: 
1 ) Have Australian Broadcasting Commission television productions been sold to overseas networks since 1 January 1976. 
If so, (a) what are the titles of the programs sold, (b) to which networks have they been sold, (c) what price was gained for each sale and (d) does the revenue gained from these sales go back to the ABC for future productions. 
-The honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris)  was right when he said that this was not a contentious Bill. I wish to spend a few moments discussing some of the implications of this Bill. It is interesting that this is the first time this matter has come before the Parliament. Usually it has been handled by way of regulation but now it is being written into our legislation. I thoroughly agree with the honourable member for Shortland that many of the implications of the decision of the International Civil Aviation Organisation are vitally important to Australia. Australia has been recognised as one of the leaders in world civil aviation organisations for more than 30 years. It is a great tribute to us that, except for 3 years, we have played a very vital part in ICAO's planning in the area of safety, aircraft design, airport development and airport features. 
I was interested to hear the comments about the movement of the International Civil Aviation Organisation into the field of economic planning for international civil aviation and some of the points brought up by the honourable member for Shortland. I agree with many of the points that he raised. I think that we in Australia are sitting on a bubble in the area of international aviation which is about to burst. I refer to situations that are developing at the moment such as the collapse of organisations like AUS student travel and the Four Seasons Travel organisation. I understand that there is a possibility that other organisations could be in financial difficulties at the moment. Perhaps it is time we started looking at the full ramifications of some of the practices that are going on in international civil aviation organisations. 
I am sure that ICAO would be looking at one particular practice. I think that many of the scheduled International Air Transport Association's airlines have fixed percentage rates of commissions for agents but unfortunately quite a number of undercover dealings are going on with certain travel groups. We hear some fairly frightening stories of some of the activities that are happening in Australia at the moment. Some organisations are going to international airlines and virtually blackmailing them into commissions of 15 per cent, 20 per cent and 25 per cent. These overriding commissions have to be discounted through packages back to their clients. Many of the travel organisations to which I speak from time to time are desperately worried about what is going on in this regard. Certain travel organisations are attached to credit unions and trade unions and, quite admirably, they are providing overseas travel at a much cheaper rate. But it gets a little frightening when you find that some of these tour packages are sold at a cheaper rate through these organisations than through the original organisers. 
A number of such cases were cited to me in Brisbane the other day. Someone had gone into a particular travel agency and ordered a booking on a tour. Some hours later there was a ring from another travel agency saying that it would like to book this person on that particular tour. The original agency said that it believed that that person already had been booked. The person wishing to make the tour had come in and checked on the details of the tour then had gone to the discounting organisation and found that it would be cheaper to buy the tour through it than through the original agency. The commission was picked up at the discounting organisation. The 10 per cent commission involved for the original booking agency was lost to another party which was getting an overriding commission from the international airline concerned. 
I have written to the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  on this matter on a couple of occasions and I understand that investigations are going on at the moment. I am sure the situation will be resolved. That is the type of thing which is developing in Australia now and it is the kind of thing that we have seen happening in Britain and a number of other European countries in years past. It is something that I hope will be cleaned out soon for the future of Australia's travel industry. 
I was interested in what the honourable member for Shortland said about the provision of non-scheduled services into this country and the fact that ICAO had looked at charter organisations around the world.  His  comments about the Laker organisation were interesting. I am a member of the House of Representatives Select Committee on Tourism and it was an interesting experience to say the least when  Mr Laker  appeared before that Committee.  His  background is interesting. He has been in that type of charter operation for about 30 years. He is one of the few people who have been in that type of operation and have survived. He has opened up a number of new markets overseas. If honourable members read the transcript of his evidence they will see that he admitted that initially, in the first 12 months of his operation, probably it would be found that he would be taking more Australians overseas than he would be bringing visitors here. He said that this had happened in the other countries in which he operated. He cited as an example the situation that operates now between England and the United States. He now carries more American passengers from America into the United Kingdom than he does the other way round. I think that to a very great degree that was the point he was pushing when he appeared before the Committee. This would develop ultimately and perhaps we would see a new market created, especially in the visiting friends and relatives area which the honourable member for Shortland mentioned. This is a most important thing. We have some very large ethnic groups in our community and naturally they want to visit their homelands. But most importantly we want them to come back here and we want them to bring visitors here as well, people who will spend their money in our country in order to further develop that side of the tourist industry. 
Australia is one of the dearest places to come to but through organisations such as that operated by  Mr Laker  perhaps it can be opened up a little bit. When a tourist arrives here it certainly is terribly expensive for him to get around. Australia's domestic air fares are terribly high. We do not have any pro-ration system of our air fares between the domestic carriers and the international carriers. We should be doing some fairly serious study in this area to see whether we can resolve that situation. 
When speaking to the Minister earlier today I was very pleased to learn that there has been some genuine interest in bringing the one-stop charter operators back into Australia. I understand that there are some American carriers who are interested in coming into Australia and increasing the tourist flow in that way. If the Australian tourist industry is to grow up it has a very real obligation to look at this aspect. The only way in which we are going to make any appreciable growth in the tourist industry is through bulk traffic. We are not looking at having one or two visitors coming here. We have to have them here in their hundreds. It is apparent from looking at trends overseas now that the Germans are travelling in bulk, if I could put it that way. Three or four jumbo-jet loads a week are going into ports such as Bangkok. I understand that soon they will be going to Noumea. We see the Japanese, in their hundreds, going around the world in these special groups. Australia is missing out on this market and it is one that we should be encouraging if we are to get any real growth in the tourist industry. 
The International Civil Aviation Organisation has undergone some very real stresses and problems in years past. ICAO has recognised this and has worked towards bringing some sort of stabilisation and rationalisation into international air traffic. This is most important. It is very important that Australia makes its contribution even though it may only amount to $260,000 because I believe that we can get great benefit from the work being done, especially in the field of charter traffic and non-scheduled traffic into this country. If we are to look towards this type of market we have to do some homework here. I was interested to hear the honourable member for Shortland mention that some tourists who come here might wish to stop over in places like Brisbane before moving off overseas. 
That raises some particularly depressing problems for honourable members from Queensland. An organisation such as the Laker organisation clearly could not operate into the Brisbane Airport with the present limitations on the runways there. It is not for me to bring up in this House once again the situation at the Brisbane Airport and the very real problems that we face there, nor to stress the implementation of the QC plan. But if we are to bring bulk tourism into Queensland- obviously the Laker organisation must be interested in going into a port like that- some decision has to be made soon about Brisbane Airport. 
ICAO is a part of the United Nations organisation and Australia has been very deeply involved with it for 30 years. Australia is playing a very important role in contributing to the future of civil aviation. It is an organisation that Australia, because of its very nature, must support wholeheartedly, and therefore I support this Bill. 
-Tonight I would like to bring to the attention of the House a matter of very deep concern to a large ethnic group in my electorate. I am sure it will be of interest to other honourable members. The matter concerns the level of air fares between 
Australia and certain points in Europe. It is probably appropriate at the moment to speak about the matter considering the tremendous publicity that has been given to the latest developments in the Laker versus Qantas Airlines Ltd situation as a direct result of the hearings of the House of Representatives Select Committee on Tourism. 
I have been approached by the Finnish community in my electorate. I understand that the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter)  who has one of the largest Finnish communities in Australia is also very concerned about this matter. Excursion air fares are available to some 20 points in Europe at the moment. To all intents and purposes, very shortly we will see the introduction of an even lower air fare to Great Britain. But the problem at the moment is that Australia does not have direct air services between Sydney and areas such as Helsinki and the other major centres in the Scandinavian area. Indeed, Madrid also comes into this category and, of course, we have a very large Spanish community in Australia. 
At the moment the cheapest fare between Australia and Helsinki is $1542 in the high season and $ 1 462 in the low season. The honourable member for Perth  (Mr McLean)  by way of interjection has been asking about other areas in Scandinavia. Maybe I can give him some information in that respect. The cheapest fare to Stockholm in the low season is $1410 and in the high season it is $1489. The lowest fare in the high season to Oslo is $1479 and in the low season it is $1401. To Copenhagen the lowest fare in the low season is $1301 and in the high season $1379. The cheapest fare in the low season to Madrid is $ 1275 and in the high season it is $1353 
In my approaches to the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  the official reason given, of course, is that there is no direct service operating at the moment between Australia and the Scandinavian countries and Spain, and that although one can get these excursion air fares to some 22 points in Europe when one adds on the fares to other Scandinavian centres or Madrid it is not possible to get a lower fare than those I have just quoted. The Minister pointed out in some correspondence to me that the problem comes about when a changeover situation develops and extra costs are involved if someone gets off one service and changes to another. It is interesting to note that most stop-over packages around the world have a component for a changeover or a change of airline, usually about $35 with a maximum of $50. It is interesting to note also that the Finnish National Airline is now operating a direct service between Helsinki and Bangkok and offering excursion fares to nationals to go home to visit relatives from that point. It would seem that the Australian national airline and the Department of Transport are not particularly interested at the moment in coming to some arrangement whereby Qantas could carry the Finnish community between Sydney and, say, Bangkok and then give them that excursion fare on Fin-Air from Bangkok through to Helsinki or to other points. This is obviously causing a great deal of distress and concern, particularly amongst the Finnish community and the communities which represent the other Scandinavian countries. 
The reverse situation is true, too. With such large groups of people as the Finns, the Danes, the Swedes and the Norwegians in Australia, many of their families would like to visit them here, but of course the air fares are completely prohibitive. Once again Australia is in a situation in which it is missing out on this sort of tourist traffic. The visiting friends and relatives market is a very lucrative one, especially from Great Britain at the moment. With the provision of excursion fares to these other areas we could open up whole new markets. It could be very advantageous especially in an area like Mount Isa where we have a large Scandinavian community and a fledgling tourist industry which would like to see things get under way. 
I know that the situation in relation to direct air services between Australia and Scandinavia is being looked at at the moment by the Department of Transport, but one would hope that some real move could be made shortly to introduce this fare to bridge the gap for these particular ethnic groups until such time as an excursion fare or a direct service is finally negotiated between the governments of Scandinavia and Australia. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on  23  August 1 977: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to reports in the  Medical Journal of Australia  stating that first aid equipment carried on international aircraft operating from Australia is inadequate. 
2 ) If so, what first aid equipment is carried by ( a ) Qantas and ( b ) Australian domestic airlines. 
3 ) Is this equipment considered to be adequate. 
To what degree are the cabin crews of Australian international and domestic airlines trained to handle emergency medical cases during flight. 
-I was interested to hear some of the comments of the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis),  who preceded me in the debate, in regard to job creation programs. Indeed, I have a deal of sympathy with his remarks. However, I think that really we should be looking more towards a long term plan. One of the problems we in Australia have had over the years past is that we have never really had a manpower policy for this country. Maybe that is really what we should be looking towards in the long term if we are to project Australia into the decades ahead. Maybe in the future we should be looking to see whether we cannot get a more efficient use of our manpower resources and try to settle the situation down in that way. 
I am sure that most people would agree that the single most spectacular action announced in the 1977-78 Budget was the establishment of standard rate taxation and the very real benefits that it will bring to the taxpayers of Australia. As from February, there will be tax reductions at all levels of taxable income. As from that time, 225,000 people who presently pay tax will pay no income tax at all. The lower income groups of the community have been looked after in a way in which they have never been looked after before. Thousands of pensioners on small private incomes will pay no tax at all. I am sure that we all are aware of the stress that existed in the community previously, especially amongst our pensioner groups, when taxation time came around. Yesterday I had some very real evidence of the relief that is being felt by the pensioners in our community when I attended a meeting of a pensioner group at Wynnum in my electorate. They were pleased to know that this major social reform had been made and that they had that feeling of security from now on, even though they had a small extra income coming in on top of their pensions. 
It is not only the pensioner who benefits. The first $3,750 of everyone's income is now tax free. Ninety per cent of taxpayers- people with incomes up to $16,000 per annum- are to pay no more than the marginal rate of 32c in the dollar. The dependent spouse rebate remains. This means that someone with a dependent wife can now earn up to $5,484 without paying tax. The Government has given a guarantee that all taxpayers will be better off under the new system. For months there were demands from all sections of the community for tax relief. It has now come along with some of the most progressive reforms of the tax scale that have ever been seen in this country or many other countries around the world. 
There are a number of observations of the 1977-78 Budget which should be made, especially as they affect my electorate. On a number of occasions in the House I have stressed the need of small businesses and many of the problems they are facing. The Government is strongly committed to creating an economic climate in which small business can expand and prosper. A number of very significant taxation reforms have been introduced since we came to office. In my electorate I run a regular monitoring service of small businesses. The last survey was conducted in recent weeks. I think it is fair to say that many of the implications of what the Government has done for small business have not been widely understood or accepted. The investment allowance with its special income tax deduction of 40 per cent has been a boon to those who have used it. The 20 per cent rate after 30 June 1978 is a further incentive. The trading stock valuation adjustment scheme, the increased retention allowance to private companies, tax averaging, income equalisation deposits and personal income tax indexation have all been highly beneficial. 
Obviously, it is not only the Federal Government which must make a contribution. State and local governments also have a very real part to play. In the survey in my electorate we proved that small businessmen were vitally concerned about payroll tax and workers compensation payments. In Queensland the State Treasurer,  Mr Bill  Knox, has foreshadowed major reforms in the payroll tax rates. I think he should be congratulated. This is an area which is proving to be a real concern, not only in Queensland but also around Australia. Employers are urgently seeking lower premiums for workers compensation. I think this can be traced as a major inhibitive factor in a number of firms employing extra staff. I have also spoken previously in this House about the effects of local government charges on future expansion of small businesses, especially in relation to the Brisbane City Council. In fact, there are four recent cases in my area in which expansion of projects has not proceeded because of these charges. Unreal site development charges of up to $40,000 were made for extensions to an engineering plant. The extensions cost only $16,000. Excessive charges are made for underground power even when no underground power is being planned either now or in the distant future. Local government authorities have fared exceptionally well under this Government They must now be given the opportunity to reduce these charges to allow for further expansion of our small businesses. 
There is another area in which the Commonwealth Government can assist in helping small businesses, especially a number of small businesses engaged in professional activities. At a time when some small professional companies are in severe financial difficulties I believe that the Commonwealth could take a lead from some of the State governments which are now subcontracting more and more of their work to provide professional groups. Certainly this is happening in the survey and mapping area along with some construction activities in Queensland. Indeed, many smaller companies would not be in business today if it had not been for this particular attitude. 
The Government is making a real commitment to the young unemployed. Unfortunately, some hitches have already been encountered in regard to block training. Some of those to whom I spoke were doubtful as to whether they would embark on any more extra apprenticeships because of the difficulties which had evolved. The problem is that the block training reimbursement applies only for the first year. Second and third year apprentices are on block training from six to seven weeks. At that time $600 or $700 is involved. This is proving a burden indeed. There are responsible employers in the community who are prepared to play their part in providing these apprenticeships. Obviously, their responsibility is severely tested when other employees offer apprenticeship graduates a few extra dollars and thus obtain a trained tradesman for very little training cost and responsibility. This is one area which must be fully investigated. The other comment which comes from a number of small businessmen was that the tool allowance was excessive. 
As I have said before, the backbone of Australia is the small businessman who employs 42 per cent of the population. Despite the hardships facing small businessmen an important point that should be made is that they are operating in an economy in which the rate of inflation has been declining and in which business profits are up 33 per cent over 1976. Business investment in plant and equipment has also strengthened by 18 per cent in real terms over 1976. There has been unprecedented assistance through the tax system and the future must indicate real growth, even more so if there is cooperation by the States and local authorities with the Federal Government in the areas I have mentioned. The Budget papers clearly demonstrate the extraordinary benefits which State and local governments will achieve and have achieved from the Commonwealth's new federalism policies. Federal spending is up 1 3 per cent which is very little after inflation is taken into account. State and local government spending is up 19 per cent Life indeed has been easier with the new federalism policy. Planning has been made easier. Federalism has proved able to provide the extra funds which have allowed some State governments, especially in Queensland and Victoria, to initiate substantial reductions in State government taxes and charges. 
There are some other areas in the Budget to which I shall refer this afternoon. Firstly, I think the Government should be congratulated for initiating a $lm grant to be distributed throughout Australia for sporting bodies. There has been little mention of this Sim grant in the debate in recent weeks. However, it is a positive move by the Government to assist small organisations in building up the attitude and the training facilities of Australian sportsmen and women. We all remember the situation which developed after the last Olympic Games. Some real criticism was placed not only on the Federal Government but also on the shoulders of business and sponsors. People believed that not enough was done to assist in the training of our athletes. The Government has now made this positive move to assist. It has been welcomed throughout the country by the sporting bodies. However, this grant does not mean that the day of the chook raffle on Friday night in the local hotel is over. Sporting clubs will still have to work very hard. One would hope that private enterprise and the organisations which sponsor sporting bodies will continue to provide more and more assistance so that Australia can take its place in the international sporting arena and we can be proud of the efforts of our sportsmen and women. 
It is the principle that matters. I am sure that in time to come more emphasis will be given to sport by this Government. Even today we heard that an extra $10m is being granted to the Queensland Government and the Brisbane City Council to undertake the construction of facilities and to provide support for the Commonwealth Games due in Brisbane in 1982. I know that the State Government and the Brisbane City Council have been waiting for this announcement. It is a most generous offer. Brisbane will provide some tremendous facilities for the athletes visiting our shores at that stage. 
The other initiative of the Government in this Budget is the introduction of the Life Be in It program. This was started by the Victorian Government. It has now become a full time national program which should be welcomed throughout the community. Governments are increasingly concerned about promoting at community level the increased physical activity which so many people in our community should enjoy. The Life Be in It program should apply not only to our young people but also to every section of the population. There is a real commitment to sport and the development of sport. I congratulate the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  sincerely for his announcement this afternoon that $10m will be granted to Queensland to stage the 1982 Games. However, the 1982 Games will probably need a great deal more assistance and co-operation than just providing the faculties for the sportsmen themselves. There will have to be a lot of development in back-up facilities and in all sorts of areas, ranging from accommodation to transportation. 
This brings to mind a matter which all Queensland members are concerned about at the moment. I believe most people in Queensland are concerned about it. It is the future development of the Brisbane airport complex. Since 1968 this House has been debating the future of Brisbane Airport. The former Department of Civil Aviation came forward with its report. It said that Brisbane Airport in the future could not handle the traffic and that there would have to be a major redevelopment scheme. 
It was right, and it would not have made that report available if it had not believed that situation. So from 1968, to 1972, to 1974, to the present day we have seen absolutely nothing in the way of development of the new airport complex in Brisbane. But I think that the crunch is coming now with the Commonwealth Games on our doorstep, with the tourist industry lifting and with the domestic airlines showing a 7 per cent rate of growth in their carriage figures at the moment. That is one of the highest growth rates they have had in their history. These things all point to the fact that very soon the Brisbane airport will become completely inadequate. We can probably be stronger than that. The situation now is that, as far as a lot of our international operations are concerned, Brisbane airport is completely inadequate. 
At this very moment it is inadequate. 
It is more than a disgrace; it is a farce to the nth degree. It is a problem because tourism is vital to Queensland. It is Queensland 's fourth biggest industry. We are missing out on international tourists. We will miss out on a lot more international tourists in years to come if something is not done about Brisbane airport. In Brisbane we have the shortest runway of any capital city in Australia. At the moment we have four 747 services coming into the city every week, and already one of the international carriers is thinking of pulling out that particular service because he cannot operate profitably on that route. 
The honourable member for Lilley, who has been vitally concerned about Brisbane airport over the years, asks why the carrier cannot operate profitably. The answer is that he cannot get the loadings. I have obtained some figures on the loadings of 747 aircraft into Brisbane airport. I did this after I saw a copy of a letter from the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  to the Queensland Chapter of the Australian National Travel Association. When asked about the future of Brisbane airport the Minister said that no real restrictions are imposed on international movements at that airport by either the runway or the recently completed international terminal facilities. Later he said that the main runway is adequate in length and strength for current and immediately foreseeable international aircraft traffic. I am afraid that I doubt very much whether that is completely true because on my calculations and on the plain facts of the situation in Brisbane at the moment it is impossible for fully laden aircraft to use that particular strip profitably. Brisbane airport is supposed to be the third gateway to Australia. 
I think that the Minister has been misinformed in that regard. At the moment the big international aircraft that operate into Brisbane airport cannot take off fully laden. Services operating from Brisbane to Europe via Singapore have to make a stop somewhere in Australia. One carrier makes a touchdown in Darwin to refuel because he cannot take on enough fuel to get him to Singapore. The other carrier goes back to Sydney to refuel before going on to Singapore. In ideal circumstances a fully laden Boeing 747 cannot reach Singapore at the moment. I have taken out some figures, which are really quite frightening. 
I will give the honourable member some figures. Under ideal circumstances at Brisbane airport, with zero wind, a dry runway and no pressure correction, if a 747 aircraft is to operate to Singapore, obviously with a city like Kuala Lumpur as the alternative if weather conditions are not favourable in Singapore, the maximum number of passengers that can be carried, with no freight at all, is 323. Most international airlines rely on their freight to a great degree to keep the prices of the fares down. Most would operate with 10,000 kilograms of freight. If a Jumbo jet took off from Brisbane to try to get to Singapore with 10,000 kilograms of freight on board it could take only 223 passengers, and that is at a tarmac temperature of 28 degrees, which is a fairly average temperature. In Brisbane, which is sub-tropical, temperatures become quite high and one could have a situation where the temperature was 32 degrees or 34 degrees. Let us look at the situation at 34 degrees. With no freight at all the maximum number of passengers that could be accommodated in a 404 configurated aircraft from Brisbane to Singapore direct would be 268. 
-It is a disgrace. With 10,000 kilograms of freight on board that number drops dramatically to 168. So it is no wonder that international carriers are trying to avoid Brisbane. The Queensland tourist industry will miss out on international traffic unless something is done to the airstrip at Brisbane airport. There is really only one option for the Government to take up, and that is the complete relocation of the airstrip to a completely different set of circumstances from those that exist now. One hopes that in the next few weeks the Minister will make an announcement on the future development of Brisbane airport and on the fact that the QC complex will be looked at and implemented. Not only is Queensland missing out on the tourist traffic; there are many other reasons why it is essential that work on the relocation of the airstrip be commenced. 
As I said earlier, a number of people have expressed very real concern about the future of Brisbane airport.  Sir John  Egerton, the Minister for Local Government in Queensland, the International Airline Pilots Federation and the Australian National Tourist Association have all said that the only option that is available is the relocation of the airstrip. It was interesting to note that at the recent Liberal Party State Conference the delegates- there were many hundreds of delegates present- voted unanimously that the only thing that could be accepted was the complete relocation of the runway at Brisbane airport. Not only are we missing out on the tourist traffic, the centre of the city is missing out on future development. As the flight path is right over the middle of the city, high rise development is restricted. In fact the clock on top of one high rise building is only four feet under the minimum flight path approach to Brisbane airport. In the areas of Ascot and Hamilton, which the honourable member for Lilley knows so well, restrictions are imposed on high rise buildings. It is frightening to think that, for example, in the event of a DC9 aircraft taking off over the city of Brisbane and losing an engine on take-off, a special emergency flight path has had to be devised to miss the centre of the city, to avoid the Story Bridge, to get that aircraft out of trouble. This is causing a great deal of concern amongst the International Federation of Airline Pilots, the local body as well and the air traffic controllers. So, for safety reasons primarily, one must look to the relocation of the Brisbane airport strip. As far as the future development of the tourist industry is concerned, charter operators will not come to Brisbane if they cannot utilise their aircraft to the full extent. 
Freddie Laker would never look at Brisbane international airport as a stop for that very reason. I should imagine that he would have to take more than 100 passengers off. It seems crazy to me that Queensland, being the holiday State of Australia, has to suffer this sort of imposition purely because of the stubbornness of governments over the years since 1968 which have not decided to proceed with the airport complex. This is an area of very real concern to the people of Queensland. We trust that in the next few weeks the Minister will make a major announcement. 
The Budget is a good Budget for the future of Australia. The tax reforms have been widely welcomed right throughout the community. Already we can see that Australia has started to return to its normal prosperity and progress. I fully support the Budget and reject the amendment. 
-On 25 May 1977 I placed on notice questions Nos 907 and 908. These questions concerned a certain businessman,  Mr Bashir  Mohammed Deen of 246 Randall Road, Wynnum West, and  Dr Noel  Hall of 129 Windemere Road, Ascot, and their right to act as warrantors for pension and service pension payments. It had come to my notice that very large numbers of pension cheques were allegedly issued to these gentlemen as warrantors for some of the desperate elderly in our community. Today, 30 Commonwealth and State police raided two properties in Belmont and Carina in my electorate and recovered six people from conditions which were described as being comparable to Devil's Island. One of the six who were recovered today had been in these circumstances for 10 years. These men had been virtually kidnapped off the streets because they were in desperate circumstances. They were placed in what could be called a concentration camp, called to work at logging and agricultural activities, virtually starved- being given one piece of bread and a cup of soup a day; that was all. They were forced to live in tin sheds with no power or running water and were thrashed into submission usually by being hung by the heels and whipped with long solid pieces of wood. They received no payment from the warrantor. Police confirmed today that it was the worst case of exploitation and human degradation that they had seen for years. All of today 's victims suffered from malnutrition and unreal injuries and were no more than human vegetables. 
In answer to questions Nos 907 and 908 I was told by the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  and the former Minister for Veteran's Affairs,  Senator Durack,  that the departments had no discretion as to who could act as warrantors. I was approached by a number of people earlier this year- people from service and religious bodies and even Department of Social Security personnel. I made reports on the activities that had been alleged to me by pensioners and these groups. Obviously nothing has happened until now. However, the six miserable people recovered today, I believe, are only the tip of what is really going to be an iceberg. According to the folk to whom I have spoken, there could be as many as 50 people in the circumstances that were revealed today. 

 Dr Hall conducts a nursing home at Wamuran, near Brisbane, which is not recognised by the Commonwealth. Allegations of slave labour at this establishment nave been made to me.  Dr Hall  is thought to have as many as 200 patients for whom he acts as warrantor. There was a mysterious drowning at this establishment towards the end of last year. No details of the investigation into this drowning have been forthcoming. 
I demand a full and independent inquiry into the operations of the Deen family and Hall and the activities they have been undertaking over a number of years to find out why my inquiries into the matter were not investigated some 4 months ago. How many pensioners throughout Australia live in these Belsen-like conditions? How big is the racket throughout the Commonwealth? We cannot let slave labour be tolerated in our society. Only a full, open and independent inquiry into the whole of the operations of the Deen family and Hall and the system of warrantee rights over pensions can clear the air of this hideous manifestation which revealed itself in my electorate today. 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Is the Minister for Construction aware of reports claiming that an all State survey indicates that building projects worth $500m are in jeopardy because of union disruption? As the report was attributed to the Minister, is he prepared to table the results of the survey, indicate which projects are in jeopardy, and most importantly, advise what options are open to the Government to stop the disruption? 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 8 September 1977: 
1 ) Has a gonorrhoea strain resistant to penicillin been identified in Australia; if so, has the country of origin been identified. 
Is any estimate available as to how many Australians may have contracted the strain. 
Is any alternative treatment available to combat the strain; if not, what research is being undertaken to combat it. 
I ask the Minister for Post and Telecommunications whether it is a fact that the bans imposed by unions on the issue of CB radio licences have been lifted. Can the Minister now indicate what delay applicants for CB licences will have to face before licences are issued? 
I wish to bring to the attention of the House a matter of social responsibility which I hope transcends all political boundaries. I refer to the responsibility which government has towards the homeless men and women of our community. Following actions by the Commonwealth and State police in Brisbane on Tuesday, 20 September, in raiding what has been described as a slave camp for some of the underprivileged, the media of this country have carried many stories covering aspects of the vulnerability and the plight of those people in our society who frankly cannot help themselves. 
The raid in Brisbane has pointed up one single glaring fact which should be of concern to us all. There are some very serious deficiencies and grey areas in the Social Services Act. If the Act is interpreted in strict legal terms, the Department of Social Security is absolved from taking certain actions or making certain investigations in some cases. However, the very nature of the Act implies a moral commitment by the Government to do all it can to help those people in our community who, because of their unfortunate circumstances, cannot help themselves. We have a very real obligation to investigate the provisions of the Social Services Act to make sure that these desperate homeless people can be helped, that they cannot be exploited and that they have the protection which, as human beings, they deserve. 
On 25 May 1977 I placed on notice a series of questions to the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security  (Senator Guilfoyle)  relating to the guidelines set down to enable persons to be warrantors for persons receiving pensions from the Department of Social Security. I asked whether the credentials of these warrantors are checked prior to that right being given and whether a regular review is carried out by the Department in these situations. The Minister answered that the Department had no discretion in the matter of the appointment of warrantors as it was a private arrangement between the pensioner and the warrantor and, therefore, no guidelines were required. Credentials of proposed warrantors are not examined by the Department if the appointment is made by a pensioner, and there are no regular reviews of warrantors or their activities. I also asked in that question to the Minister for details of the number of persons under the warrantee of two individuals in Queensland. The answer to that question was: 
The information required is not readily available. 
Yet after the raid in Brisbane I understand that investigations were made relating to those parts of the question and that the results were obtained within 48 hours. I understand that when these investigations were carried out the Department's records showed that they were few in number. 
I point out to the House that, despite the legal preciseness of the Department's investigations, I believe that the results give us a clouded and not too accurate picture. It seems that there is a legal difference between warrantors and trustees, but from the number of calls which I have had to my office it is obvious that the net results of the potential abuses of these two systems of payment vary very little indeed. I would not like it to be thought that I believe that those persons who become warrantors or trustees will necessarily abuse the system. I believe that there are specific cases, and the Department is aware of them, of people who have abused the system or certainly of people whose manipulation of the system leaves a lot to be desired. Whilst it may be all very well to say that the question of warrantors and indeed trustees is a private arrangement between persons, it is my belief that there is very little privacy for those who are in unfortunate circumstances, who are homeless, who usually spend most of their lives sleeping in parks and gardens, who are alcoholics, who subsequently may have brain damage and who are easily exploited. All governments have a moral responsibility to ensure that the pensions paid to those people get to those people and are not siphoned off by others in the community who are out to make a fast buck. 
I know that this is a very sensitive area and I know that it is in an area in respect of which the Department of Social Security has received a lot of bad publicity lately. There are many people within the Department of Social Security who do an excellent and very fine job, but I believe that there are times when officers of the Department need to cast their thoughts a little further than the strict reading of the law. One of the most unfortunate things about a bureaucracy is that whenever someone makes any criticism or shows concern about the department the officers of that department huddle together in protecting the great monolith. I believe that in many cases the Department of Social Security is far too protective for its own good. There needs to be a greater degree of consultation and a greater degree of flexibility in the way in which it administers its social welfare responsibilities. 
One of the things that have concerned me for a long time about homeless people is the way in which it is possible for the bureaucracy, in some cases, to become bogged down in its own paper work at the expense of the unfortunate people in our community. I would like to cite just one example that has been given to me by the manager of one of the most reputable hostels catering for homeless people in Brisbane. When the Homeless Persons Assistance Act was assented to in 1974 this organisation made an application to the Department of Social Security for the establishment of new premises in Brisbane. Petty quibbling by bureaucrats in Canberra over issues such as whether double decker beds were more desirable than single beds, whether the amenities were too far away from the dormitories and whether single room accommodation was better than dormitory style accommodation, caused delays in the approval of this project for 12 months. In such cases when there is already a chronic shortage of facilities for homeless men, such bureaucratic delays are unforgivable. 
We in this House should not lose sight of the ultimate ends for which we pass legislation. If those ends are stifled or if they are delayed by red tape our efforts in this chamber certainly will not be as effective as they should be. I raise these matters merely because I believe that in the area of homeless people there is a great deal more that we can do for that unfortunate sector of the community about which nobody seems to care and nobody wants to know. 
I would also like to raise one other matter about the Department of Social Security which I hope the Minister will note. As many honourable members are probably aware, in my electorate of Bowman I conduct a mobile office in a caravan which regularly tours all the shopping centres in the outlying areas of the electorate. I have found during my time in the House that the mobile office has drummed up more business than my office can handle. Whilst it might be a rod for my own back it certainly is one of the most effective means of communicating with people. I also believe it would be a very effective means for the Department of Social Security to employ in order to communicate with many of the outlying areas and the new suburban developments which so often are the source of so many of the social problems in our community today. I believe that Tasmania has a mobile office and that Western Australia has a caravan which is shared by the Department's social workers and its community liaison officers. Yet Queensland, which is the most decentralised of the mainland States, cannot afford to implement such a scheme. 
To my mind one of the most important roles of the Department of Social Security is to communicate with the general public the wide range of services and benefits which are available. It is amazing to hear cases of people who have endured so much hardship for so long simply because they did not know that some welfare assistance was available to them from the Government. Communications is one of the most important tasks of any government. It certainly is a vital aspect of the work of the Department of Social Security. I sincerely hope that the Minister will look at the proposition of providing those caravans to provide that service m those areas I mentioned, the new urban developments and the outlying areas, where the need is obviously so great. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 8 September 1977: 
Has he been approached by the Queensland Government concerning the re-establishment of the Lota-Cleveland railway line; if so, when was this approach made. 
If an approach was made, did the Queensland Government request financial assistance from the Commonwealth for the project; if not what assistance would be available should a future application be made. 
I will not detain the Committee for too long but in speaking to the estimates of the Department of Transport there are a number of aspects of the Government's civil aviations policies to which I would like to refer. I believe that the coming year could prove to be one of the most vital for civil aviation, especially as reviews are now being undertaken by the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon),  through his Department, into both domestic and national policies. On the international scene, that report must be presented by March 1978. Following a number of submissions to the Government, and especially through the House of Representatives Select Committee on Tourism, obviously there is considerable public interest in the development of charter and other cheaper flights between the United Kingdom and Australia. For many years Australians have been deprived of these low excursion rates. The Australian tourist industry should be able to benefit greatly from the back-loading of passengers to Australia. One would hope that when this matter is reviewed objectively there will not be a snowing of the inquiry as has happened in the recent past whenever the prospect of charter arrangements was mentioned. 
In fact one of the things that worries me about this particular inquiry, and the associated publicity that is going on at the moment, is that everything seems to be concentrating on the area of links between the United Kingdom and Australia. If we are to look at this matter objectively as far as the tourist industry is concerned we should be looking in a very real way at the North American market and the major tourist markets which include Japan and some points in Europe, particularly Germany. One would hope also that if these European destinations are being considered by that inquiry the Scandinavian situation would be looked at as well. The Scandinavian community in my electorate is most upset about the fares to and from their home countries at the moment. Certainly there could be a two-way flow between Australia, Denmark, Sweden, Norway and Finland if an excursion fare could be negotiated. 
It would be discriminatory indeed if these folk are denied access to Australia just because there is not a direct service operating between here and there. Obviously our national carrier could have a great deal of access to sector traffic, especially of some low yield routes that exist at the moment. One would obviously have a situation where extra charges were to be made if an aircraft had to land and a change of aircraft had to be made at a certain port. But surely, even with that extra charge involved, the air fares that would be available would be nowhere near twice the particular air fare as it is at the moment. I think that the charter fare between Australia and the United Kingdom or the low season fare and of course the excursion fares available at the moment are at approximately the $850 mark whereby the fare to Helsinki is about the $1,600 mark. It would seem to me there is a very real need for the Australian Government and the governments of Scandinavia to get together to see whether some proposal can be worked out. 
Because of our sparse population and the long legs involved in domestic airline travel, civil aviation is to be always an incredible cost to Australians. Successive governments have maintained facilities at a very high level over the years and the upgrading processes are on a continuing cost. However, the fact remains that domestic airline travel in this country is still among the highest in the world. It is true that, in these past few months, the domestic airlines have been enjoying an almost unprecedented growth rate on most major routes. However, saturation point must be reached ultimately and one sometimes wonders just when this point will be reached if landing charges, fuel tax and government fees continue to rise. 
Obviously these charges do form a part of the overall fare structure which is so high at the moment. It is interesting to note that the House of Representatives Select Committee on Tourism was told at a meeting in Melbourne earlier this year by both domestic carriers and later in Cairns by Bush Pilots Airways Ltd that they could effect considerable reduction if these charges were eliminated. The Ansett Airlines of Australia representative said a 25 per cent reduction and the Trans- Australia Airlines representative a 10 per cent reduction. 
There is much to be said for the user pays principle and although the user does not really pay entirely for civil aviation services in Australia at the moment, perhaps there is room for a review in this area, especially if international and domestic tourism is to expand. The high costs are obviously a detriment to getting the international tourist around Australia. 
Although our facilities are reasonably comparable, the problems of Sydney and Brisbane airports are still with us. The investigations into Sydney Airport are still under way but the Brisbane Airport problem has not been resolved as yet. I have been disturbed by the reports that a departmental recommendation is in the wind that 1,000 feet is to be added to the present runway. This, of course, achieves virtually nothing. It has been stated so many times in the House that the only option open to the Government is the implementation of the proposed new runway system. The Minister for Transport has, of course, made the promise to Queensland members of Parliament that no approval will be given for terminal or other significant works at Brisbane Airport unless the total airport development strategy is disclosed at the same time. It is an expensive project- and we realise that- but one that is vital if the full safety aspects are to be achieved and if Queensland is to meet its full potential as the tourist State of Australia. The Brisbane Airport becomes a more and more critical question as the Commonwealth Games approach and the question of charter operations to Australia comes closer to being a reality. At the moment it is absolutely impossible for a charter operator to use the present facilities at Brisbane International Airport. The Queensland Government members, the full State Council of the Liberal Party of Queensland and the Liberal Party's National Executive have all given their fullest report to locating the new runway complex and really have refused to make any compromise. 
At the threat of being accused of being parochial, I raise one small matter that I believe is of significant concern to the people of Brisbane. The matter I wish to raise concerns the terminal facilities at the Brisbane International Airport. A couple of weeks ago I wrote to the Minister and explained the situation regarding baggage trollies at the airport. It would seem that only 20 trollies had been provided. I did a check late today and I found that 10 of the trollies are out of operation. It is an interesting sight to see parked on the tarmac at the same time one Qantas Airways Ltd Boeing 747, one British Airways Boeing 747, one Air New Zealand DC10 and one Air Niugini Boeing 707 which lands at Brisbane airport one day a week. 
-One sees overseas visitors, . especially aged passengers, having to carry baggage because trollies are not available. The ground crew of the airline companies, particularly the ground hostesses, have to struggle through the terminal with very heavy baggage under each arm. This is a most alarming sight. I certainly hope that the Department of Transport will make a thorough investigation into this matter. It would seem that Brisbane International Airport is sometimes regarded as somewhat of a backwater as far as planning in Canberra is concerned. I know that the Minister is most understanding about these things and that he certainly will make an investigation in the near future into this matter. 
This year could be a most exciting year in civil aviation in Australia. It could be a year in which we will see major reforms and major changes carried out, both to Australia's domestic airline policy and of course to our international policy. The Australian domestic airline industry and Qantas have a very proud record and with continued planning and the expansion that is going on, despite the incredible costs involved, that record should be maintained. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 23 August 1977: 
1 ) What moneys were allocated by Telecom Australia for (a) capital works and (b) re-equipment programs in the Electoral Division of Bowman during 1976-77, and what are the corresponding figures for 1977-78. 
How many new telephone subscribers were connected in the Electoral Division of Bowman during 1976-77 and what is the expected number for 1 977-78. 
I would like to raise a number of points in speaking to the estimates for the Postal and Telecommunications Department. The first one concerns a new form of communications that was legalised just a few months ago. I refer, of course, to citizen band radio. Obviously citizen band radio is one of the greatest potential forms of communication for every member of our community. What, in fact, has happened with citizen band radio? We have unleashed a monster on the community. I do not say that lightly. Being a member of the Government's communications committee and having an obvious interest in communications, I invested in a citzen band radio some six weeks ago. I might mention that I applied for a licence some six weeks ago and I am still waiting for that licence. The purpose of the investment was, firstly, to listen to citizen band radio to find out exactly what was going on because a number of complaints had come through and, secondly, because I intend to use citizen band radio as a means of communication with the people in my electorate. It is obviously a wonderful form of communication and a wonderful point of contact for people who want to contact one in a hurry. If somebody- I believe this situation would exist in any city in Australia- had to listen to citizen band radio, I think they would be quite shocked with what they would hear. The language is unbelievable. In fact, if one listens to the youthful voices that are heard on the air on citizen band radio, there may be some real need to rename it children's band radio. It would seem to me that the vast majority of those who are using that particular medium at the moment are children. If one wants to spend a most - 
A lot of them do behave like children but there are, in fact, many young children on the air. I invite any honourable member to come to Brisbane to my electorate on a sunny Sunday afternoon and listen to the Black Python having a yarn to Tinker Bell. It is the most amazing conversation one will ever hear. The standard topic of conversation, apart from the type of rig that is being used by the particular operator, seems to be about pop records or trips to the Gold Coast. Obviously, that is not really what the potential for citizen band radio is all about. More than that, it has already come to light at a number of court hearings that citizen band radio has been used for the peddling of drugs. There was a front page article in the  Gold Coast Bulletin  just a couple of days ago which alleged that citizen band radio was being used in the prostitution and massage parlour rackets on the Gold Coast. This undesirable element certainly seems to be very deeply involved in CB radio. The honourable member for Kingston  (Mr Chapman)  said that a lot of the people who are on the air with citizen band radio sound like children. In fact, they are. A definite element on the air have no idea of the proper use of the medium or the potential of the medium. That worries me too. The language that is used on the air is frankly quite unbelievable. I am not quite sure just which way we should go to overcome the problem. There have been numbers of complaints to me that inspectors of the Department are overworked, that the Department is understaffed and that there are not enough staff to handle the situation as it exists at the moment. Already it would seem to me that citizen band radio is so deeply ingrained into the community at this stage that it will be very hard indeed to overcome the problem. Perhaps we should be looking at a situation where it does become children's band radio, where we take away the old crystal sets and the two tin cans tied together on a piece of wire and give them these new electronic devices which, of course, are reasonably cheap to purchase and reasonably cheap to operate. 
One would hope, with the advent of UHF next year, that this will make somewhat of a difference to the operation. One would hope also that the serious operators would look to the new type of set that will be coming onto the market, I understand in February, and use it seriously. Perhaps the present system and the present bands being used will have to be thrown away altogether to be used by the children and the ratbag element in our community. 
A lot of people cannot change because, obviously, they cannot afford to change at this stage. Perhaps the five year period that was introduced was too long. Perhaps we should be looking at a two year introduction or a three year introduction period instead. I ask the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson)  to look at the possibility of appointing more inspectors into that particular area of his Department's operations because it is a problem and one that will be with us for a long time. Frankly, unless we have more inspectors, I am not quite sure how the problem will be overcome. 
This is another area. I understand that in Brisbane at the moment there are some five complaints daily about interference of CB radio with television sets. I understand in central Queensland there is interference from CB sets to the 2-way ambulance radio system. It is potentially a very great worry. The second point I would like to mention tonight is the situation confronting country radio stations in Australia. We have been hearing of some quite exceptional profits being made by certain television and radio stations throughout Australia but this is certainly not the case in a number of country centres in all States of the Commonwealth. At the moment there are 20 country radio stations which are not operating profitably. A number of those stations would quite willingly hand back their licences, I believe. With the advent of the Special Broadcasting Service and with other pressures that are occurring in these particular country areas, it would seem that their operations will not become very much easier. One of the points that is continually raised to me by various country stations and members of the Federation of Commercial Radio Broadcasters is the fact that the landline charges, which were increased quite dramatically two or three years ago, have stifled the dissemination of local information, of news and of other services to country people. That worries me. I understand there has been quite a deal of curtailing of news bulletins fed from capital city stations to the far flung areas of Australia. 
I think that we should remember that these country radio stations are primarily a service vehicle for those areas. The Australian Broadcasting Commission provides a very fine service to the outback areas but the ABC tends to operate on a network basis to a very great degree. It tends not to provide the local news and the local knowledge that people want. It is very sad, I think, if a country radio station cannot provide coverage of local sporting events in a neighbouring town. It is very sad if it cannot provide coverage of the country shows. This is certainly a problem which is facing the nation at the moment The honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Fisher)  was talking to me earlier this evening. I know he has a very real problem in his area and he has expressed a lot of concern in this regard in the last few weeks. The problem is that the permanent landline stations on regular relays overcome their cost factors reasonably well. It would seem that it is the part-time permanent landlines that are the most expensive and these are the lines that may be up five times a day between a capital city and a country station to provide those news relays. I understand that the charges are based on trunk telephone line costs over the same period but even that is an exceptionally high cost when one considers that a lot of these stations are not operating profitably. One certainly can understand Telecom saying: 'If we give concessions in this area, we will open up the flood gates'. I think we must weigh up whether or not we want to be able to provide the people of the country with local radio services, with local news, local coverage of sporting events and those things which bring a little bit of comfort and information into often lonely lives in those particular areas. 
Finally, in mentioning landline charges, there have been a number of complaints lodged with me from the Queensland Ambulance Transport Brigade. It, too, is facing exceptionally big charges with its landline costs. In my electorate of Bowman there is one small ambulance brigade which has an annual cost of some $420. That may not sound too much over a yearly period but when one considers that the ambulance is financed to a very great degree by private donations, it certainly adds up and it certainly adds up in those small country communities. Honourable members know that Telecom is an independent statutory body but I think there would be some very great advantages if the Minister was prepared to approach that corporation and ask whether there could be some investigation into providing some concessions, at least for the ambulance, which after all, provides a humanitarian service and, most especially, some consideration of the people in our far flung remote country areas in providing a cheaper system of landline charges so that they will not be deprived of the news, the sporting events and the general interest items that until now have been broadcast and appreciated in those country areas. 
I direct a question to the Prime Minister. Bearing in mind the conflicting reports in the Press, this House and elsewhere, will the Prime Minister clear up once and for all just how Australia's record on inflation and unemployment compares with that of the major countries in the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development? 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 23 August 1977: 
What are the trading figures of the unofficial Post Office located at Carina East, Queensland, for (a) 1974-75 and (b) 1975-76. 
For what reason does the Australian Postal Commission feel justified in closing this Post Office in this high density population area of Brisbane. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 23 August 1977: 
What guidelines are used by the Australian Postal Commission in determining whether an unofficial Post Office is to be closed. 
Which unofficial Post Offices in the electoral division of Bowman have been closed since I January 1969 and which offices are to be closed during 1977-78. 
What rights do members of a community have in appealing against the closure of an unofficial Post Office and what form should this appeal take. 
Someone once said that a politician who plays with trains, boats and planes is a man of whom one should be extremely careful. Someone once said of the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  that if an object does not have pistons and steam he is not particularly interested. Now that he has responsibility for the shadow portfolio of post and telecommunications, I was most interested to observe that the same attitude seems to exist in relation to the Broadcasting and Television Amendment Bill which we are debating this afternoon. I have never in all my life heard so much utter rubbish as that contained in the amendment which he had the hide to move this afternoon and that contained in the statements that he was prepared to make about political interference in the broadcasting and television industry. If one looks at the period between 1972 and 1975, one sees exactly what went on. I refer to the manipulations that were going on behind the scenes under the Labor Government; the establishment of the Department of the Media and the ferretting in which it used to engage. The honourable member for Newcastle talks about interference. It just amazes me. 
I wish to refer in my remarks this afternoon to a number of aspects covered in the speech of the honourable member for Newcastle. However, first of all I shall deal with a most delicate area, that of the electronics media. It is one area in which we can not afford to have any political interference whatsoever. In fact, if one goes back through the history of radio and television in Australia- the first 50-odd years of radio and the first 21 years of television- I think one will realise that they have been very exciting years for that industry. From very humble beginnings we have seen it grow into a strong and viable industry that is today providing a service which would be equalled by very few services anywhere else in the world. 
To a great degree the radio and television industry was left unhindered in its early years. I suppose that in many ways like Topsy, it just grew, with that free enterprise spirit about which the honourable member for Newcastle was talking. Although located in a country with a small population such as Australia has, it has certainly made its mark on world markets and is continuing to make it mark on world markets. Like Topsy it grew until that heavy hand of bureaucracy was felt in the early 1970s right through to the mid 1970s. 
What we should be looking at this afternoon is the next 21 years. The mid 1970s are certainly proving to be the turning point of that industry. It is the decisions that are being made now by this 
Government that are shaping what could be a completely new ball game for the radio and television industry in this country in the years to come. Evidence of what is to come is clearly available in the Broadcasting and Television Amendment Bill which is before this House today. 
It is true that the Bill has caused a great deal of soul searching by many government supporters. Sections of the Bill have been debated, discussed and amended for more than seven weeks by the Government back bench committee. It has examined all of its contents. The committee conferred with industry representatives but it conferred also with the public and, of course, the bureaucrats who represent that area of the Postal and Telecommunications Department. It was a most refreshing and satisfying period indeed as far as reviewing this legislation was concerned. 
Many people in Australia are interested in this industry. Many people welcomed the prospect of the Green report when it was initiated last year. Although I personally was quite disappointed with some of the end results of the Green committeeit was a document that was filled with a lot of bureaucratic absurdities- it did form the basis for the legislation that is before the House this afternoon. When I say that I refer to such aspects as the combining of transmission facilities. It was downright dangerous to have one organisation in control of every single transmitting device in Australia. That could have put Australia in a complete blackout situation and put our stations completely off the air in the case of industrial trouble. In time of war it could also have proved to be quite disastrous. 
In any event, the Green report did lead to the establishment of the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal and did lead ultimately to the introduction of this legislation this afternoon. The establishment of the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal is a move that in principle should be welcomed by us all. It provides an opportunity to get the industry out into the public arena and away from any form of political control. Political interference in any form within the public media,' especially the electronics media, must be stopped at all costs. The Tribunal was appointed and it set about holding public hearings. 
Its report finally came "down. Once again, I think the ramifications of this report should be viewed with a very special kind of concern by everyone in this House. If nothing else, these two reports prove one thing, namely that the public has an incredibly strong interest in what it sees and hears on the airwaves and that it is not completely happy with the services that it is rereiving. That sentiment was expressed in the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal s report. 
The question often asked is whether television management can in fact be trusted to cater for the demands of the Australian listening and viewing public. It is often asked whether it should be necessary that there be complete government dominance so that people can get to see what it allegedly wants them to watch. Can a government in fact shape public taste so that programs do become acceptable to the public? I venture to say that the government initiated experiments during the time of the Labor Government, especially those in the field of children's television, have proved to be nothing more than a complete and total disaster. The reason for that must be the fact that those experiments were dictated to the industry, without any consultation, without any experimentation and without any research being conducted. The best guide to what the public wants is what the public will accept. It is an established fact that if the public does not want a particular program, it will not view it. When that happens the program virtually automatically goes off the air. 
The legislation before the House this afternoon is the first step in the major re-organisation of the television and radio industry in all its forms. Its introduction has been brought about by pressure applied by the public through those reports. It is a piece of legislation with which we must be very careful indeed. A number of aspects contained in the legislation will enable the public to have its say on what course the industry will take in the future. 
As a result of the legislation the Tribunal will have the power to grant, to renew, to suspend and to revoke licences in conjunction with public hearings. Obviously there will be protection in relation to confidential and private hearings in those cases where the evidence is considered to be such that it would be detrimental for it to be heard in public. That is an important point. But the principle followed will be that evidence should be heard in public to the greatest possible degree. Reports of hearings conducted by the Tribunal will come before this House within IS days of the Minister's receipt of them. I believe that aspect of the legislation is important also. 
The hearings will cover not only the licences of commercial radio and television stations but also the public broadcast area. Under the present Act licences are renewed annually. This will change with the new legislation. The renewal of licences on an annual basis is in fact an absolute farce. It is virtually automatic that a licence is renewed every 12 months. In the case of commercial television stations especially, it is particularly obnoxious. Those stations often commit millions of dollars annually for programs both of Australian and foreign origin. Quite often if they abide by the true letter of the law they do not know whether they will be on the air a month later to telecast programs for which they have committed themselves. I think it is important that licensees get that guaranteed length of tenure of licence. It is important for the planning. 
I suppose, looking at the background of the industry and at some of the things that are happening at the moment, one of the most pleasant things that is happening is the acceptability of Australian programs and the fact that Australian television producers and film producers are making their mark on the world scene. Obviously this should be encouraged as much as we possibly can. Really if a licence is renewed only on a 12-month basis, who is prepared to provide the millions of dollars which it takes to a fully fledged television program without having a guarantee that they will be on air in 12 months? In fact, in the case of major television productions, the time involved with preparing, the scripting, the casting and the organising of a program can be 18 months or two years. It can be that long before a single frame of film can be shot. They need that length of time to have the guarantee that that investment of millions of dollars in a television program will in fact come to fruition. They need some guarantee of return on that investment. It is important that we realise that fact, because the Australian industry is making its mark on the world television scene. Australian programs are winning awards overseas. They are being exported. Obviously, with the revenue which is generated overseas, it is an opportunity for the industry to continue to grow. 
By virtue of this Bill licences can be renewed, and should be renewed, for three years. There is a proviso. It is that there have been no major breaches of the Act. It is true that there has been a great deal of debate as to whether this period should be five years or three years as it is at the moment. One can have a little sympathy for the major producing television stations which are looking for a five-year period so that they have this period in which they can plan and produce quality television programs. I do not really think lat the five-year period would be relevant in the case of radio stations or indeed a lot of the country television stations or the minor capital city stations. The producing stations probably have quite a good point for requesting that fiveyear period. 
It is interesting also that if there are breaches there will be a warning period of 12 months for the station. I believe that is important for the stability of the industry as well. Very big investments are made by many companies across Australia in production facilities. It would be rather scaring indeed if such a company knew that it could be virtually shot to pieces after six months because of some minor breach of the Regulations. If we are to promote quality Australian productions we must allow those stations that tenure of licence. The provisions of the Bill provide a variation in the period of licence if the station has been in breach of the Regulations. In such a case a licence may be granted for a lesser period. The good thing is that it is that minimum of 12 months which I just mentioned. This in itself, I believe, is a very tough provision, but at least it is guaranteed now that there is that threeyear licence if there are no major breaches. There is also a safety valve for the licensees in as much as there is provision for appeal to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal if the full licence period of three years is not granted. That is one way of taking the politics out of the granting of radio and television licences. 
The suspension or revocation of a licence is a major move indeed. Under the terms of this Bill licences can be taken away if there is noncompliance with the licence or if, in the public interest, the Tribunal feels that the licence should be taken away. One thing which I would dearly love the Minister to give us is a definition of those three words 'in the public interest', because their ramifications could be a little wide. I am sure he has an explanation of those words. A licence can also be taken away if the licence fees have not been paid. The appeal provisions are in clause 28. The suspension of a licence would be an incredible fine, especially to a commercial operator. For a minor breach it could be off the air for up to seven days. That would effectively mean a loss of up to $500,000 for a capital city station if such a move were made. Obviously this would be one of the most severe fines imposed on any section of industry anywhere in Australia. We are warned that next year we will be seeing a completely rewritten broadcasting Bill. A couple of those points may be taken up then. 
The Government has made its commitment to the ethnic groups in our community, a very real commitment, to establish a full and viable ethnic broadcasting service. This Bill provides for the establishment of the Special Broadcasting Servicea multilingual service- which would incorporate the activities of the existing ethnic services through 2EA and 3EA. We know the history of the approach to the Australian Broadcasting Commission to take over all ethnic services. Most representatives of the ethnic committees have welcomed the establishment of the SBS. It will be an entirely new and independent commission not only to provide for our ethnic communities but also in the future perhaps to provide some special purpose broadcasts if the demand is there. This could of course include such concepts as a university of the air, or special interest programs such as programs for blind people. However, initially the SBS will be used to produce ethnic programs, to present them and to transmit them. 
There is provision for a television facility. It is possible to bring that in under the terms of the Special Broadcasting Service. One of the most fascinating aspects of the SBS aspect of the legislation is the funding of it. I was interested to hear what the honourable member for Newcastle did not know about this aspect of the Bill. The SBS will be empowered to fund its operations by the broadcasting of sponsored programs, by the charging of provisions and facilities and by the sale of programs and rights or interests in programs. These avenues of funding are in addition to moneys appropriated annually by this Parliament to the SBS. It will not, however, derive revenue by means of normal commercial advertising. That is quite an interesting aspect. As I understand the situation with regard to the Special Broadcasting Service, the right to advertise will consist of a billboard type advertising approach. In other words, an announcer would come on at the beginning of a program and say that the next half hour is brought to the listeners by a particular company. Perhaps it is not over important in this case, but it is interesting to contemplate. By the time the infrastructure is set up to provide that type of advertising- when salesmen are appointed and have to be paid, when scheduling clerks come in-with the small audience that the SBS would have, would any profit be made by the SBS through its advertising? It would seem to me that it could be a complete and utter waste of money to set up such an infrastructureby the time three or four staff members were paid for the simple task of putting a billboard at the beginning and end of a program. 
The SBS is a very real commitment to the ethnic groups in our community. It was the policy of this Government during the 1975 election campaign. We have honoured our promise. Indeed the ethnic groups are pleased, I believe, that the ethnic services are not going to the ABC. They are now out in the open. The ethnic communities have their own network. I have been speaking to many ethnic groups, not only in my electorate but also in other parts of Australia. They are very pleased indeed mat now they have this facility set up. 
The Broadcasting and Television Amendment Bill is very complex legislation. Its consequences are far-reaching. Most importantly, it gets the granting of television licences out into the arena. It gets them out there so that the public can have its say. That is important. The airwaves are certainly public property. I believe that in the past the people who ran the airwaves were fairly responsible. Now the public, through the hearings of the Tribunal, has a chance to have its say. It has also been confirmed that public broadcasting is a very real thing in Australia and that sector of broadcasting will be able to have its say too. The amendment moved by the honourable member for Newcastle is complete and utter nonsense.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I commend the Bill. 
-The debate on the Airline Equipment (Loan Guarantee) Bill has been very wide ranging. The purpose of the Bill is to seek authority for the Treasurer of the Commonwealth to guarantee a loan raised by Ansett Transport Industries Ltd to purchase its new Boeing 727 200 series aircraft. Both Ansett and Trans-Australia Airlines are moving into the purchase of this new equipment. TAA has indicated that it will be financing its aircraft from its own funds. This is just a mechanical Bill, but because the debate has been so wide ranging there are some points that should be answered and some observations that should be made about civil aviation in Australia at the moment. It is interesting to see that the airlines have faith in the future. They have enjoyed a 4 per cent growth rate in the first three quarters of this year. In fact, some extraordinary growth rate figures have been produced on a month to month oasis. Reports that the airlines in one month experienced a  9Vi  per cent growth rate emphasise the problems they are having in providing the scheduled services. It is good to see that they have confidence in the future of civil aviation and are prepared to invest in their new Boeing 727 200 series aircraft. 
Civil aviation in Australia is at a very interesting stage. As the industry moves into the 1980s the call on new equipment and facilities will become greater and greater. In some respects it is interesting to observe that the airlines at this stage have moved into the Boeing 727 rather than looking at some of the bigger equipment. If one criticism can be levelled at the two major domestic operators in Australia, perhaps it is that sometimes they have been a little conservative in their forward estimates of their equipment demands. Airlines in South Africa, Thailand, Iran and some of the smaller nations in Europe have taken the risk and moved into the big Airbus equipment, the 250-seat aircraft. There has been quite a deal of debate suggesting that perhaps the Australian domestic carriers should be looking right now at moving into the Airbus or the DC 10, which has been put up as a second option for the wide-bodied aircraft to operate on the domestic routes in Australia 
Certainly much of the jet equipment operating in Australia at the moment is becoming quite old. When I say that, it is not to say that safety is being impaired at aU. When we consider that both fleets contain DC9s that have operated for some 24,000 flying hours in the last 10 years or so and when we do a quick mental calculation that would indicate that those DC9s have been in the air non-stop for about three years, we can see the point made by the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris)  about the utilisation of aircraft in Australia. Obviously the airlines must be looking very hard at re-equipping their fleets, and indeed they should. In a report released overseas recently it was indicated that a Fokker Friendship aircraft operating in Australia was the oldest in the world. Obviously the airline fleets must be kept up to the rigid safety standards that operate in Australia but obviously the time is coming when some major re-equipment purchases will have to be made by the domestic airlines. 
I was interested to hear the comments of the honourable member for Shortland regarding the major airport needs of Sydney study at Sydney (Kingsford-Smith) Airport. What he said is very true. Kingsford-Smith Airport is probably the greatest headache besetting Australia at the moment. I was interested to hear that he had some doubt about the priorities of the commuter operators. The commuter operators play a most vital part in providing airline services to those areas of New South Wales which they serve. The whole Kingsford-Smith Airport operation should be looked at in its true perspective. Many members of Parliament do not speak to the men who really know the true position. In many cases they would be the domestic airline pilots. They tell us some rather frightening stones about some of the things that happen. 
It is an established fact that the early flight that leaves Brisbane at 7 a.m., or 6 a.m. during daylight saving, for Sydney, is one service that is not particularly affected. It is established that the first aircraft to leave Brisbane for Sydney probably will arrive on time, but the second is invariably 20 minute's late because of the bank-up at Kingsford-Smith Airport. Late last Sunday afternoon I was coming to Canberra. The aircraft was delayed 20 minutes, and so was the one behind. Another aircraft was holding to the west of Sydney and another to the south of Sydney. So much of this bank-up time is being caused by the small aircraft using Kingsford-Smith Airport. We talk about the cost factor involved in the operation of light aircraft. Having a Boeing 727 or a DC9 holding outside Sydney for up to 20 minutes is very costly for the domestic carriers. If we are looking at how we can bring down the cost of fares, aU these things must be considered. I am certainly not a pilot, but on my rather amateurish estimations I would say that to hold a Boeing 727 aircraft outside Sydney for 20 minutes would cost the price of 400 lb of fuel. That is not an inconsiderable amount of money. On Sunday afternoon, when four Boeing 727 aircraft were holding, the added sum would have been appreciable indeed. 
A number of other factors concerning Sydney are certainly well worth looking at. A number of airline pilots have expressed to me concern at the instrument landing system operating on runway 16, the southern runway. To put it in airline jargon, the centreline beam on that instrument landing system has bends in it. In fact the pilots do not have the capacity to line up their aircraft exactly to come in on that main south runway, runway 16. The glidescope which the pilots use to make their landings on that runway also is causing them some headaches. In fact, according to the Department of Transport, the problem is caused by industrial interference from the facilities surrounding Kingsford-Smith Airport. Sure, the aircraft pilots can overcome those problems and they do overcome them very well but, if we are looking at maximum safety and maximum efficiency, these are the areas that must come under investigation and must be upgraded continually. 
If something can be done about keeping the light aircraft- not the commuter aircraft, but the general aviation aircraft- out of KingsfordSmith Airport, we can allow the heavy commercial equipment which may be carrying up to 400 passengers the right to land on schedule with the required safety separation between aircraft, which they certainly are not enjoying at the moment. Three or four aircraft could be coming in on a flight path and a light aircraft going at a very slow speed could be holding up a Boeing 747 or a DC10 behind it on its final approach. 
Apparently the system is that those major aircraft have to slow down their approach to make way for the light one, rather than priority being given to the heavy aircraft to make their landing at Sydney. 
As I said a little earlier, the civil aviation industry, going into the 1980s, has a very bright future; but it is a future in which obviously the concern of all governments, State and Federal, must be shown. I understand that the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  will be speaking a little later about the Brisbane Airport. We know the situation in regard to the KingsfordSmith Airport and that there is a problem with the length of the runway at the Adelaide Airport. So in years to come the cost to government is going to be very considerable indeed One would hate to think of the amount of expenditure that will have to be spent on airport facilities over the next 10 years, but it must be spent if Australia is to maintain its safety standards. 
I was interested to read the comments of the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  in his second reading speech and the confidence he put in the aviation review. Indeed many people in Australia are interested in seeing the outcome of the recommendations that will flow from that aviation review, not only in the domestic sphere but also in the international sphere. The twoairline policy has served Australia very well during the past 20 or 30 years. However, the time must come when a full review is carried out to make sure that the service that is being provided to the people is the most efficient and the least costly. After all, the whole business of civil aviation is people. Even the freight services relate to people. The safety of those people certainly must be taken into consideration, as must be price. If there is a possibility of reducing domestic airline fares, whether it be through the dropping of some air navigation charges or fuel tax or the higher utilisation of aircraft, every effort must be made to provide the cheapest possible form of travelling to the Australian public. With the bringing in of wide-bodied aircraft as soon as possible, one wonders whether or not some of these objectives can be achieved. In regard to the Airbus or a DC 10, we have, as the honourable member for Shortland mentioned, a situation at the moment in which, although in some cases the number of aircraft movements are down and the number of passengers handled is up, perhaps some of the congestion at places like SydneySydney is a problem and will be for some timecan be relieved. Certainly that has been the exercise in South Africa and it has been the exercise in some other cases around the world where the 
Airbus has come into service in the last six to 12 months or so. 
I was interested to hear the comments of the honourable member for Shortland about the migrant population. I have mentioned three or four times in this House the specific worry of the people in my electorate, those of the Finnish and Danish communities, who at this stage have no access whatsoever to excursion fares to take them home or indeed to reverse traffic to bring their relatives from places like Norway, Sweden, Denmark and Finland to Australia to visit them. It was one of the recommendations of the House of Representatives Select Committee on Tourism that this aspect of international air travel be looked at. One would hope that in the civil aviation review we will get a very fair approach to it by the Department and that the Department will not be snowed by Qantas. It is interesting to speak to people who work with the domestic operators, and some of the international carriers too, who claim that Qantas does have too much say over the civil aviation policies of Australia. The criticism is made, quite regularly, that when the Department of Transport has to make a decision on some aspect of civil aviation policy, whether it be landing rights or something else, what Qantas says goes. Nobody is denying that we must protect our national carrier and that we must provide the best possible operating circumstances for that carrier; but I think there have been examples in past years where perhaps the national carrier has had far too much say in the way the aviation policy should go. So one hopes that this review will be a fair one, that it will be an objective one and that we will see some very real recommendations coming from it to help the people of Australia achieve what I believe should be the aim of our civil aviation policythe cheapest possible fares for the Australian travelling public. 
As I say, this has been a wide ranging debate, when we consider that the prime purpose of the Bill is to guarantee the provision of money from the Commonwealth Government on behalf of Ansett to purchase a new Boeing 727. It is an area which should be of vital concern to all of us. Never before, I believe, in the history of Australia has there been so much interest amongst the general public as to which way civil aviation in this country is to head over the next 10 years. It will be interesting to see just what results and recommendations come out of those reviews. It is an industry in which Australia has a very proud record around the world. It is an industry in which we enjoy a safety record which is probably comparable to that of no other country. It is interesting to see that the three airlines- Ansett, TAA and Qantas- are amongst the top ten airlines of the world in relation to air safety. I believe that two of those airlines are in the top three. I think the record speaks for itself. 
This is an industry which must be in our consideration at all times. It is an industry in which there will be major changes in coming years. It is an industry where technical development is going along at a tremendously rapid pace. It is an industry which must be under constant review. The new navigation equipment that is coming into so many of the new aircraft, and the Omega navigation system that is going to be used by domestic aircraft around the world, must be kept in mind too. Obviously there will ultimately be room for big cost savings to be made in what services the Department of Transport itself provides. I do not think it will be too long before the domestic carriers and the internationals will be complaining about the amount of money they are being charged for some of these services when sophisticated computerised navigation equipment in modern jet aircraft will be able to provide most of the information they need. So we look forward to continued expansion in civil aviation in Australia in the next 10 years. This Bill is helping that expansion by bringing a modern Boeing 727 aircraft into Australia on behalf of Ansett. Another is to come for TAA. I wish the Bill a speedy passage. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Education, upon notice, on 6 October 1977: 
What Commonwealth funding has been made to each non-government school in the electoral division of Bowman in each of the years 1976-77 and 1977-78. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Health. He will be aware of the considerable Press comment in Queensland regarding the invitation by the Queensland Premier to the Cook Islands alleged cancer curer,  Dr Brych.  Bearing in mind his statements to the House last year regarding  Dr Brych  's activities, have the Minister's views changed? Is  Dr Brych  now welcome in Australia and would a visa be automatically granted despite his criminal background? Would any treatment undertaken by him in Queensland be claimable on Medibank, as it apparently is now according to Press reports? 
-During an adjournment debate some four or five months ago I expressed concern at the direction in which the citizen band radio services of this country were heading. 
It was a very good speech. But unfortunately many of the predictions I made during that speech have already come true. Once again I should like to appeal to the new Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Staley)  and to officers of his Department to act, and act swiftly, in saving what can be a very valuable form of communications in our community. 
Current estimates would indicate something like 900,000 citizen band radio sets are now in circulation in Australia. I would tend to think that a very small percentage have been officially licensed. When one listens to citizen band radio one realises that the regulations introduced by the Government last year are being openly and flagrantly abused, that there are no real checks on the material that is broadcast through the citizen band service and that in fact the whole system is one gigantic mess. There is a very high density of citizen band radio sets in my electorate. Already in recent weeks we have seen indications that violence is starting to flare up between different factions of the citizen band radio community. There have been a number of brawls between various clubs involved in citizen band radio. The language used on the air waves is quite frightening. The material that is being broadcast in many cases is disgusting. 
There has been open and flagrant abuse of equipment that is available for citizen band broadcasting. The Government must consider this aspect because there is no doubt that substandard equipment is openly on sale. Devices and additions that can be fitted to citizen band sets certainly do not fall within the guidelines related to the licensing of these sets. I refer in particular to such things as power microphones. This equipment is openly on sale in many of the radio shops and in some of the department stores scattered around the nation. I am amazed that there has been absolutely no control of what can be sold to some people. It is an established fact that from the 40-channel sets which are presently being imported from the United States of America the tuner can be removed and the sets adjusted to operate on 23 channels. Conversely a person can go to any one of many shops and buy such a tuner to plug into the set and convert it back into a 40-channel receiver. It is quite easy to break the circuitry system of the sets and to open up to 250 channels for a citizen band service. In fact I believe there are sets operating in Australia which give the users up to 900 different channels on which to broadcast. If one discounts the number of legal channels that are available in Australia at the moment one finds that something like 885 of those 900 channels are being used illegally. The consequences of this practice are quite frightening. 
I have already mentioned in the House that some citizen band radio sets are interfering with urgent communications such as police radio. In my electorate they cause problems for the local coast guard service. The Postal and Telecommunications Department is literally flooded daily with calls from people whose television reception is being interfered with as a result of substandard citizen band radio equipment. Obviously the Department does not have the staff to control the medium. Even if it had the staff this situation would be very difficult to control under the present regulations. 
As I said earlier, the formal requirements of this system are not being met. According to a brief survey I carried out it would seem that only 10 per cent of operators are using their recognised call sign. Perhaps if we are lucky another 30 per cent are using the call signs of their clubs in conjunction with their registered number. Therefore 60 per cent of people using sets are going under code names or giving virtually no identification at all. I suggest that honourable members should at some time go to the Postal and Telecommunications Department and ask to listen to some of the tapes of broadcasts that have been made of the citizen band service. Frankly, if they do they will be absolutely disgusted. In Brisbane there are some tapes that have been made of the activities of prostitutes on the Gold Coast. Broadcasts of this type have been made far and wide for everyone to hear. This is a frightening aspect when we consider that citizen band sets to a very great degree are being used by our young people. It is about time the whole system was brought into line and that officers of the Postal and Telecommunications Department in Canberra took a very serious look at the situation. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  It being 1 1 p.m., the debate is interrupted. The House stands adjourned until 2.15 p.m. on Tuesday next. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, on behalf of my constituents I should like, firstly, to extend to you most sincere congratulations on your election to the position of  Chairman  of Committees. It is always very good to see a fellow Queenslander honoured in this House. I would ask you to extend to  Mr Speaker  our congratulations on his re-election and indeed on his elevation. As well I should like to extend congratulations to the honourable member for Bonython  (Dr Blewett)  on his maiden speech that we have just heard. The honourable member comes to this House with quite a reputation from his academic career, his work at Flinders University and his work as an independent political commentator on an Adelaide television station. In fact he comes to us as one of Australia's leading academic socialists and I am sure that his contribution to this House will be most valuable. 
I should like to take this opportunity personally to thank my constituents for their help and co-operation during the past two years. I have deemed it a great honour indeed to be their representative in this House because I believe that together we have achieved much for the electorate of Bowman. I hope that in the coming years we may together continue to improve our part of society and in particular to assist those persons in our community, who because of reasons beyond their direct control may find themselves in need of assistance and understanding. As a member of Parliament, I accept unreservedly the responsibility for assisting these disadvantaged people. I have always held the belief that no matter how wealthy our society may appear to be, we can only measure true prosperity by the standards of those in circumstances not as fortunate as our own. I am reminded of the words of the late American  Senator Hubert  Humphrey- a person whose deeds and ambitions for his fellow man must stand as an eternal goal for all legislators.  Senator Humphrey  said: 'Life was not meant to be endured; it was meant to be enjoyed'. There are many people in our community whose life to them must seem to be only an endurance. There are people in our community who find it a never ending struggle just to feed and to clothe themselves. There are people in our society for whom life must seem a never ending struggle from crisis point to crisis point and from problem to problem. It is to these people that we as legislators owe our greatest responsibility. It is to these people that we must direct our greatest efforts. Whilst we may boast that we are without doubt one of the most prosperous nations in the world, we are also a nation with pockets of poverty, with seams of discrimination, and with an everwidening band of individual intolerance. Whilst we have much to be proud of, we also have much to be ashamed of. These clouds over our society should be righted and I believe that they can be corrected. They must be eradicated if we as a whole are to progress and to be an example to the rest of humanity. There is no greater shame to man than inhumanity and we as representatives of our community must ensure that those misfortunes which fall upon others are rectified with a sense of compassion, urgency and understanding. 
This is my third speech to this Parliament on an Address-in-Reply. I have served in the Parliament for over two years and I still have much to learn. But I hope that my years in this House do not tarnish my sense of idealism and do not cause me to become cynical of our Parliamentary system and institutions, as some of my colleagues on the other side have become. That is obvious from their speeches delivered during the past week. We must never forget that we are the Parliament. Any failure of the Parliament to come to grips with a problem is our failure. Any cynicism which may develop is only an admission of our own lack of faith and shortsightedness in this Parliament. After all, a cynic is but a man who knows the price of everything and the value of nothing. I hope that as members of this Parliament we never lose sight of the value of our parliamentary system as a vehicle to improve our society. The Government has been returned with a large majority but that does not mean that we should be complacent about our responsibilities and duties to the community. It means the exact opposite. It means that this government has been given a vote of confidence to govern responsibly and to tackle the problems which threaten the very fabric of our society. It would be indeed foolish of all of us, as parliamentarians, to pretend that we know all the answers and that we have all the solutions. I do not think we do; I do not think anyone does. But as legislators we have a responsibility to find the solution to our major problems. 
The last two years have not been easy for the people of Australia. Although we have succeeded in turning the tide against inflation it is evident that our battle against unemployment is not proceeding as fast as we all would like. Unemployment is not an easy problem to solve at the best of times. It is not a problem that can be pinpointed to one particular cause. But it is the singular, most important area of policy to which we must all turn our attention. There are some people in the community who say that we should be content with six per cent or seven per cent of our workforce being unemployed. I for one do not subscribe to that cancerous opinion at all. I believe that it would be a very foolish government which would rule this nation on such a premise. Nevertheless we are faced with a problem which is testing the whole fabric of our community. Not only are some people finding it difficult to obtain employment, but there are alarming numbers of people who are finding it frustrating just to receive regular unemployment benefit cheques. 
I do not think it is any secret to members who represent marginal seats with large pockets of unemployment that our system of handling unemployed persons is in need of some major reform. When it takes in some cases up to five or six weeks for a person to receive an unemployment benefit cheque, something in the system is wrong. Perhaps more to the point, something is amiss if it is impossible to reach a close degree of liaison between Commonwealth Employment Service offices and the Department of Social Security when a person's subsistence is at stake. There are times when the bureaucracy seems so incapable of being compassionate and understanding that one feels like pleading with the clerical officers who are making the decisions in the Department. The sad aspect about the whole system is that the meat in the sandwich are the unemployed people who in many cases are only concerned to get enough money to feed their families. When one department gives out green forms, another department gives out white forms, some forms are returned to one department one week, and to another the next weeknot only is the whole system utterly confusing, but it is also administratively scandalous. Let us not forget that departments are created to help people, not to hinder them. 
The bureaucratic administration of the whole unemployment process is far too complicated and in need of some common-sense restructuring. Too often to an outsider it would seem that the system is designed to suit some Public Service planners rather than the people who are actually unemployed. Indeed the process of changing over from advance payments to arrears payments of unemployment benefits could not be more complicated if it was deliberately designed to be so. If this system is allowed to continue as it has during the past few months, it would be an indictment on this Parliament. It is no wonder that current affairs programs are having a field day with regard to unemployment problems. 
There are many dedicated public servants working in the field of unemployment and welfare benefit payments. There are many people who really feel for the unemployed. But lately in Queensland I have noticed a change in attitude. Some clerical assistants are becoming absolutely rude and arrogant on the telephone. Their voices reflect that view not only when members of the public telephone them for information but also when members of Parliament telephone them. The strain of the system is catching up with people to such an extent that quite often the unemployed are told deliberate falsehoods just to get them off the telephone or out of the office. Something has to be done. In my opinion the warnings have been on the wall for quite some time. Unfortunately, the Public Service is slow to react. 
What is needed is one department to manage the whole unemployment situation. We need one department to register the unemployed, to counsel them, to help them find jobs, to pay their benefits and to make sure that they are not without payment for long periods of time. The unemployed people have got to be stopped from being passed from one department to another- from the CES offices to the Department of Social Security. We only have to talk to some of these unemployed to realise just how often they travel from one department to the other, trying to get some satisfaction to their problems. While we have this problem on our plate, we must make sure that our administration is tailored to help, not to hinder those, it is meant to serve. I realise that I might be unpopular in certain quarters for expressing those views, but I am comforted by  Sir Winston  Churchill's view that if our parliamentary institutions and parliamentary democracies are to survive it will not be because constituencies return tame, docile, subservient members, and try to keep out every form of independent judgment. Unless we as members raise those matters which our constituents relate to us this House will fail in its responsibility to be a vehicle of change and social improvement. 
As I have said, unemployment is the greatest single problem facing the nation today. Although as a government we have taken a number of steps to encourage businesses to expand their employment opportunities, the response in some areas has been very disappointing when translated into the number of unemployed. We have introduced investment allowances to encourage businesses to expand; we have introduced taxation incentives; we have provided training programs both at a preapprenticeship level and on a work subsidy level for employers; we have introduced a modified apprenticeship training rebate scheme; and we have even gone as far as providing employers with direct financial benefits if they employ young people for a period up to six months. Yet despite these advances and despite other changes, it seems we are still falling slightly short of the mark. 
There is no doubt in my mind that there are some unemployed young people who just do not want to work- people who are quite content to exist on the unemployment benefits they receive rather than work for a living. Indeed it is not uncommon to hear of employer reports stating that people have started work and left at lunchtime on the same day saying they would rather stay at home and collect the benefits for nothing. I have even heard of cases in my own electorate where people have asked the employer to sack them so that they do not have to wait six weeks to continue receiving the benefits. It is indeed unfortunate that we have these people in our community. It would seem that for some of our unemployed the desire not to work coupled with the ease with which unemployment benefits can be obtained has given birth to an attitude that the rest of society can go on supporting them. 
I have tried to analyse why there is this desire not to work, but I find it very complicated. We have to ask ourselves: Is it because our education system does not prepare our young people for the world of work? Is it because their parents do not give them encouragement? Is it because they are just lazy, or perhaps more to the point, is it because they no longer feel that work can give them life's fulfilment? I do not know the answer. I have spoken to many young people and asked them why they think this lack of work morale exists, and they tell me a variety of answers. But I suggest to this House that until we start trying to . find out the answers to these questions we will not completely come to grips with an important and critical section of our unemployed. 
Although we have high unemployment we do not have a lack of work in our community. There is a shortage of paid employment but there are no shortages of jobs at a community level which need to be done. Community improvement projects are around us everyday. What is wrong with initiating such projects which will not only rekindle the incentive to work for some of our unemployed, but will also result in a direct benefit to the community and ultimately to the taxpayer. We need community betterment projects which will put our chronic unemployed to work rehabilitating public facilities, making neighbourhood improvements, and even undertaking some repairs and maintenance in low income housing areas. We need a program whereby our unemployed can again become active, if only for a few days of the week instead of just sitting at home as many of them do, waiting for something to happen. No doubt there are some who will say that unemployment benefits are a form of assistance, not cheap labour. To those people I say that something has to be done about the work morale of our unemployed. Something has to be done so that we the taxpayers, get some value for money. Although the Government has introduced a Community Youth Support Scheme, commonly called the CYSS, to boost young people's morale, not all areas of major unemployment have these programs in operation. I have one in my electorate and I know that many of my colleagues in Brisbane also have them in their electorates. They are a tremendous innovation and the people that run them are doing a fantastic job. But we need to go further. There are plenty of charitable organisations and non-profit associations which undertake many worthwhile projects in our community which could well do with another pair of hands. Why not encourage our unemployed to help these organisations? It would cost the Government nothing, but the value to the community could be immense. 
I detect a growing feeling in our community that unemployment benefits are not utilised in the wisest manner. There is a growing body of opinion in the community that the unemployment benefit payment scheme should be split up into a subsistence- basic level of payment, and a secondary works tested payment. As many members would be aware Australia is one of the few Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development member countries that pays a form of unemployment benefits without any backup system of collective insurance. In the 
United States and Canada and also in the United Kingdom, France, Germany and Sweden, unemployment assistance also takes the form of an insurance benefit which is paid by regular worker contributions. It is only when these insurance payments have been exhausted that the government accepts the responsibility to step in and provide some form of financial assistance. The interesting aspect of the scheme is that in some countries young people arriving on the labour market do not as a rule receive unemployment insurance benefits since they have not had the opportunity to contribute to a fund while in a previous job. However, as the problem of youth unemployment has grown in a world wide sense many countries have modified their schemes to give some assistance to young people. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, the point I wish to make by citing these instances is that in Australia the nature of our unemployment benefit system has not taken account of the need to make people themselves more responsible for their financial being should they become unemployed. And so, whilst not wishing to change the basic structure of our form of financial assistance towards the unemployed, I do believe that we should take some steps to ensure that the benefits are not just paid out without any form of work commitment. By this I mean that it is time that we took another look at our International Labour Organisation Geneva commitments with a view to adopting a policy which will help us in our particular situation. It could be a very worthwhile step if meetings were held with some of the peak union councils to discuss this aspect. 
I believe that the Australian community, on both sides of the political fence, wants to see unemployment benefits paid in a more responsible manner. Whilst we should have a basic subsistence level of payment, I believe that an additional benefit should only be paid upon the completion of some sort of work, in the form of community betterment projects, putting our young people to work rehabilitating public facilities, undertaking some charitable work or, as was mentioned by the honourable member for Bonython, some work in the environmental sphere. Whatever it be, I think the community expects us to introduce some form of work payment scheme for extra employment benefits. 
I would like to take the opportunity to congratulate the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development who is responsible for youth affairs for initiating the research project into youth unemployment. The research officer from his Department, Denise Boettcher has prepared an excellent publication of this whole problem of youth unemployment and I would hope that all members of this House would take the time to read it and to see what is being initiated. They may see some areas where improvements could be made. 
I also wish to take this opportunity in replying to the Governor-General's Speech to raise the question of the public's opinion of politicians. We have heard a great deal about it in this House during the last week. There is no doubt about it. There is a growing disenchantment with our profession in the community. While there will always be sections of the community who disagree with their parliamentarians, or who are cynical as to their purpose, I detect a growing swell of opinion that people believe that politicians are incapable of concentrating on and solving the important problems of our community. Although there are some who expect us to be supermen, there are others who believe we are lazy and do not earn our money. In many ways I suppose we are all to blame for this image because we do too little as a profession to sell ourselves. Although we are called upon to represent our constituents in the Parliament, we also have a responsibility to represent them at functions within our own community. It is just as important that we undertake our community responsibilities as we do our parliamentary responsibilities. Although at times these community responsibilities may require us to fulfil many roles such as a social worker, marriage guidance counsellor, father confessor, committee worker for many of our constituent organisations, or lobbyist for important community projects. These roles are too often forgotten by the public. When a person comes into an electoral office with a personal problem we have just as much a responsibility to help him or her as we have to make speeches in this House. As a profession we should never forget that we represent individuals, that we are elected to serve and to help those individuals. I am reminded of the words of  Sir Edmund  Burke who said: 
Party divisions, whether on the whole operation for good or evil, are things inseparable from free government: 
However, if we are to raise the standing of our profession, we must be aware of pelting each other for supposed public good at the expense of collectively setting our minds to the task of improving the nation. 
In the time remaining for me to speak, I wish to deal with a further couple of points from the Governor-General's Speech at the opening of the Parliament. The first one came to light in the Prime Minister's policy speech. I know that the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin 
Cairns) joins with me and the honourable member for Fadden  (Mr Donald Cameron)  in accepting the words of the Prime Minister to go ahead with the restructuring of the Brisbane airport program. From my investigations it would seem that this work has already commenced. Initial survey work is already under way. Programs aimed at diverting some of the waterways in the area to form the new Brisbane airport are under way also. In addition, in the next couple of weeks research will be conducted to ascertain what type of fill can be used in the new airport complex. 
The decision was welcomed not only by the people of Brisbane but also by all the people of Queensland. It will make a very real contribution to the economy of Queensland and to the welfare and the betterment of the people of Brisbane. I was interested to hear my learned friend, the honourable member for Casey  (Mr Falconer),  this afternoon speak in a most considered way about the problems that are facing the tourist industry in Australia at the moment. This is one of the ways in which the tourist industry in Queensland will be helped considerably. I would like to take the opportunity also to express my hope that the House of Representatives Select Committee on Tourism will be reconstituted in the near future. That Committee last year made a very real contribution to what one would hope would be the restoration of the industry in Australia. I believe that there is much more work to do. The next three years will be exciting years for Australia. 
The Minister for Industry and Commerce will be aware of the  Australian Financial Review  report of 7 March regarding the reversal of the role of the Australian Industry Development Corporation in the financing of small businesses. Does this reversal confirm the complaints by many small businessmen that there is widespread discrimination by financial institutions against lending to small business? What progress has been achieved towards the Government's stated aims of providing loans and equity finance for small business? 
It is true that during the time of the last Parliament I spoke on a number of occasions of the need for a new airport for Brisbane. As the House will realise, the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in his policy speech gave that undertaking. Work for the new airport will be commencing very shortly. However, we do have a situation in Brisbane now of which I am rather ashamed. I think it should be brought to the attention of the House even though it might seem a little fickle in a debate such as this. At the end of October last year, I wrote to the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  regarding baggage trolleys at Brisbane Airport. Some 20 baggage trolleys were provided to service the needs of that airport. He wrote back and said that obviously he did not think that that was quite enough and that the Department was making investigations into the supply of more baggage trolleys. 
Now there are eight operative baggage trolleys. I wrote to the Minister and saw him in February. He sent a minute to the Department demanding the immediate provision of baggage trolleys. Nothing has happened in the last month. 
It is a great shame. After all, Brisbane International Airport is the third gateway to Australia. It is an airport with one of the fastest rates of increase in the number of international travellers passing through its gates. I simply rose in the House tonight to ask that the Minister get behind somebody in the Department, give him a good swift kick in the pants and make sure that those baggage trolleys are provided. The situation at the moment is quite ludicrous. There are eight trolleys to service that airport. The problem is even more pronounced on a Friday morning when a Qantas 747, a British Airways 747 and an Air New Zealand DC 10, invariably full, come in and disgorge many hundreds of passengers into the terminal. These people arrive after long overseas flights and find that it is absolutely impossible to get a baggage trolley to cart their baggage through the customs office and out to the car park and taxi areas. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
The Minister for Transport will be aware of a problem in my electorate caused by the development of a giant oil slick off South Stradbroke Island. Can the Minister inform the House of the steps that are being taken to clean up this slick? What has been done to prevent a repetition of this situation? Has any move been made to reprimand the people responsible for it? 
I direct my question to the Minister for Transport. In his recent discussions with  Mr Freddie  Laker, was a definite submission put to the Australian Government by  Mr Laker  for an air service between Britain and Australia? Has the Minister also seen comments by  Mr Laker  which indicate that he intends to go ahead and plan his service, even without the approval of the present Government? Is that possible? Does it really give the green light to  Mr Laker  to commence operating a cut price service between Britain and Australia? 
I have been listening with interest to the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Dawkins)  and to the statements and accusations he has made, especially about the Western Australian situation. The name of Alan Ridge was mentioned. He was accused of being a racist. I was interested to hear that because he was returned to the State Parliament in a re-run just after our Federal election. He bolted home. It seems absolutely incongruous to me that a person like that who is such a racist and represents an area such as the Kimberleys can get back into Parliament with the majority that he achieved. I think that this whole debate is getting way out of hand and that we have to get back to the substance of the matter. 
I think the salient point was expressed by the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  in his second reading speech when he said that the provisions of this legislation are all directed to ensuring that if the communities have chosen not to be administered by officials of the Queensland Department of Aboriginal and Island Affairs they will not have official management foisted upon them. That is really the crux of the whole matter. I had the privilege last week of travelling with the honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Hodges)  and three honourable senators to Aurukun and Mornington Island to find out what was the situation. Most importantly, after that we went to the pick of the Aboriginal reserves, which allegedly is Cherbourg, and checked out the situation there. 
I admit that there were conflicts between the opinions of the people of Aurukun and the people of Mornington Island. I really do not think any real comparison can be drawn between those settlements. It was pointed out very clearly to us by the people of Cherbourg that they would be quite willing to stay under State control. The situation at Aurukun and Mornington Island was the complete reverse. We spoke at two public meetings and we spoke to individual groups and people in stores and houses and not one of the people to whom any of the five of us spoke, and there must have been several hundred people at both settlements, said that he wanted anything different apart from being administered by the Uniting Church in Australia, as is the case at the moment, in co-operation with the Federal Government. 
Obviously the situation in Queensland is a very vexed and complex situation, but at least the legislation that has been introduced into this chamber today has given those people that right. They also will have a right to change their minds. If they do not like the Uniting Church's control and the Federal funding arrangements they have the opportunity under this legislation to change over and go under the control of the Queensland Government, if they must. I think it would be a very wise thing indeed if the people in those communities, whether they are under Commonwealth control or State Government control, were to continue to make a review of the situation and to determine what best suits them. I think the Minister has been very wise in ensuring in this piece of legislation that these people have a right to change their mind. That is one step forward for the Aboriginal people of Queensland in regard to sorting out their own affairs and pursuing a program of self-management. It seems to me to be a very great pity indeed that the people on these settlements have found themselves to be the meat in the sandwich in a political row when all they want to do is go about their own business in their own way. This legislation will help them to do exactly that. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 1 March 1978: 
Which commercial radio stations relay ABC news broadcasts in city and country areas. 
What charges are made by the Commission for each individual service. 
3) Do the charges include the cost of land lines from ABC originating stations. 
How often are the contracts reviewed. 
I am sure most members in the House tonight will welcome the fact that we are debating what has been the first major statement by the Government on the future of public broadcasting in Australia. Indeed, I believe it is a statement on which the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Staley)  should be congratulated, a statement for which we have all been waiting for a long time. The people involved in public broadcasting have been terribly confused, worried and perturbed at the non-direction that the issue has been taking over recent years. The proposals that have been put forward by the Government concerning public broadcasting are wide-ranging. The introduction of public broadcasting will fill a void that has existed in the system in Australia. It will be an opportunity for many members of the public to take part in this exciting medium. 
It is probably interesting to look briefly at the history of radio broadcasting in Australia. Some justified criticism has been levelled at it over the years. It was rather disorganised in its planning and, like Topsy, it just grew. It grew to the stage where, during the term of the last Labor Government, the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass)  as Minister for the Media introduced some experimental licences under the Wireless and Telegraphy Act 1905. There was certainly confusion as to how these licences could justifiably exist under that Act. Now, with the revisions to the Broadcasting and Television Act and the incorporation of public broadcasting stations under that Act, we are almost ready to go ahead with the initial stages of public broadcasting. 
The Minister's statement has highlighted the fact that very soon we will be enjoying official frequency modulation broadcasting in Australia. That is an exciting proposition. FM broadcasting opens up a completely new frequency. It is a frequency which is ideal for music broadcasting. It will provide stereo radio to the people of Australia. But our discussion tonight is primarily about public broadcasting and the fact that the Government is to set up three particular categories of broadcasting licences. The first, which will be known as Category E licences, are to be issued to educational bodies intending to provide programs for continuing and adult education, including material designed to enrich the cultural life of the audience. The next category is Category S licences, which will be issued to groups intending to provide programs serving a particular interest or group of interests. The third category is Category C licences, which will be issued to community groups intending to provide programs serving a particular community. They are the three types of licences. Something that should be noted by members of the public who are listening to this debate tonight and who may be interested in becoming involved in the field of public radio is that three distinct types of technical licences will also be issued. When a station is set up it could be a wide coverage station, it could have medium coverage giving an urban cover of about 32 kilometres or it could be a low coverage station in a metropolitan area giving a 15 kilometre coverage. For country stations the coverage will be 28 kilometres. 
It is probably worth our while in looking at this matter tonight to consider two points. They are the only things that worry me about the Minister's statement. Although the Minister gave a guarantee that public radio licences would not necessarily go onto the FM band, it would seem to me to be reasonably obvious that the feeling within the Department and in the mind of the Minister is that possibly that is where they will go initially. I said a moment ago that the FM radio band opened up an opportunity for stereo radio. I think that in many respects FM radio should be used primarily in this field. If we are to make maximum usage of this spectrum, we should be looking towards providing stations that will be providing predominantly musical programs. In some respects, it could be a waste if we were to have FM stations that provided nothing but talk programs for many hours of the day. Perhaps they could be more conveniently located in low powered AM stations. I do not think that that is really beyond the realms of probability. 
The only other thing that has caused me some concern is the fact that, as I mentioned before, some distinctions are made for country areas. The commercial radio industry in country areas is at the moment undergoing some very severe pressures. A number of country commercial radio stations are finding it very hard to operate profitably. It is not a secret that there are a number of licence holders in country areas who would be quite prepared to hand their licences back. Category C licences especially, which are to be encouraged in relation to community groups, could cause severe problems in some of the country areas if they were issued in a willynilly fashion. Too much competition in a country area might lead to a country commercial station being almost forced out of the market. 
That leads to other areas of concern. It is not in the nature of the public broadcasting licences as they are proposed to provide those services which are provided by the commercial and national networks. If local stations in some of the towns in western Queensland had to hand back their licences the local audiences could be deprived of the coverage of major sporting events because it would not be a financially viable proposition for public broadcasters to go into the realm of outside broadcasts and the coverage of special events. At this stage it could be worth considering just what the effect of the Category C licences could be on some of the far flung areas of a State. It we are to protect local commercial stations to any great degree obviously they will also need to look at their operations. If they are to be the primary local participation station they will have to make sure that they are providing a service which the local community needs. Unfortunately, some of the far flung areas now have commercial stations which have developed into what sometimes could be described as nothing more than juke box radio. I am sure that we do not want to see that trend encouraged to the detriment of some provocative programming, programming that will discuss issues in the local community and programming that will provide service to the local community. In all sincerity I believe that the country stations which are now providing quite good services and which are finding it hard to survive should receive a little protection. 
I was interested to see in the Minister's statement a reference to the funding of public broadcasting stations. This is important. There will not be any direct government financing of these stations, but there may be some indirect financing. There will not be spot commercials as we know them in the commercial radio field at the moment but there will be provision for sponsorship of these stations. We probably need a clear indication as to exactly what such sponsorships would entail. I assume that when we talk of this sort of sponsorship we are looking at block programs being sponsored with a billboard appearing at the opening and closing of a program. I can see nothing wrong with that. It would certainly help the viability of some of these stations. This will be a real problem on which we will have to keep an eye in the teething stages. 
Obviously as a number of amateurs- I do not say that unkindly; I refer to people who have not had a lot of experience in the radio industry- will be going into these stations they will have to be very careful of their financial controls. It would not surprise me if we were to see the collapse of some of the public broadcasting stations until the time when the whole medium is understood, when the operations of these stations are taken down to a fine level and when they can look after their own affairs well and expeditiously. This has happened in the United States to a great degree. Because of the nature of public broadcasting, many stations there have in fact gone broke. There is a lot we can do to encourage radio stations to look at their operations to make sure that they are viable, but obviously they will have their teething pains. I am sure that this will be a fact of life. 
One of the advantages, as I have said, of the Minister's statement is that we know exactly where we are heading in the field of public broadcasting at the moment. At least we have the blueprint of what it is all about. There has been a great deal of concern expressed in some cities around Australia that a number of would-be public radio operators are going to all sorts of lengths to get themselves established. I think it would be a good idea if at some time the Minister could give us an indication of what will be happening to some of the existing licence holders. Some of those organisations- I think particularly an organisation such as 4ZAP in Queensland in which more than SO organisations have invested an amount of money- have no guarantee of a licence. This situation has caused me a lot of concern from the outset when some people from these organisations came to see me. Obviously, they are dedicated. A lot of people in true faith have invested money in an organisation such as this. Surely they will be able to apply for a licence and they will be able to go through the full proceedings of the hearings of the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal. Obviously there will be a chance that they will get a licence. If they do not I suppose there will be a lot of organisations and individuals in the community who will be very disappointed. 
The responsibility for the content of public radio station programs has been well and truly spelt out in the Minister's statement to the House. When a licence comes up for hearing a committed statement of exactly what that station is going to provide- the services it is going to provide and the type of programming it is going to provide- is one of the things that will be taken into consideration by the Tribunal in the granting of the licence. If a station goes outside its charter, obviously the Tribunal must have the power to re-hear that application. This was one of the problems when the licences were issued under the Wireless and Telegraphy Act 1905. We had some rather radical stations that were not under the protection of the Broadcasting and 
Television Act and the old Australian Broadcasting Control Board. Those stations caused a lot of concern in the community. I do not necessarily refer to concern about the political content of their programs but to some of the language that was used on the air and some of the doubtful subjects that were debated. After all, radio is a public medium. Of course, there were no controls there. At least now public broadcasting is brought under the umbrella of the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal and there will be minimum standards that must be met and observed in the name of good taste, if you could call it that. I think that is a good thing inasmuch as we have the whole of the broadcasting industry now under that one framework. We will have a situation where people know the standards that must be observed and how far stations can go in the provision of certain programs. That is not to say necessarily that there must be censorship, but I am sure that in a public medium like radio people do not want some of the topics and language coming over the air and booming into their lounge rooms as occurred. So it is important that that provision is there now. 
Overall I am quite pleased that the statement has at last been issued. I think there are some exciting concepts in it. I welcome the concept of the Category E licence that will be issued to educational bodies that are providing a real educational service, not like some that have been put over by some stations in the past. Adult education and continuing education are very great things and are needed in the community. The participation of a particular educational institution or a consortium of institutions is indeed an exciting prospect. Category S licences will provide for special interest groups. The 2MBS and the 3MBS set-up with fine music could well receive a licence. I think that would be welcomed by all. Certainly the community participation stations- those that provide for their own local community- will provide a lot of challenge for a great number of communities in Australia because, at this stage, there is really no restriction on how many of these low powered stations will be able to operate in the market place in this completely new field of the broadcasting spectrum. 
I want to bring to the attention of the House tonight a matter that should be of grave concern to us all. It is something that, I understand, has developed only in recent months and as yet has not reached major proportions. However, certainly it is on the verge of doing so if something is not done very soon by the Department of Business and Consumer Affairs. I refer to the importation into Australia of radio frequency scanning equipment. This equipment scans UHF and VHF frequencies and, I understand, is being used in some areas of north Queensland by fishing fleets. The ramifications of its use are quite frightening especially when one considers that UHF and VHF frequencies are used in this country by police forces, defence personnel, other law enforcement agencies and a number of organisations to whom confidentiality on their radio frequencies is important. I understand that at the moment at least three types of scanners are being imported into Australia. The first is known as The Touch, which is produced by Westcom Communications Division of San Marcos in California. Another one is put out by the Realistic organisation and the third is put out by the Electric Co. of Indiana in Cumberland. It is called The Bearcat 210 and is a five band FM scanning receiver. 
These receivers scan the selected frequencies at a sample of 20 per second which is a pretty fast rate. Obviously with this machine one could either hook onto a frequency, whether it be that used by the police or some other organisation, or constantly scan the frequency stopping at various positions to hear what is going on. The ramifications of the use of equipment such as this is frightening if it gets into the hands of the wrong people. I believe that a recording device can be attached to this equipment so virtually there could be a 24-hour operation. If the criminal element wanted to scan police frequencies there could be a 24-hour listening device installed to record every piece of information transmitted by a police force or other law enforcement agency. Because these sets are not used for picking up regular broadcasting or for transmitting they probably do not need to be licensed in Australia. 
The other frightening thing is that if this equipment went on general sale in Australia it could be sold at just under $200 a set. It is on sale in the United States of America at the moment for some $299, so to suggest the $200 to $300 range in Australia would not be an exaggeration. I appeal to the customs authorities, the Department of Business and Consumer Affairs and the office of the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Staley)  to hurry up and get together and make some decision on this equipment. If they do not obviously the security of this nation could be very much at risk. The law enforcement agencies could find themselves in an incredible position because there would no no confidentiality attached to any of the messages they put on the air. I understand that officers have been looking at this equipment for some months but as yet have made no decision on whether they should stop its importation. I suggest that they make that decision as soon as they can. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Defence who will be aware of a report in the Brisbane  Courier-Mail  expressing concern at the number of people serving in the citizens defence forces. Has there in fact been a wave of resignations from the reserve forces in recent months? If so, what is the Government doing to rectify the situation? 
-I have listened with interest to the speech of the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris).  I feel that a number of the points that he raised are worthy of closer examination by members of this Parliament. It is true that the two Bills that we are debating cognately are merely technical Bills. The Bills provide for the purchase of new aircrafttwo Boeing 747 aircraft by Qantas Airways Limited and a new 727 200 series aircraft by Ansett Transport Industries. There is nothing terribly contentious about these Bills. I believe that almost 100 aircraft have been bought under this system. Obviously the technicalities of these Bills are well known to the members of this House and to the Ministry. This system of financing aircraft sales has worked well for Australia over the years. I think it is probably well worth making the point- this point was originally raised by the honourable member for Shortland- that the aviation industry is, to a great degree, in a state of flux. The decisions that will be made by the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  in the coming months regarding aviation reviews are most important and will affect the whole nature of aviation in Australia in the years to come. I realise the tremendous task the Minister has before him in ploughing through the many submissions that have been made and arriving at the many decisions that have to be made in the coming weeks. 
The thing that interests me about these Bills, especially the Bill concerning the purchase of more aircraft for the domestic services in Australia, is the fact that as yet we have had no real indication from the domestic carriersAnsett and Trans-Australia Airlines- as to whether and, if so, when they will move into larger equipment. I believe that on a commercial basis an early rather than a deferred decision on the purchase of wide-bodied equipment for domestic services is desirable. The decision must be made soon for a number of reasons, and not least among those are the social factors as well as the economic factors. It is true that the Boeing 727-200 series aircraft is an aircraft that still to a very great degree employs technology that goes back over some 15 years. It is true that we are facing a fuel crisis. It is true that three-engined aircraft that are presently being used are not the most efficient users of aviation fuel. 
I read with interest a release that came out the other day from Frank Borman who is the  Chairman  of Eastern Airlines in America which, of course, has just signed a contract for about 23 Airbuses. One of the major factors that Frank Borman took into account in the decision to buy Airbuses rather than the American equivalents was the fact that they provided in the initial trial stages a saving of some 30 per cent in fuel used and 30 per cent is an appreciable figure when applied to the Australian scene and means savings of millions of dollars can be made by the mid-1980s. Whether the wide bodied aircraft for Australia ought to be more suitable than the Airbus, the Lockheed Tristar or the DC 10, 1 do not really think I am qualified to answer. But I think it is well worthy of our investigation and we should look at just what the real social value would be of purchasing wide bodied equipment. This equipment is anti-pollutant. It is certainly not the pollutant type of aircraft that is presently being employed on Australian domestic services. The fuel saving is considerable. There will be more and more congestion in Australian airports in years to come if the smaller equipment is continually used. I understand there has been a degree of interest in the use of wide bodied aircraft. However, one of the problems that is facing the airlines and indeed the governments is just what will happen to Sydney airport. I know that the Minister for Transport is most anxiously awaiting advice from the New South Wales Premier and the New South Wales Government of just what will happen there. The honourable member for Cook  (Mr Dobie)  knows all about Sydney airport. He has just nodded his approval and I know that he has a most varied interest in the operations of Sydney airport. 
The fact is that the number of take-offs and landings can be reduced by the implementation of wide bodied equipment. This is certainly important for future airport planning in Australia. If we make a few investigations and relate our findings to the growth in the aviation industry at the moment it would seem that the people of Australia would not necessarily have to miss out on the frequency of services they enjoy at the moment if this equipment was introduced. I am talking here about the three major portsSydney, Melbourne and Brisbane. If the present growth of nearly nine per cent in aviation travel continues it would seem a reasonable proposition that by 1983 the same frequency would exist with the use of wide bodied aircraft as exists at the moment. It is very interesting to look at some of the tables that show the rationalisation of departure times between Sydney-Melbourne and Melbourne-Brisbane. 
The other factor which often is not considered in debates of this kind on wide bodied equipment is air cargo. It is a fact that wide bodied equipment such as the Airbus, the Lockheed Tristar and the DC 10 carry as much cargo at the moment as does an Electra freighter. This capacity offers all sorts of opportunities for the domestic aircraft to carry as much freight as that carried by freighters. Certainly in an airport situation this would mean a lower noise factor. If we can get over some of the curfew problems we have at the moment wide bodied equipment could be used on the major freight route from Melbourne to Cairns, which I understand still exists. Such an arrangement could be to the great advantage of cost. It could be also of advantage to the North Queensland tourist trade. The Minister when making decisions regarding the aviation review might take the opportunity to look at the prospect of re-introducing the old red-eyed flights to help the tourist industry. These flights used to leave at midnight. Sometimes they were called honeymooner specials. They provided a cheaper fare, maybe anything up to a 50 per cent reduction. As I have said, such an arrangement could be of a very great advantage to the tourist industry. 
As the honourable member for Shortland said, the tourist industry is a most important and vital industry at the moment. I thought his reference to the high cost of domestic fares in Australia was an interesting point. This is certainly something that has been mentioned time and time again as being detrimental to the growth of the domestic industy. It is true that air fares are high, but if we relate them to, say, the European situation we would find they may be even slightly cheaper than the straight domestic fare purchased in those countries. The point regarding the international tourist travelling on our domestic services is the fact that we do not have as yet a real system of proration of air fares, and that is something that I think is most important and something that I hope will soon be considered by the Minister to see whether we can get that package concept to make it a viable proposition for people coming into this country to fly around the country at a reasonable cost to themselves. At the moment it is quite plain that the vast majority of international tourists coming to Australia tend to fly the triangle- they fly Sydney, Canberra, Melbourne. As a Queenslander that upsets me. As a Queenslander it upsets me that Brisbane airport receives only 4 per cent of the international tourists who come into Australia every year. 
Once again I would like to congratulate the Government on the decision to go ahead with the upgrading of the Brisbane airport. I am sorry that the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  is not in the House this afternoon. I know of his vital interest and he did want to speak in this debate, but he is continuing, along with the rest of the Queensland members, his efforts for the speedy implementation of the extensions to the Brisbane airport. We trust that a timetable will be coming out very soon to make sure that the airport is completed. 
The tourist industry is an important one and what the honourable member for Shortland said was quite true, that when we finally do get these cheaper air fares into Australia we can probably expect an increase in the number of people coming in as well as the number of people going out. From the discussions I have had with the Australian Tourist Commission, and indeed with other members of the travel industry and the Australian Bureau of Statistics, I know that on their calculations it would seem that in 1979 we can expect a 15 per cent growth in the number of international tourists visiting Australia. That is a substantial increase. That is another reason why I believe we should be looking at the possibility of introducing wide bodied aircraft as soon as we possibly can. It is true that the people coming into Australia are finding that many of our domestic flights are becoming more and more crowded and that the present equipment that is being used by domestic carriers is being utilised virtually to its full extent at the moment in the confines of the airport limitations that we have. The 1 5 per cent growth, which would mean that 600,000 people would be visiting Australia every year, is something that we should be looking at. 
One would hope that once these cheaper fares are available the Government would look at just what we are doing to promote Australia overseas. It is a very sad situation at the moment when one looks at what is happening in overseas tourist promotions. I know that there has been all sorts of troubles. I am not denying that at all, but at the moment funding for the Australian Tourist Commission overseas is very limited indeed and when the Commission is working on an annual budget of some $3m it does not leave very much to enable it overseas to promote the country and passenger growth into the country. One hopes that there will be a corresponding increase in the amount of promotion undertaken by the ATC when these cheaper fares are available. 
The Minister assures me that there will be a form of cheaper fares coming in the not too distant future. Whether or not it is to be a Laker type situation or a part-charter situation is yet to be seen. But it is true, as the honourable member for Shortland mentioned in his speech, that there are people who are holding off buying their tickets for overseas travel. I know from some of the conversations that I have had with some of the international airline operators in Brisbane that it is quite a comedy at the moment with people putting their heads through doorways and asking Qantas or British Airways: 'When does Freddie Laker start operating?' Obviously Laker has had a tremendous public relations exercise done on his behalf and the name 'Freddie Laker' has become a household word in Australia in the last 12 months. Whether it is for the good of the travelling public or not, I think we will have to wait and see when the day comes that  Mr Laker  does lay all his cards on the table. 
One would hope that this international airline review would go a little bit further than just some of the submissions that have been put around, especially to the House of Representative Select Committee on Tourism, just from Qantas. Qantas has been in a privileged position over the years in respect of civil aviation to Australia. It is playing a very rough game. The international civil aviation market place is a tough one. One realises that Qantas must be given every assistance, but I believe that Qantas should also be looking in its own backyard a little more than it has in recent years. Quite frankly, and I say this out of no malice towards Qantas at all, its public relations exercises are often greatly wanting. I think the Laker example is one that has proved this point. Laker has come in here and made al! sorts of propositions. Qantas has come back and tried to counteract him, but has changed its story many times. One has just to look through the evidence taken at hearings of the House of Representatives Select Committee on Tourism to see that on two or three occasions it has changed its attitude on cheap fares and that unfortunately not only with the travelling public but to a degree with the people of the tourist industry, it is starting to lose its credibility. That is a very sad situation. When you speak to travel agents you are told that they try to avoid Qantas because they do not really know what is happening. Obviously, if something can be done to improve the public image of Qantas within the industry, and to the Australian travelling public, well and good. That should be encouraged because Qantas is a great Australian enterprise that has had a very proud record over a great number of years. It would be a shame if that record were to be blemished purely as a result of a poor public image. 
It is time that the decisions that have to be made by the Minister are considered by us all, not only in relation to the provision of cheap international fares or cheaper domestic fares, but indeed in regard to rationalisation of so many areas of Australian civil aviation. The two-airline policy was a good policy when first introduced. It helped Australian aviation get to a stage where it was a stable industry. Now, however, I think we probably have outgrown that and there is room to provide a little more latitude, not only for the two major operators but also for some of the smaller operators. As more and more of our civil aviation equipment is becoming outdated, and reaches the end of its useful life, maybe an opportunity is being provided for us to move in and start looking at some of the routes being operated at the moment. The regional carriers, of course, have already moved into some of the low revenue routes. Perhaps they can move into more and more of these. These suggestions have certainly been put up by a number of people and organisations, for action when the time comes for the replacement of the Fokker Friendship aircraft 
The Minister has in the coming months some very tough decisions to make. They are decisions that will affect the aviation industry in Australia for many years to come. I am sure that he fully realises his responsibility to the Australian travelling public. After all, that must be our No. 1 consideration, as well as the No. 1 consideration of the aviation industry to provide an efficient, safe and not too costly form of travel, one that, if the present growth in aviation figures is to be believed, is being accepted by more and more Australians every day. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Home Affairs and Minister for the Capital Territory. Bearing in mind the growing interest in the Australian Capital Territory as a tourist destination, what plans does the Government have, if any, to promote Canberra as a regular tourist venue both within Australia and overseas? Is the population of the Australian Capital Territory to be made aware of the economic benefits of mass tourism in Canberra? 
It is true that the three Bills before the House today are virtually of a procedural nature. However, I congratulate the Government on finally implementing the right of appeal by the television and radio industry to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal. I noted that it caused a great deal of concern at one stage as to whether this right of appeal would be available especially in cases in which the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal had deemed that a licence may not be renewed for the full three years. The other two Bills concern the situation of licensing for broadcasting and television stations. There was a technical problem. These Bills have certainly overcome that problem. Last year, I think, licence fees were increased substantially. Since that time this particular area has been investigated by the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal. I was interested to read in its report a very salient point which it may be worth the Government bearing in mind in future years. 
As we know, licence fees for radio and television stations were tied to the revenue earned by those stations. The Tribunal points out one fact. Obviously, because of the amount of revenue they receive, the major increases in those licence fees fell upon the large metropolitan stations. It was perhaps a false premise to increase those fees on the basis of revenue alone. The Tribunal, in its report, points out that many of the regional television stations especially are much more profitable concerns on a percentage basis than the metropolitan stations. Perhaps that matter could be looked at some time. Perhaps there could even be a case for indexing the fees paid by broadcasting and television stations. That is a minor point, I know, but it is one that was brought to my attention by the report of the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal. 
The Tribunal seems to have settled in quite well and it is undertaking its procedures in the hearing and renewing of licences for radio and television stations. It has a number of briefs before it at the moment. Hopefully, it will have some answers on them soon. Something which has been of particular concern to me- we have heard nothing official on it yet- is the fact that on 1 July the number of Australian programs to be telecast by television stations has to be decided. As yet we have no real indication of when that will happen or whether the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal will be the body to recommend what percentage of Australian content should be played by the commercial television stations. I hope that we will see an announcement soon. I know that the Tribunal has done a good deal of research into this most important area of the production of quality- one would hope- Australian television programs. I would imagine that the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Staley)  would make an announcement about this matter in the near future. 
Another area which has already been mentioned in today's debate and which is obviously of great concern to us all is the area of children's television programs. I hope that some firm decisions will be made soon. A large section of the Tribunal's report this year is dedicated to children's television. In the last year or two we have gone no further along the road to coming up with some policy on which direction we should be taking with children's television programs. This is a problem which extends right around the world. On my travels overseas from time to time I have looked at the situation of children's television programs. Some very fine programs are produced but in most major countries, including Japan, Britain and the United States of America we hear the same old story that most people are not impressed with the types of programs offered for young people. This is a cry that is heard world wide. Perhaps it is an area in which Australia can lead the way. 
I have said in this House before- I do not think it is a bad sort of principle- that rather than doing telephone surveys and surveys such as those undertaken by the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal perhaps it is about time that we as a nation- the Government, the industry and the general public- put our teeth to the bullet and decided just what we were to do, whether we are to be fair dinkum about children's television programs. I have already put up a concept, which I think has some merit, to establish a children's television foundation of some type that could be financed by the Government and the television industry. It could have some public participation too. I do not think that children's television is an area of difficulty that will be solved overnight. Obviously it is something that has to have a great deal of research and I believe also would probably need a great deal of trial and error before we come up with what is right. We have seen formulas on children's programs introduced over the years with points allocated for certain aspects. The plain fact was that all those programs that were prescribed pulled very little audience, if any audience at all, according to the surveys. There is not much sense in pouring money into children's television programs that children just will not watch. One can understand the networks being a little hesitant about making some of these programs as have been prescribed if they are not going to get an audience. 
The idea of a children's television foundation funded in this way and supported by the Government in purely experimental television could have some merit. Obviously there would have to be a great deal of co-operation in the industry, especially by members of the commercial television industry for this type of project to get off the ground. There would not be a situation, of course, of out and out competition. The industry must be prepared to put its full effort and production technique, knowledge and facilities into operation to come up with some ideas, suggestions and pilot programs on just what the children's area should be. It would be interesting to see the results of that and to see whether we can get an acceptance of children 's quality programs that are made in Australia. 
I believe that the Australian Broadcasting Commission has a lot to answer for in the area of children's programs. It should also be a participant in this aspect. Sure, the ABC provides some good programs.  Sesame Street  is one program that scores quite an impressive rating. I think it has some merit. But we must ask ourselves whether we are trying to bring up a race of young North Americans. The program was designed originally, I think, by Canadians. One sees children running around the streets talking about Zees' and the rest of it. Obviously the children are picking up a great deal of value from  Sesame Street  but it is not really aimed at an Australian audience. I would not think that  Sesame Street  would be a terribly expensive program to produce. Perhaps this is one area where such a foundation could start off to see whether we could get something along this line that may be acceptable to the audience of young children and to the stations themselves. Obviously the ratings of  Sesame Street  on the ABC show that it is a program that has been accepted and one which we could adapt quite well. It is the old story, of course. If we are going to pour many thousands of dollars into producing episodes of children's television programs obviously all the stationscommercial and the ABC- would want to see some result from their effort. It is no good just throwing money down the drain. 
Another area aligned to that is an area that is mentioned in the report of the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal. It is one that has made me think a great deal indeed. I refer to advertising in children's television programs. The general consensus on the quota aspect seems to be that there should not be any advertising between 4 p.m. and 5 p.m. or 4 p.m. and 6 p.m. when the majority of the children's television programs are screened. This may be well and good, but it is interesting to go through the McNair audience survey and look at the number of children who are watching television- indeed there are great numbers who watch between 4 p.m. and 6 p.m.- and to see that the highest percentage of children watching television are watching the box between 7.30 and 8.30 at night. If we were to rule out completely the idea of advertising in the children's viewing times we would defeat our purpose when we know that there is a bigger audience of young people watching in this adult or semi-adult time than are watching in their own earlier time. If the commercial stations are expected to pour a great deal of money into the area of the afternoon children's programs, perhaps they might have some right to look at drawing some revenue from it, provided the type of advertising that is being screened in those times is acceptable for young people- if there can be drawn up a definition of that- and is not of the style of some of the ads that are seen currently. 
Indeed, in the Tribunal report once again special mention is made of the nature of advertising and station promotions that are being used by some commercial television stations during those children's hours- 4 p.m. to 6 p.m. and at weekends. I think the Tribunal probably has a job there to look at the nature of some of the promotions, especially those that are being played by some of the commercial television stations to promote their night time program. Even though they are not using moving pictures apparently they can get by with still pictures. Incidents of violence and other unsavoury aspects can come across equally strongly to young people by the display of stills and graphics rather than moving pictures. I think there is some merit in looking at the aspect of a children's television foundation. 
The other area that was mentioned by the honourable member for Calare  (Mr MacKenzie)  in his fine speech was the area of licensing for frequency modulation stations. I have mentioned this briefly in the House before. It is something that is worrying me. Certainly there is a great deal of interest in the community at large in the forthcoming issuing of licences in the field of public broadcasting. I am not sure what is the attitude of the Minister for Post and Telecommunications towards this aspect but I can say that the Tribunal will be virtually overwhelmed when the go-ahead is finally given to the licensing of stations. I wonder whether it might be opportune not only to appoint an extra member of the Broadcasting Tribunal but also to have a look at the proposition of getting some part-time members of the Broadcasting Tribunal. In Brisbane at the moment there are literally dozens of groups running around talking about setting up public radio stations. I can see that the whole situation could come to a terrible halt if we are not careful. Perhaps we can get round this problem by appointing some part-time Tribunal members who could go round to get the public broadcasting stations off the ground. 
I do have some fears in the area of public broadcasting. I trust that the members of the Broadcasting Tribunal will look carefully at the qualifications and the nature of those people in the community who are looking to operate a licence. I should hate to think that thousands of dollars of the public's funds might literally go down the drain when some of these stations collapse; and obviously there will be some collapses. I hope that one of the factors that will be taken into account by the members of the Tribunal during their hearings into the issuing of these public station licences will be the competence, managerial skills and background in broadcasting of the people who apply for licences. The three Bills that are before the House are non-contentious. I have no hesitation whatsoever in supporting them. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 1 March 1978: 
1 ) What was the cost of vandalism to public telephones in (a) Australia and (b) the Brisbane Telecom District during 1976-77. 
How many convictions were recorded in (a) Australia and (b) the Brisbane Telecom District during 1976-77. 
Is any effort made by his Department to recover the costs of repairs should a conviction be successful. 
-The motion moved by the honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes)  states: 
That this House is of the opinion that there is a need for maintenance of public ownership and control of all broadband communication facilities, including satellite and cable systems, to ensure equitable use in the best interests of the Australian people. 
Quite frankly, I am not quite sure how far down the road he got on that motion. He started off talking about letter deliveries and finished talking about letter deliveries. We heard the usual selfsame boring attack on the Packer organisation. I hold no brief for the Packer organisation, but I would think that it has contributed one thing to this debate on communication satellites today. The proposition of the Packer organisation sparked action from the Government in November last year in setting up a task force to examine the whole area of satellite communications for Australia. For that I think we all should be very thankful. It was the vision of the previous Minister for Post and Telecommunications that started this investigation which could well get Australia into the 21st century in the area of communications. Today I would particularly like to talk about some aspects of the electronic media and its adaptability to the satellite system. 
I think a couple of statements that have been made today by the honourable member for Melbourne should be cleared up. Firstly, it is true that the task force was required to report at the end of May. It asked for a month's extension, which indeed has been granted. We heard the honourable member say that the public did not really have any input into this inquiry. I made a few investigations and found that in fact 156 submissions were forwarded from computer organisations, industry, community groups, the general public, academics, the Government and trade union groups. To say that there is any sense of secretive arrangement about this investigation is patently just not true, because the submissions are completely open to everyone. There has been quite an extensive coverage of the inquiry by the media over recent months. 
I read with interest a letter that was sent by the honourable member for Melbourne to the Melbourne  Age  just a few weeks ago in reply to an article in that same publication that had been put together by  Mr Myles  Wright on 2 May headed Doubtful view of a satellite TV system'. I suppose the honourable member for Melbourne today has quoted from statements made by  Mr Myles  Wright in that article. From my 15 years' experience in the electronic media, I felt that 
Myles Wright was a highly conservative man. I am afraid that he was not ever terribly innovative, and I  think  that  this article  and some of the excuses put up in it were in fact fairly typical of the opinion that he expresses in his boring publication in that newspaper week by week. 
It is difficult to see the motive behind the motion put forward by the honourable member for Melbourne today. I think it is significant that we look at some of the ramifications of the introduction of a communications satellite to Australia. It is all very well to talk about private enterprise coming into this area, but the facts are that the geographical nature of Australia, I would think, would almost preclude private enterprise from being even remotely interested in it. The population is concentrated around the seaboard. Telecom Australia with an investment of about $6,000m receives a return of 3 per cent or 4 per cent. I am not sure whether private enterprise would be interested in going into an arrangement that would return 3 per cent to 4 per cent. It is hardly a brillant return on an investment of that magnitude. I do not know what this inquiry will bring out, but I would imagine that the responsibility would certainly remain with the Government. 
I was sorry that some of the members from the country electorates were not in this House to hear the honourable member's speech. I refer particularly to the honourable member for Kalgoorlie  (Mr Cotter),  the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter)  and the honourable member for Leichhardt  (Mr Thomson)  who time and time again in the House press for television and better telephone communications for their electorates. This is exactly the potential that a communications satellite can provide. Even with today's technology it is possible to increase greatly the effectiveness of a television signal to these remote parts of Australia. A communications satellite can deliver pictures to everyone scattered throughout Australia. It is possible to provide telephone services to these people in these far flung, remote areas of the nation. It is possible to make other means of communication available to them as well, including telex services. 
The honourable member for Melbourne spoke about the networking of television programs. If the situation did evolve where a communications satellite were available almost instantaneously it would cause some problems within the television industry. I think we should be a little broader in our outlook on this aspect. I know that one of the aspirations of this Government is one day, when it is feasible, to establish an educational television network. I think that is something for which we should all be pressing and for which we should all be striving in this Parliament. Imagine the tremendous ramifications that that sort of prospect could mean to the people of the outback and to those children doing correspondence lessons at the moment. What a tremendous facility this would be for them if they could tune into their school programs on these different frequencies every day. It is all very well for Myles Wright to talk about a series of cassette programs around the country being a much better system but I believe that is just not a feasible or an economic proposition at this stage. It is certainly not an efficient means of providing true educational facilities to the people of the outback. If we can pick up a schoolroom atmosphere, convey it through a satellite and feed it into homes I think we would really be achieving something because television is a great educator if it is nothing else. That has been proved. Let us look at the work that is being done by the British Broadcasting Corporation in Britain at the moment with its tremendous  University of the Air  series which has proved so beneficial to that country. I think that is even more reason why we should be striving for a situation where we can use this type of facility in providing education to the people of the far flung areas of Australia and, indeed, to the people of the major capital cities and the major provincial towns scattered around the coastline as well. 
The other aspect to which Myles Wright alluded in his article concerned having medical services relayed by satellite. This in itself is probably technically feasible. I am not personally convinced of just how effective it would be, but it is another area of satellite communications that could well be opened up and one that could well be used to very great advantage. It is an aspect that I am sure would be of very great appeal to the people who live in those areas. Certainly the Royal Flying Doctor Service does a marvellous job, but if that service can be added to by this form of communication, when a government of this nature is concerned with the welfare and the health of the people of the outback areas, so be it. There should be further investigations into this area. I am not privy to any information that might be contained in the task force report. I understand from the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Staley)  that that report will be tabled in this Parliament, and that in itself stops any talk of secrecy that might surround the investigation at the moment. I am sure that all honourable members will look forward with interest to some of the recommendations that will come from that report. 
If the honourable member for Melbourne is in fact talking about opening up this area to the private sector of industry, I do not think we should have completely closed minds about it at the moment. I sometimes think that one of the problems of government is that we do not do enough subcontracting out to private industry. The electronics industry of Australia is undergoing considerable difficulty at present and subcontracting in this area could play a major part in providing work opportunities in that industry. This could lead to a greater influx of technical knowledge so that we can get the most efficient contribution in this scientific area in developing the best system available for the people of Australia. That, after all, is all we are worried about- what is in the best interests of the people of Australia as a whole. If this means combining the facilities of Telecom and other government departments with some of the brains and the knowledge of private industry, so be it. Let us make the most efficient use of that combination. 
Sometimes in government we are stifled too much by our practice of not relying more on the contribution that private industry can sometimes make to building Australia into a far better place in which to live. The Government has a sense of prime interest in the use of all available resources to the best advantage. Obviously it must combine both capital and physical resources as well. I repeat that I am sure that all honourable members are looking forward to receiving that report. It is, of course, a way of bringing Australia towards the 2 1st century. In relation to costs, I understand that there could already be some satellite facilities available to us. This report could well say that maybe Australia is not ready just now for its own satellite; but maybe we can reach a stage where we can subcontract present satellite facility space to introduce for the benefit of the nation as a whole some of these initiatives in communications. I understand that a communications satellite could cost $80m to get into position, but if we could subcontract something for Sim or $2m per annum for a while until it becomes economically feasible to go into our own venture, let us examine that aspect. 
Let us not close our minds on this matter. Let us make sure that we investigate every possibility. As I have said, $80m is the present charge but it has been rumoured that maybe Australia can get into the satellite communication business for $lm or $2m a year. One would hope that all of us in this Parliament would be making the best possible input into this question in the coming months and the coming weeks to make sure that the people of Australia get the best service that is available. I hope that the honourable member for Melbourne will consider some of these aspects that we have put up today. Certainly the industry is most interested in continuing investigation into the possible use of satellite services. Let us hope that the Opposition, and especially the honourable member for Melbourne, exhibits a broader outlook on this matter than the honourable member has indicated today, and that he does not continue to be a wart on the backside of progress in the communications industry. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 7 April 1978: 
Do air crew undergo a separate Customs clearance from general passengers at Australian international airports; if so, in what way do these Customs procedures differ. 
How many members of airline crews were detained at Australian airports for attempting to import narcotics during the years 1976 and 1977. 
By which airlines were those detained employed and how many convictions were recorded. 
Is there an agreement between international airlines for dismissal of staff convicted of drug offences. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 10 April 1978: 
1 ) How many persons were apprehended by Customs Officers for trying to import narcotics into Australia at: 
Sydney international airport, 
Brisbane international airport, 
Melbourne international airport, * 
Perth international airport, 
Darwin international airport, and 
Cairns airport during the years 1976 and 1977. 
What was the estimated street value of narcotics seized in these cases. 
How many convictions were obtained in respect of those detained in these cases. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Transport. Can the Minister confirm reports that agreement has been reached between Australia and Great Britain on the level of a discounted air fare, possibly $570? If so, when will that fare be officially announced? Will the fare be restricted to travel on Qantas Airways Ltd and British Airways only? Because of some confusion in the travel industry when will the full report of the International Civil Aviation Review be available to the Parliament? 
The Minister for Industry and Commerce will be aware of the welcome reaction from the travel industry to the increase in funds for the Australian Tourist Commission in the Budget. Can the Minister tell the House whether the ATC staff level will be held at the present numbers? Will the increase be used for domestic as well as overseas promotion? What is being done to improve statistical help for the tourist industry? 
-There are two aspects of the operations of small businesses that I would like to bring to the attention of the House tonight. I think that much of the thrust of the very first speech I made in this House  2Vi  years ago related to small businesses. One of the things which I believe I suggested at that stage was the establishment of a federal small business bureau. That has happened within the Department of Industry and Commerce. I would like to bring to the attention of the members of the House a service that now exists through that small business section of the Department. It is part of an education program for small businessmen. It comes in the form of film programs which are designed to assist them in their training and in their daytoday operations. One of the big criticisms that have been made of small businessmen in Australia over the years is that in many cases they can be their own worst enemies inasmuch as they lack certain business skills and a knowledge of business principles and accounting systems. The service that is being provided at the moment by the Department is seeking to overcome that problem. 
Some two weeks ago in my electorate I conducted two screenings of these films. They were received very well indeed, but I was amazed by the reaction of some of the people who attended those screenings. I had done a business management course in my previous occupation and I had thought that basic things like business planning, cash flows and this type of thing would have been a natural to many small businessmen. Apparently most of them do not use these systems within their businesses. Obviously the films were readily acceptable. I congratulate the Department of Industry and Commerce for taking this initiative. I suggest that honourable members should avail themselves of the opportunity to show these films to small businessmen in their electorates. It is a free service and one that should be welcomed by all. 
The second aspect is a matter of concern to me, that is, the decline in many of the professions during these times of economic hardship. I should like to congratulate the Queensland Government on a principle it seems to be employing at the moment in some of its departments, that is, the principle of sub-contracting more and more work to private firms to try to help them to overcome their problems. The housing area is one area in which some real advances have been made. Another is the area of the Department of Survey and Valuation in Queensland. I think that the Commonwealth could probably learn a lesson from the Department of Survey and Valuation in particular. It is interesting to see just how the surveying industry in particular has declined in recent years. In Queensland in 1972-73 there were 1,500 people employed in this industry, which involved $ 10m worth of work. At the moment only about 500 surveyors are employed by private companies in Queensland. The Queensland State Government is helping to keep this skilled manpower together by putting something like $1.4m of work to the private sector within the last 12 months. This funding of course has run out and we are hoping that this particular initiative by the Queensland Government will be renewed in the coming financial year. 
If we do allow our professions to run down completely, at the time of recovery we will have problems maintaining the number of skilled people in that particular industry, especially as many of those who are qualified have now gone to other industries and have involved themselves in other businesses. I understand that in Queensland at the moment some 100 Commonwealth employees are employed within the Department of Administrative Services as surveyors. I also understand that, when a major project such as the proposed Brisbane Airport comes up, it is not uncommon for the Commonwealth to fly other public servants from interstate to help out in the Queensland situation. That, to me, would seem to be rather a silly and highly expensive undertaking. That particular business could be undertaken quite successfully by the private entrepreneurs and the private skilled staff whom they employ. 
One would hope that now the model of the new Brisbane Airport has gone on display and people are starting to look at the prospect of getting along with the development work- a great deal of surveying and mapping will be involved in that project- perhaps the Federal Government could look more and more at using private companies to undertake some of this work. It has been proved that in Queensland the private companies can be much more competitive in their prices than the Commonwealth Public Service. Obviously any cost-saving factors we can get in a major project- a project such as the Brisbane Airport which is going to cost over $200mwould be more than welcome. On top of that, we can give some revival to an industry which is most depressed indeed. 
-The hour is late and I shall keep my comments brief tonight. I would like to congratulate the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  for having the initiative to have this study undertaken. Dealing with broken marriages and the splitting up of families is one of the saddest, most heart-rending aspects of the work of a private member of parliament in his electorate. Of course, many of these cases can be related back to the pressures of modern day society. The Family Law Act has been operating now for  2Vi  years and I think that most honourable members in the House would agree that many aspects of it have been more than welcome and have worked very well indeed. But I think we have all seen aspects of it that need improving. Therefore, the proposed investigation of the Act should be welcomed by us all. 
I seconded the amendments moved by the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns).  I go along particularly with the first amendment he moved to clause (1) of the motion which seeks to add the following words as paragraph (ia): its effects on the institution of marriage and the family. 
I go back to the days when the Family Law Bill was being debated in this House and in the Senate. I remember the tremendous emphasis that was placed on clause 43 of that Bill, which read: 
The Family Court shall, in the exercise of its jurisdiction under this Act or any other Act, and any other court exercising jurisdiction under this Act shall, in the exercise of that jurisdiction, have regard to- 
the need to preserve and protect the institution of marriage as the union of a man and woman to the exclusion of all others voluntarily entered into for life; 
the need to give the widest possible protection and assistance to the family as the natural and fundamental group unit of society, particularly while it is responsible for the care and education of dependent children; 
Sub-section (d) of that section of the Act is most salient as far as the amendment is concerned. It reads: 
the means available for assisting parties to a marriage to consider reconciliation or the improvement of their relationship to each other and to the children of the marriage. 
Consequently, it  seems to  me to be a logical extension to move tonight the amendment to which I referred. It has been interesting to hear some of the points raised by Opposition honourable members during this debate. I was particularly interested in some of the comments of the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris)  because I think that he pointed out to us the very need to add the words contained in our first amendment. He raised two points which were relevant. The first point, the one that is most relevant in this context and which I believe does need investigation, was the fact that there has proved to be a high remarriage rate. Surely we must be able to see some connection there between some of the aspects of the Family Law Act and the situation that is developing. The second point that he said he hoped would be investigated related to cases of blackmail in some property settlements. That facility might or might not exist. But what pressure does that have on some marriages? I have seen people come into my office and explain to me their situation. It is a situation that could well be regarded to fall into that category. I cite one particular marriage involving a woman from a poor background and a man who was rather well off. The marriage lasted nine days but, of course, the property settlement was rather bitter. That is an aspect which I think should be looked at. 
I rather agree with the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett),  who claimed that the family unit is the basis of our society. In the past the family unit has been that basis. I believe that to a very large extent it will continue to be the basis of our society. Anything that we can do to protect that institution and to help it to develop will be very much for the betterment of the future of the nation. If there are aspects of the Family Law Act that can contribute to the stabilisation of marriage or that are detracting from it already they should be investigated by this committee. Consequently, I have very much pleasure in seconding this amendment. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  also made some very good points. I do not think anyone would deny the fact that some serious investigations will be made, especially into the areas of maintenance of children. Most of us who have been dealing with broken marriages have seen some terrifying situations developing. 
They are tragic situations, as the honourable member for Swan says. The bitterness that is occurring was hopefully to be eliminated with the institution of the Family Law Act. The bitterness has not always come to light and been solved as we all hoped it would be. I hope that honourable members on both sides of the House will realise the seriousness of the stresses and strains that are upon marriages in Australia today and will support us in this amendment. If there is any way that the Family Law Act can assist marriage it should be encouraged. I trust that we will receive the support of honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Short)  adjourned. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 16 August 1978: 
How many (a) Australian produced and (b) foreign produced motor vehicles were recalled by manufacturers and distributors during (i) 1976-77 and (ii) 1977-78. 
What vehicle makes and models were recalled during these periods. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 23 August 1 978: 
Did his Department dispose of any aircraft during 1977- 78. 
If so, what were the aircraft types and registration numbers. 
To whom were they sold and for what sum. 
Are further aircraft sales likely to be made during 1978- 79. 
What replacement aircraft are planned for the Department's fleet. 
By virtue of my position as  Chairman  of the Select Committee on Tourism I find myself very much in agreement with a lot of what the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  said today. I wonder whether he went far enough. I wonder whether enough people realise that Australia's share of the international tourist dollar is, in fact, 0.07 per cent. That is a frightening prospect. Really we have been fooling with tourism in the past years. It is a growth industry. It is an industry that needs some assistance and promotion, especially overseas, and by virtue of that promotion and the expected increase in international visitors and indeed more people moving around Australia, there are some tremendous prospects for growth in the employment of unskilled workers, women in the work force and young people. I believe that tourism should be looked at in that light, that it can be a growth industry that can help to alleviate many of the problems which we have today. I suppose really that the Select Committee on Tourism can take a lot of the credit, if we can use that word, for having the introduction of the departure tax accepted because we have been talking about it in public hearings for a long time. There was quite a deal of debate reported in the Press as to whether the departure tax should be SIO or $20. In actual fact $10 was decided upon, I think, by most people in the community inasmuch as it was a substantial amount that would help revenue but was certainly not an amount of money that would stop Australians going overseas. 
I do not really think that we want to stop Australians from going overseas altogether, but this departure tax will generate enough funds that can be poured into overseas promotion and assistance of the type mentioned by the honourable member for Robertson this afternoon to make Australia a much more attractive place for people to visit and for Australians to go around and see much more of it. The imposition of the $10 departure tax means that Australia joins 1 1 1 other nations in imposing such a surcharge. I have been relatively interested in the fact that there has not been terribly much public comment at this stage against the imposition of the tax. Indeed in some sections of the tourist industry it has been more than welcomed, provided that the funds generated from that departure tax are poured back into promoting the tourist industry. For those people who have been saying that perhaps the $ 10 is a little bit high, I have a table that spells out some of the departure taxes applicable in other places around the world. Certainly some of them are a lot less than the $10 we have imposed in this country, but some are a lot more. In India, for example, the passenger service charge is $A2.06. However, 12.5 per cent of the airfare is imposed as a foreign travel tax. Then we have the situation of our near neighbour New Zealand where the airport service charge is $A1.79. For foreign travel from New Zealand the imposition is 10 per cent of the fare and in actual fact if somebody were buying a first class around-the-world ticket, they would be paying almost $A300 in departure tax which is a little different, I suppose, to the $10 that we are imposing here. In the Philippines, another near neighbour of ours, the foreign travel tax ranges between $A73.29 to $A45 1.94 and on top of that there is a passenger service charge of $A3.05. 
I was going to get to that point. As the honourable member for Grayndler pointed out, a lot of that money is poured into promotion. It is interesting to look at our near Asian neighbours to see just what they are doing. We can cite examples such as the Philippines, SingaporeSingapore must be the most incredible example of what tourism can do to an economyThailand and even some of the more developed countries of the world. I have made something of a study of some of the foreign tourist boards in recent times. One of the interesting ones at the moment is the Danish Tourist Board. In many respects, the Danes, at the end of the 1960s, faced the same problems that Australia faces now. The number of Danish nationals leaving the country was three times the number of foreign visitors coming in. The balance of payments deficit attributed to tourism was about three to one against them and the Danes established a parliamentary committee to report on the prospects and potential of tourism. That report came into their House in 1973 and all but one of its recommendations have been implemented. The difference is that now the numbers have evened up and there are as many foreigners coming into the country as there are people going out. In fact, the tourist trade in Denmark is in the black; it is making a profit. What is that country of 8.S million people spending on promotion this year? It is spending $A40m. I think we should make a study of what is happening in Denmark. One of the studies instituted in Denmark this year, bearing in mind that the Budget allocation to the Danish Tourist Board has been increased by 33 W percent - 
I think more people should look at Denmark and study the work of the Danish Tourist Board. To my mind, it is one of the leaders of the world in this sort of thing. The Tourist Board has instituted a study in which it is trying to relate directly the increase in the number of visitors to the country to the permanent jobs in the hotels and accommodation industry. That report will be finalised in April next year, and I think we should look at it. It should prove our point about the direct relationship between the increase in the number of visitors and the jobs available in the industry. As the honourable member for Robertson said, those jobs are available to women, to many unskilled workers and to many young people in the community, which is something we should be looking at. 
I am disappointed that, despite all the publicity given to the public hearings of the Select Committee on Tourism, the Government has not made any real effort in this Budget to divert some of the funds that will be raised from the imposition of the departure tax into promoting and helping the tourist industry generally. Nobody is going to suggest that there is a nexus between the revenue collected and the funding of the tourist industry- I think we all realise that that is probably undesirable-but about $13m will be collected in the coming 12 months and the fact that only an extra $lm or so will be poured into the Australian Tourist Commission is not a very good record. 
Yes. 
Yes. I join with the honourable member for Robertson and say that I trust that when the Budget Estimates are prepared next year much more of the revenue from the departure tax will be used to assist the tourist industry. It is interesting to go through the figures and look at the estimated growth rates over the next five or six years in the number of tourists coming to Australia. Both Qantas and the Australian Tourist Commission estimate that with the introduction of cheap air fares the number of international tourists visiting Australia will increase by between 8 per cent and 10 per cent, which is a quite considerable figure. If one considers the revenue involved, with an annual growth in the industry of 10 per cent, in five years time the amount collected in departure tax will be most substantial indeed. Such a sum would do a great deal to help a flagging industry, and unfortunately the Australian tourist industry is flagging to a degree at the moment. 
I should like to direct the attention of the House to the statement that has just been made by the Minister in regard to collecting the departure tax. If I am wrong I trust that the Minister will correct me, but I am a little worried that the method of collecting the tax means that locals, or indeed international visitors, will have to go to the Taxation Office or to a travel agent to pay their money and get a special stamp. It was suggested at a travel conference in Sydney yesterday that a number of booths might be established beneath the escalators in the Sydney international departure lounge which would mean that people would have to queue up to hand over their $10 before they could board an aircraft. The industry people to whom I was speaking last night indicated that with a full Jumbo load of 404 people, bearing in mind that each $10 transaction might take between IS and 30 seconds, if only four or five booths were operating an extra half an hour could be added to the handling time needed to get people out. I hope that that situation is not going to arise. 
I am also a little concerned to think that throughout the country we might reach a situation where people will have to be employed especially to collect the departure tax. I wonder what the cost of that collection might be. I personally believe that there is only one way to do it. The international airlines will kick and buck, but they have every facility for collecting the departure tax. They can do it without any cost to the Government, without any cost to the taxpayer, and with little cost to themselves. 
In most countries around the world the onus is on the international airlines to collect the travel tax, and I believe that that should be the case here. They have their manifests available and they know the type of passengers they are carrying. The whole operation would be smoothed if they were to collect the tax. It would not cause any undue concern to foreign travellers coming into this country, especially if they have a language problem- a great number of them do- to know that the departure tax was already written into their tickets. If anybody in the community is worried that the $ 1 0 departure tax will be a burden on them at the airport, although it might be considered to be a little dishonest the tax could be included in the price of the ticket. I do not think it is any real secret that Australia will have lower air fares in the years to come. The cheapest fare between Australia and Europe at the moment is about $850, and if that were dropped to about the $600 mark I am sure that not many people would buck at the prospect of paying $6 10 rather than having to go through a separate process of making application with their $10 to get a stamp to enable them to go through the system and get out of the country. 
I trust that the Minister is looking at this matter very seriously, because I would hate to see another situation develop where the bureaucracy runs rampant and an expensive monster is set up to try to collect the tax. It is obviously a simple process to allow the airlines to collect the $10 by having it written into their tickets. The airline returns come in all the time to the Department of Transport. Surely it would not be terribly difficult for the airlines to provide the Taxation Office or the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs with the number of outgoing travellers who qualify to pay the departure tax and to make that payment to the Government. It would save a lot of problems and a lot of hassles, especially in the case of people who do not speak the language, who otherwise would be forced to negotiate what is almost a major contract to get out of the country. The fact that exemptions have been made is obviously quite acceptable. I am pleased to see that people under the age of 18 years will not have to pay the $10 tax. It obviously would be an expensive proposition for a man who is required to travel overseas with his family. 
Another aspect of the situation that could arise if people have to pay the tax at the airport departure lounge should be considered. It might seem only a small thing, but in fact a quite considerable sum of money is spent by outgoing passengers in duty free shops. It was pointed out to the Select Committee on Tourism that people arriving at an international airport probably have saved only enough money to pay their taxi fares there because they do not want to be left with a lot of foreign currency in their pockets when they leave. They probably have made an estimate of what they will spend on cigarettes, alcohol, watches, perfume, and so on, at a duty free shop. Having made this estimate, when they get to the airport they could find that they are $ 10 short because of the departure tax. Either they will go through the hassle of renegotiating foreign exchange or they will say: 'Bust it; I will buy it in American dollars when I get to Singapore'. Obviously there is some money involved. Certainly some Government money is involved because the Government is involved in some of the duty free shops around the country. It is a small thing, but it is one that can make a difference overall to the economy and indeed to the viability of duty free businesses in Australia. 
It is interesting that the travel and tourist industry really has not raised any major objection to the imposition of a departure tax. Many industry people to whom I have spoken have said that they would be concerned if the money was not poured back into the industry, if it was not used to promote the concept of more and more people coming to visit this country and spend their hardearned dollars. The tourist industry is potentially one of the greatest export industries that this country has and we should be making the most of it. I believe that by the wise allocation of more money to the promotion of tourism we could achieve some very great results for the industry, for the economy as a whole, and indeed for the work force. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 23 August 1978: 
1 ) How many aircraft are employed by his Department. 
What are their makes and registration numbers. 
3 ) For what purpose are each of these aircraft employed. 
What were the total flying hours registered at 30 June 1978 for each aircraft. 
How many flying hours did each aircraft log during 1977-78. 
Do any Departmental aircraft undertake routine transport duties; if so, what are those duties. 
What was the cost of operations and maintenance of each aircraft during 1977-78. 
The Minister for Industry and Commerce will be aware of the value of the German tourist mark to the world market. What was the value to Australia of German tourists coming here in 1977? Is it a fact that the big German travel company, Schwaben International, has purchased land in New South Wales to establish a tourist resort for more German tourists to come to Australia? If so, what is the Department of Industry and Commerce doing directly to assist in this development or through the Australian Tourist Commission to promote more travel of more German tourists to Australia in the forthcoming years? 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Industry and Commerce. Bearing in mind the battle that has been raging in the Gold 
Coast press over the past week concerning the vexed problem of penalty rates in the tourist industry, can the Minister tell us whether the Government really is concerned at the effects of penalty rates on the industry? If so, can the Minister indicate what this Government can do to help overcome the problem? 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 27 September1978: 
Has his attention been drawn to the so-called wonder drug B-15, which is supposedly a cure for alcoholism, hepatitis, heart disease, diabetes, schizophrenia, glaucoma and various allergies, and can allegedly act as a youth potion. 
If so, have investigations been made into the effectiveness of B-15. 
Is the drug banned in Australia. 
If not, have permits been granted for the importation of any of the drug into Australia. 
-I must admit that I hold quite a deal of sympathy with the sentiments expressed by the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Stewart)  regarding Federal legislation for the registration of travel agents. I must express concern that this week a travel agency business collapsed in Brisbane. The firm of TBS Tours Ltd is now out of business. I understand that a number of people have been stranded in New Zealand. I think we should give credit where credit is due in circumstances such as this inasmuch as the airlines have guaranteed to honour the return tickets of those people. I understand there could be 43 pensioners involved- 43 elderly people who have been stuck in New Zealand. Sure, they will be able to get home but they have lost a good deal of money in the land-content cost of their tours. 
One must only hope that there can be some sort of rationalisation within the travel industry and that situations such as this will not be repeated. Certainly the record is not so terribly bad when one considers the amount of business that is undertaken every year by travel agents in Australia. The latest estimate is that that figure is in the vicinity of $ 1 billion. For the past five or six years only about $2m has in fact been lost through the collapse of certain of these travel houses. Unfortunately with the demise of TBS Travel, it has happened once again. One can hope only that some action will be taken so that that sort of situation will not happen again. 
Yesterday we heard the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  give a forecast of what is likely to be the future level of air fares between Great Britain and Australia. Indeed, many of us have welcomed the initial move- it must be only an initial move- to introduce cheaper air travel to and from this country. 
It did take a Liberal government to do it, and I do not think that we have seen the end of it yet. One can hope only that there will be further attempts in years to come to get the fares down even lower. As airlines become more and more efficient, as more and more people have more and more leisure time, they will be travelling. It should be possible to reduce fares even further. I have no hesitation in expressing my view that Australia even now should still be considering seriously the situation of charter flights to and from Australia. That is not to say that I have any particular brief for  Sir Freddie  Laker. There are a number of charter operators who are interested in running services into and out of Australia. One can hope only that the promise given by the Minister yesterday, that there would be a review in two years' time, will come to fruition. I can see that great and positive advantages can accrue to charter operators who, by their very nature, have to promote very hard overseas to generate more and more traffic to this country. They will help alleviate some of the problems that have been faced over the years by the tourist and travel industry. That is one thing to which I think, with the introduction of the cheaper air fares within the next 12 months, we should be looking. 
There should be an extra stimulus there to provide that promotion which so obviously will be needed in such a competitive market as the United Kingdom and hopefully, after further negotiations, in that incredibly competitive market of Europe. We will certainly see a great influx of tourists to this country if, in fact, that promotion can be undertaken properly and well. It highlights again the situation of the Australian Tourist Commission which, although it enjoyed an increase of $ 1.2m in its budget allocation this year, will still need quite a deal of money if it is to promote Australia properly, especially if it is to act in co-operation with Qantas in promoting Australia as a future holiday destination. 
Around the travel industry today there has been much discussion regarding the statement that was made by the Minister for Transport yesterday. Indeed, a great deal of concern has been expressed by travel agents and tour packagers that the industry might become very quiet until the actual starting date of the new fares arrives. Tonight I would urge that negotiations between the Australian and British governments be brought to a conclusion as quickly as possible so that we will not see such a lull occurring in the numbers not only of people coming to this country but of Australians travelling overseas. One would expect that, the new fares having been announced in this part of the world, as I understand they have also in Britain, there would be not too many hurdles to be overcome before they could in fact be implemented. I would urge the Minister for Transport to ensure that the utmost pressure is put on his British counterparts to make sure that those negotiations are finalised and the fares come into operation as soon as possible so that there can be a real benefit to travellers leaving Australia but, most importantly, a very real increase in the number of foreign tourists coming to this land. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER  (Mr  MillarOrder!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister representing the Attorney-General, upon notice, on 27 September 1978: 
1 ) Which persons were registered as civil marriage celebrants in the Electoral Division of Bowman as at 30 June 1978. 
How many civil marriages were registered by each of these celebrants during (a) 1976 (b) 1977 and (c) the period 1 January to 30 June 1978. 
What is the minimum fee payable to a civil marriage celebrant for each service performed. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Transport. It refers to the so-called walkout by the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions,  Mr Hawke,  and other union representatives from a meeting of the National Labor Consultative Council following the action of the Department of Transport against ACTU Jetset Travel Service Pty Ltd. Can the Minister inform the House what link, if any, there is between  Mr Hawke  's position as  President  of the ACTU and his involvement in ACTU Jetset? Does the Minister see any conflict in  Mr Hawke  having both interests? 
Anyone reading  Hansard  would be forgiven if he thought a mutual admiration society existed between the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  and me. We seem to follow each other in debate frequently these days and the subject usually seems to be tourism. Once again tonight I find that I am very much in agreement with much that he has said. It is true that tourism has been neglected to a great extent in Australia in previous years. I would like also to direct some of my comments this evening to the appropriation that has been made to the Australian Tourist Commission and indeed to the tourist industry generally. I take the honourable member for Robertson to task on one point though. It is true that after 1975 the funds allocated to the Australian Tourist Commission decined somewhat, but I think it is also worth pointing out that at that time the responsibility of the ATC for the promotion of domestic tourism was finished. To a great extent much of the money that was allocated for the promotion of domestic tourism was not taken into account in further Budgets. 
I was one of the first, I think, to congratulate the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Mr Lynch)  when we learned that in this year's Budget there had been an increase of $ 1.2m for the Australian Tourist Commission for its program in this year. This was the largest ever increase in funds for the ATC and will be used to a great extent for the promotion of Australia overseas. However, some aspects of that allocation are a little worrying. When the chop on the ATC came a couple of years ago staff ceilings were imposed. The ATC originally had a staff of some 130 odd personnel. I understand that that has been cut back now to less than 70 people and the new staff ceiling is around 64 people. One of the problems is that the ATC will find that with this extra money to spend on overseas promotion it will be short of available personnel and will not be able to spend the funds wisely. I hope that the Minister for Industry and Commerce will examine this in detail. Obviously if we are to recognise tourism and the need to promote Australia overseas we must have the available expertise and staff who can put that program into operation. 
Overseas promotion is especially important now. Already we have seen the start of the introduction of cheap air fares between the United Kingdom and Australia. Many members of the tourist industry have already said that this will mean an increase in the number of Australians travelling overseas. I think that is true. But the overseas experience must be taken into account too, and once again especially the experience of Great Britain. It found that in a matter of a couple of years after the introduction of the Laker type fares on the North Atlantic route and to other points in Europe the number of tourists who entered Britain as a result of cheap air fares increased by 50 per cent, and Britain went into the black. 
We are establishing some form of cheap air fares. I do not necessarily think that they are the best options available or the best fares that could have been negotiated and I will be speaking a little more about this later tonight. Once we have established the principle of cheap air fares we have to realise that we are in a pretty tough market in Great Britain and that we will have to allocate a great deal of those funds for the Australian 
Tourist Commission into the promotion of Australia as a holiday destination. We will be vying with the United States of America at many points in Europe. We have seen some startingly cheap fares between Britain and other points in Europe available for holiday makers. There was just one last area that posed a problem of high air fares; that was the route between Britain and Scandinavia. Within the last fortnight the fare on this route has been dropped to a low figure. For less than 50 now excursion tickets are available on this route as well. So we are going into a tough market in Britain. But if we are to take the full benefit of cheap fares we must establish the principle of bringing overseas visitors into this country. Otherwise we could be in trouble with the number of Australians travelling specifically overseas. 
I believe that the tourist industry is now starting to get some form of recognition from the Government. To a great degree for many years it has been a  Cinderella  industry. I think government should take some blame for that but I think the industry itself is also to blame. It is a fragmented industry with a number of industry bodies which do not necessarily speak with the one voice. There needs to be greater cohesion between those industry bodies to put forward their problems to government and indeed to the public as a whole and to undertake programs of educating the public and government on the needs and requirements of what potentially could be a great industry for Australia. As a potential employer the tourist industry is almost boundless. In recent years we have seen a great deal of unemployment in the industry because of the problem of high penalty rates. The honourable member for Dawson  (Mr Braithwaite)  alluded to this tonight. 
It is a sad situation not to see one mention of penalty rates in the latest submission to the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission for the re-negotiation of the hotels award and the accommodation industry award. One wonders, with all the noises that are coming from the industry at the moment, with the number of complaints that it is making about what high penalty rates are doing to it, whether it is really serious about tackling this problem that certainly is causing a lot of difficulty, and indeed unemployment, within the industry. Of course it will be another two years before a new award can be negotiated for those industries. All partiesgovernment, the industry and the unions- need to sit down to talk about this severe problem to see whether there is some way that we can overcome the problems that penalty rates are posing to the industry. The award rates in the industry are in fact quite low. Nobody is expecting the workers in that area to take any less money than they are getting now. But a lot of hard-nosed decisions have to be made by all parties to make sure that it could be a viable proposition for more and more people to be employed in the industry. It is a service industry; a 7 days a week, 24 hours a day industry. That is one of the problems. If a new award can be negotiated to cover all those conditions certainly the potential for future employment is very great indeed. 
The increase in the allocation to the Australian Tourist Commission this year is a recognition that the industry has some potential and that it can be exploited. Although the portfolio of the Minister for Tourism was dropped some years ago and the functions of the Department of Tourism were placed within the responsibility of the Department of Industry and Commerce, perhaps there is even greater need to bring forth that aspect of responsibility of the Department of Industry and Commerce so that tourism can get the recognition from government that it rightfully deserves. 
The $4.24m, as I said a little earlier, will be spent primarily for promotion but there are staff needs apart from those I have already mentioned in relation to staff ceilings. One of the biggest problems the Australian Tourist Commission faces overseas I believe is a lack of co-ordination between it and other government departments. I cite as an example the situation that exists as far as visas to Australia are concerned. As honourable members would realise, people coming to Australia have to apply for visitors visas. It is not possible at this stage for visa application forms to be issued by the Australian Tourist Commission. It can hand out pretty brochures but when it comes down to the nitty gritty of finally hooking a tourist into coming to Australia it cannot deliver the goods. 
My remarks relate only to application forms; the Australian Tourist Commission would not physically issue the visa. Obviously that must be done through the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. On a recent visit to London I saw the Australian Tourist Commission in operation. The Austraiian Tourist Commission Office has a staff of three or four. It is an incredible situation. The office is established on the fourth floor of a building just off Piccadilly. I understand that the offices are shared with some Arab companies and that security is very tight. It is almost impossible to walk through the front door of the building without a security clearance to get into a lift to go up to the fourth floor to speak to the staff of the Australian Tourist Commission. Once I did I found three or four people working extremely hard. They were answering dozens of telephone calls requesting information about Australia. Many of the calls were coming from travel agents and people organising tourist packages who were asking for application forms for visas to visit Australia. These cannot be obtained from the Commission. The callers have to be directed to Australia House which is further down The Strand. We should be looking at the little things like this now, before the influx comes upon us, if we are serious about promoting the Australian tourist industry. I personally congratulate the Government for the initial recognition of the Australian Tourist Commission and the initial increase in funds. However, it is not enough. We are still fairly small fish in the world of international tourist promotion. Obviously, as the years go by, the allocation must increase if we are to get out and sell Australia as a tourist destination and take our rightful percentage of the international tourist dollar. 
Proposed expenditures agreed to. 
Sitting suspended from 5.58 to 8 p.m. 
Department of Primary Industry 
Proposed expenditure,  S  109,256,000. 
-Tonight I focus my attention to the area of civil aviation generally. Many people welcomed the announcement last week of the cheaper air fares which are to apply between Australia and Great Britain. One can hope for the sake of the Australian travelling public and indeed for the future of the Australian tourist industry that this is but a start of what may be an even greater review of the scale of fares that operate between this country and other parts of the world. There has been a lot of speculation as to what the fares might ultimately be. I suppose that at the beginning of this speech I should declare myself- as I have publicly in previous months- as a great advocate of the bulk charter arrangements. I am definitely not necessarily holding the flag for one  Sir Freddie  Laker, but the concept of bulk charter traffic to and from Australia is one that holds a lot of attraction particularly for the development and future of the tourist industry. 
I must say that I hope that the fares that we heard announced last week will not be the be-all and the end-all of the introduction of cheaper air fares to and from Australia. Quite obviously those fares even now are rather high compared with some of the other fares that are operating around the world. We can in this debate get ourselves very tied up with the de-regulation argument and an analysis of what really has happened in relation to the North Atlantic. There are some questions which I think should be asked of the department over the next 12 months as to exactly what will happen. Although the statement by the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  was quite clear, that these air fares would operate between any Australian city and London on British Airways and Qantas Airways Ltd services, there are a number of other questions that I think should be asked. 
At the moment I am receiving many representations from packagers and tourist agencies who feel that they need a little more enlightenment on just what is going to happen early in the year in relation to fares to other destinations around the world. It is at this time of the year that many of the packages used by those agencies are being constructed for sale over the Christmas period. At the moment they are complaining that they do not really know what is going to happen, with the exception of the Australia-United Kingdom run. They do not know whether the fares that exist now will be able to be used as tour basing fares, just when the likely date is to be of the announcement of fares between other points of Europe and other points of Asia; what exactly will happen to other legs in an all-inclusive tour; whether or not the airlines already operating the Australia-London route will be able to sell a cheaper range of fares to and from those points; and what stop-over rights will be allowed to passengers on those particular tour basing fares. Obviously this confusion is fairly well founded at this stage. I am sure that the Minister will be making every effort to have a speedy resolution of some of those questions. 
We have seen recently some aspects of the aviation industries and the travel industry that are not terribly attractive or terribly healthy for a viable industry. I do not refer specifically to the ACTU-Jetset affair, as it has been called, because already the Minister has pointed out that that particular case is one of several. I think during this coming year some very serious attention will have to be paid to the area of the air navigation regulations that covers the situation of commissions that are paid by airlines to travel agencies. Although adjustments were made in recent years to the air navigation regulations it would seem that they have not been completely successful in stopping a number of the practices that have been followed. It would seem to be fairly common knowledge in the community at the moment that all international airlines, including Qantas, operating in and out of Australia are in fact paying some sort of overriding commission. These overriding commissions take various forms. It would seem that the 'legal' way out is the payment of subsidies to travel agencies by the international airlines for advertising purposes. Admittedly the correct percentage commission that should be paid by an airline to a travel agent is usually in the vicinity of about 10 per cent but it is not uncommon to hear of overriding commissions being paid to the tune of 16 per cent, 22  lA  per cent- which I believe is one of the fares quoted by one of the major packagers that has been discussed lately in this Parliament- and I even have heard stories of 32 per cent being paid in overriding commissions. 
Obviously it would tend to lead people to believe that perhaps the prices of air fares to and from Australia have indeed been too high if this area is available for these overriding commissions to be paid. I suppose the move by the Minister to introduce just a Qantas-British Airways duopoly on the Australia-London route may be one way of cutting off these overriding commissions. I wonder if it really will. We know of the record of some international airlines and of some of the devious methods they get up to in providing cheap and competitive fares to operate between various countries. We wonder whether the new fares will stamp out this practice which ultimately must result in a worse service for Australians. We can look back to the early 1970s and to the history of Travel House of Australia Pty Ltd. That situation was certainly tied up with kickbacks and other arrangements with a foreign airline. I believe the travel agencies are looking for a lead from the Government really to clamp down on this practice in the long term in order to have a viable industry and to have guidelines by which they can operate. If that particular section of the air navigation regulations can be tightened up in the next 12 months it may stamp out the practice of overriding commission and other kickback payments which I understand are often paid through foreign banks. They are not necessarily paid here in Australia and quite often they are very hard to trace. Although I have no evidence to substantiate this, I understand that many of these transactions are going on through a bank in Hong Kong. We would have trouble in tracing them if that is in fact the case. This is an area which I believe must be cleared up. I must congratulate the Minister for his initiative this morning when it was suggested that should a domestic carrier be willing to start up a Tasmania-New Zealand service he would be pleased to hear from that carrier. 
From Tasmania to New Zealand. I understand that representatives from two domestic airlines already are in the building tonight making application for those particular fares. 
This brings up a point that was raised by the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  this afternoon, that maybe we should be looking for more flexibility in all our planning, both domestic and international. If we can get a concept of a circle route between the South Pacific countries, New Zealand and Australia that can be very much to the benefit of everyone. Certainly in recent years the international travel market has been restricted to the triangle around Sydney, Melbourne and Canberra. Some of the far flung States have not been getting their percentage of the international market. An example is my own State of Queensland which I understand has a 4 per cent share of the international market into Australia. Obviously there has to be room to move here even when the point to point fares come into operation. 
I believe that probably more people would come into cities such as Brisbane if these cheaper air fares became available. But Brisbane of course is not the capital of the tourist industry in Queensland. There is a great deal of attraction for overseas visitors to areas such as the Great Barrier Reef. I must express my disappointment that we have not seen any reaction whatsoever from the domestic carriers to the situation of the proration of international air fares. I believe that the tourist industry and the decentralised tourist areas of our State certainly urgently need some sort of proration from the domestic carriers if they are to take full advantage of the international market. As I said, these new fares operate only to those gateway cities of Darwin, Sydney, Brisbane, Melbourne and Perth. They do not operate to places such as the Great Barrier Reef, Ayers Rock or Tasmania. Tasmania is one State that urgently needs every tourist dollar on which it can possibly lay its hands. I understand that tourism is now that State's second biggest industry and that the time might not be too far away when it becomes the State's biggest industry. 
If we can see a greater input into the planning of the Department of Transport from the tourist industry and from departments within this Government which have a part to play in the development of that industry, I believe that we can develop a more innovative fare structure, internally and externally, which will be very much to the benefit of the tourist industry as a whole. Australia's share of the international tourist dollar is .07 per cent. Tourism is the world's second biggest industry. Really we are not taking full advantage of that industry and of the contribution that it can make to the national accounts and to employment. I would urge that more input be given by the tourist industry to the decisions that are made in the 12 months to come and indeed, in the years to come, so that we can achieve a balance for our aviation industry, a fair deal for Australia's travellers going abroad and also for travellers coming to visit this country. 
Once again we have heard the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  come in here and utter a diatribe about the future health insurance arrangements. I must agree completely with the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  when he says that the comments that the honourable member has made here again today are completely and utterly irresponsible. How can people gamble with their health on the basis that the honourable member has given today? It is good to know that there are responsible people such as the Labor Minister for Health in New South Wales,  Mr Stewart,  who has completely dissociated himself with the remarks of the honourable member for Prospect. One must think very carefully indeed before making the decision not to go ahead with health insurance from 1 November. I think the honourable member for Prospect should be condemned for inciting this sort of attitude in this House and thereby in the community. 
That is not the reason why I am speaking in this debate today, I am glad the Minister for Veterans' Affairs  (Mr Adermann)  is in the House at the moment because what I am about to say deals with his portfolio as well as that of the Treasurer  (Mr Howard).  It concerns war reparation payments made to victims of Nazi persecution during World War II and sections 23(kc) and 23AD (3) (c) of the Income Tax Assessment Act. Without sounding too melodramatic, I think I should give the backgrounds of the cases of two constituents of my electorate of Bowman that have come to my attention over the last 18 months. I understand from speaking to representatives of the Returned Services League and other bodies that the particular aspects that I am bringing up today, although they are not common, are similar to those in a number of other cases is Australia. 
The first case concerns a Dutch born person who was a reserve officer in the Dutch Free Forces in Indonesia during World War II. He fought the Japanese and was duly captured by them and sentenced to a 15-year imprisonment term. He served three years in gaol- in Java, I believe. He lost all his possessions in Indonesia during that time. His wife was separated from him for that period and, I understand, she was put in another prisoner of war camp. His health obviously suffered severely at the hands of the Japanese in the camp and he returned to Holland. When he returned he found that all of the family property in that country had been destroyed by the Nazis and his father had been shot by the Gestapo. He applied for back payment for the term for which he was in gaol in Indonesia but received no payment whatsoever. He worked as a professional librarian. 
Early in the 1950s, I understand, he migrated to Australia with his wife, paying his own passage. He worked very hard during his time in Australia. He had four children, I understand. One of those children is now a major in the Australian Army, another is a teacher, another works, in the Australian Taxation office and the other is a doctor. One of them served with the Australian expedition to the Antarctic. However, the result of the period that he spent in the camp in Indonesia during the war certainly took its toll of his health. When the time came for his retirement he applied for repatriation benefits but apparently his case did not come within the confines of the guidelines for the payment of such a pension. After a number of appeals to the Dutch Government, in 1975 he was finally given a payment of compensation. That money came into the country and was duly taxed. 
As well as that lump sum compensation payment, he receives a monthly compensation payment from the Dutch Government. However, because that payment does not fall within the guidelines of sections 23(kc) and 23AD (3) (c) of the Income Tax Assessment Act, he has to pay tax on it. He is entitled therefore to no pensioner benefits and no benefits through the Department of Veterans' Affairs. Although these payments which are taxed are coming from the Dutch Government as compensation for what he and his family suffered during the war, people who receive compensation payments from the West German Government as victims of Nazi atrocities apparently have those payments exempted from income tax. It would seem to me that this Dutch born person who, incidently, as soon as he could became an Australian citizen, is having a form of discrimination practised against him. 
The second case is similar in nature. It concerns a man of Polish extraction who was bom in 1916. At the outbreak of World War II he was imprisoned by the Germans but escaped and joined the Free Polish forces in 1940 when he landed in Britain. Those forces were under British command and eventually, in 1944, he landed back in France with the invasion forces. He returned again to Britain as a second lieutenant with the Cross of Valour. He was offered a commission with the British army but, of course, the war ended and he was finally demobbed. In 1943 he married a young lady of British nationality and lived in Scotland. As soon as possible he took British citizenship. He had three daughters, in 1947, 1951 and 1952, anglicised his name, and continued to live in Scotland until 1962. This gave him 22 years of continuous residence in Britain. In 1962 he migrated to 
Australia and ever since has been employed in a large plastics firm. This year he became entitled to his long service leave. He too, of course, has not first-class health. His wife also is sick and he has decided to retire. On a number of occasions he has inquired as to whether he is entitled to receive Veterans' Affairs pensions. 
The latest correspondence that I have from the Department of Veterans' Affairs says that Division 5A of the Repatriation Act provides for the grant of service pensions to former members of the forces of Commonwealth countries in the same way as it does to Australian veterans; that veterans of Commonwealth forces, to be eligible for service pension, must have lived in Australia continuously at some time for not less than 10 years and must have had theatre-of-war service in a campaign in which Australian veterans were also engaged and in respect of which Australian veterans qualify for service pensions; that veterans of the Free Polish forces, even though those forces were under British command, are not veterans of the British forces; therefore, they do not qualify for benefits under Division 5A of the Repatriation Act. Consequently, this particular gentleman is not eligible to claim a service pension from the Department. 
He is, of course, able to claim an age pension but apparently a man who has served under British command, who was with the invasion forces, who received recognition through a particular award, who came back and immediately took out British citizenship, who was married to a British citizen and then migrated to Australia in 1962, is not entitled, under this particular section of the Repatriation Act, to any benefits whatsoever. 
We really do have an obligation to look after these people who, through no fault of their own, do not fall within the guidelines for eligibility for repatriation benefits in Australia. Those people, who played their part side by side in many cases with Australian troops, do not qualify, even though they were under British command, for the full British service entitlements, and now they find themselves in a rather difficult position. I can only stress to the Minister for Veteran's Affairs that this section of the Act, and the section of the Income Tax Act which covers reparation payments for Nazi war atrocities, should be investigated so that we may achieve some sort of justice for these people who fought so nobly and bravely during that period of World War II. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 16 August 1978: 
When was the Computer User Data Mechanism Scheme introduced to Australia. 
What was the cost of establishing the Scheme. 
Why was it introduced. 
Is it still in use; if not, why not. 
How many subscribers throughout Australia used this facility. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 16 August 1978: 
1 ) What was the cost of establishing the Computer User Data Mechanism Scheme in Queensland. 
How many subscribers used the Scheme in Queensland and who were they. 
What was the cost to the subscribers for the use of the facility. 
Is the CUDM Scheme still in operation in Queensland. 
-The Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Staley)  has answered two questions that I had on the Notice Paper concerning the Computer User Data Mechanism scheme. I feel that I should bring this matter to the attention of the House tonight. The Computer User Data Mechanism scheme was a network that was introduced into Australia to meet a demand by large government departments and business customers to transmit data between their own computers and remote terminals on sub-networks derived from common switching and transmission plant that was provided by Telecom Australia. In providing these facilities, CUDM, as it is known, appeared as a secure private network for each customer, or so the Minister said. 
I think that it is probably worth our while going back in history to get the background of what this is all about. The first of five common user network operational centres was placed in service in Brisbane on 4 December 1972. CUDN- Common User Data Network- centres have been introduced in the other mainland capitals, the last centre, Perth, being placed in service as late as 25 August 1975 when the network became fully national. The point I am trying to raise tonight is that the plain facts of the situation are now that this network is operating in only two cities, Sydney and Melbourne. It is being used only by Trans-Australia Airways and the Department of Health in those two cities. The cost to the Australian taxpayer in 1972- in 1972 dollar terms- was $ 16.8m. It was an investment that was made following studies that were allegedly done by the old Department- admittedly before Telecom came into operation. 
It is an amazing situation that $ 16.8m of taxpayers funds can be invested in this sort of network for virtually no use at all. It would seem that very shortly TAA will be dropping out of that network and will be using its own system completely. The departmental excuse apparently is that the development of mini computers and other technological changes have made CUDN virtually inefficient and inoperative. What an amazing situation that the Department is prepared to spend $ 16.8m in 1972 for two departments, a statutory body of the Commonwealth and a Public Service department, to take advantage of that network. 
It is a complete bureaucratic bungle. When we go further than that and ask just what contribution TAA and the Department of Health are making to meet the cost of this, we cannot get an answer. We are told that the charges are worked out nationally and that it is not possible to get any identification of the cost to subscribers of the use of the facility on a State by State basis. Certainly since 1972 Telecom and Australia Post have been established as two separate statutory bodies, but the decision has been made; it has been a complete and utter waste of the taxpayers funds; and one can hope only that with the establishment of the bodies and, I would trust, a closer scrutiny by members of this House - 
It certainly would not happen in private enterprise. We can hope only that we will not get this sort of situation happening again where $ 16.8m of taxpayers funds have gone virtually down the drain or down the tubes. I believe that it is a scandal that needs our further investigation. It is one for which all members of the Department and of this House must watch. In the days of developing technology we must watch and make sure that this situation does not happen again. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Transport. In order to clear the confusion amongst some ethnic groups concerning the implementation of the new air fare policy, will the Minister clarify whether there will be some discrimination against ethnic groups? Should Qantas decide not to service a particular port, will the national carrier of that country still have the right to apply for services to Australia? Will foreign airlines not presently servicing Australia be able to apply for landing rights provided they produce a suitable fare? Will agreement for these landing rights be handled on a government to government or airline to airline basis? 
I present the report of the Select Committee on Tourism, together with the transcript of evidence and the minutes of the proceedings. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
I ask for leave of the House to make a short statement. 
Leave granted. 
The Committee was first appointed in December 1976 and since then has become acutely aware of the potential and problems of the Australian tourist industry. Since it was first appointed the Committee has met on 6 1 occasions, including 24 meetings during this Parliament. Thirty-six public hearings have been held at which 204 witnesses, representing 94 organisations appeared before the Committee. The 
Committee also conducted 32 inspections and on a further 3 1 occasions held informal discussions with representatives of the tourist industry. 
The Committee was required under its terms of reference to identify the short and long term issues facing the tourist industry, as well as examining the roles and responsibilities of the various levels of government and the industry, in the promotion and development of tourism. The Committee was also required to consider the economic significance of tourism, the influence of the various modes of transport and the adequacy and availability of statistics. 
This report is not an enthusiastic and unequivocal endorsement of the local tourist industry. Rather, I would consider it a recognition of tourism as an industry. In this respect the Committee has concluded that the maintenance of the stable economic conditions is of paramount importance not only to the tourist industry but to all industries. 
The Committee has concluded that the tourist industry is of considerable economic significance and deserves greater recognition. The Committee was not able to make a definite statement on the economic significance and has recommended that this be a matter for further study. The advisers to the previous committee,  Dr Pigram  and  Dr Cooper,  prepared a paper for the Committee on the economic significance of tourism in Australia. The advisers estimated that the direct turnover from tourism in 1974-75 was $3,300m while direct employment was 263,000. The estimates by the advisers have been subject to criticism, but they give some indication of the scale of the industry. The Committee considers that the paper prepared by the advisers is a valuable first step in the attempt to establish the economic significance of tourism in the Aus.tralian economy. 
One of the achievements of the Committee has been to create greater awareness of tourism in the community. The Committee has concluded that in the past tourism has not been given proper recognition and has recommended that the Department of Industry and Commerce be renamed 'The Department of Industry, Commerce and Tourism'. While this recommendation has a certain cosmetic appeal, it does at the same time, give tangible recognition of the industry. 
The Committee considered whether tourism has special features in comparison with other industries. A special characteristic of tourism is that it does provide employment opportunities for unskilled and pan-time workers. It is also an industry which can have a significant effect on the balance of payments. While tourism is unlikely to have a dramatic effect on community health and welfare, it is in a unique position to foster and develop the community's knowledge of Australia and the Australian heritage. 
Tourism can contribute to regional development and decentralisation, it has been, and will continue to be, a major stimulus to sustained growth in many non-metropolitan areas of Australia. It has an advantage over many other industries, in that while it is labour intensive, it has distinct growth prospects. 
The Committee has considered the potential of tourism and has concluded that its ability to achieve its potential will depend on the development of Australia's tourist attractions; the aggressive promotion of these attractions by both industry and government at home and overseas; the introduction of more innovative air fares and the approval of more air charter flights from selected overseas destinations. 
Road transport will have a significant influence on the development of tourism. The motor car will continue to dominate domestic transport, accounting for over 80 per cent of all trips, while aviation will probably increase its share of the market. 
The dominance of the private car will require a massive up-grading of the Australian road network. The Committee has recommended the compilation of a priority list of tourist roads and that additional funds should be made available by Commonwealth, State and Territory Governments to upgrade those roads. Roads of particular concern to the Committee are the Stuart Highway, the Bruce Highway and the Alpine Way. 
The Committee was also concerned with the need to ensure that the transport and tourism policy arms of government, co-operate in the development of policies for air transport and has recommended the establishment of a standing interdepartmental committee on air transport. When the Department of Transport first appeared before the Committee in March 1977, it suggested that $850 would be the best available return air fare between Australia and Europe. However at a later hearing, the Department advised it no longer holds this point of view. I consider that one of the achievements of this Committee is that since the Committee commenced its inquiry, there have been reviews of both international and domestic aviation policies. 
One of the witnesses who appeared before the Committee was  Mr, now Sir Freddie  Laker. At the time he appeared before the Committee in May 1977, he had not yet launched his TransAtlantic Sky Train. The Committee was impressed by  Mr Laker's  concept of low fares aimed at the budget conscious traveller. This Committee can see no reason why the recommendation of the previous Committee for a trial series of charter flights along the lines proposed by  Sir Freddie  Laker has not been implemented. The previous Committee stated: 
This Committee considers that as a first principle promotion of travel to and from Australia can only benefit from the availability of cheaper air fares and that none of the views put to the Committee on the disadvantages of chaner flights of the type proposed by Laker, have been substantiated by experience. 
This report was finalised prior to the release by the Minister for Transport of the International Aviation Policy Review. However, the Committee would hope that the follow-up to the Review would be a matter for the proposed standing committee on air transport. I am particularly pleased to note that the review of the international civil aviation policy concluded that bodies concerned with both tourism and transport should closely monitor the results of any change in the international fare regime. 
The Committee has considered the introduction of the departure tax announced in the recent Budget. Indeed, the Committee would claim credit for raising such an issue. I suspect that it was the publicity given to one of the Committee's hearings which may have provided the idea for the tax. The Committee would, however, suggest that the funds raised by such a tax should be used for the promotion and development of Australian tourism. If this is so, the carriers should have the responsibility for the collection of the tax. 
The Committee is also concerned about the development of Australia's national tourist attractions, particularly those where there is a Commonwealth responsibility. Two attractions are of particular concern to the Committee. The first is Ayers Rock, where the Committee considers that the lack of clearly defined administrative arrangements has hampered the development of this national attraction. The Committee is concerned at the delay in commencing the proposed tourist village and the delay in the preparation of the plan of management. The situation which has arisen in respect of Ayers Rock is not one which can be overcome by a massive injection of Government funds. Rather, there is a requirement for some heads to be knocked together. The Committee was also concerned about the Great Barrier Reef. The Committee has recommended that the staff ceiling for the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Authority be lifted to a level where zoning procedures can be completed within 25 years. The Committee was told that with the present staff it may take up to 100 years. It also recommends that funds be made available to allow the Authority to provide interpretative facilities for tourists at the major destination areas adjacent to the Reef. 
The Committee has considered the role of the Australian Tourist Commission and envisages an expanding role for that organisation. The Committee suggests that there is a need for an increase in promotional activity by that organisation. However, it does not suggest a substantial increase in staff. The Committee has also suggested that the ATC should involve itself in domestic promotion without, of course, detracting from its overseas promotion which should remain its primary activity. The ATC should undertake umbrella campaigns in consultation with the State and Territory governments aimed at persuading Australians to holiday in Australia. 
The Committee suggests that the major role for States is in domestic promotion and that there should be greater emphasis on the establishment of regional organisations. The method of assisting the regional organisations varies from State to State and the Committee would suggest that the States discuss these differences in the hope that they can learn from each other's experiences. The Committee has acknowledged the role of local government as being crucial to the development of Australian tourism. The Committee does not, however, consider that an accommodation tax is not an equitable method of spreading the costs of tourism across the community. 
The Committee has identified 26 issues facing the industry. Certain issues have been resolved while others require action by various levels of government. The Committee has recommended the introduction of depreciation allowance for income-producing buildings, as well as recommending changes to the investment allowance. The Committee has been particularly concerned with the requirement for an international traveller to retrace his steps on tours within Australia as well as with the possibility of Australians being able to combine an international holiday with a domestic holiday. The Committee has recommended the designation of Townsville as the site for an international airport and that there be a study conducted of the desirability of the designation of a Tasmanian airport as an international airport. The Committee also recommends that the Minister for Transport announce, as soon as possible, a specific timetable for the upgrading of Brisbane Airport. 
A particular issue which has been raised at nearly every hearing of the Committee is that of penalty rates. The Committee has concluded that the penalty rate structure prejudices employment opportunities, as well as providing a positive competitive disadvantage to the Australian tourist industry. The Committee recognises that wages and conditions are determined within the framework of an established industrial system which includes the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. The Committee has recommended that the Government establish a tripartite working group to inquire into and report on the normal hours of work, penalty rates and related working conditions. The Committee, however, was at a loss to understand why employers have not sought a restructuring of the penalty rate provisions in current negotiations before the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission. 
The Committee has suggested that the industry needs to consider carefully its own role in development of tourism. It has concluded that the majority of operators in the industry are not aware of the need for a well financed industry organisation to promote the industry to government, to other industries and to the public at large. It has also been suggested that the industry needs to recognise the interdependence of its various sectors. 
It has not been possible in this tabling statement to comment on all of the conclusions and recommendations of the Committee. However, these are set out in the report. In concluding, I would claim that a major achievement of the Committee has been that attention has been focused on the tourist industry. However, it is up to the industry itself to recognise that, in the main, its future depends upon its own efforts. I would like to express my thanks to the  Chairman  of the Committee in the previous Parliament,  Mr Duke  Bonnett, whose assistance and guidance in the early stages were invaluable. I also pay a most sincere tribute to the members of my Committee, in particular to the  Deputy Chairman,  the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Stewart)  whose detailed knowledge of the tourist industry has been of great benefit to the Committee and to me personally. My thanks also go to the other members of the Committee who were prepared to contribute their time to the inquiry. Each member was able to contribute a particular expertise. The honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  is well known for his knowledge of transport, the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  was particularly concerned with environmental aspects; the honourable member for Ballarat  (Mr Short),  the honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Sainsbury)  and the honourable member for Cowper  (Mr Ian Robinson)  were particularly concerned with decentralisation; while the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Bruce Goodluck)  who was concerned particularly with Tasmania, was able to make a valuable contribution in respect of local government. The report is a unanimous one. There were many issues on which the Committee, by virtue of long deliberation, was able to arrive at a consensus. The Committee has asked that I express its appreciation to the staff of the secretariat-  Mr Phil  Bergin,  Mr Alan  Kelly,  Ms Virginia  Greville,  Ms Ann-Marie  Nagle and  Mrs Lyn  Coutman- who provided the back-up support to the Committee. 
-In relation to the estimates for the Postal and Telecommunications Department, the first area about which I would like to speak this evening is the Australian Broadcasting Commission. I realise that at the moment this is quite a sensitive area. It is true that the Press is giving much credence to some of the cries of the Australian Broadcasting Commission Staff Association in regard to the cuts in expenditure to the ABC. I think it is fair to say that at the moment the morale of rank and file members of the ABC has probably never been at such a low ebb. I know that in some respects the staff cuts have been quite savage. I think the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Staley)  could do the ABC Staff Association and the people of Australia a great service if, in some way, he could examine just where those staff cuts or fund cuts are being made. It seems to me that if a full investigation were made of the areas of the cuts some interesting things would come to the surface. 
I think we can all probably cast our minds back to the first cuts which were made when there were screams about certain television and radio programs not being allowed on the air because of lack of funds. It was said that many of the creative people within the Australian Broadcasting Commission would possibly lose their jobs because of the lack of funds. It has been very interesting to notice just exactly what has happened. There have been program cuts. There has been a non-replacement of ABC staff in certain areas, especially in those creative areas. This is the area which is of concern to me. I think an investigation would probably show that, in fact, there have not been too many staff adjustments in the area of the management of the ABC and, in particular, the area of middle management. I think that is an area which deserves some very close examination. It would also be interesting to find out what the designations were of the staff members who have not been replaced. This is where my fear is. It would seem a great pity if the creative members of the ABC staff- there are a great number- found themselves out of an industry which, I believe, has great potential, at the expense of some people in middle management, the calibre of whom I think is often doubtful. 
I spend quite a deal of time speaking to members of the ABC staff in Brisbane. I realise many of the problems they are facing at the moment. In fact, in Brisbane at present the Commonwealth Police are conducting a major investigation into the activities of some of the middle and upper management people at the ABC. One hopes that that will be a full investigation and that if there is any doubt as to some of the activities which allegedly have been going on in that area that they will be cleared up to the fullest extent. This situation helps to add to the lack of morale in the ABC at the moment. I believe that even with these staff cuts more emphasis can be placed on local production. There are people within the rank and file of the ABC who can still make a very great contribution to the future of what can be one of the finest broadcasting and television organisations in the world. If the Minister can possibly initiate some sort of investigation into where those staff members have been laid off and not replaced, that could do a great service in helping to resurrect the morale and the ability of ABC staff members to make their contribution to the national broadcasting service. 
The second area that I would like to mention briefly- I notice the honourable member for Perth  (Mr McLean)  mentioned it in his contribution to this debate- relates to public hearings of the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal. I believe that at the moment we have four people who serve on the Tribunal. But as a result of changes in the legislation, with the establishment of frequency modulation radio stations, with the establishment of public broadcasting stations and with the renewal of licences for television and radio stations, one can see that members of the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal have a tremendous job ahead of them. One wonder whether it would be an opportune time at the moment for the Minister to consider the possible appointment to the Tribunal of temporary members so that we do not have an over-work load for the present members of the Tribunal. More importantly we should not have a situation where the fate of" the licence for a radio or television station- whether it be commercial, public or FM- could hang on the whim of one member of the Tribunal. I think it is important that there be more than one member at any public hearing. Perhaps the appointment of part-time people to the Tribunal could help overcome that situation. 
The third area at which I would like to look this evening is the very vexed area of citizen band radio. On a number of occasions I have spoken in the House about the problems of CB radio. Unfortunately, those problems are still very much with us. One hopes that there can be a continued co-ordination of effort by the Minister for Post and Telecommunications and the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  into controlling just what type of equipment is coming into this country. Despite the fact that CB radio sets have to be Licensed we still find substandard equipment is being sold on the market. Many people who operate CB radio unfortunately are not taking terribly much notice of the licensing provisions. I understand from my investigations that the renewal rate of CB licences is in the area of 25 per cent. I wonder whether we got anywhere near the 100 per cent licensing figure when those licences first came in last year. 
Recently the Minister at a conference in Hobart foreshadowed some changes to the regulations that govern the use of citizen band radio. He said one thing which on the surface has a lot of potential. I hope that later in the debate he may be able to explain the situation a little bit better to us. The situation is that in future there is a possibility that one licence may be issued for up to five sets. The only matter that worries me in that regard is the control of the spectrum. It would seem to me it is going to be very hard indeed for the licensing inspectors to have any control over a situation where five sets are available off that one licence; where just a mere sticker on a set is enough to say that that set is legal. I believe it is going to open up a whole nest of problems once again and in an area so precious as the frequency spectrum perhaps we should have greater control than that. I believe that we have lost control of CB radio. I do not quite know how we are going to get that control back without a massive increase in the number of radio inspectors. Their task is not an enviable one at the moment. It would probably take hundreds and hundreds of inspectors scattered around the country to bring the CB radio problem under control. 
The other matter that I believe must be cracked down upon most fiercely is the conversion of CB radio sets; this is certainly going on. A number of newspapers and publications advertise quite blatantly that certain firms and companies- especially in Sydney- will undertake to convert a normal CB radio set from its original number of channels up to 40 channels and beyond 40 channels. One even mentioned introducing 400 channels. I understand from my conversations with the Wireless Institute of Australia that there are sets operating at the moment in Australia which have opened up to 800 channels. I do not know how the devil we are going to get any control over that sort of situation. Quite frankly, CB radio is developing into an awful mess in Australia. I think it is a sad situation when we have to admit that the Australian CB radio operator is probably not as responsible as his counterpart in the United States of America. We know what tremendous problems the United States has had, but it seems to be getting worse and worse here. I have listened to some of the monitoring tapes that have been made of CB radio operators who are not operating just in the neighbourhood or indeed within their State or across Australia but internationally, which is a problem. Perhaps it makes us appear rather stupid on the world scene. Some of the material they are operating, with, the phone jacks that they are using in other countries to get themselves patched through all over the world, causes a great problem indeed. I think a great deal more investigation must be carried out very soon if we are to have any semblance of control over the particular spectrum that is involved. 

 Mr FitzPATRICK (Riverina) (4.57)-In dealing with the estimates for the Postal and Telecommunications Department, whichever way one looks at the Budget- whether it is in relation to the estimates for primary industry or roads and transport or any other estimate- one is hard pressed to find any joy for primary producers, miners and other people who live in inland Australia. As the honourable member for Grey  (Mr Wallis)  has so eloquently pointed out, nothing has caused greater concern to these people than the lack of proper television services, telephones and postal deliveries. Although the Government has acknowledged so often that these matters are important, it seems to have done very little about these matters. It appears to me that these matters have been neglected in this Budget. Yet, as the honourable member for Grey has pointed out, the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Staley)  and the Government are well aware of the importance of communication to people living in inland Australia. The honourable member for Grey, and other members with country seats, have pointed out that the lack of television is continually being brought to their attention. It seems to me that the Government refuses to provide a standard that it could well afford. 
I am concerned on another matter that the honourable member for Grey has raised tonight, which is that the Government has found a new dodge to escape from the people's cry for justice with regard to the provision of television and proper telephone services. We have now a dim promise that some time in the distant future we will have a national communications satellite and that this Will solve the communications problems for people living in isolated areas and that television and telephone services will be provided at a greatly reduced cost. An examination of the reports would indicate that nothing is further from the truth. I refer to Telecom's submission in January 1978 to the Government's Task Force on A National Communication Satellite System. At page 22 it states: 
Service implications 
Remote area telecommunications (including TV reception). 
Estimates suggest that there are about 5,000 isolated homesteads and some 40-50 isolated communities- mainly Aboriginal and Islander settlements- without telephone service and which it would be very difficult and expensive to provide with telephone service by normal terrestrial techniques. Satellite technology could provide a full range of telecommunications service in such localities although the cost would be substantial. Assuming the provision of such services in 5,000 locations, the capital cost has been estimated to be of the order of $40,000 per subscriber$20,000 for the ground equipment and $20,000 for each subscriber's share of the space requirement, main control stations, et cetera. 
The question is this: Who is going to provide the $40,000 for each of the 5,000 isolated homesteads, which of course amounts to a total of $200m? We have heard that  Mr Packer  may be interested in providing a satellite. However, I think he would be more interested in providing this service to Sydney or Melbourne than he would be in providing it to these 5,000 isolated homesteads. 
In May I asked the Minister a question regarding the extension of television coverage in the western division of New South Wales and, in particular, to Wilcannia and Ivanhoe. I am still waiting for the Minister to send me the letter he promised and a firm statement on when this work will commence. The people in my electorate have waited for too long already for television. The dim promise of a national communications satellite in the future is not good enough. If this satellite is possible, let us have it by all means, but if we examine Telecom's performance we would be foolish to think it would provide it at this cost to the isolated areas. Two cases in my electorate point in the opposite direction. I refer to the Pan Ban-Pooncarie area where the settlers and primary producers lost all their telephone lines in a bushfire. I now refer to the minutes of a meeting of telephone subscribers from that area. It was held on 3 August 1978. One paragraph in particular gives some idea of how they look at things. The paragraph states: 
The meeting reconvened at 3.10 p.m. and questions arising from the subscribers' discussions were answered. Members of the group had budgeted for the 1 97S payments arrangements and had sought disaster relief through Lieutenant-Colonel Sullivan, M.P. When no bills were received they had assumed help had been given to them. They would now have to budget again as all were recovering from the recent drought in the area. 
The people have gone through a bushfire and have gone through a drought, and Telecom seems to be putting the pressure on them. I ask the Minister to look at that matter to see whether some assistance can be given to these people. 
The next case is the one with which the Minister is more familiar. It relates to the AnaranchWentworth area. The fact is that since 1911 the people have privately erected and maintained the telephone connections to the exchange at Wentworth. The telephone lines provided a good service. However, the New South Wales Electricity Commission decided to erect a 220 kv power line from Redcliff to Broken Hill, to be phased in in February 1979. The residents met the Electricity Commission and in February 1977 agreed to allow the Commission access to their properties provided no interference occurred to existing services or facilities, including telephone facilities. Everyone in that area was very surprised and hostile to hear a radio announcement in July 1977 that the existing single earth return telephone lines would be rendered useless by the energising of the New South Wales Electricity Commission power line. Alarm expressed by these people to the Commission was passed on to Telecom which, unfortunately, had assured the Electricity Commission that it had no objection to the power line route selected. 
The subscribers in the area were bulldozed into making a decision. They had a choice between being included in the new service or being disconnected. In some cases, and through no fault of their own, they were forced to pay another $16,960. They already had a service. It was because the New South Wales Electricity Commission and Telecom had agreed that the line could go there that their line was declared obsolete. These subscribers were told that they could make an alternative payment of $500 annual rental for 10 years but there was no guarantee that the rental would not be increased at the end of that time. I led a delegation to see the Minister for Post and Telecommunications about this matter. He was very courteous- he is a very charming chap to meet- but he still has not given us any undertaking in writing that this will not be the case and that the $500 rental, or part of it, will come off the principal. The people are still waiting on a letter from the Minister. I have raised this matter tonight to ensure that he does not forget it. 
Surely the Commission has some responsibility to recompense these subscribers for the cost of the present systems, which are still in operation. These systems have been termed substandard by Telecom but no alternative was offered at the time of their erection or updating when it was essential for these subscribers to have a telephone service. These privately-owned sections, some of them up to 70 miles in length, no doubt will have to be pulled down at great expense to the property owners. These people are now saying that it was a false promise, and I think it was, that was bandied about in regard to a satellite communications system and they ask whether the present system used for the Anabranch Exchange will in turn be classed as obsolete once this telecommunications satellite system becomes available. 
The DEPUTY  CHAIRMAN  (Mr Jarman)- 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Sitting suspended from 5.58 to 8 p.m. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 19 September 1978: 
1 ) When was the last updating of the Qantas logo and aircraft livery. 
How often are these designs and colour schemes reviewed. 
) When is the next review scheduled. 
What is the estimated cost of conversion to new livery for the Qantas aircraft fleet. 
Has the planned changeover to a green and gold colour scheme suggested in 1 975 been abandoned. 
asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce upon notice, on 19 September 1978: 
1 ) What are the locations of overseas offices of the Australian Tourist Commission. 
In what year was each of these offices established. 
How many staff were employed at each office (a) on formation, and (b) at 30 June 1 978. 
Have any overseas offices been closed since 1970; if so, what were their locations. 
asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce upon notice, on 19 September 1978: 
1 ) How many staff, by designation, have been employed by the Australian Tourist Commission during the years 1 970 to 1978. 
What was the staff ceiling of the Commission as at 30 June 1978. 
What is the proposed staff ceiling for 1978-79. 
Will any projected adjustment be made in overseas offices; if so, at which offices. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 27 September 1 978: 
Does the present contract between the Avis RentACar System Pty Ltd and his Department which expires in 1979, cover all airports in Australia, including those designated as locally-owned. 
If not, which airports are now designated as being locally-owned and which car rental companies have a contract to operate at those airports. 
If no contracts are available at locally-owned airports, which car rental companies service each airport. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 16 August 1978: 
What sum has been spent on the implementation of Telecom 's Confravision system in Australia. 
How many conferences have used this facility since its inception. 
Is the system still being used; if not, why not. 
-The Airline Equipment (Loan Guarantee) Bill (No. 2) has one prime purpose and that is to guarantee adherence raising of $1 1.21m by Ansett Transport Industries (Operations) Pty Ltd to buy a new 727-200 200 series aircraft. However, the contribution to the debate this afternoon of the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris)  has certainly ranged over fields a lot broader than the particular confines of the Bill. It is probably worth debating with him some of the aspects that he has raised. I was interested to hear his expressed concern about the high cost of domestic air fares in Australia. I think that most members of this House share this concern. 
I think it is true to say that over the years the two-airline agreement has brought both major domestic carriers into a rather cocoon-like arrangement whereby a lot of the competition in the airline industry has been cut out. Perhaps with the reviews that are being conducted and the initiatives that are being taken we may see some opening up of competition in those areas. It is true to say that the high level of domestic air fares in Australia compares with the high air fares elsewhere in the world. In fact, some people are paying higher fares. I look particularly at the intra-Europe fares, which on paper are higher than ours. Certainly the straight domestic fares in the United States are higher than ours. But very few people in the countries involved pay a scheduled fare. We in this country have had no opportunity in the past to take advantage of excursion fares domestically or, indeed, any special fares. 
The other day the air fare between England and Scandinavia was suddenly dropped to 49 sterling whereas previously it had been 179 sterling. That apparently was the last bastion of the high air fare regime in Europe. Scandinavia was about the only place that did not have a special arrangement with England for special low fares. We have not had that opportunity in Australia. We are one of the few developed nations that have not had access to these cheaper fares internally. 
It is an amazing situation when an airline like Pan American Airways can sell a roundtheworld air fare for a little over $1,000. A constituent of mine brought this matter to my attention the other day and I have written to the Minsiter for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  about it. That fare entitled him to go from city to city through the various countries, making stopovers wherever he wanted to go. He decided he would return through Perth and stop over there. He thought also he would like to go to Adelaide and then fly back to Brisbane. He left the aircraft at Perth and then found that he was up for another $500 or $600 because Australia was the only country he visited in which that particular type of ticket did not apply. That is a case involving an Australian, but many world travellers have this same problem. It is to these areas that I think we must look if we are to open up more the whole range of domestic air fares so that we can make Australia an attractive place to which people can come, where tourists are encouraged to use our facilities in moving around our country, in learning about exactly what we have and what we are all about, and thereby making a very vital contribution to our economy. 
Of course, we have to consider distances within Australia and the scattered population. But there are other features to be considered also. That takes me back to my very first statement when I wondered whether the major domestic airlines are in fact competitive enough. So far some five Asian carriers have taken advantage of big bodied aircraft to be used domestically around Asia. Yet we still have not seen, publicly anyway, any move by the Australian domestic carriers into wide bodied jets for use on our domestic routes. These aircraft are very efficient. The old 100 series of the 727s form the basis of the fleets of the two major carriers in Australia. I understand that the two 727- 100s offered to the Government had in excess of 40,000 hours on the clock. In fact, they were the most used 727-100 series aircraft anywhere in the world. One of those aircraft is tied up with defence matters in Melbourne at the moment. The original DC9s have in excess of 30,000 hours on the clock. They are just not efficient aircraft any longer. 
This move is being made to purchase yet another 727-200 series aircraft which, after all, has been a most successful aircraft and is a more efficient aircraft than the old 727-100 series aircraft. But we could still get greater economies of scale, I believe, out of the wide bodied equipment. Perhaps we should look at the possibility of purchasing that sort of aircraft, whether it be the Airbus, perhaps the new Boeing aircraft- the 757 or the 767- or whatever it may be. The arguments against the purchase of those aircraft are concerned with the utilisation of them. One point always thrown up by the domestic carriers is the problems that they encounter with curfews. But an aircraft such as the Airbus is quieter than those presently operating in Australia. In some areas there may be room to relax the curfews slightly for that type of aircraft. People say that the use of those aircraft could result in a reduction in services. Maybe that is a sacrifice that we have to make if wide bodied aircraft are to be used on the major trunk routes between Melbourne, Sydney and Brisbane. Perhaps that sacrifice should be made to get greater economy of scale and greater utilisation of that type of aircraft. Wide bodied aircraft would help to relieve the congestion at places like Sydney, which is of particular concern to a number of honourable members in this place. 
One wonders what will happen if finally the domestic carriers decide to make a purchase. They have given no indication as to whether they want to go to the production line now. How much longer will the Australian travelling public have to wait until they have access to that type of aircraft? Such aircraft do not come off the end of an assembly line within a week of an order being placed. Indeed, there would be a wait of some years before their coming into operation was a feasible proposition. 
I know that later this week we will be debating legislation which seeks to increase air navigation charges. During the time that I spent serving on the House of Representatives Select Committee on Tourism it was very interesting to see some of the propositions that were put up in that area by the domestic carriers. It was stated at one of the public hearings, by Ansett I believe, that the Government charges now comprise more than 20 per cent of the cost of a domestic airline ticket. That is quite a considerable sum. I suppose we could get ourselves into all sorts of arguments about whether or not we should adopt completely the user pays principle or whether the Australian taxpayer should provide a higher subsidy. But 20 per cent of the cost of a domestic airline ticket going to the Government in tax is quite a sizable amount indeed. That is an academic argument but surely it is one area at which we could be looking in trying to reduce the cost of domestic air fares in Australia. 
Another area is that of competition. That same Committee heard stories of the third line operators such as East- West Airlines pioneering new routes with new fares. Two examples cited were the Sydney to Alice Springs direct service and the Sydney to Hobart weekend service by East- West Airlines. When it started operating on those routes it provided a promotional fare which was very much cheaper than the scheduled fare by the two major carriers. What happened? It built up the traffic on those routes and, virtually unheralded and unaccounced, the two major domestic carriers moved in on top. They went into competition with it on the fare and virtually drove it off the route. 
I suppose that brings me to the point that was made by the honourable member for Shortland about the certain air of secrecy that seems to occur in the making of Australian domestic and international civil aviation policy. One of the recommendations contained in the report from the Select Committee on Tourism was that there should be greater input into aviation policy from all sections of the community but especially from the tourist industry. Whether it be the private sector of the industry or even the Australian Tourist Commission- the Government body that is involved so much in the promotion of Australian tourism- they would not have a clue about what goes on behind the closed doors of those meetings. The Department of Transport can come to a public nearing and say quite openly: 'Yes, we consult these bodies'. We had representatives of the Australian Tourist Commission before the Committee and they said: Well, we think it is in the Act but they never talk to us'. I think that it is a disgusting situation that our major tourist organisation- the Australian Tourist Commission- is not having some input into what will happen in the future in relation to tourism, because whether we like it or not the international aviation component and the domestic aviation component are very vital parts of the future of tourism in Australia. 
Many good noises have been made in recent months by the Government about the future of tourism. We can only hope that we can achieve co-operation through the Department of Industry and Commerce, the Australian Tourist Commission and the Department of Transport. Those bodies should sit down and discuss quite openly exactly what our future lines must be if we are to be fair dinkum, to use a colloquialism, about boosting the tourist industry, about getting people to Australia, travelling around Australia and looking at what is here so that eventually we can benefit. It worries me when we read in the Press that we can expect another 5 per cent increase in air fares before the end of the year. I would not be at all surprised if that 5 per cent increase, which was predicted by Trans-Australia Airlines, is brought into effect early next week after the Bill to amend the air navigation charges goes through the Parliament later this week. 
I was interested to hear the comments of the honourable member for Shortland regarding the standby fares. He was wondering what will happen over the Christmas holidays. I will tell him what will happen over the Christmas holidays. It was announced this morning that the standby fares will be discontinued on 15 December for the Christmas-New Year period. In actual fact, nobody will be eligible for the standby fare. So once again the airlines will get full advantage of the top dollar fare. It is true that the holiday period is a peak period and maybe there are not too many seats available. But it is something of a farce, I believe, that at a time of goodwill, when people are trying to get around Australia to see relatives, when people are trying to get away on their annual holidays at the cheapest possible rate, for the convenience of the airlines- I am sure for nobody else- those particular fares are not available. 
I was very pleased indeed to hear the Minister say in the House this afternoon that we will all get a shock in relation to future international air fares. I wonder what brought that about, because there was an announcement in Geneva yesterday our time by the International Air Transport Association. From a position of being a highly regularised industry throughout the world, all of a sudden we find IATA coming out and saying that all its member airlines may fix their own fares. That is a massive departure from the situation in the past. I would like to hear the Minister's comments on this statement by IATA because Qantas Airways Ltd, of course, is a party to these arrangements. What will happen in relation to the negotiations that Australia is undertaking at the moment with the Europeans and the Americans? Will it mean that so many of the negotiations that have been held so far virtually will be out the window? Will we have to start again the debate on cheaper air fares? If the IATA carriers can set their own fares, I am sure that there will be some interesting fare combinations on indirect routes between Australia and London. There could be a very great advantage for the Australian travelling public. Quite frankly I think the Australian travelling public deserve a little better than they have had in the past. I believe that for at least five years and probably 10 years, international travellers to and from Australia have been ripped off by the scheduled carriers. There is no doubt that Australian air fares have been high. We can talk about per kilometre charges, but we look at the facts and look at the structure of the air fares, particularly for routes such as those between Japan and Australia, it is clear that we have been paying incredibly high rates indeed. 
I have said in this House before that the new arrangements with the British Government certainly go part of the way towards creating a cheaper fare regime. The fact is that the base fare that is being talked about at the moment operates for only three weeks of the year. What we are really talking about is a $900 fare which operates in the popular times, when people want to travel. When the advance purchase fares were introduced there was a small increase in the number of people who flew in off-season months. In fact the major increase in traffic happened in the peak months even though the fare was higher. Exactly the same thing is going to happen with this new fare structure. If the fare is $930 in the peak months when people are travelling, we should be saying that the new fare we have introduced is really a $930 fare, not a $568 fare at all. Sure, there will be a percentage of people travelling in the winter months to Europe at $568, but at most times people will have to pay a higher fare. 
As the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris)  said, for someone who walks in off the street and says he has to go to London in a hurry, it is $1,400. It is an increase in the fare. The person travelling on a normal full economy ticket has got an increase in his fare. The first class passenger will have a massive increase in his fare as well. The fares certainly provide for the lower end of the market but there will be very many travellers indeed, travelling to and from Australia, paying increased fares under this new regime unless what the Minister says is true, that there is to be some shock statement coming up in the near future about aviation charges to and from Australia. 
I only hope that the Australian travelling public does have the advantage of the cheapest possible fare to get out of the country and, more importantly, that people overseas have the advantage of a competitive fare to come to Australia. Australia is little enough known overseas as it is at the moment. We have to give every possible incentive to tourists to come here. There has been criticism of Qantas Airways Ltd in the past on its overseas promotional activities. We know the difficulty that the Australian Tourist Commission has had over the last 10 years with funding, trying to promote Australia with small budgets in areas such as Europe, Britain, Japan and especially the United States of America, where advertising expenses are astronomical. We need every little incentive we can possibly use to try to get people to travel to Australia now. 
Going back to the House of Representatives Select Committee on Tourism, I think one of the most attractive propositions that  Sir Freddie  Laker put up to the Committee was that he was prepared to promote Australia and to promote a package tour to Australia as part of the new fare regime. Obviously that must hold a great deal of attraction for operators in the Australian tourist industry who may get some benefit out of that particular type of situation. What  Sir Lenox  Hewitt said in one of his statements is quite true, that certainly if you gave the tickets away overseas to bring people here they possibly still would not come, because the cost of domestic travel is too high. There is some truth in that. One hopes that now we have got a start on stand-by fares and the rest, there will be a completely new attitude coming into the structure of Australian domestic aviation fares so that we can take advantage, as was said earlier, of people moving around the country. 
The new 727-200 that is to be purchased by Ansett will clearly be a more efficient aircraft. It is certainly time that the two major carriers came clean and came forward with just what are their future intentions on the wide-bodied aircraft. 
The economies of it have certainly been proved. The availability is there for more seats at a cheaper rate; it is going to be an incentive for more people to travel. We have already seen evidence that many of the people taking advantage of the stand-by fares would not normally be airline travellers; they would find some other method. If it can be an added contribution to the income of the airlines, income that they would not necessarily have had before, it will make for greater economies of scale. 
Deregulation seems to be the word worldwide. Deregulation, despite what some people have said in this House, has not been terribly unsuccessful in the United States. If you look through the balance sheets of airlines such as Delta, you will see that at the moment they are having record years. The airlines put it down to two factors. One factor is the bodies in seats once again. They are getting the utilisation of their aircraft. The second factor is the up-to-date wide bodied efficient equipment. Possibly we have a lot to learn from the concept of deregulation, allowing the industry to find its own fare level in some areas, bringing in wide-bodied efficient aircraft which would give us the space to be able to involve more people who would not normally be travelling with an airline, and in fact generating new revenue that the airlines say they so badly need. I support the Bill for the new 727, but I do believe that it is about time the domestic airlines had a very close look at their operations. With the co-operation of the tourist industry and the various government departments, they should see exactly what they can do to provide more economic and cheaper domestic airline travel for the good of all Australians. 
I congratulate the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Stewart)  for his contribution tonight. So far as the Australian Broadcasting Commission Staff Association ban is concerned, I would really like to know just what laws have been breached and whether any action can be taken. But that is not my purpose in rising tonight. One ofthe greatest freedoms that we enjoy in Australia is religious freedom- the right to worship as we see fit. Consequently the subject I am approaching tonight is probably quite a delicate one. It concerns an organisation called the Worldwide Church of God. I have been approached on two separate occasions by two different constituents in my electorate about problems that they or relatives of theirs have been having with this particular organisation in Australia. My research indicates that the Worldwide Church of God is based in California. It is headed by Herbert W. Armstrong and is well known to Australian radio listeners and television viewers through the appearance of his son, Garner Ted Armstrong, who 
I believe has regular radio features and television features around Australia. I understand that Herbert W. Armstrong started the sect in the 1920s after he had gone bankrupt as some form of advertising agent in the United States. He had an allocation of some time on a small commercial radio station there and went into the business of religion. From my latest research that religious organisation is now a $60m a year business. The organisation has been operating in Australia for some time. I understand that about 7,500 people attach themselves to the Worldwide Church of God. Many of the people who seem to be attracted by this organisation seem, to me anyway- and from the research into this organisation in the United States the same would apply there- to be some of the elderly in our community and some of those who are not terribly well to do. 
The point that I raise tonight is the system that is used by this organisation in raising funds. It is not uncommon for religious denominations to use the system of tithing for their fund raising campaigns. It would seem that  Mr Garner  Ted Armstrong, who conducts radio and television programs, makes an appeal at the end of each program to write to a rather anonymous Post Office box number in Sydney for free literature and a free magazine called the  Plain Truth Magazine.  It is Post Office Box 345, Sydney. 
I have not been able to find out the office address of the Worldwide Church of God, but I understand it is established at North Sydney. When signing off a program, Garner Ted Armstrong suggests that people write to this Post Office box number to receive their free copy of the  Plain Truth Magazine.  Inside that magazine there is just a small notation which says: 'The subscription to this publication has been paid for by a friend'. This seems to be the start of the psychology. Once a donation is made to that organisation it is followed up with a thank you letter, but if two donations are made within a six-month period the organisation then contacts the person involved and in a not terribly subtle way suggests that the person might like to tithe. After this goes on for a little while the person is asked to make another tithe, but the ultimate of course for members to be fully accepted into this organisation is to pledge some 30 per cent of their gross income. For pensioners that is a considerable amount. 
The two cases in my electorate involve people who were trying to get themselves or their relatives out of this tithe system because frankly they could not afford to pay. I do not know what hold this organisation has on its clients, if we can call them that, but they find it very difficult indeed to get out of this tithing organisation. As I said, it is a $60m a year industry. It operates psuedo colleges in the United States in Pasadena and another place and also in England. Quite recently the organisation set up an ambassador college at Burleigh Heads on the Gold Coast in Queensland. At all these three places there are magnificent structures with most expensive fittings. Herbert W. Armstrong and his son Garner Ted Armstrong both operate private jets in which they manage to get around the world quite frequently. A recent investigation in the United States would indicate that a balance sheet of this organisation has never really been published despite the fact that it turns over some $60m a year. 
Not to my knowledge. My purpose tonight is not to condemn this organisation out of hand. It is to warn people to be very careful about getting themselves involved in an organisation such as this which I do not believe has really shown its true credentials. 
-Prior to the suspension of the sittings for dinner we heard the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris)  outline some of the details involved in the Air Navigation (Charges) Amendment Bill which we are discussing in the House tonight. He spoke of the high cost of the aviation recovery program to the Australian traveller. Of course this piece of legislation, which increases air navigation charges by 15 per cent, is a result of the Government's Budget initiatives. In the few minutes available to us this evening I think it is worth while following the points that the honourable member was making about the high cost of domestic travel. He cited air navigation charges as one component of the high cost of domestic travel. 
In a debate in the House just last week I said that I expected an application to be made for an increase in domestic air fares shortly and that we could probably expect an increase in air fares of something like 5 per cent before Christmas. But I think it should be pointed out that air navigation charges account for only about 4.5 per cent of the total cost of the operation of domestic airlines. If we are to be serious about reducing the high cost of internal travel in Australia we should look at a number of other areas, especially considering the introduction of low overseas fares that will start in Australia- following the announcement by the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  todayprobably from 1 February next year. 
A combination of factors contribute to the high level of domestic air fares in Australia. I named some of them last week. I mentioned that curfews are a problem and that full utilisation of domestic aircraft cannot be made in Australia because of the curfews that operate at Brisbane, Sydney and Adelaide airports in particular. With the introduction of quieter aircraft the situation could be monitored to allow nights late at night and early in the morning to be introduced to help pick up the slack and to provide cheaper air fares in that way. But more than just curfews is involved, such as the use of wide-bodied equipment. I am glad to see that the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  is in the chamber tonight and that he will participate in this debate. He agreed with me last week in his contribution to the same debate. He said that it was about time that domestic carriers took the initiative to introduce wide-bodied equipment into Australia with the consequent savings that could be made by Australian air travellers. There are some other glaring examples of what could be done and what contributes to the high cost of domestic fares. This is well pointed out in the report of the House of Representatives Select Committee on Tourism that was presented to the House just a couple of weeks ago. 
The honourable member for Grayndler made a real contribution to that report. I am glad that he is in the House tonight for the debate. Some examples were given in the report which may not be generally known, and indeed have not been pointed out in this debate, and which go to contribute to high air fares. For example, I refer to the case of the taxation treatment of the domestic airline carriers concerning leasehold improvement to their property at airports. At present the airlines and other airport users are not allowed to claim the amortisation of leasehold improvements at Commonwealth airports as a taxation deduction. Because of the shortage of Commonwealth funds increasing numbers of buildings at airports are being financed and built by the aviation industry on land leased from the Commonwealth. These buildings are erected at every aerodrome but they cannot be sold or converted to alternative use. Furthermore, the leases are usually for only short terms of about 10 years duration. Obviously this must be a real contributing factor to the composition of the domestic air fare, one that is helping to make it an expensive proposition. 
I believe that overall the Government takes about 20 per cent of any domestic fare in some form of taxation or Government charge. We cannot really argue that we should reduce that or throw it out altogether. But if we look at this question and take measures which could be added to the initiatives that have been suggested in the domestic aviation review we certainly should be able to go part of the way to providing cheaper travel for the people of Australia and, more importantly, for the international visitors who will come here as a result of the innovations the Government has brought in with international air fare reductions. One can only hope that the numbers of international travellers who will be visiting Australia next year will increase considerably. I for one certainly do not support the claim by the Australian National Travel Association that the new cheap international air fares will only draw people out of Australia. 
I believe that we will have a boom in international travel in coming years. We will see big increases in visitors, especially from the United States of America, Japan and Europe. The annual report of the Australian Tourist Commission was presented in the House this afternoon. It pointed out that there has been record growth in traffic, especially from Europe, United Kingdom and Ireland. That is a healthy sign. Since 1973 we have seen a decline in the number of visitors coming to Australia from the United States of America but with a $450 excursion fare I am sure that that situation can be overcome. Perhaps we should concentrate a little more on the overall prospects for cheaper air fares and some of the benefits this could have. 
In the past year or 18 months we have seen innovative air fares introduced on American domestic trunk routes and there has been much de-regulation of the pricing of those fares. Although some people are terribly critical of this I think the facts probably speak for themselves. In the first 12 months of the operation of these new fares in the United States American Airlines, one of the big carriers, recorded a 71 per cent lift in net income as a result of the excursion fares available. Overall, revenue passenger miles in the United States were more than 20 per cent higher in the first quarter of this year than in 1977. Airlines such as Delta Air Lines and Continental Airlines Inc. have upgraded their fleets. They have introduced wide-bodied equipment and excursion fares. They have had incredible growth rates in profits ranging from between 6 to 18 per cent. The increase in passengers carried has been much higher. These facts all point out the great need to implement many of the recommendations of the civil aviation review which will help more people travel around Australia. 
The high cost of providing airport services is a real problem. That has been shown by the studies of the  Major Airport  Needs of Sydney Committee and the projected cost of the new international airport in Brisbane. Already work is under way on Perth airport. This is incredibly expensive. But more and more people will be travelling and we must have those faculties to handle the increased numbers of both international and domestic tourists in Australia. On Saturday in Brisbane the Minister for Transport opened the cross river rail link. While in the city he inspected the site of the new Brisbane international airport to have talks with a number of people involved with the project At long last we got an indication that things might be rolling. I congratulate the Minister here tonight on his statement to the Press in Brisbane last Saturday afternoon in which he said that we would see bulldozers on the site of the new Brisbane airport by early 1980, that much of the preliminary work is getting under way, that part one of that airport certainly would be constructed at least by 1986, and that section two hopefully would be constructed by the end of that decade. 
That was the first real indication from the Minister that we would see some action in that area. I suppose that the case of Brisbane airport is just one that points up a number of problems involving wide-bodied equipment and the large numbers of people who will come into and circulate around Australia in the years to come. We must have the capacity to be able to service them. Cheap fares must involve a minimum number of stops and a maximum number of people on wide-bodied equipment. Obviously an airport such as Brisbane- which is most sensitive, being in the middle of the tourist State of Australianeeds to have facilities to be able to handle the people involved. I thank the Minister for making those statements and giving the commitment that we will see bulldozers on the site of the Brisbane international airport in 1980. 
The honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris)  also mentioned the problem in the far western areas of Queensland with the proposal by Trans-Australia Airlines to cease some of its services currently operating. This once again points to the need for a very close examination of the type of equipment that is being operated by the domestic airlines at the moment. The Fokker Friendship aircraft- a most incredible aircraftsince 1959 has provided a very good service. I understand at the moment that approximately 38 passengers must travel on each Fokker Friendship flight for the cost of operating that flight to be met. It is not the efficient aircraft that it has been made out to be. Although one can feel very great pity for some of the people in western Queensland because they will lose some of those services that TAA presently provides, it probably makes a lot more sense if we look at the rationalisation of some of the services that frankly have not been and cannot be fully patronised in those areas. Bush Pilots Airways, a northern Queensland airline, has already indicated that it is interested in taking over some of those services. Certainly in areas in which it has been operating, particularly in the far north of 
Queensland, it has provided a very real service for the people in as far flung areas. Although not being able to travel to and from the capital city or to the coast on a Fokker Friendship aircraft may be a bitter pill for the people of western Queensland to swallow, perhaps it is one of the sacrifices they have to make. If an efficient service and a more regular service can be provided by organisations such as Bush Pilots Airways using smaller aircraft, at least the people will have that very necessary means of communication to and from the capital city and to and from the coast. 
As I said earlier, this piece of legislation effects the Government's Budget proposals that were brought down in August. It is an annual charge. It is a charge that will help recover a little more of the incredible costs associated with civil aviation in this country. But I do insist and point out once again that everyone involved in aviation, whether it be from the Government's point of view or from industry itself, will have to make some very close examinations in the near future if we are to maintain the efficiency of our domestic airline services and if we are going to be price competitive with our domestic airline services, especially in light of the moves that have been made on the international scene. Perhaps the initiatives on the international scene may in fact force the domestic carriers into making these examinations and providing a much cheaper and a much more efficient form of travel for the people of Australia as well as our overseas visitors. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 9 November 1978. 
How many persons have been deported from Australia during 1978. 
For what reasons were these deportations made and how many persons fell into each of these categories. 
asked the Minister, representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 9 November 1978: 
1 ) How many persons in the Electoral Division of Bowman receive (a) aged, (b) widows and (c) supporting parents pensions. 
What is the estimated cost to the Government of these pensions during 1978-79. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 6 April 1 978: 
1 ) What grants have been made, directly or indirectly by government departments and instrumentalities to individuals, groups, societies and associations in respect of public broadcasting, including the establishment and operation of public broadcasting stations, since 1 July1975. 
What is the estimated value of (a) overhead costs incurred and (b) salaries paid to academic, professional and technical staff employed in universities, tertiary institutions and colleges of advanced education in respect of public broadcasting during the1977 academic year. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 10 October 1978: 
How many licences were issued for citizen band radio sets during 1977-78. 
What was the estimated amount of revenue received by the Government from the licence fees during this first year of licensing. 
How many licences had been renewed as at 30 September 1978. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 19 October 1978: 
1 ) What quantity of (a) fresh and (b) frozen strawberries were imported into Australia during (i) 1976-77 (ii) 1977-78 and (iii) the period 1 July, 1 978 to date. 
From which countries were these strawberries imported and what was the value of the imports for each year and period. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 19 September 1978: 
1 ) Which charter operators have applied for rights to and from Australia since 1 969. 
What were the dates of these applications. 
What was the date registered for the formation of the Qantas subsidiary Qantair. 
It is true that the amendments that are before the House today have been introduced to tighten up aspects of the Broadcasting and Television Act which has caused difficulty in the staging of public hearings for the renewal of licences over recent months. I too welcome these amendments which are certainly going to make things a lot easier than they have been in the past. I think the amendment relating to the lodgement of renewals with the Tribunal rather than with the Minister is one to be commended. Previously, in the days of the old Australian Broadcasting Control Board, the applications went to that Board. I think the industry is probably also at fault in not reading some of the rules and regulations in the right way and in posting the applications to the Tribunals as a matter of expediency. The passing of this Bill will certainly overcome this problem. There will be a number of public licence hearings coming up in the course of the next few weeks. I was very interested to follow closely the public hearings that were conducted recently in Adelaide for the renewal of commercial television licences. I think anyone who followed those public hearings could not help feeling some concern at what was happening. If we read the Act and consider what happened in Adelaide I am sure we will acknowledge that there are many problems and many bugs that must be ironed out of the Act so that the industry can operate completely and utterly to everyone 's satisfaction. 
I noted at these hearings the fact that although the Act provides that where in the opinion of the Tribunal licence holders who have not breached the law can have their licences automatically renewed, this did not necessarily happen in the case of the Adelaide television station. The other thing that was of particular concern to me at the Adelaide hearings was the fact that members of the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal seemed to take a lot of submissions from the floor. I wonder whether the Act should be tightened specifically so that if people want to make submissions they will have to be made in writing under the same terms and the same conditions as the television stations that lodge their renewal applications. Giving submissions from the floor caused a great deal of heartache for some of the witnesses who appeared before that Tribunal. Also I would like to voice some criticism of some members of the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal for the way in which they conducted themselves at the public hearings. 
After looking very closely at some of the transcripts of the hearings I wonder whether some members of the Tribunal were in breach of the Act because of some of the questions they posed and some of the allegations they made against the people who appeared on behalf of the television stations that were seeking to have their licences renewed. I know that a lot of the members of the television stations expressed concern at the way in which those hearings were conducted. I think the last thing we would ever want to see with this form of renewing television licences is a major legal battle. If the type of behaviour that was displayed in Adelaide is any indication, one can see that at future major hearings representatives, whether they be of commercial television stations, commercial radio stations or indeed the public broadcasting sector, will have to have legal counsel to work out their rights. 
Indeed I would believe that if that was the case members of the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal would have to have legal counsel as well. One could imagine that these public hearings could well develop into a major legal battle going on for days, weeks and months at a time. This disturbs me because this certainly is not in the spirit of the Act as it stands at the moment. I think we all applauded the fact that the public had an input into radio and television in Australia with the implementation of the new Act. It would be a very great shame indeed if that input was lost because of the nature of the conduct of the particular hearings and in fact if these legal battles raged in the cases of some of the major licence renewals that will be held in coming months. 
The other point which concerned me and which seemed quite obvious was that the members of the Austraiian Broadcasting Tribunal, when they began the hearings in Adelaide, really did not have too many clues as to exactly the form that the hearings should take. It would seem that not enough preparation was done, whether by members of the Tribunal or members of the department concerned, in having the members completely briefed on what their role was to be. Another criticism that was voiced was the fact that the industry could not obtain official forms on which to make their applications from the Postal and Telecommunications Department even though their applications were filed on time. Obviously this matter will be cleared up now but we must express concern if this type of thing is to go on within the operation of government. In coming months there will be quite a number of public hearings for the renewal of radio and television station licences. I wonder if all members of the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal should be expected to undertake all those hearings. Even if two members at a time go to the different centres the work load will be quite incredible if the hearings in Adelaide were any indication. I believe that there could be quite a good case made out for the establishment of part-time member positions of the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal to overcome that work load. It is a most extensive industry. A lot of technological development is taking place at the moment and there is a lot of work for the Tribunal to do. There are a number of areas in which I think some action should be taken very soon indeed. 
One of the areas that I think is well worth investigation is the quality of television reception that is being received on the Queensland Gold Coast. In fact some areas of the Gold Coast have some of the worst television reception in Australia. For a number of years there has been a great deal of debate in this most important part of Queensland- after all it is the tourist capital of Australia- as to what should be done to overcome the difficulties in television reception. Two notions have been put forward, the first being that that area should have its own commercial television station to service the area. The second notion is that translators should be provided to bring a television signal from Brisbane to be beamed on the Gold Coast Bearing in mind that this debate has now been taking place for seven or eight years and that no real action has been taken in this direction in that time, perhaps this could be a task for the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal to undertake, that is, to check on the actual viability of having a commercial television station to service that area or whether it may be a better proposition to relay programs from all four Brisbane commercial television stations to the Gold Coast 
As I said, some of the areas of the Gold Coast, particularly those areas around Burleigh Heads, have some of the worst television reception in this country. It would seem to be very strange to me that a city such as the Gold Coast with 80,000 permanent residents and almost 250,000 people in peak holiday time does not have quality television reception available to it. I would like to stress to the Minister this aspect so that perhaps he could undertake some investigation with the Broadcasting Tribunal as to how this matter can be overcome. Basically the principle of these amendments that are before the House today will streamline the procedures. I believe there must be a settling down time for the Australian Broadcasting Tribunal. I would hope that we do not see in future hearings some of the anomalies that certainly came up during those Tribunal hearings in Adelaide in recent weeks. I commend the amendments to the House. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 9 November 1978: 
1 ) How many persons have been employed by the Department specifically to collect the $ 10 departure tax. 
How many of these persons are employed, at each departure point and in the Department 's city locations. 
What is the estimated cost of the wages and salaries of these extra staff over a twelve-month period. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs: 
1 ) Was consideration given to the concept of airline and shipping companies collecting the $10 departure tax on behalf of the Commonwealth at departure points from Australia. If so, why was this concept rejected? 
) Do any other countries use the same methods of collection as Australia. If so, what countries? 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 17 October 1978: 
1 ) Following his announcement of proposed cheaper air fares between Australia and London, will the implementation of these fares provide a virtual monopoly or duopoly for Qantas and British Airways. 
Will Asian and European carriers be able to devise a competitive fare on the Australia-London route; if so, will they be able to sell these fares in Australia and London. 
Will Asian and European carriers also be able to market in Australia the proposed no-stopover full economy fare and the newly proposed business class fare between Australian and London. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 17 October 1978: 
Under the proposed new arrangements for excursion air fares between Australia and London, will tour packagers be able to negotiate with airlines to create package deals not utilising Qantas and British Airways services. If so, will these package tours be able to be advertised and sold in Australia. 
-The greatest killer on the loose in Australia is without doubt the motor car and its driver. Each year thousands of Australians lose their lives on our roads and thousands of others are maimed or carry the scars, physical as well as mental, of bad road accidents. In 1977, 3578 people were killed from a total of 67,549 accidents; 386 young Australians were killed in motor bike accidents; and, overall, 91,616 people were injured in car accidents. Yet, despite this carnage on our roads, we seem to do little to curb it except impose speed limits, fix a few potholes and have the police set radar traps. 
I wish to direct my attention tonight more towards the safety aspect of motor cars produced in Australia. For too long this topic seems to have been regarded as the sacred cow of the automotive world, and I believe that time is long overdue when we ought to examine seriously how safe, and what safety features are available, or planned, for Australian made cars. 
For too long the assumption has been that so many car accidents are the result of driver negligence. Whilst this may be correct to some great extent, research in the United States of America has revealed that a substantial number of motor accidents are caused by defective vehicle engineering and poor vehicle design. Indeed, is it not reasonable to expect that better engineering can correct to a degree human error. Much could be done to make cars safer, whereas drivers will always be prone to error. 
When I was researching this matter, I phoned one of Australia's leading car dealers to inquire about the safety features of their basic family sedan. At first I was told by a large retailer in Brisbane that there were no special features except for padded dashboards, seat belts and a collapsible steering column. The dealer suggested that I telephone the interstate head office to get further information. I did so and spoke to the Chief Engineering Design Officer who firstly proceeded to tell me about the myths of the safety features, in a well known European car, and then proceeded to say that his company's cars had nothing extra special, but that they complied with standards set down by the Commonwealth Government. The attitude of that company precisely reflects the general attitude of all Australian manufacturers towards the need to promote and develop better safety features in passenger vehicles. It is all very well for some companies to promote how well their cars weave around witches hats but where are the ads that show us what happens to their cars when they have a head-on accident at 30 miles an hour; where are the ads that show us how effective their bumper bars are; and where are the ads that show us what happens to their vehicles in a roll-over situation? These are the important aspects of car safety that seem to be neglected by and large by the Australian car industry. I believe that we have become blase about the safety standards and features of many of the motor cars despite our mounting road toll. 
It is my opinion that vehicle safety standards in Australia are poor and that not enough imagination or initiative is being taken by vehicle manufacturers in this country to improve the safety features of cars. Indeed, they seem content to lag behind overseas developments until either their parent company or the Government legislates to improve those standards. I believe there is ample evidence to demand that tyre manufacturers either grade their tyres so the public knows exactly what it is buying or that the Government review its standards so as not to allow tyres that are not of a high standard to be sold to the public. I was interested to read the Industries Assistance Commission report on tyres issued on 1 8 January 1977 in which concern was expressed by the Australian Automobile Association on the standards of imported tyres. May I suggest that, if the AAA is concerned about tyres, certainly the Government should also be. 
A substantial percentage of accidents between vehicles is the result of rear-end collisions. The majority of these occur at night and indeed the Australian Bureau of Statistics publication on road traffic accidents involving casualties points to the fact that in 1977 nearly 12,000 accidents occurred between 4 p.m. and 6 p.m. in peak hour traffic whereas a little over 5,000 occurred in the morning traffic. Clearly the problems facing the driver when he comes upon slower moving vehicles or stationary vehicles are enhanced at night time when the only means of visual perception are the brake lights at the rear of the car ahead. Yet we have seen very little imaginative innovation in car brake lights. We seem to be content to let the driver draw his own conclusions as to braking situations. Indeed, in some cases drivers are forced to jab their brakes a number of times to serve as a warning to the cars behind. Surely car manufacturers in Australia could use some imagination and improve the driver situation. For example, could not manufacturers look at some system of brake lights whereby if the brake pedal was pushed hard to the floor in an emergency braking situation an additional set of brake lights could indicate to following drivers the need to prepare for emergency braking? 
There are situations where drivers could benefit from additional information which could be conveyed in the brake lighting system to the following vehicles. For almost two decades now, very little research has been undertaken on different brake lighting systems. 
Another area for improvement in Australianmade vehicles is that of bumper bars. Today bumper bars on most cars are little more than decoration. Indeed one might cynically observe that they are characteristic of the built-in obsolescence to which most manufacturers seem to adhere. Most bumper bars on cars provide less resistence than the main structure of the car. Nevertheless, with front end collisions accounting for the majority of road deaths and since the current soft impact properties of bumper bars have distinct disadvantages, it would seem desirable to increase the crushing stroke and make bumper bars more effective as shock absorbers. Indeed in an article in the  New Scientist  of 1 June - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 9 November 1978: 
Which buildings in the Brisbane city area are owned by the Commonwealth Government. 
What is the total unoccupied office space presently existing in each of these buildings. 
What is the total area of office space leased by the Commonwealth in the Brisbane city area. 
Where is each leased area located. 
5 ) What is the cost of leasing each of these areas. 
Which of these leased areas are unoccupied. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 27 September 1978: 
1 ) What are the official managerial and supervisory positions in the ABC in Brisbane. 
Have any managerial or supervisory positions been abolished as pan of staff cuts to meet staff ceilings at the ABC in Brisbane during (a) 1975, (b) 1976, (c) 1977 and (d) 1978 to date. 
If so, what was the title of each position abolished in each year. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 27 September 1978: 
How many (a) permanent, (b) casual or temporary and (c) contract staff were employed by the ABC in Brisbane during (a) 1975, (b) 1976, (c) 1977 and (d) the period 1 January to 30 June 1978. 
What is the present staff ceiling for the ABC in  Brisbane. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 27 September 1978: 
1 ) How many ( a ) staff have been dismissed and ( b ) positions not filled upon departure or resignation to achieve staff ceilings at the ABC in Brisbane during (i) 1975, (ii) 1976, (iii) 1977 and (iv) 1978 to date. 
What was the designation of each position from which staff were dismissed or which were not filled. 
asked the Minister for Veterans' Affairs, upon notice, on 9 November 1 978: 
How many persons in the Electoral Division of Bowman receive veterans' pensions in each category. 
What is the estimated cost to the Government of these pensions during 1978-79. 
-When I awoke this morning and opened the window of my hotel it was a nice sunny day in Canberra. I picked up the morning paper and saw a glaring headline in the Sydney  Daily Telegraph,  '$84m profit to Telecom'. I thought I was at peace with the world until I heard the last speech, by the honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes).  Such a load of left-wing ideological claptrap I have never had the misfortune to sit through before in this House. Really, one wonders what precisely was behind the motion. I am afraid that it embodies just so many points that are blatantly wrong. The majority of the speech was dedicated to the future introduction of satellites in the Australian system. It is perfectly clear that at the moment absolutely no decision has been made on the introduction of a domestic satellite. Surely, quite a deal of public debate is still ensuing and it must be a situation in respect of which the Government must consider, before going ahead, every possible fact available to it. We have international obligations and international discussions must be held before any real decision can be made on the future of domestic satellites. Unfortunately, so much of the future is dependent upon technological advances and changes. 
I was interested to hear the honourable member for Melbourne talking about the situation regarding telegrams. This is a public enterprise and, quite frankly, I would be very interested to take the honourable member to a few selected areas in my electorate, and have him ask the people exactly what their telegram service is like. It is almost non-existent. Where it is you cannot get it between 5 p.m. on Friday and 9 o'clock on Monday morning anyway. Obviously, in some area as a result of this lack of service from Telecom, a need has developed for private operators to come in. The ideological situation notwithstanding, Telecom, even though set up by a Labor Government as an independent commission, has itself made this decision, and there has been a need for somebody else to come in. We are going to see even greater changes in the years to come. 
In France at the moment a device that will be available in all homes is being developed, one which offers an instant photo message service. Apparently it will be produced quite cheaply. It will be available to anyone who wants it. Anyone will be able to send high speed messages to any home in any part of the country. This will eliminate the need for some of these services that have been mentioned. I suppose it is sad that in some of the unskilled areas we will see the dropping out of this particular type of labour but, as we have already seen in the case of Telecom, there has also been a great increase in the number of skilled people moving into such areas. 
We also had the honourable member for Melbourne talking about the situation of the messenger services, something else that has sprung up. I wish to make it perfectly clear that the Australia Post courier service is certainly into that business in a very big way and is proving quite lucrative. Australia Post is getting out there and promoting it in a very real commercial sense, in a real commercial world. Obviously it is delivering the goods because it is doing quite well. If this situation is to develop, that is well and good. Honourable members can talk to Jim Kennedy, who was head of the Postal Commission and who had so much to do with setting this up. He saw the need to go out and compete against private enterprise. He did so and that part of the Australia Post operation is profitable; it is doing quite well. Nobody has ever denied that mail services are the prerogative of government. In fact world-wide, government is responsible for delivering mail. There has not really been any inroad in this particular area. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  The time allotted for consideration of General Business Notices Nos. 1 and 2 has expired. The honourable member for Bowman will have leave to continue his speech when the debate is resumed. The resumption of the debate will be made an order of the day under General Business for the next sitting. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 9 November 1978: 
1 ) Has his attention been drawn to estimates by the Australian Transport Advisory Council that vehicle emission controls have increased motor vehicle fuel consumption by approximately 7 per cent, the increase being much larger for some vehicles. 
Has his attention also been drawn to estimates by the Australian Automobile Association that the annual cost of fitting these control devices is over $50m, that the extra cost of servicing fitted vehicles is $185m and that the additional fuel bill resulting from emission control equipment will be more than $2 15 m. 
3) Is he able to say in which overseas countries Australian standard emission controls also apply to new motor vehicles. 
What success have emission control systems had in Australia or overseas in reducing air pollution. 
What is the percentage contribution of exhaust emission to air pollution. 
What scientific or medical evidence is forthcoming to suggest that exhaust emissions are a major contributor to bad health in normal circumstances. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice, on 19 October 1978: 
Which commercial (a) radio and (b) television stations are due to appear before the Broadcasting Tribunal for public hearings for licence renewals before 30 June 1 979? 
On which dates and in which cities will these licence applications be heard? 
-My question is directed to the Minister for Transport. What are the effects of picketing by storemen and packers on domestic and international airline travel? To what extent has the picketing prevented and will it prevent the freedom of movement by air of Australians and, perhaps even more importantly, overseas tourists? Will this action prevent many airport workers going about their legitimate work? 
-The Minister for Trade and Resources will be aware of the current controversy concerning a nuclear incident at a power plant at Vasteras in Sweden, reported this week on the Australian Broadcasting Commission radio program  AM.  Has the Minster received a report from the Swedish authorities concerning the incident? Will this incident affect any projected sales of uranium to Sweden? 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 28 February 1 979: 
In which countries in Oceania does Australia have diplomatic representation. 
What is the status of each post. 
How many Australian nationals are employed at each post. 
When were each of these posts established. 
-The honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Humphreys)  is a rather well liked member of this House. In most matters he seems to be fairly rational. However, in a speech that he made during the adjournment debate on 28 February 1979 he went into a very strong tirade against the Queensland State Government because of its attitude towards the Brisbane City Council public transport service. He accused the Queensland State Government of deceit and duplicity in denying flow-on funds from the Commonwealth Grants Commission to the City Council to look after its bus service. I am afraid that this disturbs me, as the whole operation of the Brisbane City Council bus service disturbs me. It is probably worth spending a brief moment looking at the recent history of the Brisbane City Council public transport system. 
The Brisbane City Council took trams off the streets of Brisbane in 1969. 1 believe it is unfortunate that since then preference has been given to the movement of motor vehicles, when the movement of people probably should have been the Council's main consideration. Since the trams were removed to allow for faster movement of motor vehicles, the number of bus passengers has actually decreased and transport losses have continued to grow. The  Brisbane City Year Book,  volume 2, shows that revenue from trams exceeded the operating costs in every year of operation up to 1968. In 1969 the trams were taken off the streets, and the losess started. On the other hand, the operating costs of buses have exceeded revenue every year. For example, in June 1975 the loss was $5.7m, in 1976 it was $8.1m, in 1977 it was $10.3m and in 1978 it was $ 13.3m. To June 1979 the loss is budgeted to be $ 15.9m, which is equal to $68.72 per ratepayer per annum. That is a reasonably frightening situation. 
Nobody will argue that public transport should not be primarily a service industry and that there should not be some government subsidisation; but I think it is fair to say that the management of those resources should be as efficient as possible. The present situation of the Brisbane City Council worries me. Many new developing areas have one or two bus services a day. There are old established routes that are serviced by so many buses that they are carrying only about two people at a time. The meeting agenda of the Brisbane City Council of 13 February 1979 contains a question asked by Alderman O. L. Olsen. He asked: 
Does the Brisbane City Council keep records in relation to transport operations which would enable the following information to be supplied: 
How many passengers were carried on the 177 Bus Route for the year ended 30 June 1978? 
We should bear in mind that the 177 bus route, which runs from New Farm to West End, is one of the most established services and has been running for many years. The question continued: 
b) What was the total amount of fare box receipts on the 1 77 Bus Route for the year ended 30 June 1 978? 
How many kilometres were travelled by buses on the 1 77 Bus Route for the year ended 30 June 1 978? 
What was the cost of operating buses on the 177 Bus Route for the year ended 30 June 1978? 
The answer was that no records are kept. No statistics are kept on the number of people using the bus route, the amount of money taken, the number of miles travelled or anything else that may be relevant to that situation. To my mind, that is unbelievable. Surely the ratepayers of Brisbane and, indeed the members of the Queensland Government and of this Parliament have a right to demand that the Brisbane City Council keep accurate records and manage its bus service properly. When answers like that are given in the official records of the Brisbane City Council, I believe it is about time something was done by the State authorities to investigate fully the operations of the Brisbane City Council buses. 
There is great dissatisfaction in many areas of Brisbane. One area in my own electorate, Wynnum, has a population in excess of 46,000 people. They are serviced by private bus services; yet they are still expected to subsidise losses on the cost of running other bus services through the suburbs of Brisbane. One can only hope that this Saturday in the local government election the Australian Labor Party Brisbane City Council will be thrown out of power, that the Liberals will be returned and that some decent management strategy will come back into the operation of the Brisbane City Council. If not, surely the State Government must then institute a full inquiry into this disgusting situationthe operation of the present public transport system in Brisbane. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 28 February 1979: 
1 ) With- which countries does Australia have current International air agreements. 
Which of these countries are not serviced by: 
Qantas and 
their national carrier. 
When was each agreement signed. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 28 February 1979: 
How many short-term visitors arrived in Australia, for a period of up to 12 months, from (a) West Germany, (b) Denmark, (c) Norway, (d) Sweden, (e) Finland, (f) Switzerland, (g) Holland, (h) Belgium, (j) France and (k) Austria during (i) 1973-74, (ii) 1974-75, (iii) 1975-76, (iv) 1976- 77 and (v) 1977-78. 
-The advent of cheaper international air fares, increased promotion overseas by the Australian Tourist Commission and a general increase in interest in Australia as a tourist destination would almost guarantee a substantial increase in the number of international tourists visiting this country this year. The estimates of how great that increase will be vary. The most optimistic say that the increase could be as high as 20 per cent. The Australian Tourist Commission says that the increase will probably be 10 per cent, but off the record it is conceding that the increase could be as high as IS per cent. I am sure that all honourable members will welcome the advent of the increased numbers of international tourists coming to Australia. 
I think it is worth warning the House of some of the difficulties that the tourist industry in this country will be facing in coming months. Surveys carried out by the Australian Tourist Commission are quite interesting. It seems that the two destinations most attractive to overseas tourists are the Great Barrier Reef and Ayers Rock. But because of the nature of the international gateways in Australia we have an incredible situation which was highlighted in the report of the House of Representatives Select Committee on Tourism. Something like 78 per cent of all international visitors arrive in Sydney and do not go very much further. The movement of international tourists around Australia is quite staggering. Some 78 per cent visit Sydney and some 35 per cent visit Melbourne. The figure for the two most desirable destinations drops considerably. The Great Barrier Reef attracts 4 per cent of international visitors and Ayers Rock attracts 2 per cent of international visitors. Obviously any moves to reduce the price of domestic air fares will be welcome as a reduction will get more and more tourists to travel around the country. 
The Sydney situation stands out as being a situation which in the short term is quite critical. I refer to the existing lack of suitable hotel accommodation for those international visitors. For some 18 months now Sydney hotels have been experiencing occupancy rates in excess of 80 per cent. In fact it is quite usual at the moment for hotels to have the 'full house 'sign outside. Many international visitors who might be wishing to extend their stay in Australia or who are caught by industrial trouble or by aircraft malfunctions find that they have to go as far away as Gosford to obtain accommodation overnight. Sydney, as I say, has the most critical accommodation problems in Australia. Obviously, if we are to take full advantage of the new wave of international tourists coming to Australia something must be done to provide more accommodation at all levels of the Sydney market- the top end, the medium end and the lower end. Other centres in Australia are also experiencing this problem. One of the biggest problems facing the hotel industry is the cost of construction. At the moment it costs in the vicinity of $85,000 to construct a first class hotel room. That is a lot of money for one hotel room. To break even on letting out such a room $80 to $100 a night would have to be charged. Therefore the burden must fall ultimately on the Government to provide some sort of incentive for new construction to be undertaken. 
One of the recommendations of the House of Representatives Select Committee was the introduction of a depreciation allowance on tourist buildings and tourist plant. A great deal of work was done not only by this Committee but also by the Australian National Travel Association. I understand that quite a number of submissions could be made to the Government in the coming months. Tonight I strongly urge the Government to consider seriously the introduction of this depreciation allowance as soon as possible. This type of allowance and similar tax holidays have certainly been the boom for Asian tourism. In countries such as the Phillipines, Thailand and Singapore dramatic numbers of new hotels have been built in recent years. Those hotels, of course, have all had their own attraction in bringing more and more tourists into those centres. I believe that Australia will undergo a similar tourist boom in the coming months and years. Obviously we must try as soon as possible to increase the standard of our accommodation and the physical number of rooms in such places as Sydney as soon as we can if Australia is to get the maximum benefit from the increased number of tourists coming to this country. 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice, on 28 February 1979: 
How many migrants from (a) West Germany, (b) Denmark, (c) Norway, (d) Sweden, (e) Finland, (f) Switzerland, (g) Holland, (h) Belgium, (j) France and (k) Austria have settled in Australia since 1 945. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 28 February 1979: 
In which countries in Oceania does Australia have diplomatic representation? 
What is the status of each post? 
How many Australian nationals are employed at each post? 
When were each of these posts established? 
asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce, upon notice, on 28 February 1 979: 
1 ) What sums have been provided for Australian Tourist Commission offices in (a) Japan, (b) West Germany, (c) United Kingdom and (d) the United States of America during 1978-79. 
What proportion of these funds is used at each office for the purpose of (a) advertising, (b) publicity and (c) promotion. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 28 February 1979: 
1 ) What was the total value of imports into Australia from (a) Denmark, (b) Norway, (c) Sweden, and (d) Finland during (i) 1976-77 and (ii) 1977-78. 
What percentage of these imports were (a) foodstuffs, (b) motor vehicles and machinery and (c) manufactured goods. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 28 February 1979: 
What was the (a) total value and (b) nature of exports from Australia to (i) Denmark, (ii) Norway, (iii) Sweden, and (iv) Finland during (A) 1976-77 and (B) 1977-78. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Industry and Commerce, who has pursued the recommendations of the House of Representatives Select Committee on Tourism by having a study undertaken of the significance of tourism to the Australian economy. Has a preliminary working paper been prepared? What facts have come forward so far? 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 28 February 1979: 
1 ) How many types of passports are issued in Australia. 
) For what purpose is each category used. 
With the exception of the standard passport, how many passports in each other category are currently valid. 
Do any Australian passports allow the holder exemption from normal Immigration and Customs procedures on re-entry into Australia. 
Do any foreign passports allow the holder similar exemption on entry to Australia. 
I too wish to be associated with this motion of condolence. I express my very deep sympathy to  Mrs Stewart  and members of her family. I suppose it could be considered almost presumptuous for one who has served in this House for only  Vh  years to speak on a motion such as this concerning a man who has served this Parliament for so long and so well. During 1 977 and 1 978 I served with Frank Stewart on the Select Committee on Tourism. He was the Deputy Chairman of that Committee. Last year I was Chairman. Frank Stewart was a tremendous help not only to me but also to other members who served on that Committee. 
I was interested to hear the words of the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  when he said that in many respects it was Frank Stewart who brought the first recognition to this House and to the nation that tourism was an industry in Australia. I believe that that tribute was spelt out in St Mary's Cathedral just a few short days ago when more than 2,000 people packed that cathedral. The tribute to the work that 
Frank Stewart had done in that particular area was obvious by the fact that representatives of all levels of the tourist industry attended that service. Frank Stewart was, in the best sense of the word, proudly Australian. He loved Australia. He loved everything that Australia stood for. He was convinced of the future of Australia and he let that be known very loudly indeed. 
Frank Stewart was a man who thought that all decisions should be made in the best interests of Australia. As a result of the many hundreds of hours that members of that Committee spent together, we realised that that was the case. The report that was finally issued was very much the work of Frank Stewart.  His  influence on it is obvious. It was a report delivered to this House without one dissenting voice. In that respect it is a very great tribute. Many honourable members have said that he was a man of great moral courage. He was also a man of great political courage. Frank Stewart was a fine Australian and I am proud that I had the opportunity to serve with him. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 28 February 1979: 
What grants have been made by the Department of Social Security for special projects in the Electoral Division of Bowman and for what purposes in (a) 1975-76, (b) 1976-77,(c) 1977-78 and (d) 1978-79. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 8 March 1979: 
1 ) Does Qantas provide pure freight services into and out of Australia. 
) If not, what studies have been made of the viability of Qantas providing such services for Australian industry. 
How many pure freight charters were operated into and out of Australia in 1978 and which companies were involved in these operations. 
What was the nature of the cargo carried by these foreign air freight carriers. 
What access do Australian domestic airlines have to the international air freight market using their own freight airlines. 
What was the estimated cost to Australian industry of the foreign air freight charters during 1 978. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 20 March 1979: 
1 ) Does the Government allow the import of whale products; if so, what is the nature of the products imported. 
Is whale meat used in any pet food sold in Australia; if so, which type. 
Are whale oils used as a base for any cosmetics or soaps sold on the Australian market; if so, which types. 
Will the Government be considering banning the imports involved as a means of curbing whale slaughter. 
asked the Minister for Home Affairs, upon notice, on 20 March 1 979: 
How many tourists visited Norfolk Island during 1977-78. 
) From which countries did these tourists arrive. 
What was the estimated value of tourism to Norfolk Island during 1977-78. 
What efforts are being made by the island community to promote Norfolk Island as a tourist destination. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Transport, and follows that asked by the honourable member for Mitchell. Following the decision to allow airlines from countries of the Association of South East Asian Nations some access to the Kangaroo route to the United Kingdom and Europe, what controls will be used in the allocation of seats to the various carriers? Will this move virtually allow an open slather situation in the sale of seats into and out of Australia, as has been reported? Will the Minister also confirm that the entry of charter operators on the Kangaroo route will be reconsidered in 1980 as claimed by  Mr Athol  Guy of Laker Airways as reported in this morning's  Courier Main  Do any restrictions now apply to ad hoc charter operators or tour operating firms wishing to package Australia as a tourist destination? 
Tourism is now the world's second biggest industry. The only industry that is bigger is oil. By 1985 tourism will be the world's biggest industry. This year it is estimated that tourism world-wide will be worth $370 billion. Australia's share of that international tourist trade is 0.07 per cent. Two and a half years ago the Government recognised the contribution that could be made by tourism to the Australian economy. It then set about forming the House of Representatives Select Committee on Tourism. Over a two-year period that Committee received something like 207 submissions, spent many hundreds of hours on public hearings and spent many hundreds of hours in deliberation on what would be best for the Australian tourist industry. In October last year the final report of the House of Representatives Select Committee on Tourism was presented to this Parliament. The Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Mr Lynch)  responded to that report a few weeks ago. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Dr Jenkins)Order! I remind honourable members that they should not pass between the person addressing the Chair and the Chair and that they should take their seats and not stand in the aisles. It is unfair to their colleague who is speaking. 
The Minister for Industry and Commerce, whose portfolio covers the area of tourism, made his final report to the House of Representatives on 5 April this year. All in all, of some 45 recommendations and conclusions that were reached by the Committee a number of them have already been introduced. I believe that the tourist industry is now in one of the most delicate positions that it has been in in its short history in Australia. Decisions to be made by the Government in coming months will be crucial in determining whether Australia will take its part in the world 's tourist plan. I believe it is essential that Australia does play that part. 
Tourism has an awful lot to offer our economy. We can go back over debates in this House in recent years and see where the balance of payments was something like three to one againstthree outflowing dollars to one inflowing dollar- in the tourist industry. Something like one million Australians are going overseas this year, compared with a total of in the vicinity of 400,000 tourists who are coming in. I believe that we have a very real need to try to balance that tourist imbalance, to increase the number of people coming into this country and spending their tourist dollars for the benefit of the Australian industry. 
I believe that it was most heartening to see the comments that the Minister for Industry and Commerce made in his statement to this House just a matter of a few weeks ago regarding the Select Committee report. One would hope that the other comments, recommendations and conclusion that were contained in the report would be taken on board, not only by the Minister but also by members of the Tourist Minister's Council, which meets in June, and, indeed, by the Government in the formulation of the Budget, which is due to be delivered in this House in August. As I say, I believe that the tourist industry is at the moment in the balance in Australia. 
Tourism can offer an awful lot to this country. We found in our report and, indeed, in the economic study that has been made by the Bureau of Industry Economics that there are some very great benefits to flow on to Australia from the tourist industry. For example, for every 25,000 international tourists who come into this country, 1 ,400 jobs are created; and that figure, in itself, is quite incredible. For every $10,000 spent in the domestic tourist industry 1.2 jobs are created. The flow of the tourist dollars throughout the length of the community is considerable indeed. The economic specialists can tell us that the tourist dollar bounces about three times once it is spent. Others can tell us that it can go through to a bounce factor of something like nine times. That has tremendous implications for the nature of the economy in Australia. Tourism has been recognised as a great means of decentralisation, which is important in some of our far flung areas as well. 
The fact that the Minister for Industry and Commerce has specifically recognised the tourist industry is most important because never before has tourism really been recognised in Australia as an industry. It has been described as something akin to froth and bubble. People have never done any sort of study of what tourism can mean to the country. Of all the recommendations brought forward by the House of Representatives Select Committee on Tourism, the fact that an economic study of the significance of tourism was made is probably the most important point. Already, with the advent of cheaper international air fares, we have seen more and more utilisation of the tourist plant. As one who has been highly critical of some areas of the Government's international aviation policy, it is good to know that already at least there has been an increase in the number of international tourists coming to this country. As more and more air agreements are reached, it will be interesting to see what number of overseas tourists are willing to come here and spend those tourist dollars. 
The initial report by the Australian Tourist Commission indicates that we have an increased interest, for example, from Germany. We should welcome German tourists with open arms because in addition to amounts for their air fares and accommodation they spend something like $136 a day when touring overseas. With just 1 ,000 German tourists passing through Australia each week one can imagine the contribution that they could make to the economy. I hope that more and more recognition will be given to the need for cheaper international air fares, whether by means of scheduled charter operators, scheduled carriers or tour packages. These operators should be welcomed to Australia and everything should be done to help them in their endeavours to bring more people here. 
International aviation policy is a vital factor, as is domestic aviation policy. It is good to see that this has been recognised by the Government with the introduction of cheaper domestic air fares and promotional fares that will be sold outside Australia to help international tourists see more of this country. However, there seems to be an attitude prevalent in the industry that perhaps all is not well in international aviation policy. One hopes that with more study and negotiation by the Department of Transport and the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  in particular, more air routes will be opened up in the near future. I stress one area that I think the Government should be looking at. I refer to the north of the United States of America in particular and the inclusive charter operators. There are a number of leisure clubs in that country that can provide international tourists for Australia. I refer to organisations such as the Adventurers Club which is based in Chicago. In Chicago and surrounding districts there are approximately 140,000 members belonging to this club. It owns two Boeing 707 aircraft which fly around the world at all hours of the day and night delivering members to holiday destinations. A number of these organisations exist in north America. There is a ready potential for a market such as this. 
Group affinity tours is another area that must be examined more closely. In particular I refer to marlin fishing in my own State. Already there has been a great deal of interest in north Queensland as a holiday destination for people in North America who wish to get together to charter a 707 jet to fly to an airport such as Townsville to take in a couple of weeks of marlin fishing on the Great Barrier Reef. These are areas that have not been looked at yet by the tourist industry but they can provide great wealth for the local industry. Another criticism coming from the industry at the moment is that it cannot physically handle the number of tourists coming to Australia. To a degree that is true. At the moment there is a desperate shortage of accommodation in some of our capital cities, particularly Sydney. 
At the moment it is almost impossible to get a first class hotel room. One of the recommendations of the House of Representatives Select Committee on Tourism was the introduction of a depreciation allowance for tourist buildings and plant. The Minister, in his statement, said that this is under consideration for the next Budget. I believe that it is essential that the Government look at this area in order to get hotel structures built in this country because if the infrastructure of the tourist industry cannot handle the tourists when they get here we will be in real trouble. This is the situation in a number of capital cities at the moment. I stress that this is one area which I believe the Government must look at very closely. 
Another area is that of international promotion. Although Australia has declared itself virtually a tourist destination by virtue of cheaper international air fares, one must ask what we are doing to promote this country overseas as an international tourist destination. Although there was a 37 per cent increase in the budget of the Australian Tourist Commission last year, it is hardly enough to make Australia known worldwide as a tourist destination. The spending of about $4,500,000 does not seep through to some of the potential markets especially in Europe, North America and Japan. I suppose that there is room for some criticism of the State tourist organisations in this respect. Frankly, it amazes me that the New South Wales Government and the Tasmanian Government are setting up overseas tourist promotion offices with the idea of promoting those States as tourist destinations. With all due respect to the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Goodluck)  who I understand will follow me in this debate, very few people from the West Coast of the United States would know where Tasmania is if asked, or for that matter where New South Wales is. Yet the State governments are setting up individual tourist offices overseas. 
One of the recommendations that we made in our report was that the Australian Tourist Commission must be responsible for overseas promotion. The State governments should take notice of some of the recommendations inasmuch as they should be responsible for promotion within their States. Perhaps they could make a contribution of additional funds for the establishment of more Australian Tourist Commission offices overseas in order to promote Australia as a whole rather than fragment the industry. One of the big problems of the tourist industry in Australia has always been that it has been fragmented. I hope that within the regional organisation and across State boundaries we will see a consolidation of the industry so that there can be a supreme effort to promote Australia rather than to promote vested self-interests which in many cases could result in an absolute waste of money. 
The situation regarding domestic tourism is interesting as well because the Australian tourist industry to a great degree will still rely on domestic tourism as its main income earner. Although there has been a great deal of publicity regarding the benefits of international tourism it should be remembered that so much of the tourist dollar comes from home. There is a need for States to co-ordinate their efforts with the Australian Tourist Commission in promoting travel within this country. The attractions that exist in Australia are tremendous arid in many cases rival anything else in the world. I hope that there can be an effort between the States, and indeed, regions, to make sure that people have the facilities to travel within their own country and to see exactly what we have to offer. Then perhaps they could go overseas and promote Australia as a most desirable destination. I do not think that there is any doubt that the facilities and attractions that we have in Australia can compete favourably with many other attractions scattered around the world. 
I congratulate the Australian Tourist Commission for its 'Make Friends for Australia ' campaign which it is conducting at the moment. It is quite a cheap campaign in terms of cost of tourist promotion. I believe that it is most effective and could have a great result by increasing the numbers of tourists for this country. If we are to break into the international tourist market in a big way we must be prepared to spend money on that promotion. The New Zealand Government is spending twice as much on overseas promotion as Australia. I have mentioned before that this year Denmark is spending approximately $A34m on promotion, which is more than ten times the amount that is being spent by Australia. Honourable members can see that at this stage we are still dealing in very small stakes yet. 
The Minister, in his reply to the House of Representatives Select Committee reports gave recognition that there is a tourist industry in Australia which is worth promoting and that the entrepreneurs of the Australian tourist industry, provided they get together, have something to offer. That the Government is now recognising that industry is most important. I believe that it is the job of every member of this House to get behind the Government to make sure that Australia plays its part in the international tourist scene. A large amount of money can be made for many people and for this country through international tourism. 
It is not my intention to take up the time of the House for too long tonight, but the inevitable has happened. Prior to the Victorian election last week two members of the broadcasting industry defied the Broadcasting and Television Act and broadcast political material within the 48-hour blackout period prior to an election. One wonders why this has not happened before, with one of the most ridiculous orders on the statute books that the electronic media cannot make any political comment 48 hours prior to an election. Finally it has happened that two journalists from Melbourne radio station 3AW have defied the ban and are in fact taking the Government on in regard to the particular provision in the Act. As a former member of that profession I frankly think that they should be congratulated for their stand, because that provision is one of the anomalies of the Broadcasting and Television Act which has been on the statute books for many years and should have been removed some years ago. One can only hope that it will be taken off when the Act is reviewed towards the end of this year. 
It seems strange to me that it has to be the electronic media that are singled out for this sort of discrimination. It can be described as nothing but discrimination. Any newspaper in Australia can print any story it likes prior to 48 hours of an election. But come midnight on Wednesday and radio and television must switch off in relation to political material. It is an established fact that most people nowdays get their news from the electronic media, that is, from radio and television. It is also an established fact that newspapers can be manipulated by political parties, if they so desire, to get their stories printed at the last moment prior to an election. It does not matter whether it is the Liberal Party or the Australian Labor Party in government, it is impossible to get that right of reply through a newspaper prior to an election. Yet we have this ridiculous law which stands on the statute books now and states that nobody on radio or television can make any political comment whatsoever in that last 48 hour period. My only hope is that when the complete review of the Broadcasting and Television Act is completed- I expect that to be around October- that that particular provision will be wiped. It is about time that this sort of archaic situation was eradicated from the books. Or is this a recognition by governments of all political persuasions of the power of the electronic media? It is not only in political terms.that this media has been discriminated against. We have seen it in the smoking ban introduced a couple of years ago. Why was it that radio and television were singled out to have smoking taken away from the advertising schedules? If we are so keen about stopping the amount of cigarette consumption in this country why do we not take the move and eliminate advertising from newspapers, magazines, sporting groups, theatres or billboards? No, once again it was the electronic media that was discriminated against. I hope that the provisions of the Broadcasting and Television Act will be reviewed very closely by the Government later this year and that this archaic legislation will be wiped from the statute books completely. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 28 February 1 979: 
1 ) What aid projects are being undertaken by the Australian Government in Oceania during 1978-79; 
What sums are being allocated for each project; 
How many Australian nationals are being employed on each project; 
For what period will the Government continue to fund each project. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Transport. Now that the environmental studies in relation to the new Brisbane airport development have been concluded and circulated, at what time will physical construction begin? Will construction be completed on schedule? Will initial earthworks be under way before the end of the year? Will the Minister respond to the excellent suggestion by the Prime Minister that notice boards and signs be erected around the airport so that the people of Brisbane will be aware of the timetable of the work? 
asked the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) How many persons were deported from Australia, (a) during 1 978 and (b) in the first 3 months of 1979. 
How many persons referred to in part (1) had (a) overstayed visitors' visa permits, (b) made illegal entries, and (c) been deported for other reasons. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 1 May 1979: 
1 ) How many seats are offered at the  new  Apex air fare rates on (a) Qantas and (b) British Airways on services operating from Brisbane and Sydney to London? 
What average percentage of these seats are offered for sale (a) in Brisbane and (b) in Sydney? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Industry and Commerce. Following the massive 93 per cent increase in the Budget allocation to the Australian Tourist Commission and the introduction of depreciation allowances for accommodation buildings, how well equipped is the Australian tourist industry to play its part in the world tourist industry? Will these and other Government initiatives still be forthcoming in coming weeks? 
-I would like to join the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  in congratulating the Government on this initiative and wishing the Public Works Committee all the very best in achieving a speedy conclusion to its inquiry. Of course the decision to go ahead with the Brisbane airport project comes at the end of a very long wait indeed. It has been a wait of more than 10 years. In 1972 the decision to go ahead with the work at Brisbane airport was made by the McMahon Government. It was unfortunate that in 1973 the then Labor Government decided to scrap the project. I was interested to hear the comments of the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  when he congratulated the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Humphreys)  for the part that he played in procuring the new Brisbane airport. The honourable member is a friend of mine but it is unfortunate that in the almost two years that he has been a member of this House he has not mentioned a word about the Brisbane airport. 
In a debate last year the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  condemned the Brisbane airport project and treated it as rather a joke. But this Government in its wisdom has seen the full benefits that can be derived from the upgrading of the present Brisbane international airport to full international standards. The Government is aware of the tremendous benefits that can flow from it. The honourable member for Lilley stated this afternoon just some of those benefits. But the benefits are even wider than those he mentioned. I was interested to hear the comments of the honourable member for Prospect about Sydney airport. It is true that the new Brisbane airport will greatly benefit the situation in Sydney. One of the problems at the moment is that so much of Australia's international traffic goes to Sydney and Sydney is a bottle-neck. 
Brisbane has never been a viable alternative for international traffic. Due to the length and position of the present runway it is impossible at the moment for a fully-laden Boeing 747 aircraft to take off for any point outside Australia. This has been done only twice and that was in the depths of winter when the runway temperature was less than 16 degrees. Every passenger and every piece of luggage was weighed and we had to ensure that the weather outside Singapore was good so that the aircraft could land. That is what happened then and as a result a great deal of cost was added to airline operations. Both Qantas 
Airways Ltd and British Airways, which are the two major operators out of Brisbane airport, have had to divert all their services via Sydney so that they could uplift enough fuel to get them to Singapore on their first stop. 
Since the announcement that the Government intends to proceed with the new international airport other carriers have expressed a great deal of interest in operating into Brisbane. After all, Queensland is the leading tourist State in Australia and has a great deal to offer international tourists. But at the moment only about 11 per cent of international tourists come through Brisbane and only four per cent arrive in Brisbane on international aircraft. I have mentioned in the House before the interest expressed by Condor, the Lufthansa charter subsidiary. I understand that a major Asian carrier could well be operating into Queensland in April next year. I believe that its negotiations with the Department of Transport are almost concluded and it will operate at least one service a week into Queensland. Two other Asian carriers are also interested in making Queensland a destination, and rightly so. 
We all know the tremendous benefits that flow from tourism, especially international tourism. The other night in the House the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Mr Lynch)  in a statement following the Budget presentation the night before talked about the benefits of tourism. He said that the Bureau of Industry Economics has confirmed that for every extra 25,000 international tourists coming into this country another 1,400 jobs are created. The more international tourists that we can bring into these other States the greater the benefit will be in terms of employment and the health of the economy. It is not only the people of Brisbane who are congratulating the Government on the decision to go ahead with the new Brisbane international airport, but also the people on the Gold Coast. They also have suffered because of the lack of international access to a port in Queensland. The figures on international arrivals show that only 9 per cent of international visitors go to the Gold Coast. Surely with the opening of this extra gateway we will see an increase there too. The benefits of that will be absolutely tremendous. In these few brief moments I join in congratulating the honourable member for Lilley, the honourable member for Fadden  (Mr Donald Cameron)  and the other honourable members on the Government side - 
And the Victorians who have supported us, in wishing a speedy conclusion to the inquiry of the Public Works Committee. I once again express my personal gratitude to the Government for finally making this decision to proceed with the new Brisbane international airport. I know that that will be welcomed by all Queenslanders and, indeed, will be an asset to all Australians. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 29 May1 979: 
Which international airlines operating to Australia have agreed to cut their capacity into and out of the country, since 1976. 
By how many seats have these services been reduced. 
How many of these airlines have cut the number of services to and from Australia, and which airlines are involved. 
My question, which is directed to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, relates to his statement made during the last parliamentary session regarding the proposed inquiry into the Australian Broadcasting Commission. I ask: Has the Government in fact decided to downgrade or even to abandon this inquiry? If not, when will the inquiry commence, who will be involved in it and who will be setting its guidelines? 
asked the Minister for Trade and Resources, upon notice, on 22 August 1979: 
1 ) How many tourist bodies or companies made application for Export Market Development Grants during 1978-79. 
) What is the estimated cost to the Commonwealth of these grants. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 22 August 1979: 
Was a contract to deliver Sunday newspapers to Queensland coastal towns recently let to TAA. 
If so, has this contract now been sub-let to East West Airlines. 
) What were the terms offered by TAA for the contract, and why was it consequently sub-let to East West Airlines. 
Did Ansett Airlines, or any other airline company tender for this contract, and what were the terms of these respective bids. 
-No Budget brought down by any government can solve all the economic or socialills of the country. On the other hand, few people will dispute that a Budget can have a significant influence on our standard of living. But long term changes and trends in our society can occur despite Budgets. It is in this context that I believe that the Budget must be viewed as a working agreement between the Australian community and the Government. The social and economic influence of Budgets brought down in these modern times cannot be viewed as having the same impact as those brought down in the 1 950s, the 1 960s or even the early 1970s. Quite simply, there are trends in our community which can be influenced only marginally by the Government's fiscal and monetary policies. Whilst a government has an obligation to be financially responsible in its administration of the nation, I am also firmly of the view that the community also has a responsibility to ensure that the social sub-structure of the nation is not diametrically opposed to the role of government. When the expectations of the community exceed or challenge the Government's administration of a nation, not only will our society become stagnant and divided but also as a nation we will lose that capacity to identify and resolve our national, social and economic problems. 
I now turn to probably the most important aspect dealt with in this Budget- unemployment and the labour market indicators. It is precisely in this area that I believe that the Government and the community need to co-operate and coordinate their activities if they are to make any real headway. The Budget Papers clearly indicate that productivity increases in business over the last three years have not necessarily been reflected in an expansion of employment. What is evident is that the productivity output per worker, which in some cases has occurred because of more up to date machinery, has increased to the extent that no longer can we necessarily rely on the equation that increased productivity or output equals increased employment opportunities. The consequences of this for employment when the economy regains its feet are not necessarily encouraging. Rather, I think that the facts point out that as a government we need to do substantially more than just repair the economy if we wish to re-establish a new measure of full employment for the nation. 
The Budget Papers also state that over the last two years there has been a decline in the labour participation rate- that is, there has been a fall in the number of persons over the age of 15 years who are available for work. Normally, such a trend occurs concurrently with a downturn in economic activity and rising unemployment. However, in this case the decline has emerged some two or three years after the 1974 unemployment boom. No doubt the attraction of high wages has been but one significant factor in encouraging a high participation but we now see that the discouraged worker effect is becoming evident in our labour force. One can only observe that if this trend continues we will face a labour shortage in the mid-1980s. Coupled with our declining birth rate and an imminent shortage of skilled tradesmen, we could, within the period of the next decade, see a complete reversal. Australia could, in fact, face a shortage of skilled tradesmen, resulting in a high labour demand and high costs. 
The greatest challenge facing this nation at present is the reduction of our unemployment levels. It certainly follows that one of our priorities must be a rationalisation of our labour market and substantial long term planning in the area of manpower and work force needs. It does not appear to me that we can necessarily expect to sit back and take for granted that the labour market will automatically adjust itself to changing demands. I think that we would be deluded if we expected education institutions to adjust automatically their intakes to take account of employment opportunities for their graduates. We could also be fooling ourselves if we believed that the computer holocaust, as the  Australian  newspaper entitled it last year, will not have a tremendous social and economic dislocation effect upon this nation. I believe that there are labour trends and changes in our community that throw into question a number of the traditional working mores of our society. We need to recognise this and, as a community, discuss and contemplate means of accommodating these changes in the light of our present employment situation. We should not shirk our community responsibility and say: 'Let the Government fix it'. Any measures which the Government may contemplate in resolving these dilemmas will need to have not only the acceptance of the community but also a contribution from it. Unemployment is too big a problem for the Government to handle alone. 
What then are these trends and changes that are taking place in the work force? Firstly, part time employment continues to grow and the survey based estimate of employment among the part time labour force actually declined over the course of the year. Secondly, female employment was again stronger than male employment. Thirdly, among industry groupings, manufacturing and community services recorded major changes over the year. Fourthly, government employment continued to rise but showed some slackening in the second half of the year while private employment continued to fall. Finally, in marked contrast to earlier years, junior unemployment rates have been rising by relatively less than the adult rates. The Special Youth Employment Training Program seems to have been an important factor in this development. In effect, it has resulted in some substitution of youth employment for employment of other members of the work force. 
Debate interrupted. 
-Last night when this debate was interrupted I was discussing some of the changing factors in the work force of 1 979 and the implications of the Budget in that respect. I would like to continue within those parameters. Approximately 900,000 people are now employed in part time work in Australia. That, in fact, is 60 per cent more than there were in 1 972. In March 1978, almost 80 per cent of the part time workers were female and over 60 per cent were married. The inevitable trend towards part time employment raises a number of problems for our community, one of which must concern the employer who, in some cases is faced with the task of transferring wages and conditions applicable to a full time 8-hour day system to one which entails a greater degree of flexibility in hours worked and in times worked. The question of penalty rates is but one area that needs urgent reconsideration. Workers 'sick leave, annual holidays, superannuation, trade union membership and eligibility for social security employment benefits are all factors that need to be discussed if we are to acknowledge that there is an ever increasing place for part time employment. 
A number of factors are associated with this and other alternative work patterns and it is vitally important that there be greater public awareness, discussion and understanding. We have been relatively reluctant to enter into any serious debate about alternative working patterns. Apart from the odd comment about shorter working weeks, there is a prevailing sense of belief that there are enough 40-hour a week jobs in the community to accomodate a labour market when the economy picks up. I am afraid that I am now less inclined to hold these expectations, not in any doomsday sense, but rather taking into account circumstances that have become evident over the last two decades. 
We as a nation, are undergoing enormous structural changes in our industries. Our manufacturing industry is decreasing in its prominence as a major employer of labour. This has been evident since 1 954. According to the Institute of Applied Economic and Social Research, job opportunities for younger people have been deteriorating in relation to those for the total work force. Married women now constitute a much bigger section of the work force than ever before. Indeed, I believe that since the Second World War, we have been experiencing a gradual fundamental shift in the expectations of all 
Australians. I do not for one minute suggest that this change has completely taken over. But I do believe that there is evidence to suggest that unless we are aware of its presence and take account of it in our manpower studies, we could risk implementing and encouraging programs which have limited long term value. 
It has been my observation that the immediate post-war period has been notable for a pent-up demand for goods and services. A high birth rate and the increasing costs of raising children, a growing emphasis on consumer luxury items and the need to make the future secure instilled into the Australian work force the need to work harder to increase productivity, to earn more money and generally to concentrate on the material side of life. Indeed, Australia's great economic and social advances during the period are evidence enough of the tremendous importance which those expectations have had on this nation's development. 
However, a number of the forces which stimulated development in those years are now moving in the opposite direction. Our birth rate has declined to a critical level and so child rearing does not contribute the same economic significance in the family budget as it once did. Many of the essential services that consumed a large slice of the family budget are now taken for granted- hospital services, dental services, and so on. But some evidence seems to indicate that younger workers, older workers and women tend to prefer shorter hours to additional incomes. There seems to me to be a trend towards increased leisure rather than increased work. 
I for one do not subscribe to the argument that a government alone should be the social innovator for the community. Rather, I take the view that governments have a responsibility to work with the community to develop together the social and economic basis of our society. Therefore, it is my contention that if we are eventually to overcome our unemployment problems, we need to encourage discussions and actually seek the views of the community on those labour trends which are likely to have an influence on the number of jobs that are available in the work force. The problem that presents itself cannot be overcome simply by ignoring trends which at present may seem to us to be too far removed from our traditional work patterns. 
I do read the honourable member's speeches and I am afraid that we do tend to agree on a number of issues. I am glad that the honourable member agrees with me on this one. Issues such as the need for increased leisure hours, early retirement, a shorter working week, job sharing programs and flexible working hours affect the number of jobs available. If our high unemployment persists, we may have to consider implementing some of these ideas. For example, work sharing or the spreading of work programs has only but recently received some degree of serious discussion in the nation. Yet there are overseas advocates of such labour initiatives who claim that reduced work time has not only proved to be an effective short term weapon against unemployment but also involved less deficit financing than standard employer incentive work programs and, in some instances, even less than the amount of money which is currently spent on unemployment benefit. As well, as has been the experience in other countries, work sharing spreads the impact of an economic downturn and is less likely to lead to a cutback in consumer spending. Certainly some of the arguments of those advocates do appeal to me, especially if they can be found to reduce the hardship that unemployment causes. But I, like a number of other members of this House, would like to hear the community's view on the issues. 
There is no doubt that high juvenile wages have been but one significant factor contributing to youth unemployment. Coupled with the number of trained married women already avail1 able in the labour force, many employers are hesitant to employ on such high wages young people with little work experience. I wonder whether young people would be prepared to take a cut in wages if it could be proved to them that by doing so employers would be prepared to give other young people jobs. Would employers be prepared to hire more young people if juvenile wages were lower? I believe that it is on this sort of question that we should be asking the community to give us its views. 
There has been, I believe, a good deal of wasted effort in the field of unemployment. Many of the unemployment rallies held in the capital cities are really only sounding boards for various political groups. They do not do anything to identify the areas that could lead to an increase in employment opportunities. Indeed, they positively hinder such discussions by sidetracking the public on short term political ends. There has been enough politics in unemployment. No one political party can be solely blamed for the present situation, and I believe that it is about time that we as a Parliament realised just that. Industry structural changes and social changes which have largely led to unemployment have been evolving gradually over the last decade. The Budget does not attempt to hide the fact that many problems remain to be solved. But if we are to solve these problems, then I think that we have to appreciate, as I stated earlier, that the Budget must be interpreted by the Australian people as being more of a working agreement between the Australian community and the Government rather than a document designed to cure all ills, irrespective of the action or desires of the rest of the community. 
In the remaining minutes, I would like to concentrate on a particular aspect of the Budget. It is an aspect on which I would like to congratulate the Government for its foresight and, indeed, its dedication. 
No, it was quite easy because for the first time an Australian government has recognised that there is such a thing in this country as the tourist industry. It is to these ends that I would like to make a few comments. Over the past two years I have been involved in a major parliamentary committee which has been looking into the problems of the tourist industry. At last there seems to be a realisation of the tremendous contribution that tourism can make to our country and, indeed, to those employment problems that I was speaking about before. The fact that there has been a 98 per cent increase in the funding of the Australian Tourist Commission and the fact that there has been the introduction of a depreciation allowance on new hotels and motels will contribute certainly to an expansion of that industry with the consequent benefits that that can bring. These benefits are tremendous. 
The House of Representatives Select Committee on Tourism found that if we could encourage overseas tourists to this country the employment benefits would be immense- in fact so immense that people just did not believe the figures which were issued by that Committee. Those figures have been studied and now have been analysed by the Bureau of Industry Economics. They indicate that for every extra 25,000 overseas visitors coming into this country, another 1,400 jobs will be created. These are tremendous figures. Of course there are also the indications of what labour opportunities there will be for increased activity in the domestic market. Those figures, which once again have been approved by the Bureau of Industry Economics, show that for every extra $ 10,000 that is spent in the domestic tourist industry another 1.2 jobs are created. I was pleased to see that the Government recognised this and, in the funds allocated to the Australian Tourist Commission, made provision for $500,000 to be spent over the next two years on domestic tourism in this country. I believe that that particular campaign is already under way. 
One of the recommendations- it is interesting because the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar),  who is at the table, is responsible for this particular area- that was not accepted by the Government was the ultimate purpose for which the departure tax should be used. The Select Committee on Tourism recommended that the money that was collected should go to the promotion of tourism. Even though that was not collected in substance, it would seem that a great percentage of the money that has been collected will now be used for tourist promotion and in assisting the domestic tourist industry. Consequently I now have no gripe with the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs regarding that particular aspect of the Committee 's report. 
But it is important that all Australians realise the tremendous benefits, financial and in terms of employment, to be gained from tourism. One would hope that the industry in Australia would be ready to handle the increased flow of overseas tourists as they are starting to arrive. This is already happening. For the first time in more than a decade, in the month of June this year, the number of foreign arrivals in Australia exceeded the number of Australians who were departing this country for an overseas holiday. That would give an indication that the new international air fare regime was working. I, for one, have certainly been a critic of that regime because I think we can get even more out of it. It is heartening to note that the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  has already told the House that he will be reviewing again the whole situation of charter flights into and out of Australia in April next year. Of course, the flood of tourists which these charters can bring in, and the money that those people can bring in, really is quite spectacular. I am pleased that the Minister for Transport will undertake that particular review. 
The fact that we seem to have turned the corner and actually have more people coming into the country than going overseas is an indication of how the Government's policies have started to work in regard to tourism. When one thinks of the amount of money that so many of those tourists do spend one can see the effect that it can have on our economy. In a recent survey it was indicated that the average German tourist travelling overseas- disregarding the amount of money he spent on his air ticket and his accommodation- spends something like $A136 a day. That is a tremendous amount of money. If some 20,000 or 30,000 Germans came into Australia for a week or two at a time, and each spent $136 a day, one can imagine just what effect that would have on our economy. 
Obviously one of our big markets is going to be New Zealand. It is our closest market and is a traditional market. There is an interest already in the North American circuit, as to the number of Americans who are visiting Australia. The figures are very encouraging. We must never forget the effect that Asia can have. If one looks at the movement of Asian travellers at the moment one sees that there are some remarkable figures coming through. It is obvious that the Japanese are the biggest travellers in the world, but there are some other trends starting to emerge of which Australia should be taking advantage. I refer to the movements of the Koreans and the Taiwanese who at the moment are travelling overseas in bigger and bigger numbers. The Taiwanese Government has now given its local residents permission to leave the country on holiday for up to three months at a time. These people are looking for places to go. There are a number of things that would attract them to Australia- especially our casinos. It would be well worth our while to investigate that particular market further. The Singaporeans are travelling more and more, and even the Thais are starting to move into the area of overseas holiday travel. It is obvious that there should be a very close examination of that market also to see whether we can take advantage of it. 
Tourism is more than just economics or job opportunities. Tourism plays a very real diplomatic role. Although I do not profess to enjoy or to acknowledge the Russian philosophies, there is a sign at Moscow Airport which is a very telling one indeed. It reads something like this: 'International tourism is the international passport to goodwill, peace and understanding'. There is a lot of truth in that particular statement. If we could get that sort of philosophy into the minds of all Australians and they would accept good naturedly the visit of overseas tourists to this country, I am sure the rub-off could be very good indeed for all people in Australia. In that respect I would like to congratulate the Government, and especially the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Mr Lynch)  for the tremendous effort that he has made in recent months to make Australia part of that world tourist scene. 
-In recent weeks, a number of honourable members have raised the problem of so-called religious cults emerging in our society, but as well as the emergence of these pseudo-religious cults there is yet another phenomenon which seems to be developing, which is often causing much in the way of mental and financial anguish to many of our families. This is the so-called 'mind development courses'. One such course that has come to my notice in recent weeks is an outfit named Focal, or Focal International, which bases itself at 31 Sherwood Road, Toowong, in Brisbane and at Focal Lodge in the Brisbane suburb of Pullenvale. 
Focal claims to be one of these such courses, offering the ultimate in personal development. I understand it also operates in Perth and has offices in other capital cities, although it has been virtually run out of South Australia. There would appear to be two separate operations of Focalfirstly, salesmanship courses and, secondly, the alleged self-development course. It is the second of these that appears to cause the most problems. Introductory literature is cleverly worded to appeal to people who believe they have personality problems, although Focal safeguards itself by saying in its literature that: 'No person with a record of psychiatric, medical or emotional problems should participate in this high powered course without the consent of their doctor'. 
The literature states clearly that the personnel involved in the training are not psychologists or psychiatrists, but claims that the teachers are highly skilled in the art of living. It even has the hide to claim that there is a money-back guarantee if a person is not completely satisfiedprovided that person has completed the course to the fullest participation and provided he or she has signed a release clause, the release clause being one that completely clears Focal. I have seen the document forwarded to a person who claimed on the money-back guarantee. It is a page of abuse and insult and can only be described as obscene. The money-back guarantee is not worth the paper it is written on. 
But, the frightening aspect of this operation is the cost- $1,000 for the privilege of undertaking a four-day course, although Focal claims that it is life membership. Constitutents who have approached me have claimed that they have spent, in one instance, $2,800 and, in another instance, $4,000. It is a case of milking the clients dry. I understand that finance can be arranged by the organisation and that it is quite common practice for people to put themselves into great debt, such is the power of Focal. The four day mind development course is held at Focal Lodge at Pullenvale. Up to 24 people attend each course every second weekend. People who have done the four day stint have told of the hell that they have been through. I believe it is a classic technique in mind bending. Participants are allowed very little sleep, they are disoriented, subjected to weird lighting effects, loud music but little food. People who emerge from such a weekend are described as walking zombies. 
There are frightening stories of techniques used in the area called 'The Pit '. There are public humiliation sessions, public confessions from people subjected to tirades of abuse and personal degradation. The name of this particular section ofthe course is 'Greatness in You'. Other titles of courses include 'The Sensuous Woman', Business Motives' and 'Sales Training', although the most frightening of all could well be the one entitled 'The Fascinating Girl', which is a special course for young ladies aged between 1 6 and 1 8 years. The mind boggles at what might be involved in that. It would seem that the courses are attended by a great cross-section of people ranging in age from as low as 1 3 years up to people in their 70s. The rip-off would appear never to cease. People who try to get out are often convinced by the principals of Focal to undertake other courses at extra cost to get over their doubts about what Focal provides. But what frightens me is the refusal to speak about the courses by people who have been through them. It would seem to be a fear of speaking up about what really goes on at the Focal Lodge. I have, however, spoken to a prominent journalist who investigated Focal 's operations in South Australia. He told me that he had received death threats when he started reporting on Focal. 
The sad conclusion of these courses is what happens to a number of people who, after the maximum amount of money has been taken from them, make a break, and end up with the most serious mental and nervous conditions. The Department of Mental Health in Queensland has had experiences with such folk as members of GROW, that fine organisation which plays such a wonderful role in the rehabilitation of those people with emotional and mental problems, who point out that voluntary organisations such as theirs do not charge for such services. Focal charges $1,000, allegedly for this mind developing course. It is sad to see families torn apart when one of its members enters into Focal. I have had two such cases that have come to light in my electorate. It is sad to see the effect on people who involve themselves in so much debt to this organisation and who go through such incredible emotional anguish when they realise just what their financial commitment is to this group. I believe that the pressure and standover tactics are there and someone has got to stop them. I warn all people to be very careful before they sign for a Focal course in Brisbane. 
Can the Minister for Primary Industry say what stage the reconsideration of the proposed Japanese fishing agreement for the martin waters in north Queensland has reached? Is the Government prepared not to proceed with the signing of that agreement? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Industry and Commerce. Following the announcement in the Budget of the introduction of the depreciation allowance for hotels and motels of 10 units or more, can the Minister say when the legislation to cover this aspect of the Budget will be introduced? Can he give an indication of any increased interest in the building of new hotels in Australia since the Budget? 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 1 9 September 1 979: 
1 ) Has an application been received for the construction of an international hotel at Mascot, NSW, adjacent to the international and domestic airports; if so, where is the new hotel to be located. 
) What is the proposed size of the new hotel. 
What is its projected opening date. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 19 September 1979: 
1 ) Has an application for services into Australia by the airline, Lan Chile, been rejected; if so, why? 
Has any consideration been given to pool services, or Qantas/Lan Chile connection services, between Australia and South America; if so, what fares have been established on these routes and what is the weekly capacity available from Australia to South America? 
My question is directed to the Minister for Transport. I refer to the continuing saga of the international civil aviation policy. Was a meeting scheduled for this week between Australia and representatives of the Association of South East Asian Nations countries finally to determine the range of fares to exist between Australia and ASEAN countries? Has this meeting been cancelled? If so, why? When is the next meeting scheduled? Is the Minister confident of getting some resolve in the ASEAN air fare situation at the next meeting? 
-Many members of this House have had an opportunity in recent years to go overseas and examine some of the Australian aid projects around the world that are funded by the Government. I am sure that most of us who have had an opportunity to see some of those projects in operation have nothing but admiration for the Australians who dedicate themselves to improving the lifestyles and conditions of some of those nations which we support. I believe that we, as a Parliament, have a very great obligation to support those people who are willing to give their time and talents, in many cases under very difficult circumstances, to try to improve some of those developing countries. However, in recent years there has been a tendency- and I do not criticise this decision at all- for the Australian Staffing Assistance Scheme to tend to pay any aid money directly to the Government concerned and for that Government in turn to pay Australian personnel on some of those aid projects. This is certainly causing some problems in some areas of the world. 
One particular case has come to my attention, the case of Western Samoa. On 20 June this year, the Western Samoan Government announced a IS per cent devaluation of the Western Samoan tala against the New Zealand dollar. The Western Samoan bank rate for buying Australian dollars since has changed from a mean figure of 0.8032 in May as against a mean figure of 1.0186 in September. Effectively this has been a devaluation against the Australian dollar of 26.8 per cent. Unfortunately the Public Service Commission in Western Samoa has refused to adjust ASAS salaries which are paid in Western Samoan currency to reflect this devaluation. The Australian staff working on this scheme, therefore have suffered in effect a 26.8 per cent salary cut in Australian dollar terms. Under the ASAS staff are fully taxed by the Western Samoan Government and in many instances the level of taxation exceeds the Western Samoan Government's contribution to their salaries in any aid project and more often than not is higher than the Australian rate of taxation. So one could almost suggest that some governments in actual fact are receiving a net financial gain. 
I believe that there is an urgent requirement for a full review of the Australian Staffing Assistance Scheme operating in areas such as this, both in relation to these points and in relation to the wishes of ASAS personnel. I am sure that many would prefer full payment of their salary and taxation in Australia, which in all probability would result in no extra net cost to the Australian Government and would provide Government support to the staff. Alternatively perhaps the Australian contribution to salaries should be paid and taxed in Australia and foreign government contributions should be paid and taxed in that particular country. I certainly believe that salaries should be tied in some way to the Australian dollar so that the people who are prepared with almost missionary zeal to go into some of those far-flung parts of the world do not suffer any financial hardship because of these fluctuations in salary. 
Of course, it is a fact that many of these salaries are not necessarily high. In the situation in Western Samoa, in which constituents of mine are involved, the salary range is in the vicinity of $13,000 to $14,000 a year, admittedly with a house provided. But this 26.8 per cent devaluation, in addition to the high rate of taxation that exists in that country and the high rate of import duty on goods that are desired by Western citizens, has made it almost financially impossible for people to stay there and to make their contributions to that particular aid project. I have made representations to the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  and I know that he is particularly sympathetic and is investigating the situation now. I would urge the Australian Staffing Assistance Scheme to have a further look at some of the contributions it is making to some of these foreign aid schemes to make sure that Australians who are prepared to dedicate their lives to the betterment of these people in some of these developing nations get a fair deal all round. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER  (Mr Millar)Order!  It being 1 1 p.m. the debate is interrupted. The House stands adjourned until 2. IS p.m. tomorrow. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 22 August 1979: 
1 ) What cabin load factor has been averaged by Qantas on the Kangaroo Route from Australia to London since the introduction of APEX fares in February 1 979. 
How many passengers were carried by Qantas on this route since February 1 979 and what percentage were (a) full first class fares, (b) full economy fares, (c) economy excursion fares, (d) APEX fares, and (e) F.O.C. or discounted staff and industry fares. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. After a number of years of unsatisfactory television reception in parts of Queensland 's Gold Coast, I understand that the Minister has called for translator television transmitters at the Gold Coast. Is this, in fact, a change of direction for the Government or will there be further moves in this direction to provide television facilities to the four million Australians who receive less than satisfactory television programming and many of whom live in high density population areas? Will provision also be made for better radio transmissions? 
Whilst in no way do I necessarily condone the attack on John Laws by the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr John Brown)  I do agree with the points that he has raised in that I think there has to be a greater sense of responsibility by many of the talk-back radio communicators on Australian radio. 
I was one of the early ones in Australia, too. 
We were both very responsible. But the point is that a number of these people do not, in fact, research the subjects on which they sound forth day after day. It does cause a great deal of concern among many sections of the population when these people go off on a tangent on matters that they know nothing about. The only thing is that I should remind the honourable member for Parramatta that  Mr Laws,  no doubt, is getting much better ratings than we are in this place and probably earns the salary that he does get. I am here today not to speak about the pros and cons of talk-back radio personalities, but rather to look at the subject of aviation. 
Aviation throughout the world has undergone very great changes during the 1970s. Australia, to a great degree, has protected itself from many of these changes until the last few years, when it was forced by a number of events to review its attitudes to aviation as well. We have had our international civil aviation policy review and our domestic air transport policy review, and some changes have been made. Certainly, in the case of ICAP a very radical approach has been taken. I do not intend to debate the pros and cons of ICAP today, but to bring before the Parliament the proposition that more than ever before we need a continuing review to be made of aviation right into the 1980s. There are vast changes under way throughout the world. We must be ready to adapt. 
There is no doubt that the comparatively cheap air fares are here to stay. Deregulations of the airlines in the United States have shown that more people than ever before are using aircraft as a primary means of transport. Passenger numbers following deregulation in the United States increased in some airlines by up to 84 per cent. The cheaper air fares to Australia in the first six months of this year have increased the numbers of foreign visitors by 27.9 per cent compared with the same period last year, with 351,500 people coming to Australia between January and June this year. The numbers of Australians going overseas have increased in the same period admittedly, by 12.5 per cent, 564,200 Australians having journeyed by air out of Australia. The tourist drain, however, has been decreased from three to one outbound to inbound to those figures I have just quoted. The best increases have come from the United Kingdom, West Germany and Northern Europe. This leads to a point that I am making about for the need for a continuing review. 
The Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  in answer to a question on notice on Tuesday gave me figures that showed that Qantas Airways Ltd carried 146,559 passengers on the kangaroo route from 1 February to 2 1 July this year. This was a load factor of 80 percent, virtually full aircraft on all services. The interesting point is that 64.3 per cent of these passengers were on advance purchase excursion fares and 29 per cent on excursion economy fares. The demand for cheap fares is certainly there, with only 2.5 per cent on full first class fares and just 1.4 per cent on full economy fares. Under the terms of the new cheap fare regime on point-to-point fares other international airlines are excluded from offering APEX fares on the kangaroo route, although most international airlines are offering substantially discounted fares and getting good loads out of Australia. 
A semi-public document being circulated in Melbourne amongst travel agents shows that since 1 August a number of carriers are offering fares to London and other points in Europe at most competitive rates, including return Melbourne-London fares in high seasons of only $1,118 and Melbourne-Paris return fares for $1,100 complete with stopovers. Free stopovers are being offered by some carriers on the route. One-way fares of $550 are also being sold. These fares are not in line with what the Government and Qantas intended with ICAP. They are illegal, perhaps, but they are selling like hot cakes. There is therefore room for us to be more flexible in providing cheap fares, especially when we consider that 93.3 per cent of all passengers travelling on Qantas services between Australia and London in the first six months of this year were travelling on the cheaper fares. The Minister has said he will review the question of charters next April. To capture the market for Australia, I believe we should be looking at it even now. Full aircraft are the most profitable operation. If predictions of massive aviation fuel price increases for later next year do, in fact, come to fruition- I am sure they will- let us start getting the people moving as soon as possible. When those predicted fuel price rises in aviation spirit of 30 per cent to 40 per cent do hit next year, we will not be able to compete as well unless we can offer the optimum in the cheap fare packages to Australia. 
The low usage of full first and full economy fares on those Qantas flights is interesting. There is evidence that traffic, mostly business traffic, is being bled off especially from full economy fares. No fewer than six carriers are offering a deal to full economy passengers in Melbourne. That deal is that they can pay the full first class fare and receive a refund of the difference between the economy and first class fares eight weeks after they return to Australia. This is a good deal indeed. This is happening when we in Australia are in fact talking of increasing full first class and full economy fares officially on Australian services. Even if we do not want deregulation in the Australian airline industry- personally I believe there is room for some official deregulation- we are gradually getting to it. It seems to be virtually impossible to control except in cancelling landing rights of an international airline coming into Australia. The diplomatic implications of that could be severe. Or do we just forget that full f are market and concentrate on our own services with their providing all economy charter, or charter type operations, and leaving the small full fare passenger markets to other carriers? This may even be the right attitude if Qantas is hell bent on an all Boeing 747 aircraft long range fleet, although it has been reported that the 747SP aircraft may be purchased for specialised routes such as those to Wellington, New Zealand, and Noumea. To me that would seem to be an amazing decision especially since the SP aircraft are designed for long non-stop flights such as Sydney to the United States west coast, and Tokyo to New York. Once again the answer could well be the introduction of Australian domestic carriers on the New Zealand and other regional routes such as Bali, New Guinea and the Pacific Islands, even under charter to Qantas, rather than the investment in an aircraft such as the 747SP which has not been proven on the short haul routes. It is interesting to see that already Pan-American Airways is thinking of pulling the 747SP aircraft out of the Australian operation. 
Domestically, there are some encouraging signs in an experiment in ending parallel schedules on the Sydney to Canberra and Melbourne to Canberra routes. I understand that is about to begin with Ansett Airlines of Australia. There has also been a relaxation of fare types by the domestic airlines. However, we must be able to give the domestic airlines, whether the two major carriers, or a third level carrier, such as EastWest Airlines Ltd, and Bush Pilots Airways Ltd, the opportunity to experiment with routes which may need to be developed to accommodate the ever expanding tourist market, or indeed the domestic market. This again could well involve some short haul domestic routes. However, there does need to be a flexibility as well for airlines to develop their own equipment. Certainly, as far as Ansett and Trans-Australia Airlines are concerned we need to acknowledge that their heavy equipment is a most costly investment. There is a need for rationalisation as to just what they use. 
I was surprised to see that TAA had tentative deposits with the Airbus manufacturer for its wide-bodied Airbus aircraft while Ansett was considering Boeing equipment. In the heavy jet equipment areas, there are great economic advantages for the two major carriers to have similar equipment and the cost savings can also be passed on to the consumer, that is the travelling public. I believe that new equipment needs to be introduced to the major carriers in the next few years. There is no doubt that the Airbus is a magnificent aircraft. There has been some discussion to the effect that perhaps it is even too big for the Australian services. However, the cost savings advantages of an Airbus operation are very great indeed. It is fuel efficient; it has a tremendous record in its short history for reliability, and mechanical excellence, and it is achieving an incredible record in its European, South East Asian and other operations in the United States of America. The opportunity for the introduction of wide-bodied equipment on the Australian domestic runs means even more and more flexibility in the introduction of cheaper air fares. I am sure that every honourable member of this House is committed to developing the Australian tourist industry. We can only do that with this flexibility that I have just outlined in our aviation policies. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Today is a great day for Australia because one of the most significant government announcements in recent years has been made, one that is going to change the lives of hundreds of thousands of people across the nation. We have just heard from the honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes)  the most unbelievable load of tripe and onions that has been dished up in this House for many a long year. Frankly, I am absolutely amazed and appalled. I get very angry when I hear that sort of attitude expressed from the Opposition benches on a matter as important as this is to all Australians. I was amazed that the honourable member for Melbourne had the hide to say in the House that the Australian Labor Party was not opposed to a national communications satellite, and then went through reams and reams of arguments that could do nothing else but point out that in fact the ALP was opposed to such a satellite. 
I just want one guarantee from Government members today- from all those members who represent country electorates around Australiathat they will take a copy of the speech of the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Staley)  and a copy of the speech of the honourable member for Melbourne and circulate them to all their constituents so that the people in the remote areas of Australia can see the attitude of the Australian Labor Party to this matter. The speech was really the most incredible load of drivel that we have ever had to put up with in this House. Really, it is hardly worth arguing against some of the points he made, but I think that to state that the member for Melbourne must have sat there and been asleep throughout the Minister's statement would be an understatement. The honourable member reminds me of a koala bear; he could go to sleep in the fork. It was absolutely unbelievable. The Minister in pure, concise terms, pointed out step by step the way the satellite would go. The reply by the honourable member for Melbourne made no reference to the actualities of the matter. There were classic statements such as 'The Prime Minister is against this' and 'The Minister for Finance is against this'. May I remind the honourable member in very strict terms that all of this has been a 100 per cent approved Cabinet decision. The Government is completely behind this method of introducing the national communications satellite. 
The honourable member kept mentioning the task force report. I am afraid he just has not upgraded his information one iota since that report was delivered; his information is so far behind the times. 
I have read it and have been working on this subject for months and months. Let me point out a few of the situations that he raised. He made very great moment of the allegation that people such as Kerry Packer would benefit from this particular satellite, to the exclusion of all other Australians, it would seem. Yet the Minister stated quite specifically that no vested interest would be allowed to take control of Australia's communication facilities or television facilities. He spelled out quite clearly that this facility was to be made available to regional channels around Australia. 
Then the honourable member went into an incredible tirade about who really would benefit from it. Let us spell it out for him once again. I will tell him who will benefit from this facility by way of television and radio reception. In the case of television, 500,000 Australian people are going to benefit- 500,000 Australians who have no television reception at all. Some 120,000 of these people have little hope of ever gaining a service by the present system. Five hundred thousand Australians are going to benefit from this facility. There are 220,000 Australian people who get only an Australian Broadcasting Commission service and who have no access whatsoever to any other type of television program. There are four million Australians who have only one national service and one commercial service compared with the people who are lucky enough to live in the cities and have the ABC service, three commercial services and probably more services on the way. Almost one million people have less than an ideal service. As the Minister said, it is amazing just how many of these people are in nearby proximity to capital cities. 
When we listen to the honourable member for Melbourne, I think the honourable member for Phillip makes his point very well indeed. Members of the Opposition sit there and, if they are not going to deny the facility outright, say: 'Stop, hold back. We want another three or four years of inquiries'. While the rest of the world is moving into these national space communications, do we have to sit here behind the times? Are we going to take this attitude? No, we are not. This is the advance of Australia into the 1980s. It is the advance of Australia into that incredible world of space communications. We should be in that development. The honourable member for Melbourne also mentioned that situation regarding telephones. He made that incredible statement about all these poor people who are going to lose out on this facility. He said that 40,000 people were going to wreck the whole of the telecommunications system. If he had read the Minister's statement he would know that the Minister pointed out that there will not be any opposition from Telecom Australia because its programs are going to continue. He also pointed out that only about 5,000 services in remote locations will not have any opportunity whatsoever to get a telephone system by the present means. 
I was very fortunate to serve with such gentlemen as the honourable member for Calare  (Mr MacKenzie)  and the honourable member for Kalgoorlie  (Mr Cotter)  on the Government members communications committee which has been dealing with this matter for the past two years. We were very lucky to be well briefed by a number of people who have been involved with this satellite program. With our Canadian counterparts, we spent many hours learning just what this system has done for Canada. I believe that a great number of comparisons can be made between the nature of Canada and the nature of Australia. Australia's population is spread around the coastline. In Canada, the bulk of the population is in the southern areas. There are these huge remote areas that contain very little in the way of population. What has the satellite done for those areas? When we see the incredible demonstrations how medical services can be upgraded and how medical treatment can be relayed by means of satellite, we realise the tremendous implications that this facility will have for the people of outback Australia. If we can bring in that system alone, it will justify so much of the cost. We see the tremendous advances that have been made in Canada in the field of education, in being able to set up special educational channels and to bring programs to the people in the far flung areas. We can adapt that system to our needs here too, to provide people in the remote areas with the best possible educational facilities. 
There are so many areas that will benefit. Quite often in this House we hear the argument about Australia's involvement in the Antarctic. 
What a tremendous benefit it will be when we can switch into the satellite communications to remain in control of a situation down there. Let us take our minds back to some great disasters that have occurred in the last few years. Let us look at the problems that we had with the Brisbane floods, the Darwin cyclone and the bushfires of Tasmania. For some hours communications were completely shut off, and for days and weeks at a time only very limited communications were available. This system will overcome all of that. We will have the capacity to service the people in any particular area that might be affected by a national disaster. Yet the honourable member for Melbourne had the hide to stand up in this Parliament today and say: No, stay off. Delay it'. We cannot have that situation at all. 
All Australians are going to benefit. Tremendous job opportunities will be offered in the technological field. The satellite authority itself will be a tremendous employer. I state quite categorically here and now that the present Telecom expansion plans for telephone services throughout Australia are to continue. The Government has already announced its plan to upgrade the remote services facilities, which will continue also. The new satellite system is not going to take over any of the terrestrial activity which takes place at present. 
I am sorry that the honourable member for Melbourne has left the chamber. Obviously, he cannot really face up to just what this system is going to be. As for the talk of people in television stations losing their employment, I have never heard anything like it, especially as the Minister has already stated that this system is going to be made available to regional stations and that there will not be an opportunity for major networks to take over the whole of the country. If I were living in a country town and I were denied access to such programs as test cricket- and that could be on the books at the moment- events of major national importance, other sporting events and world events, I would be very angry indeed. This satellite will provide the opportunity for country people to observe such programs along with the rest of Australia. Obviously, we just cannot afford to delay this decision any further. 
In the words of the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman)  I think we should congratulate the Minister and commend the Government for this tremendous advance that they have announced today. It is an advance which will benefit each and every Australian, no matter to what walk of life he or she belongs. For the cost involved- I suggest that on the figures that were released by the Minister today those  costs are  very reasonable indeed; three satellites and two ground tracking stations for only $ 1 1 4m and eight major city earth stations for $21m- I think it is an investment that will be welcomed by all Australians. Spread over the life of the satellite, that is very small money indeed to pay to have this sort of facility serving the whole of the nation. I am sure that all members of the Government and every fair and thinking Australian will rejoice today in the decision which has been made, and which we are going to go ahead with, to take Australia well and truly into the space age. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 22 August 1979: 
1 ) What is the break even load factor on Qantas aircraft operating the Kangaroo Route between Australia and London under the present mixed fare configurations. 
What would be the break even cabin load factor on an all-economy configuration Qantas 747B aircraft operating on this route, and using APEX fares only in (a) low season, ( b) shoulder season and (c) high season. 
Has Qantas made any investigation as to the possible operation of a service of the type referred to in part (2); if so, what would stop its introduction. 
asked the Minister for Productivity, upon notice, on 22 August 1979: 
1 ) How many Nomad aircraft have now been sold (a) in Australia and (b) overseas. 
Are any airlines (a) in Australia and (b) overseas using the Nomad in scheduled passenger services; if so, which airlines and on which routes are these services undertaken. 
It would almost seem to be predetermined these days that I follow the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  in debates. We usually speak about similar subjects. In speaking on the Estimates tonight I will confine my comments to the estimates of the Department of Industry and Commerce and the Department of Transport. I will make specific reference to tourism. One of the great things that has happened in the Parliament over recent years has been the bipartisan approach that has been taken by both the Opposition and the Government towards tourism. The honourable member for Robertson quite rightly said that it is fast developing into one of the great industries of Australia. It is at big as the motor vehicle industry. It is almost as big as the mining industry. Given that less than two years ago the Department of the Treasury did not even acknowledge tourism as an industry, I believe that we have come a great way. 
I was very interested tonight to hear the comments of the honourable member for Robertson about the need for a national tourist plan. I agree with him completely. Perhaps the House of Representatives Select Committee on Tourism should be resurrected to deal with some specific briefs over a short period and to examine what should be done now for the industry. The point he made about the plan is very relevant. I think that his comments will be taken on board by all members of the Select Committee in as much as we tended to be a little piecemeal in the areas we looked at. Certainly, the need for a plan is becoming critical. I suggest to the Government as a matter of utmost urgency that it look at the prospect of devising an overall tourist strategy for Australia. We need it very much. The only other comment I shall make at the moment about the Select Committee's report is simply that in some respects perhaps we were not critical enough of some aspects of the tourist industry. If we form ourselves together again as a committee we should be perfectly honest about some of the bad developments that are starting to occur in the tourist industry at the moment. Who knows, perhaps that committee will be reconstituted. 
If tourism is not the biggest industry in the world at the moment it is certainly the second biggest. This year it will be worth $380 billion world-wide. Fifty million international tourists will be travelling from country to country this year. If Australia can get its share of international tourism the benefits will be obvious. I also support the comments of the honourable member for Robertson regarding the increase in the funds for the Australian Tourist Commission. The increase has been a massive 98 per cent. It will allow greater promotion overseas. The depreciation allowance on hotels is just the start. It is a major breakthrough and something that I was very pleased to see happen. It is a start; perhaps we can build on it. Another area we should be looking at- this was alluded to by the honourable member for Robertson- is low cost accommodation. It surprises me that at the moment there is no register of the availability of hotel rooms in Australia. Many rooms in country and suburban hotels could be done up and hired out at a very cheap rate. 
The initial figures on the international tourists coming to Australia in the first seven months of this year show, interestingly enough, that there has been a big increase in the number of Germans visiting the country. That market has grown in excess of 130 per cent. Their particular demand has been for self-contained accommodation. They have been looking for flats and units at the right price. The nature of the German tourist is interesting. He does not necessarily want to visit a capital city. He likes to get out into the country areas. I believe that there would be a great future for some of the old country hotels if people saw that there was more in being a hotelier than providing a bar trade or a counter lunch. They could move into the area of doing up their accommodation and providing what could be unique and interesting accommodation for overseas visitors. Perhaps we should stress that point to them. At the moment there seems to be a cut price liquor war in most States of Australia and many hoteliers are finding it very difficult to make ends meet. 
This could be one area that could help the industry overall. Indeed, it could make sure that a little more income is going to the hotel industry than perhaps is going there at present. The figures showing an increase of 28 per cent in the number of inbound tourists are quite true. The outbound number has grown by only 12 per cent so the travel gap is starting to narrow. But on the initial figures, the point that worries me more than anything else- it had to happen- is the high percentage of people coming to Australia who are visiting friends and relatives. Nobody is going to deny that these people are going to be a help to the economy because obviously they are going to eat food, drink particular beverages, go on tours and buy souvenirs. But Australia has yet to see the full impact of the tourist flow into the tourist plant of Australia. The whole point about tourists visiting friends and relatives is simply that they do stay with friends and relatives and do not use our hotels, restaurants and a lot of the other back-up facilities. We must make sure that we really play on the specific tourist market so that we can get people using that sort of accommodation. 
About two hours ago the new agreement on cheap airfares to and from Asia with the Association of South East Asian Nations was announced. One would hope that those fares would be used wisely and well. However, there was one aspect of the estimates for the Department of Transport that did concern me. Last Thursday morning, during the grievance debate, I mentioned in a speech some of the fare cutting practices that were happening in the travel and airline industries, particularly in Melbourne. I was a little perturbed- unfortunately I was involved in a debate in the House so I could not attend the Estimates Committee hearing on the estimates for the Department of Transport- to hear an officer of that Department say, in answer to a question concerning fare discounting, that as far as he was concerned, since the introduction of the new air fare regimes, the legal discounting of airline tickets had been virtually eliminated. I am sorry, but that statement is just not true. Certainly, the reaction from the travel agency industry in recent days has shown that it is not true. Indeed, many of the independent travel agents round Australia are very close to going to the wall right now. If we are not very careful, the only travel agents we will have in operation in this country will be the major consolidators and major banks. I think that would be unfortunate. I can only hope that the introduction of these ASEAN fares will help even more to eliminate some of the discounting practices going on. 
In my speech last Thursday morning I mentioned the fare structures that were being sold in Melbourne. They are really quite cheap. It is great for the consumer, but if we are really serious about checking the tickets going out of 
Australia and trying to make some son of pretence at protecting Qantas Airways Ltd then really some questions have to be asked of some of the officers of the Department of Transport. Ticket inspectors are appointed and paid big money to go through the tickets. I am not saying that that particular officer I have mentioned is not doing his job. What I would rather say is that it is almost impossible for him to do his job. Most international airlines have major overseas clearing houses for their airline tickets. I know of one major international airline that employs 44 people in Hong Kong. These people do nothing but sort out the bodgy tickets from the real tickets and sort out the revenue that is going to a particular airline. It is almost impossible for anyone to pick a fake ticket these days. 
There is an awful lot of back payment in Australia to travel agents who are doing separate deals. The payment of overriding commissions is still going on. Although that may not be strictly illegal in the form of subsidy payments for advertising, it is something that is not helping the industry overall. It is tending to put the power into the hands of the consolidators and major travel agencies to the detriment of more than 900 smaller travel agents who are employing big staff around Australia. If the air navigation regulations are going to be worth the paper they are written on, we have to do some revising to make sure that we do have the necessary legislation and facilities to start clamping down on the international airfare rackets that are available at the moment. As I said on Thursday morning, there are some good deals available at the moment. 
It is quite openly touted in Melbourne at the moment that if one pays for a full first class ticket, eight weeks after returning to Australia one gets a refund of the difference between the economy fare and the first class fare. In flagrant violation of the present APEX fares one can buy very cheap air fares between Australia and Europe at the moment. We have to decide whether we want to give the consumer a free market at the possible expense of Qantas or whether we going to settle the whole industry down. It is a difficult industry, a big industry. I feel very sorry indeed for the small travel agent in Australia trying to make a living in the coming years. 
-This has certainly been a very wide-ranging debate on what is no more than a machinery Bill which comes before this House year after year. I wish to take up a couple of points following the comments of the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris).  I was interested to hear some of the statements he made about general aviation, particularly the situation regarding the supply of avgas. I do not think anyone in this House is denying that certainly there have been problems in certain areas with the supply of avgas. But nobody could have reasonably expected the Tehran situation to develop. Australia has only one refinery producing avgas but I am pleased to note that at least one other major refinery in Australia is undertaking experimentation for the production of avgas. I am sure that is going to help the situation. 
I take up also the statements of the honourable member on general aviation and the crippling increases in air navigation charges levelled at general aviation in this Bill. We should take our minds back to 1973 when under the Labor Government the increase in air navigation charges was 10 per cent across the board plus a 100 per cent increase on all general aviation of 9,000 kilograms or less, with a 300 per cent increase on general aviation aircraft over 9,000 kilograms. 
He has a very short memory indeed. I can take him back also to 1974, the following year, when there was a 15 per cent increase plus another 50 per cent increase on all general aviation of 9,000 kilograms weight or less. Yet we are looking at a 20 per cent increase this year. Proportionately, certainly, there are going to be some pressures forced on some areas of general aviation, but to lay all the blame on this Government for its moves is not a practical proposition. I think I should point out also- the honourable member for Shortland did not really mention this in his speech- the tremendous contribution that is being made by the international operations. I understand that this year the recovery rate will increase from something like 1 14 per cent to 128 per cent. There is a figure of between 75 per cent and 80 per cent in the recovery program on the domestic trunk routes as well. 
The cost of providing aviation facilitiesaerodromes and the technical facilities that go with them- is immense indeed. Obviously, throughout Australia in coming years the demand will become more and more heavy. When we think of some of the projects that are under way- whatever development might ultimately take place in Sydney, the new international airport for Brisbane, work that has to be done in Canberra, Adelaide and other areas around Australia- we realise that obviously we are going to be in for some tremendous costs during the 1980s. After all, it was the Labor Party Government which introduced this particular scale. I was pleased that the honourable member for Shortland did not condemn it out of hand. It was the invention of his government and it is something that has been continued as an equitable way of recouping some of those costs. 
I was interested to hear the honourable member's comments about the provision of domestic air fares on some Qantas services, on some of its unused capacity. I think it is probably worth making a closer examination of that question. There is no doubt about it- Qantas is flying something like 109 hours or 1 10 hours a week over domestic services. It is true that it is working at only about 56 per cent of its capacity. But I wonder whether it is really a practical proposition to allow Qantas to have access on the domestic market. I say that for two reasons. Firstly, and probably most importantly, it will do tremendous damage, I believe, to our domestic aviation reserves. Obviously, that is something that we cannot afford to do without. Secondly- I speak particularly to the people of Western Australia who are saying quite a deal about the provision by Qantas of seats from Perth to the eastern States- the problem arises that virtually every aircraft that goes through Perth is on a long haul route. The facts of life in the aviation industry are simply that it is very hard to run to a timetable when an aircraft is making three or four touchdowns between here and Britain. Indeed, many of those aircraft that go through Perth come in some hours late. I wonder whether the people of Western Australia would be prepared to accept a service that would not give them scheduled on-time departures to the extent that has been elaborated on by the honourable member for Shortland. 
I just wonder whether we should be looking at the reverse situation. I wonder whether we should be looking at Qantas scheduling over the domestic aviation routes and whether we should be putting the cart before the horse in the other way by having more connecting services by more domestic airlines to meet some of those international arrivals at Perth. Certainly, in some of the rescheduling we could possibly get a greater utilisation out of the 747 aircraft in the Qantas fleet if we looked at the situation in that way. The 747 is an aircraft that is really quite remarkable. It needs a major overhaul only once every 1 ,000 hours, with minor overhauls at, I think, about 250 hours. Whether or not we should be bringing all Qantas aircraft with that low load capacity back into Sydney merely to kick the tyres when they hit Perth or some of the other ports is a question that could well be looked at. Whether or not they should be rescheduled back overseas and whether we could provide a greater number of feeder services to utilise the domestic aircraftthis would be especially applicable when the wide bodied jets come into force- is an interesting proposition. Perhaps some more study could be done on that. 
I sincerely believe that the only way in which we are going to get any major reductions on the trunk routes is by the introduction of wide bodied jets on some of those trunk routes. Whether they be airbuses or Boeing equipment is obviously not within my expertise to say, but I believe that the sooner the decision is made by the domestic airlines to move into wide bodied equipment the better it will be for all Australians, and the greater assistance it will be to help relieve some of the pressure points that are developing at some of the airports around Australia.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  tonight I promised to keep my comments brief. I reject the amendment moved by the honourable member for Shortland and I support the Bill. 
asked the Minister for Administrative Services, upon notice, on 19 September 1979: 
Following the move by some States to close polling booths at 6 p.m. for State and local government elections, has the Commonwealth considered an earlier closing time for Federal elections; if not, what is the justification for maintaining an 8 p.m. closing time for Federal elections. 
