I recall that there were detailed questions relating in particular to the barrier mine field in South Vietnam which were answered in detail in August last year. The honourable gentleman is now referring to the regrettable losses which have been sustained over the last 10 to 14 days. The details of training were given to the honourable member. I am satisfied with the training which is given and the equipment that is used by the Australian Army for mine detection. These losses were sustained in the Long Hai hills area which, as the honourable member will know, is above the plains of the lower part of South Vietnam. It is essential for the security of the region that Australian troops enter this region to ensure the security of the local inhabitants. The incidents were regrettable. I am satisfied that the techniques used were correct. I am satisfied that the troops approached their task with the proper degree of security and attention that was required of them. 1 am not belittling the losses that were sustained over this period but I am endeavouring to put my mind to the question that the honourable member has posed and therefore my short answer is: Yes, I am satisfied with the training. If the honourable member wants any further information in relation to actual techniques I will be happy to supply it to him. 
This question should properly have been put to my colleague the Minister for Defence. I cannot give an answer to the first part of the honourable member's question. From the top of my head 1 could not give the figures to him. In the last part of his question he raises a matter that is currently under negotiation and the Minister for Defence, I am sure, would be able to give the information to him. If he wishes to draw inferences in relation to the stationing of our troops in Malaysia, as newspaper reports that I have seen suggest he does, or from the fact that Terendak is a very fine establishment that could be and is at present being used by the Malaysians, I would remind him that in the short term the problem of positioning our own troops has been solved and that our long term involvement in the area and accommodation for our troops will be dealt with by the Minister for Defence. 
Details of this matter will be contained in the statement to be made by the Minister for Defence. 
) -  I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The main purpose of this Bill is to revise the second schedule to the Parliamentary Allowances Act 1952-1968. Honourable members will be aware that 2 levels of electorate allowance are paid to members of the House, namely, $2,750 per annum to a member whose electorate is classified as city and $3,350 per annum to a member whose electorate is classified as country. The second schedule to the Act fists electorates for which the lower, or city, rate is paid. The higher, or country, rate is paid in respect of all other electorates. Changes in the schedule are necessary because of the redistribution of electorates. Some existing electorates have been abolished and new city electorates have been created. The classification of existing electorates has also been reviewed following adoption of the new electorate boundaries and changes, in the character of some electorates since 1 956. The new second schedule takes into account these changes. There is no change in the basic rates of electorate allowances for members of the House of Representatives - that is, $2,750 for members representing city electorates and $3,350 for members representing country electorates. 
Other suggestions have been received from members about the division of electorates into two classifications - city and country; and about the classification of individual electorates and (he amounts of electorate allowances, lt has been decided not to make a change from the basic two classification pattern, that is city and country electorates, established by the Committee of Inquiry into Salaries and Allowances of Members of Parliament in 1955 and continued by the Committee of Inquiry in 1959. Senators receive electorate allowances of $2,650, or $100 less than members representing city electorates. The Government has decided that the rate of electorate allowance for senators should be equal to the rate payable to city members of the House of Representatives. Clause 4 (a) of the Bill will give effect to this change. 
Sections 4 and 5 of the present Act each contain provisions setting the limits of time during which both allowances in the nature of salary, and electorate allowances are payable to senators and members. The opportunity has been taken to clarify these provisions in 2 respects. In the first place, clause 3 of the Bill proposes the insertion of a new section which specifies that, for the purposes of paying allowances, 'the day of election' is polling day, or, when there is no poll, the day the result is declared. This practice has been followed for many years in the payment of parliamentary allowances. The Bill therefore gives expression to existing practice. Secondly, under the present Act, parliamentary allowances of a sitting member who stands for re-election but is unsuccessful cease with the election of his successor. Last year's redistribution has drawn attention to interpretation of the term 'successor' and to the possibility of doubt arising in cases of changes in boundaries as to the identity of each successor to members of the previous Parliament. Any possibility of doubt is avoided by redrafting the provision to ensure that a member will be paid his allowance until the day before the day of his reelection or, if he is not re-elected, the day before polling day. Clause 5 of the Bill covers this matter. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Daly)  adjourned. 
In reply to the honourable member's question, which contained not only a number of imputations but also statements and questions, I would say firstly that naturally I am concerned at the deaths that occurred over the past 2 to 3 weeks as a consequence of encounters with mines. I am not aware of the statement that was made by, I assume, the Commander of the Australian Task Force or his  deputy  during his absence. I assume it was one of those two gentlemen and not the Commander of the Australian Forces in Vietnam. I shall examine what he said though the content of it, as put to me, would not disturb me. In the post-Tet situation we would have imagined there would be a build-up of enemy activity. As a consequence, regrettably, some of our forces would suffer the fate that I mentioned before and it would be a natural, human reaction for a commander to comment in the manner alleged to him by the honourable member. The Prime Minister has stated the Government's policy in regard to the question of withdrawal. I do not intend to comment because the question of the nature, the size, the extent or the timing has not been decided and this is a matter for the Prime Minister. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Living out allowance for officers generally and other ranks in Malaysia and Singapore was reduced from 23rd October 1969. The allowance for officers of the rank of brigadier and above in those areas was reduced from 6th November 1969. 
I have not seen the report referred to by the honourable gentleman and I would not wish to make a comment until he had forwarded it to me. I would be obliged if he would do so and I would be prepared then to give him an answer. 
The matters raised by the honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Kennedy)  are receiving my attention. The honourable member referred to a statement attributed to me. which was published in today's Melbourne 'Herald'. The statement is not quite correct, as the honourable member will be aware, for my present views on this matter were set out in a letter to him dated 12th March. I have also received representations from  Mr Jock  Granter, a member of the Victorian Legislative Council. The honourable member for Bendigo is aware of my undertaking to discuss the questions posed in my letter with the Council of the City of Bendigo. I hope to be able to advise ihe honourable member tomorrow of a suggested date for that discussion. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes, as far as practicable. 
and (3) In a few cases, members returning from Vietnam have been reduced to their substantive rank because of lack of vacancies in their temporary rank or because they have been assessed, after consideration of their performance of duties with Australian Army Training Team Vietnam (AATTV), as unsuitable to retain their temporary rank. When a member is granted temporary promotion to service with AATTV he signs a statement acknowledging the nature of the promotion, that is he may hold that rank only while performing duties as an advisor with AATTV or as further extended. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
lt is true that in August 1969 my predecessor indicated that the Military Board had agreed in principle that it was desirable for some form of recognition to be introduced for members of the Royal Australian Infantry Corps who have engaged in combat against enemy forces. 
The Military Board has now approved the issue of a badge to be known as the infantry Combat Badge, and the relevant instructions are being produced. The design of the badge will be approved shortly and 1 expect it will be available for issue in approximately six months time. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
At his own request, Major-General S. L. VI. Eskell. E.D. was granted leave of absence from 18th December 1969 to a date to be determined.  His  position will be further considered in the light of the outcome of the present civil proceedings. 
I cannot answer the honourable member's question in relation to the newspaper article itself because 1 did not see it, but 1 recall that when I visited the jungle training centre last week I discussed a matter akin to this with the Commandant there. He informed me that there had been occasion to call the Army Provost Corps in, and as a consequence of an investigation one person was charged with possessing marihuana. I am not aware whether the allegations that people have been pressured into seeking satisfaction from marihuana are true but I will make investigations into that aspect and advise the honourable member. So far as the prosecution of an individual is concerned, this is being carried out. 
The movement of troops from Malaysia to Singapore was completed by the end of January. The company has not yet gone on rotation to Malaysia. It is awaiting completion of the exercise Bersatu Padu. When the details of the movement in Malaysia are worked out I will supply them to the honourable member. 
In answer to the honourable member's question I would say that the attitude of foreign governments towards the use of equipment originating in their countries is a matter I could little influence, bearing in mind the factors operating within the foreign country which might bring that attitude about. I assume that the honourable member is referring to the Pilatus Porter aircraft and the Carl Gustav anti-tank weapon. I can assure him that the Swiss Government's attitude does not necessitate the withdrawal of the aircraft from Vietnam nor has the attitude of the Swedish Government affected the supply of ammunition for the Carl Gustav weapon. 
According to advice I have received, although there has been some reduction in membership the rifle club movement is carrying on effectively and is attracting new membership. I remind the honourable member that, following a comprehensive review in 1960 by the Government's Service advisers, it was advised that in modern circumstances rifle clubs were of no significant military value. Accordingly it was decided that assistance in the form of grants and the issue of ammunition should no longer be continued. 
Since that time my predecessors and I have received representations to renew the assistance. However, no new considerations have been introduced which would permit us to do so. The question asked by the honourable member relates to an alleged drop in membership owing to the cost of ammunition. With that point in mind I will discuss with the Minister for Supply whether there are any stocks of ammunition and will advise the honourable member in due course. 
Yes. I regret that I did not hear the latter part of the question. However, there is a matter of some import in the question asked by the honourable member. There are many people, not merely the honourable member for Riverina, who could be considered for the award which was bestowed on me. I have requested a review simply because at the present juncture the regulations apply equally to members of the permanent military forces and the Citizen Military 
Forces. Quite obviously there are some members of the Citizen Military Forces who, either for personal reasons or for reasons relating to their vocation, feel that they should wear a hair style or a length of sideboard slightly longer than the regulations permit. I have received so many requests from members of the CMF to review the situation that I agreed to do so. 1 remember the honourable member for Prospect writing to me about this and referring to the length of sideboards worn by certain honourable members on this side of the House - not including myself. Because 1 regard this matter as important, as do certain members of the CMF, I decided, as indicated, to review the situation. 1 do not intend to pre-judge it. I have sympathy for those who find themselves in this position. I am awaiting the report on the review by the Adjutant-General before indicating my own views and the view of the Army. I have instituted the review because of the reasons given. It is not a matter for frivolity. I felt I could be of some assistance to those who are faced with this awkward situation. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
For some time there have been a number of tentative plans involving the use of the northern portion of the training area for industrial purposes. The 2 main alternatives are what are known as the Swan Island and the Akens Island proposals. 
Although Swan Island itself is within the training area, the Swan Island proposal would not require the release of any part of the mainland training area. The Akens Island proposal would involve an area of approximately 6,000 acres in the northernmost part of the training area, bounded generally by Krankeet Mountain in the west and along the coast to the south of Akens Island. 
Sabina Point is not now being considered for development in association with the proposals under examination. 
It is stressed that no final proposal has yet been submitted and that any decision in a matter of this kind would be taken only after the fullest consultation with the Queensland Government. 
Social Services: Agreement with Malta  (Question No. 251) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Australian Watching Co. held a contract for this purpose which expired on 31st March last. 
The contract, which commenced on 3 1st July 1968, provided for nightly inspections plus daily inspections at week-ends and public holidays. The cost was $6.50 per week. The rates were variable in that provision existed for increase or decrease in accordance with approved Commonwealth/State awards for the trades employed. 
Yes. Details at 20th March 1970, are as follows: 
 The answer  to  the honourable member's question is  as  follows: 
The basis of assessing pay for Stall' cadets at the RMC Duntroon was laid down by an InterDepartmental Conference of Service Departments and the Treasury in 1948. 
Traditionally cadets have been regarded as students and the rates set were related to the then recruit rates of pay for the Australian Regular Army. These rales have been updated by cost of living type of adjustments since. 
The present basis of pay for Staff cadets will be re-examined at an early date by the same machinery as is used for examination and determination of the rates of pay of other members of the Australian Services. 
The existing pay rates for cadets, effective from 9th December 1969 (3% National Wage Adjustment) are: 
 I have received the report of the Fox Committee and, together with officers of my Department, I am examining it at present. The honourable member will recall that I released a statement in late December concerning an interim report. That statement dealt with changes which were to be made, and which, in fact, have been made, regarding fourth class cadets at Duntroon. It is my feeling at this juncture that I should arrange with the Leader of the House to make a statement here concerning the report I have received. As soon as I have concluded the discussions with officers of my Department I will discuss this proposition with the Leader of the House. I hope that it will be soon. 
I have seen the segment to which the honourable member has referred. I should say to the honourable member that according to my advice 'Four Comers' sought permission to produce a programme showing in effect a day in the life of a cadet at the Royal Military College, Duntroon. The timing was related to the presentation of Colours by the Queen, which 'Four Corners' proposed should be the culmination of its film. I approved the request on that basis. My Department provided full facilities to the 'Four Corners' team. A week was spent filming most aspects of a cadet's life, including academic studies, military training, range practice, a class room sequence, lectures and discussion groups, as well as a ceremonial and drill segment. I understand that it is common practice to film considerably more material than will be shown. However, in this instance the editing appeared to be deliberately couched to give an unbalanced picture. For example, persons alleged to be cadets were shown doing pushups and showering in uniform. This is hardly honest filming in that I am assured the persons were not cadets. Therefore this sequence was faked. 
Furthermore, although three-quarters of a cadet's life is taken up with academic studies at degree level this aspect was hardly mentioned. I agree with the honourable member's description of the film as projecting a distorted picture of Duntroon. Personally I regard the film as a shallow portrayal and projection which lacked depth and analysis and was not up to the standards which one would expect of a 'Four Corners' production. 
Well, established institutions must expect that they will be periodically analysed and criticised, but I believe that they have a right to expect that such analysis and criticism will be fair and objective. Fortunately, the fact that this particular analysis was neither fair nor objective will hardly tarnish an institution as great as the Royal Military College, Duntroon. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Issues of the following special protective clothing and equipment are made to members of the Task Force in Vietnam either as permanent personal issues or as required for special tasks or operations: 
Steel helmet; body armour (.for protection against grenade and shell fragments, mine blasts and fragments - particularly during clearance operations - and shot): boots (general purpose and protective); gas masks; anti-dust respirators; goggles (various types); gloves (various types); armoured fighting vehicle suits; life jackets (for amphibious operations); aural protectors (plugs/ muffs); and electricians' rubber insulation blanket. 
I did see the letter in question and I have had the allegations examined. My advice is that one of the tasks undertaken by Australian troops during 'Operation Ainslie' was the resettlement of some villagers who could not be protected and were living under relatively poor conditions. As a consequence they were moved to a prepared site known as 'Ap Suoi Nghe' close to Nui Dat. The Nui Dat base offered them greater protection and they were able to obtain tenure of their own land. Consequently their housing conditions were greatly improved. Wherever possible houses of timber construction in the old village were dismantled and transported to the new hamlet. 
The old area was known to be a haven for Vietcong. It is true that after all salvageable material had been removed some destruction occurred. However, I would stress that before this happened the area was carefully searched for personnel and such things as personal belongings. I know that some honourable members have visited the new village and settlement of Ap Suoi Nghe and have been tremendously impressed with the development that has occurred. The area where the villagers have been resettled is now an established community with a market place, school, medical dispensary, reticulated water supply and research farm, all of which would not have been possible in the previous conditions under which the villagers lived. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The following improvements have been made: 
Jungle Green Trousers. These form part of the field dress of the Army and now give improved fit, comfort and convenience to the user. 
Boots. Troops have been issued with a specially designed boot incorporating a high upper and a flexible stainless steel inner sole. 
Personal Equipment. Various minor modifications have been made in the personal loadcarrying web equipment to improve user comfort and convenience, including the provision of an Australian pattern field pack which features a separate waterproof compartment for sleeping gear. 
Smock. A lightweight tropical smock is provided to afford protection from rain while wearing personal equipment and weapons. 
Combat Clothing. Following extensive trials, the latest pattern cotton twill combat clothing (coat/shirt and trousers) is about to be issued. These were specifically designed for combat use in tropical areas and supersede the jungle green shirt and trousers which will remain in service as field dress. Research and development continues in order to introduce a material that will be lighter and quicker drying but will still have the essential characteristics of durability and resistance to insect attack. 
Tank Suits. A new lightweight one-piece flameretardant tank suit is currently under trial in Vietnam. 
Flying Suits and Camouflage Clothing. Consideration is being given to the introduction of Australian - pattern two-piece flame retardant flying suits and camouflaged combat patrol clothing. Both these requirements are at present being met by United States items. 
Summer Dress. Troops in Vietnam are issued with the new khaki summer dress. 
Travel Bag. Troops are issued with a modern zippered travel bag for carrying their noncombat uniform and civilian clothing. Minor Changes - 
Underwear. New pattern underwear has been introduced and development continues on singlets for combat use. 
Socks. The woollen sock has been replaced by a wool/nylon mixture to prevent shrinkage under Service conditions. 
Bush Hats. Australian pattern bush hats have been issued. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There are 247 ex-national servicemen currently serving in the Citizen Military Forces. This figures does not reflect those who have served and since been discharged as the way in which other rank records are maintained does not make this information readily available. 
A total of 130 national servicemen have served or are serving as officers in the Citizen Military Forces at 30th April 1970. 
The position as stated by the honourable member is largely correct and is in accord with the previous practice of transporting servicemen on return at Government expense by rail to Western Australia. The time taken, of course, is not considered as time spent on leave and the period of time engendered by the travel is added to the time allowed for leave. The honourable member asked me specifically whether I will discuss this matter with the Treasurer. I cannot answer for the Treasurer's opinion but I would be pleased to discuss the matter with him. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Since February 1967, 436 officers of the Citizen Military Forces have visited Vietnam as observers attached to field units. 
(a) Nil 
1 
There are no readily available statistics of Citizen Military Force officers who may have contracted diseases while in Vietnam. However, it is certain that there have no cases where an illness or disease has reached the notifiable casualty category. Notifiable casualties include cases where a member is placed on the very seriously ill or seriously ill list, is medically evacuated from overseas because of a serious illness, is evacuated to hospital for investigation of tuberculosis, or is evacuated to a receiving or mental hospital or ward of a mental hospital. 
Yes. 
Hostels for the Mentally Retarded  (Question No. 145) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(0 $40. 
There has been no increase in the allowance since the entry of the Australian Army Training Team to Vietnam. The allowance is aligned with Public Service Board allowances and is paid to all single or married unaccompanied members who are posted overseas and live in Service accommodation. 
Education: Aid to Non-Government Schools  (Question No. 99)  Mr Whitlam  asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to a survey of aid to non-government schools carried out by the Professor of Education at Monash University, Professor P. J. Fensham. 
Does Professor Fensham's survey show that each student at 'prestige' free-paying secondary schools receives from governments subsidies averaging $297 a year and in some cases exceeding $346 a year. 
Can he say in the light of information available to him whether Professor Fensham': figures arc correct. 
in reply - I regret that in the midst of the sympathy that has obviously been engendered into the atmosphere of the Parliament prior, at least, to the speech of the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Turnbull),  the impecunious circumstances in which some of the honourable members are placed were shown. In concluding the debate on the Bill I should remind honourable members that my second reading speech pointed out that the main purpose of the Bill was to revise the Second Schedule of the Parliamentary Allowances Act which felt out of line with the redistribution of boundaries. The present Bill does not open at all the question of the sufficiency of the amount of electorate allowances but only the question of classification.I am sure the points made by the honourable members for Grayndler  (Mr Daly),  Prospect  (Dr Klugman),  Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  and La Trobe  (Mr Jess),  and to some degree the points made by the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  would be taken into account if a full-scale inquiry into the matter of Parliamentary allowances and salaries were held. But this is not the purpose of the Bill before the House today. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
My attention has not been drawn to the article that the honourable member cited. But I would say that the Army's home ration scale provides an entitlement of 1.5 ounces of butter per man per day for use as a spread on bread and its like, and also for cooking. It is true that margarine is supplied in the 1-man combat ration pack for use as a spread and there are some very good reasons why this is done. In fact, I have the reasons before me in some detail, but ] do not wish to inconvenience honourable members at this time; so I will provide the honourable member for Cowper with the details subsequent to the expiration of question time. However, I would say that, with the exception of the use of margarine in the 1-man combat ration pack, the Army's preference is for butter. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The numerous overseas allowances, which are designed to allow a member to maintain his Australian standard of living, have not been included here because of their diversity. These allowances differ within a country, between each country and according to the particular circumstances of the officer concerned. Moreover they are subject to constant change as a result of alignment with Public Service allowances and conditions and may vary three or four times within a year. 
There are other allowances which relate to the nature of a member's duty and/or the additional skill or performance of a particular task and vary from time to time. 
Details of the circumstances in which the most common allowances are payable and the amounts payable in the years 1945, 1951, 1961 and 1970 are listed below. 
The answer to the honourable member's question. is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Married quarters, obtained under the Com.monwealth/State Housing Agreement, are provided in areas in close proximity to Army installations for married members and their families who are posted to those installations. The release of married quarters for purchase by exmembers is only considered when suitable replacement houses are made available to the Army. Army policy in this matter has not changed. 
and (3) The Commonwealth Department of Housing has 'not made any general request lo State Housing Commissions to make houses occupied by servicemen available for sale to them. However, with the concurrence of the particular Service department, individual requests have been made lo the State Housing authorities generally wilh the proviso mentioned in (I) above. Sales of such houses have been relatively few. 
Ex-servicemen have the same access as other citizens to avenues of housing finance available in the community. Special provision has also been made in each of the successive Common.wealth/State Housing Agreements for the allotment of ordinary Housing Authority dwelling!! to members of me Forces', defined in the Agreements lo include certain ex-servicemen. There are current discussions with State Housing authorities which seek to ensure that on discharge a former serviceman is not at a disadvantage in comparison with civilians generally in seeking to purchase an ordinary Housing Authority dwelling.  Assistance is, of course, available under the War Service Homes Scheme for those exservicemen who meet its eligibility requirements. 
Carriage of Goods by Australian and Overseas-owned Shipping Lines (Question No. 618)  Mr Les  Johnson asked the Minister for Trade and Industry, upon notice: 
What was the (a) tonnage and value of Australian exports and imports, (b) tonnage, value and proportion of exports and imports transported by overseas-owned shipping lines and (c) tonnage, value and proportion of exports and imports transported by Australian-owned shipping lines, during each of the last 10 years. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Amounts paid to members of the Citizen Military Forces in 1968-69 totalled $9,010,000. 
As at 25th March 1970 the strength of the Citizen Military Forces was 32,488. This includes females but excludes members on full time duty and those members who are not on effective service. 
(a) 3,861 (b) 28,627 
Except for 1970, the following yearly totals of Citizen Military Forces members discharged for failure to render efficient service include those members who were absent without leave in excess 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Kail is the normal means of travel for servicemen from their disembarkation point in Australia to their home state or town. A member may elect to travel by other means and pay the difference in costs of the normal rail fare and his choice of transport. 
No. However those members who have to travel long distances or interstate to reach their leave destination have the time spent in travelling added to their normal leave period. This ensures that all members, irrespective of where their home is in Australia, will be able to spend their full leave at home. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Forty-five members of 3 Royal Australian Regiment are alleged to have been involved in the Adelaide moratorium demonstration. 
Length of service: 19 members have 6-12 months. 9 members have 12-18 months. 10 members have 18-24 months. 4 members have 30-36 months. 2 members have 42-48 months. 1 member has 76 months. 
Five members have served in South Vietnam. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Intravenous infusion is achieved by inserting a needle, cannula or catheter into a vein. Techniques would vary in detail only. 
Whole blood is not used in the field because it cannot be stored without refrigeration and there are not facilities for grouping and cross matching. 
Plasma and serum (plasma from which figrinogen has been removed) are not generally used for infusion because of the danger of transmittingthe virus responsible for homologous serum jaundice. Consequently plasma fractions such as albumin and stable plasma protein solution are used in their stead. 
Glucose provides fluid and energy but no electrolytes and therefore is not generally used in the field. Ringers lactate solution, which provides fluid and electrolytes, is preferred. 
Fluids are also administered by injection, including sub cutaneous injection, stomach tube and per rectum. 
The honourable member for Bradfield may recall that I previously was asked by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition whether 1 would take the action implicit in the question he put to me today. I indicated to the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition that not only had 1 received the report but that I wished my departmental officers to study it together with myself and that I would then talk with the Leader of the House about a mutually convenient time to members of the Parliament for me to make a statement in relation to the report. I have done this pursuant to my answer and, because I am aware that other honourable members would be as interested as is the honourable member for Bradfield, I hope to be able to make that statement, if not tomorrow, at least on Friday. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The total strength of the Army Food Science Establishment at Scottsdale is 28 comprising 2 members of the Citizen Military Forces, 3 Australian Regular Army members and 23 civilians. 
The estimated cost of maintaining the Establishment in the financial years 1965-1970, as set out in the table below excludes salaries as these were not estimated separately in the past. However the estimated salary total for 1969-70 is $75,000 which is fairly representative of previous years less normal salary increases. 
1 have in fact had an opportunity to see the Press reports of the speech made by the honourable member for Sturt. I have not yet been able to examine the Hansard report. But if the reports contained in the newspapers are correct 1 would Like to say that the allegations made are themselves incorrect. 
It is a matter for regret that we have to discuss at this juncture these allegations when the soldier was killed last Saturday and funeral arrangements have not been finalised. But in fairness to the Army it should be pointed out that not only was this soldier medically examined by the Department of Labour and National Service, then by the Army when he marched in and then subsequent to his basic recruit training, but also as a consequence of receiving representations by the honourable member for Sturt I specifically requested a further report on this soldier and he was examined in February of this year. For the fourth time, he was found to be medically fit for service everywhere. 
I have to point out in view of the allegation - and it is understandable if a family is concerned about a national serviceman who is wearing glasses - that this person could not see more than 4 feet in front of him- 
Opposition members - Without his glasses. 
Without his glasses. I would not leave that out deliberately. 
Pursuant to section 27 of the National Library Act 1960-1967, I present the Ninth annual report of the Council of the National Library of Australia for the year ended 30th June 1969, together with the financial statements and the Auditor-General's report on those statements. An interim report was presented to the House on 9th September 1969. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
T move: 
That, in accordance wilh the provisions of the Public Works Committee Act 1969, it is expedient to carry out the following proposed work which was referred to the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Public Works and on which the Committee has duly reported to Parliament: Construction of Australian Post Office - Administrative Centre stage 1 at Brisbane. 
The proposal involves construction of a multi-storeyed building to provide accommodaton for some 1,500 office staff with associated staff amenities and building services. The estimated cost is S4.6m. The design of the building w ll be such as to provide a measure of protection from atomic fall-0:,t in accordance with practices discussed with the Director of Civil Defence. Upon the concurrence of the House in this resolution, detailed planning of the proposal can proceed. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
by leave  -  J present the report of the Committee of Inquiry into the Royal Military College, Duntroon. Honourable members will recall that on 25th September last my predecessor made a statement in this House relating to allegations of i lt- treatment of the junior class al the Royal Military College, Duntroon. At the conclusion of the statement he informed the House that, because of the facts then established and other considerations, he had appointed a Committee of Inquiry to examine the whole philosophy underlying the training of the junior class at Duntroon. 
In order to ensure the most searching and objective study my predecessor decided that the Committee should be headed by an independent external authority. As was announced at the time,  Mr Justice  Fox, a Judge of the Supreme Court of the Australian Capital Territory, agreed to undertake the inquiry. The members of the Committee were most carefully selected. They were:  Dr A.  J, M. Sinclair, Consulting Psychiatrist; Professor L. C. F. Turner, then  Chairman  of the Faculty of Military Studies, University of New South Wales; Brigadier G. D. Solomon, the Director of Military Training at Army Headquarters Canberra; and Brigadier C. M. I. Pearson - now Major-General Pearson - who had been Commander of the Australian Task Force in Vietnam, later Commander of the First Division based in Sydney, New South Wales, and who is now Commandant of the Royal Military College. 
The terms of reference of the Committee were deliberately framed in the widest possible terms and indeed the Committee's investigations covered a wide range of matters well beyond the basic subject upon which it was set up to report. 
On 24th December 1969, 1 issued a Press release giving a summary of an interim report I had received from the Committee. This was done because the House was not then sitting and it was the judgment of the Committee that some of the findings - as had been requested by the then Minister - should be applied to cadets first entering Duntroon at the beginning of 1970. It was obviously desirable that all cadets then about to enter the College, and their parents and friends, should know not only that changes at the College were imminent but also the details of those changes. 
Accordingly, and following discussion with the Military Board, I announced that approval had been given for the following changes at Duntroon: ' 
First year cadets would arrive at the College on 20th January - 3 days earlier than the originally planned date. This would enable them to see something of the Royal Military College and Canberra, in an informal way, before settling down to normal training. 
Academic staff and First Class (senior year) cadets would visit the junior cadets in their orientation camp at Point Hut. 
Under-officers and non-commissioned officers of the Corps of Staff Cadets would remain responsible for the management of the day-to-day affairs of the Corps, but the Commanding Officer and his staff would exercise a close, though so far as possible, unobtrusive, supervision of its activities. 
The previous system, in which new cadets were required to learn some matters in their own time and under the direction of other cadets, would be replaced by formal instruction and explanation. These matters include the history and tradition of the Army and the College; behaviour and attitude of the cadets inside and outside the College; and the care of rooms, uniforms and equipment. 
The Committee, by this time, had received most of the evidence likely to be available to it and was then proceeding to the preparation of its final report. It should be mentioned that the Committee, in discharging its duties, met both in Canberra and in Sydney. It interviewed 91 witnesses in person and considered 10 written submissions from people who were not personally interviewed but who had responded to newspaper advertisements to place views before the Committee. 
The witnesses and written statements were drawn from widely differing ranks within the Australian Army, and other armies, and included some still on the Active List and others who had retired. Additionally, evidence was received from members of the clergy, academics, under-graduate educationists, those skilled in psychology and related disciplines as well as others. I have taken the view that the evidence was tendered in confidence and therefore Annexures I - 'Transcript of Interviews by the Committee' - and J - 'Copies of writer submissions considered by the Committee' - have not been included. 
I pause here,  Mr Speaker,  to record my own appreciation and that of the Fox Committee of those who went to the trouble to make known their views on the matters under consideration by the Committee. Their respective contributions were most valuable. 
Under date 24th April 1970, the Committee tendered its full report to me. As 1 mentioned previously, its conclusions and recommendations are comprehensive and cover not only matters coming specifically within its charter but also a range of matters which affect, directly or indirectly, all members of the Corps 'of Staff Cadets and not just those in first year. 
The Committee re-affirmed the view expressed in its interim report that the practices which have become known as 'bastardisation' should be banned. This issue was dealt with in detail in the statement made to the House by my predecessor on 25th September and which I have already mentioned. I agree with the views he then expressed and the positive steps which were authorised to prevent a recurrence of these unfortunate breaches of official instructions. 
As regards the Corps of Staff Cadets generally the Committee recommended that: 
The Regulations dealing with resignation and discharge should be liberalised. There should be no requirement to enter into any bond on joining the College. 
The living and working conditions of the cadets should be relaxed and improved. Specific recommendations were made in relation to daily routine, local leave, alcohol, pay, marriage, church parades, cars, dress, the entertainment of visitors and summary punishments. 
The Committee also commented upon such mutters as the relationship between the Royal Military College and the University of New South Wales, diversification of the academic curriculum, post-graduate work, the period of appointment of military officers to Duntroon, the revision of College regulations and of the Standing Orders of the Corps of Staff Cadets. 
Apart from those recommendations of the Committee which deal directly with the question of ill-treatment of the junior class at Duntroon and which have already been implemented, as announced last December, the wide range of matters which the Committee has covered requires detailed examination and consideration not only by the College authorities, the Interim Council of the Royal Military College and the Military Board, but also in relation to some aspects on an inter-departmental basis. 1 have directed that urgent steps be taken to have all matters considered by the appropriate bodies and brought to finality as early as practicable. 
I believe it will be clear to the House that all concerned with the administration of the Army have made every endeavour to take positive action in relation to events at Duntroon which commenced with the allegation of the ill-treatment of junior cadets. The findings of the Fox Committee are concerned with the future, and in concluding I. wish to stress the importance of the Royal Military College to the Army and through it to the nation. It remains for me to record further my appreciation for the workmanlike manner and dispatch with which the Fox Committee discharged its charter. I am most grateful to members of the Committee, both individually and as a group. 
The answer to the honourable members' question is as follows: 
This matter has been investigated at the Jungle Training Centre and the writer of the letter has also been interviewed by a member of my Department. 
According to the author the experiences were allegedly in the nature of reminiscences on the part of the Centre's instructional stall and not included in any formal lectures. He was unable to recall the names of the instructors concerned or to produce any evidence which would assist in identifying them. 
All instruction on the handling of prisoners is based on the Geneva Conventions and programmed periods are set aside at the Jungle Training Centre for this purpose. 
In the absence of any evidence, either from the author himself or from investigations at the Centre, which would support the allegations, it is nol considered necessary to try to pursue the matter any further. 
The answer to he honourable member's question is as follows: 
It is necessary to say, as background that the Army Headquarters Survey Regiment al present occupies an old mansion in Bendigo, built some 100 years ago. It is forced to use converted stables, an ore-crushing battery, attics and galvanised iron huts, supplemented by some modern buildings to meet essential accommodation and working needs. It has been the intention for several years to move the unit and since 1961 expenditure for the area has been confirmed to essential new buildings which could be amortised over the expected period of occupation. 
The re-location of this Regiment at Bonegilla would allow common facilities to be shared wilh the School of Survey and the Army Headquarters Survey Depot. Economics which would follow are: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Of the 39 houses provided for the Army at Bendigo under the Commonwealth/States Housing Agreement (CSHA), 37 are occupied by members of the AHQ Survey Regiment. The other 2 houses are occupied by ARA members of CMP units. 
Twenty-five. 
Thirty-five. 
Eighty-one male all ranks are accommodated in barracks at 'Fortuna'. Twelve WRAAC are accommodated in barracks at Carpenter Street, about 2 miles from 'Fortuna'. 
Barrack accommodation is available at Bonegilla for 400 all ranks. This accommodation is currently occupied by the School of Military Survey (119) and the Catering Wing, RAASC Centre (106) which in due course will be located with the RAASC Centre at Puckapunyal. The remainder is currently unoccupied. Married quarters associated with Bonegilla are located in the adjacent Bandiana Military Area and in Wodonga, about 1 mile from Bandiana. Currently there are 68 permanent married quarters, 14 temporary quarters and 277 houses provided under the 
CSHA. Five permanent married quarters and 14 CSHA- houses are being planned for early construction. Additional houses will be required in the area to meet the planned transfer of married1 Survey personnel. 
There is sufficient hutted barrack accommodation available to house the members of the unit whom it is proposed to transfer. Initially, there may be a short term deficiency of married quarters in the general Bandiana- Wodonga area but suitable private furnished accommodation, for which members would receive the appropriate allowances, would be utilised until the shortfall was overtaken. It will be necessary lo provide living and working accommodation to correspond wilh the proposed significant increases in the strength and scope of the Regiment. This would bc an essential requirement even if the unit remained at Bendigo. 
The answer to the honourable members question is as follows: 
Fortuna was acquired in 2 stages in I9S1 and I9SS at a cost of some $30,000. 
Records prior to 19S1 give no detail of constructions and extensions between 1942-51. However, it is known that during this period modifications were made to the original building and some temporary buildings were erected, most of which have since been removed. Since 1951, 8 buildings have been constructed consisting of 3 barrack blocks (which can accommodate 1 19 all ranks), I technical store. I technical building, 1 kitchen, I ration store and an administrative records building. (With 1 exception (a corrugated iron building) all were constructed of brick.) A 330 square feet barrack block has been constructed at WRAAC barracks. Carpenter Street. 
In addition to (2) above it has been necessary to make minor modifications over the period lo allow expansions, changes in equipments and operating techniques. 
The total cost of all works since occupation is approximately $560,000 plus an additional $115,000 for repairs and maintenance during the period 1962-69. Repair and maintenance records prior to 1962 are no longer held. 
and (6) A master plan for the development of Fortuna was drawn up in 1961 in the knowledge of the proposed future movement of the unit from Bendigo. The plan has been followed except for the construction of recreational and canteen facilities. The plan called for replacement of a records building, workshop, graining building and Q stores, all currently housed in inadequate or old buildings, and extensions to the lithographic and topographic buildings to meet 1961 requirements. These replacement buildings and extensions have not been built. 
A committee to examine the overall requirements for the Royal Australian Army Survey Corps was convened in 1967. Bonegilla area was chosen as the site of the Army Survey Centre by the Review Committee for the following main reasons: ft is current Army policy to combine Corps static units into centres with the Corps School. 
The school of Military Survey is located at Bonegilla and this area is the only readily available site which meets all the requirements of the School and the Regiment. 
There is suffiient land already owned by the Army to accommodate all the units recommended for co-location. 
The stores used by the Regiment and the School and the large output of maps necessitate ready access to standard gauge rail links, commercial air routes and major trunk roads to Melbourne and Sydney. These are readily available and easily accessible at Bonegilla. 
Bandiana is a major Army centre with established facilities than can be shared by Bonegilla. 
Co-location of the 3 Royal Australian Survey Units provides significant economy in new building space and costs e.g. combined messes, canteens, recreation areas, Q stores and some work areas. 
Yes. 
Irrespective of the amount or availability of any additional land Bendigo is not as suitable for training of topographical surveys as is the Bonegilla area. The latter area has a variety of training areas ranging from relatively high mountains to undulating valleys and major rivers. Additionally 5 years have been spent in establishing a Photo grammetric Test Range in conjunction with Commonwealth and State Departments at Bonegilla. Furthermore comprehensive survey observations for student training and testing have been built up. This has taken approximately 5 years and will be available to personnel of the Regiment. Further information on this point is contained in the answer to question No. 487. 
AHQ Survey Regiment: Relocation at Bonegilla  (Question No. 490) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There is overcrowding in the Cartographic Squadron and parts of the Lithographic Squadron. No section has sufficient space for the proposed increased strengths and functions of the Regiment. 
To overcome this situation new buildings would be required for the Cartographic Squadron and WRAAC Barracks with subsequent major extentions to all Squadron buildings and replacement of all substandard buildings. 
Messes will need extensions as strength increases. The only practicable solution would be a major rebuilding programme to avoid makeshifts involving uneconomical expenditure. 
A Cartographic building is available at Bonegilla capable of accommodating the draughtsmen currently on establishment including the recently approved increment of draughtsmen to AHQ Survey Regiment. 
It will be necessary to provide living and working accommodation to correspond with the proposed significant increases in the strength and scope of the Regiment. This would be an essential requirement even if the unit remained at Bendigo. 
In the interests of efficiency and economic operation, the long term plan is to completely rebuild the accommodation in permanent modern construction. 
Yes. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In addition to the AHQ Survey Regiment and the School of Military Survey, the following units comprise the Royal Australian Survey Corps: 
AHQ Field Survey Depot 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
As at 23 March there were: 
17 officers, 184 other ranks and 17 Womens Royal Auxiliary Army Corps. 
26 of these are national servicemen. 
115 military personnel at Fortuna are married. 
119 military personnel are engaged at the School of Military Survey, Bonegilla. 
33 of these are permanent staff. 
There are 72 members undergoing training al the School of Military Survey, Bonegilla. A further 14, shortly to commence courses at the School or to be reposted, are engaged on localised training. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There are 512 members of the Citizen Military Forces in Papua and New Guinea. 
They comprise 323 indigenes and 189 expatriates. 
(a) Officers - indigenes 2, expatriates 58: (b) Other ranks - indigenes 321, expatriates 131. 
Pacific Islander members of the Citizen Military Forces 'receive rates of pay equivalent to the appointment/enlistment or promotion rate applicable to the regular Pacific Islander soldier. Expatriates receive the same rates as indigenes plus an expatriate allowance which, in effect, brings expatriate rates up to the same level as received by mainland Citizen Military Forces members. 
Amounts paid to members of the Papua and New Guinea Citizen Military Forces in eachfinancial year since 1965: 
 The answer to the honourable members question is as follows: 
and (2) The following table sets out the number of enlistment applications received and the number and percentage of applications rejected in each of the last 10 years: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Army expenditure on recruitment activities in each of the last 10 years - 
Percentage of total expenditure spent by the Department of the Army on recruitment activities in each of the last 10 years - 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The approximate ratios of civilian to military personnel including ARA and CMF on full time duly but excluding PIR in the Department of Army on these dates were: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The following tests and examinations are administered to applicants seeking enlistment in the Army: 
Medical: 
The medical test consists of an applicant filling out a medical history questionnaire, followed by a comprehensive physical examination by a medical board constituted of two doctors. 
The aim of the examination is to determine the applicant's ability to serve in any geographical location and his functional efficiency to cope with the physical demands of Service life. 
Psychological cum Educational tests: 
This examination is administered by a psychologist attached to the Recruiting Centres. Tests used are: 
For Other Ranks- tests of literacy, arithmetical knowledge and reasoning ability. The literacy level required is comparable to that attained by the average student in grade 4 primary school. 
For Officers - tests of reasoning ability and speed of comprehension standards. No literacy test is administered as minimum education standards are set. They are: 
Officer Training Unit - Intermediate Certificate 
Officer Cadet School - Leaving Certificate 
Royal Military College - Matriculation 
Officer candidates are also interviewed by a Selection Board, and Other Ranks by an Enlistment Officer to assess their general military potential after they have satisfactorily passed the medical and psychological examinations. 
Australian Army: Comparison of Minimum Standards with Other Countries  (Question No. 1315) 
 The answer to the honour able members question is as follows: 
No exact data comparing the standards in the four countries is available and in any case accurate comparisons of this nature between countries, particularly as regards education, arc very difficult to make. The medical classification used by the Australian Army is derived from the standards developed in Canada and also adopted by the United Kingdom. Standards in the USA are similar, by and large, to ours. In USA. the educational level is set at 'high school graduate'. This is the level generally attainedat the age of 17 or 18 years. No formal educational standard is set in the United Kingdom. Applicants are psychologically tested and if a satisfactory Selection Group Rating (approximately SGR3) is attained he may be enlisted. This system is similar to the Australian method. Canadian entry standard is Grade Vlll, or the educational level reached by a child of 13 years. It is the entry qualification for high school. In summary, the minimum medical standards for enlistment are about the same in the four countries, the minimum psychological standard is higher in Canada and the minimum educational education level higher in USA and Canada. 
 The answer  to  the honour able member's question is  as  follows: 
For reasons of security i am not at liberty to divulge this information publicly, but I have written to the honourable member privately on this part of the question. 
14 members of the Australian Army Intelligence Corps have retired early, resigned or transferred to the Citizen Military Forces. They include - 1 Lieutenant Colonel 
S Majors 5 Captains 1 Lieutenant 1 Warrant Officer 1 Private. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Records show that some 61,061 rounds of artillery, mortar and anti-tank ammunition were fired at the Holsworthy Range during the period from 1 January 1969 to 30 June 1970. The break up of the particular type of ammunition fired is as follows: 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members oi the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of electors of Kooyong respectfully showeth: 
That they are gravely concerned at what they consider to be the adverse effect on moral standards in the Australian community of the increasing portrayal and description of obscenity, sexual licence, promiscuity and violence in films, books, magazines, plays and, to a lesser extent, television and radio programmes; 
That their concern arises partly from the tact that historians, such as J. D. Unwin and Arnold Toynbee, have shown that nearly all nations which have perished have done so because of internal moral decay; and partly because obscenity and indecency are contrary to the teachings of Christianity which is the acknowledged religion of more than 80 per cent of Australians, besides being 'part and parcel of the law of the land' (Quick and Garran in "Commentaries on the Australian Constitution', page 951); and 
That, in accordance with the findings of the Australian Gallup Poll, published in the Melbourne Herald on 14th November 1969, the majority of Australian citizens want censorship either maintained or increased. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that Honourable Members of the House of Representatives will seek to ensure that Commonwealth legislation bearing on censorship of films, literature and radio and television programmes is so framed and so administered as to preserve sound moral standards in the community. And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
lt is impossible to give detailed answers to the matters raised by the honourable member but I hope it will be only a short time before  1  am able to do so. I directed that a court of inquiry examine the whole background of this matter, including conditions at the camp and everything that had occurred, lt will, of course, be some days before I receive the results of that inquiry and it would be improper lo discuss the incident at this juncture while the court is inquiring into it. Without reducing the care that is taken in regard to the court, I will ensure that the matter is expedited as much as possible and I  will  convey answers to the honourable member. I might add that my last report, received at about 2.30 p.m. today, was that  the  young boys concerned are all now in a satisfactory condition. The honourable member may be assured that I am taking a very deep interest in their health. 
Might I say first of all how much I have appreciated the honourable member's continuing interest in the provision of an infantry combat badge. The badge is to recognise infantry service in battle and it may be awarded to serving members of the permanent military forces and the Citizens Military Forces in recognition of 90 days satisfactory service, either continuous or in aggregate, as an infantryman in an Australian infantry unit or sub-unit in operations against an enemy. There are also special provisions to cover those who have been decorated, wounded or who have suffered some other disability due to service as well as infantrymen who have served with the Australian training team in Vietnam. I stress that it is a badge for infantrymen only and it will not be issued to those who are no longer members of the Army. 
Honourable members will be aware from Press reports in the last couple of days that an incident occurred at the Queensland University Regiment training depot on 2nd September when a group of persons barricaded themselves on the first floor of that depot and damaged some furniture and other property. They left when ordered to do so by the police. Although some threats have been reported in the Press, so far no further incidents have occurred. If any threat does develop, appropriate action will be taken to protect Commonwealth property. I have set in motion procedures, on the lines mentioned by the honourable member in his question, in regard to armouries and other aspects of military depots. Naturally, we view with concern any illegal occupation of Commonwealth property. The Commonwealth police are investigating the matter to see whether prosecutions should be launched against those who were involved in the incident mentioned. I will say no more at this juncture. 
Pursuant to section 147 of the Defence Act 1903-1970 I present the annual report on the Royal Military College of Australia for the period 1st February 1969 to 31st January 1970. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(2) and (3) A study of a number of point! along the Queensland coast was made some time ago. Subsequently an examination commenced of the feasibility of positioning small groups of Army marine craft at various military installations around the Australian coast However, should this approach prove impracticable and a suitable base for Army small craft in Queensland is required a site on the Brisbane River or at Cairns is more likely. 
I do recall the circumstances mentioned in the honourable member's question. I have little more to add to what I advised him some months ago. As the honourable member will recall, after reviewing the matter to see whether the base could be located on the eastern coast the Army then decided to see whether it would be preferable to have locations spread along the coast. If that did not seem feasible, it appeared that the more likely conclusion would be that the base would be located either on the Brisbane River or at Cairns. I have requested that the matter be expedited, although other departments are, of course, involved. I hope it will not be too long before we can reach a decision and announce it. 
I would imagine that a number of the points made in the latter part of the speech of the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)- 
Mir PEACOCK - That is right, thank you. Those points are not necessarily relevant to the matters he raised in the first part of his speech. I regret that I am unable to give him the precise details in regard to the specific matter that he referred to although I appreciate his advice to me approximately an hour ago that he intended to raise this matter on the adjournment tonight. We have, of course, spoken about it prior to tonight. 
But the honourable member advised me an hour ago that he would raise it tonight. I took it from his speech that he shared with me, and I am sure other honourable members, regret and grief at the untimely deaths and the injuries of the soldiers who were involved in the accident. The sympathy of us all goes to their relatives. The Army has investigated the matter and J am advised that the report, with the conclusions drawn, will be forwarded to me tomorrow. I had indicated to the honourable member that I anticipated its receipt 2 days ago but regrettably that advice was incorrect, and I anticipate its receipt tomorrow. But as a consequence of that I am unable therefore to be specific about the details that he raised tonight. 
But there are some general points that I think I should make in fairness to the Army. I am speaking generally, and they should be interpreted in that light. Firstly, I have to say that the movement of military personnel to and from Canungra by commercial bus has been in operation now for over 2 years and it has involved the carriage of more than  6,000  troops between Sydney and Canungra. The accident referred to by the honourable member was the first on that run although there has been, I understand, at least  1  other accident on a different run. The reason why the commercial bus mode of transport has been used is that, firstly, it provides a doortodoor service as well as some flexibility in timing departures which is not available with rail or civil aircraft. Secondly, the transit time is normally less than by rail, and thirdly the problems of trans-shipment at aircraft or rail terminals are avoided. I would make a small point that flows from that third point, and that is that soldiers would still have to use buses to and from such terminals. Fourthly,- the security of the personal arms - usually automatic weapons - of the soldiers on a commercial bus is usually better than that on other forms of transport. But these are general points and do not relate to the specific matter raised by the honourable member. I give him the undertaking that I will fully inform him of the results of the inquiry when I have received and considered them, or as soon as possible thereafter. 
Finally, I would just. say that the availability of service aircraft for the administrative - that is non-operational - transport of troops is variable and depends on aircraft availability and higher priority tasks which would normally have an operational aspect. 
The Army is of course quite happy to use Service aircraft, even when they become available at short notice. But it would obviously be imprudent to plan the use of such aircraft much in advance for administrative purposes, such as the regular carriage of troops to and from Canungra each week. I will conclude with those general points and again give the undertaking to advise the honourable member as soon as I possibly can. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. House adjourned at 11.55 p.m. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Pursuant to section 27 of the National Library Act 1960-1967 I present the tenth annual report of the Council of the National Library of Australia for the year ended 30th June 1970 together  .i  a..  - . _ ._______ j .1__ A  Auditor- with financial aiaib.uih.iiij and mi. Auditor- 
General's report on those statements. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Air Co-ordinating Committee has considered recommendation No. 14 of the Interim Report from the House of Representatives Select 
Committee on aircraft noise. The problem of aircraft noise has been under examination for quite some time by this Committee and the Air Co-ordination Sub Committee of New South Wales and other regions are continually examining the possibility of re-routing flight paths in their areas in order to minimise noise over residential areas. The Army aircraft training areas are located wherever possible, away from residential areas so as not to inconvenience the public with noise. When Army aircraft approach residential areas, they fly on routes authorised by the Department of Civil Aviation. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There are no Army activities which specifically require a knowledge of agricultural science and it is unlikely that a member with this particular civilian qualification could be employed in an area related directly to his talents. 
The Army endeavours to utilise to the full the skills and qualifications of national servicemen. It is not to be expected however that the Army requirements for particular skills will necessarily match the normal community distribution of these skills as represented in the national service call up. 
Accordingly, when the number of national servicemen holding these qualifications is in excess of the number required for military purposes, members not allocated to those employments are given training in other military fields where a need for their service does exist. 
The Government is aware that the careers of national servicemen may be disrupted by the two year obligation and has provided a range of reestablishment benefits designed to offset some of the disadvantage occasioned by their call up. These include post-discharge vocational training on a full or part-time basis, where it is necessary or desirable for their resettlement 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Up to 30th June 1969, one labrador dog has died while on service in Vietnam. 
The dog died of heat exhaustion. 
I think it is quite clear that the answer to the honourable member's question is implicit in the answer given by the Minister for Trade and industry. It is quite clear that the governments accept that the items listed can properly be exported. I do not think I need to go into the answer in any more detail than J have, nor do I intend to confirm or deny - they are honourable member's own words - the calculations and conclusions made by him. 
The question of the pension fund and the complicated actuarial calculations are not solely for my Department to determine. Other departments are involved. However, I have been advised that the implementation of the scheme is soon to be completed and that sums already deducted from pay are being properly protected. 
I present the following petition: 
To the honourable the  Speaker  and members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. 
 This humble petition of electors of the Division of Higgins in Melbourne,, Victoria, respectfully sheweth that the price of air travel at present is such that it cannot be afforded with any degree of frequency by the ordinary citizen. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Government give full, prompt and unbiased consideration to the airbus proposal of  Mr Peter  Wood, which is directed at reducing air fares by the establishment of a cheap system of air transport to be based on a suitable, locally made, two engined aircraft. 
Your petitioners particularly urge the setting up of a trial airbus system and as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
 J have seen the reported remarks of  Senator Wheeldon  and the letter written by Lieutenant-Colonel Forward, commander of the fourth Field Regiment, Royal Australian Artillery, which is currently serving in Vietnam. Whilst accepting that serving officers and soldiers should not become actively involved in politics, I would have to say that the senator's statement must have been provocative to any soldier, and particularly a commanding officer. Members of the Opposition may always direct their criticism to the Government - to the Ministry - but. it is an entirely different matter to criticise soldiers, whether Australian or allied, who are serving together and are loyally carrying out their governments' policies. I believe that LieutenantColonel Forward's letter was correcting an inaccurate and misleading statement. In the circumstances I am not prepared to direct that action be taken against LieutenantColonel Forward for any alleged breaches of military regulations. So far as  Senator Wheeldon  is concerned. I think his own actions condemn him. 
The answer to the hon-. ourable member's question is as follows: 
Approximately 72,000 acres. 
No. 
Yes. This matter is the subject of correspondence between the Prime Minister and the Premier of New South Wales. 
Yes. My Department has been consulted. 
I have seen articles of the nature referred to by the honourable member. The current basic roles of the Army in Papua and New Guinea are broadly twofold. Firstly there is the need to build an efficient army capable of playing a vital role in the defence of the Territory and secondly we have to provide for the future a well disciplined, stable and reliable indigenous force completely loyal to the Administration or government of Papua and New Guinea. The Army is well aware of the experience of other newly emergent countries which has shown that concentration on purely military training is not sufficient to ensure that the Army's potential for power is not used for undesirable ends. As a consequence, extensive training and education programmes are required. In other words, the Pacific Islands Regiment is not trained in isolation. There is close contact and cooperation with villages, civic aid programmes, the constabulary, the Administration and, more importantly, with members of the House of Assembly who regularly visit units and discuss matters of mutual interest. In short, the Army is cognisant of its duty to ensure as far as possible the potential neutralism referred to by the honourable member. 
 I have only a few minutes remaining before the House adjourns until next week. I have just listened to flagrantly dishonest and distorted allegations by the honourable member for St George  (Mr Morrison).  It is not the first time that he has made them in this Parliament and elsewhere since he transferred from bis position with the Department of External Affairs. I have before me a Malaysian publication of Friday, 13 th February, which scathingly attacks allegations made by the honourable member for St George, dismissing him and his allegations as being a cheap tactic, one of the cheapest found anywhere in the world. He was referring to our presence in Malaysia and making allegations that Australia should not be committed to Malaysia, and he was talking about the use of the base at Butterworth much as he did today. This is what the Malaysians think of him because you know as well as I do that there has been  a  specific request- 
I will have them incorporated in Hansard if I am given permission, and then everyone can read them. 
The honourable member is just pinching my time. 
I am prepared to have it incorporated in Hansard. 
If I cannot have the papers incorporated in Hansard I will return to the remarks I want to make about the allegations made by the honourable member for St George in regard to the pocket book. I listened to the charges of brainwashing made by the honourable member for St George. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Cope)  - The decision rests with the Minister 
I can simply have this extract tabled but I would prefer to have it incorporated in Hansard if the honourable member would give me permission. Does he give me permission? 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- Order! The decision whether he wants to table it rests with the Minister. 
Obviously the most effective way to answer this request is to have the extract incorporated in my speech. That is the way I would handle it. I am prepared to request that it be incorporated. 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- lt is up to the Minister. . 
I regard this as a deliberate attempt to prevent me from talking for the few minutes that remain available to me. I want to return to the allegations made by the honourable member for St George. 
A document relating to public affairs quoted from by a Minister, unless stated to be of a confidential nature or such as should more properly be obtained by address, shall, if required by any Member, be laid on the Table. 
Does the Minister say it is confidential or does he not? 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- If the 
Minister considers that the document is confidential he need not table it. 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- Yes. 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- Order! There is no substance in the point of order. 
I will give an answer to the request that has been made in approximately 2 minutes time, but I. ask the honourable member to hear me for 2 minutes. 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- If the Minister gives the reply that it is not confidential he is forced to table the document, but if it is considered confidential the decision is up to the Minister. 
I. will be delighted to give my reply. I would like to leave my reply for another minute and a half. I would like to get back to the pocket book which was referred to by the honourable member for St George and which he regards as a technique for brainwashing the Army. The pocket book is a mere summary of background information on Vietnam. Good heavens,  Mr Deputy Chairman,  I have a book at home which covers in about 1,500 pages the history of Vietnam, and it is supposed to be a summary. This little pocket book which deals with all sorts of circumstances regarding Vietnam is alleged by the honourable member for St George to be brainwashing. Talk about besmirching the intelligence of every Australian officer and soldier! This pocket book was produced as useful background, and nothing more, for servicemen going to Vietnam, in many instances for the first time. 
Apart from the specific aspects to which the honourable member for St George has referred, the booklet contains advice about the language and customs of the Vietnamese people as well as advice about differences in tribal makeup. The geography of the country and ethnic and historical differences are dealt with scantily. The pocket, book is necessarily a summary. It is available in the Parliamentary Library. If the honourable member for Wills, who is interjecting, had been paying attention to the debates in the Parliament he would know that, as has been stated before, it is available to those who require it. 
 I will give the honourable member my answer on that later. Let me finish. 
Of course 1 can give answers later on. The honourable member is trying to prevent me from replying to the honourable member for St George. 
The honourable member for St George has stated the classification. 
Consideration interrupted. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Cope)  - Order! It being 4 p.m.-, and in accordance with the Order of the House of 26th August, I shall report progress. 
Progress reported. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The number of Australian Army establishments located in Australia is as follows: 
My recollection  of the matter is that the provisions of the Repatriation (Special Overseas Service) Act apply to servicemen serving in Vietnam. Members serving in places other than Viet nam are entitled to cover under the Commonwealth Employees' Compensation Act in the event of injury or any medical condition which can be attributed to their Army employment. A soldier who is injured whilst not on duty is generally not covered by the Act unless he is travelling to or from duty. In ordinary circumstances, however, a soldier who is being medically treated in a hospital as a result of injury, irrespective of its cause - if it was sustained in Australia - may have his pay and allowances continued for a period of 6 months from the day the injury was received or treatment was begun, while if the condition developed or the injury was sustained while he was overseas his pay and allowances would continue for a period of 12 months. At the expiration of the period he would be discharged from the Army if he did not come within the various categories of Army medical standards and his further treatment would then be governed under the Repatriation Act that T have mentioned and the Compensation Act that I mentioned. However, after being discharged and if his removal from hospital is considered to be detrimental to his health, further treatment can be authorised. I am concerned by the preamble of the honourable member's question in regard to national service trainees. I will examine it in greater detail than I can give here today from my recollection. I shall send him a reply as soon as possible. 
Pursuant to section 14 of the Commonwealth Grants Commission Act 1933-1966, I present the thirty-seventh report (1970) and supplement of the Commonwealth Grants Commission on applications made by States for financial assistance under section 96 of the Constitution. 
As the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  is engaged in a Cabinet meeting tonight I think it is perfectly reasonable for me, in my capacity as Minister assisting the Prime Minister, to act on his behalf in regard to the estimates of the Prime Minister's Department. I  have  taken a careful note of most of the remarks which have been made. I have no doubt that more remarks will be made during the time which is available for discussion of the estimates of the Prime Minister's Department. However, I think I should comment at this stage on a few of the remarks which have already been made. I am sure that my colleague, the Minister-in-Charge of Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Wentworth),  will wish to make some comments on earlier speeches which have been made in regard to the assistance provided by the Government to Aboriginals. 
Firstly, may I refer to the speech which was made by the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Sherry).  The honourable member mentioned 2 groups in particular which had evidently applied to the Council for the Arts for assistance. They were the Tasmanian String Quartet and the Rosny Girls Choir. As I recall, the honourable member said, in mentioning the Tasmanian String Quartet, that he believed that its application for assistance was rejected because the Government's policy was to import groups and not export them. The honourable member asked whether this was in fact the Government's policy. As I understand it, the Council for the Arts uses the bulk of its international exchange programme on exporting Australian groups, which is quite the reverse of what was suggested by the honourable member. This includes sending overseas large groups such as the Australian Ballet and the Melbourne Symphony Orchestra, which will go, for example, to the United States of America, as well as small groups such as the Adelaide Wind Quintet and the New Sydney Wind Quintet. It is regrettable however, that the funds which are provided for this programme cannot accommodate all the requests which are made. 
I understand the desire of the honourable member to render assistance by way of preferring the 2 groups as he did tonight and I am sure the Council for the Arts would like to assist all groups which made application to it but it is unable to do that on its present budget. Even with the increase from $50,000 in 1969-70 to 8200,000 in 1970-71 it is still necessary for the Council to reject certain applications. However, I understand that another grant was given to the Tasmanian String Quartet for a local tour and I would imagine that the Council for the Arts had some difficulty, because the Quartet had already received an allotment, in making a further allotment for a visit overseas. I recall that the honourable member made a distinction between a professional group and an amateur group. It is my understanding that the Council for the Arts gives priority to professional performers and companies and the choir to which he referred was, of course, an amateur group. I would also imagine - this is a purely personal opinion - that a choir could be a very expensive touring group to send overseas. 
May I also refer to some remarks made by the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)?  After discussing the dichotomy between the Prime Minister's Department and the Cabinet Office he remarked that mere was no national theatre for Australia and although he spoke of his gratitude for the assistance to the Adelaide Festival of the Arts he expreessed the viewpoint that we should have a national theatre group. I assume therefore that this national theatre would tour throughout the country and, as I understand it, the members of the Council for the Arts, in putting their minds to this particular matter, have made a quite deliberate decision not to have a national theatre based on economics and geography in a country the size of Australia. Obviously, most of the money that would be made available to a national theatre group touring a country of our size would be spent on air fares alone. Again, as I understand it, the Council for the Arts has decided instead to establish and build up one drama company of high quality in each capital city. In other words, more people can be satisfied for the same amount of money. 
The honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  raised a matter that is frequently mentioned - I only want to touch on this point - and that is the Australian High Commissioner in the United Kingdom being attached to the Prime Minister's Department and not to the Department of External Affairs. All I would say in reply at this juncture is to refer the honourable member to a reply that was given by the Prime Minister in this House on 22nd May 1969 as reported at page 2221 of Hansard in which he referred to a question that had been asked by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitiam).  He stated: 
Because of the unique historical association between Australia and die United Kingdom and because this is believed to be the most appropriate arrangement . . . 
These are the factors that are brought to mind with this particular association. The Prime Minister continued: as the honourable member will know, this is the arrangement which has continued under successive Governments in Australia. 
I do not wish to comment on other remarks that have been made tonight but I would reiterate that in regard to Aboriginal affairs my colleague the Minister for Social Services has, I arn sure, matters to put before the Committee tonight. 
This matter is before the Defence (Conditions of Service) Committee, which comprises representatives not merely of my Department but of the other Service departments, the Department of Defence and the Treasury. The matter has been considered over a recent period of time. No decision has as yet been arrived at for formulation to the Minister for Defence and the Treasurer, who have prime responsibility for its implementation and acceptance. Naturally my Department and I are keenly interested in the findings of the Committee. I can say no more, naturally, as the Committee comprises interdepartmental representation. It is my hope that, as the Minister for Defence indicated himself some week or so ago, the matter can be brought to fruition without too much delay. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Armoured Corps officer resignations by rank - 1968- 1 Captain and 1 Second Lieutenant 1969  -  I Captain, 1 Lieutenant and 1 Second Lieutenant 1970 - 5 Captains, I Lieutenant and 2 Second Lieutenants 
Of these, I Captain and I Second Lieutenant were stationed at Puckapunyal. 
The Armoured Corps is currently deficient 19 officers against establishment. This deficiency is I Lieutenant-Colonel, 2 Majors, 8 Captains and 8 Lieutenants. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The number of applications received during the last three years for married quarters at Puckapunyal is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The mock-up village established by the Army in the Bulli training area in 1968 was never secret. The village comprised houses, concealed holes and tunnels but trip wires were only laid when the village was in use. The buildings have now been removed and the tunnels and holes filled because the village is no longer required for training purposes. 
The land is owned by the Bellambi Coal Co. Ltd, and is part of the Sydney water supply catchment area with water rights consequently controlled by the Metropolitan Sewerage and Drainage Board. 
Authority to use the land has been granted by the Bellambi Coal Co. Ltd, and the Metropolitan Water and Sewerage Drainage Board. 
No. 
There have been no known accidents involving civilians. Military personnel have had some training accidents but not as a result of the use of the village. 
The general area is still being used for training by the Infantry Centre but no live firing takes place. Every effort is made to conserve the natural state of the area - the animals are untouched, there is no destruction of timber or undergrowth and all rubbish is removed for disposal at Ingleburn Camp. In addition Rangers patrol the area and representatives of the Bellambi Coal Co. Ltd, carry out annual inspections to ensure the area is not damaged. 
The honourable member has visited Vietnam and I find it amazing that he makes statements of this kind in asking his question. 1 would have thought the question was based on a dream. I fail to comprehend how he could make these implications after having visited the area. The Prime Minister has given the reasons for the withdrawal of one battalion without replacement. Those reasons are well known. The programme of Vietnamisation and the other developments he mentioned are continuing within the province. We are working closely with the South Vietnamese. There has been part of a division of United States troops within the province - which renders invalid all that the honourable member has said so far. In addition there has been close liaison at a village level both with civic action programmes and in activities of mobile advisory teams with the regional forces and the popular forces. As has been stated before, there are reasons for the motivation of the role we play in the province. The reduction of our forces in the area means that the Vietnamese are assuming more responsibility and I think that one could really say that the removal of those forces does not mean conditions are ripe for the withdrawal of all forces. This is the view of the Government. I think it runs quite counter to and is the very antithesis of the viewpoints expressed in the honourable member's question. 
Yes, anywhere. 
I saw the early edition of the paper that was shown to us this morning by the honourable member for Mallee during the question that he asked. I noticed that in the later edition the headline had been changed to reflect more accurately the story that was carried by other newspapers. I wish to inform the honourable member that at no stage have I, or my predecessors or the Army authorities undertaken to hand over the 280 acres of the Williamstown rifle range. My predecessor did indicate in May 1969 that some 20 acres of the range could be made available under certain conditions for parkland or recreational purposes. The Williamstown Council has been asked for proposals in the light of those requirements, but so far no firm acceptable proposal has been put by the Council to me, although I have indicated that I would meet a deputation by the Council on this matter. Some intricate legal problems are related to the transfer of the land for these purposes, but it is hoped that in consultation with the Council these problems can be resolved. 
Concerning the whole range area itself I remind the honourable member that I said that no undertaking has been given to hand over the 280 acres. Although the range is of immense value to the Australian Regular Army, the Citizen Military Forces and the Cadet Corps, the Department has always said that it would be prepared to move from the range, but only as soon as a suitable alternative area could be found. The help of the Council, together with that of the State Government, has been enlisted in this search, but no suitable alternative area has yet been found. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The following figures of all postings within Australia, and the Territory of Papua and New Guinea also include postings which have not involved a change in location: 
The answer to the honourable member's questions is as follows: 
and (2) No. The military regulations relating to political activities by Regular soldiers are: Australian Military Regulation 210 which states in part - 
An officer or soldier shall not - 
institute in any military premises; or 
when in uniform attend any meeting, demonstration or procession held for a political purpose'. 
Australian Military Regulation 210a which states in part - 
An officer or soldier of the Military Forces who is employed on continuous full time military service shall not take any active part in the affairs of any political or municipal organisation or party, either by speaking in public or publishing or distributing literature in furtherance of the purposes of any such organisation or party, or in any other manner'. 
I am unaware of any such instruction having been given. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The cost of national service training and the percentage of Army expenditure this cost represents is set out below: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Australian Military Regulation 219 (a) is not pertinent to this subject. 
Australian Military Regulation 210 would be contravened if a member, while in uniform, attended a political party branch meeting and Australian Military Regulation 210A would be contravened if a member took an active part in a political party meeting. 
However Australian Military Regulations would not be contravened if a member in civilian clothes, on leave, attended a political party branch meeting and did not take an active part in the meeting. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
It is regretted that the answers sought cannot be provided. Recruiting for the CMF is decentralised to units and the need to maintain statistics of rejected applications has not arisen. The honourable member will appreciate that an administrative burden would be created if units were required to keep statistics which are not required by the Department. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There are 1,408 cooks in the Army excluding casual staff engaged for CMP and Cadet camps. 
Seventy-five of these are civilians. 
Weekly wages for male cooks range between $46.09 and $53.90 per week according to classification and location. Females are paid slightly less in accordance with present employment conditions. 
Basic rates of pay for enlisted cooks are: 
Private Grade1- $47.46 per week. 
Private Grade 2- $52.85 per week. (This does not include clothing allowance, marriage/separation allowance and living out allowance which in the case ofa married man represents $14.91 per week and $10.50 tor a single man.) 
Overtime worked by civilian cooks averages 4 hours per week for each cook. 
Overtime is payable in accordance with the Army Exempt Wages Determination which provides for time and one half for work in excess of the daily rostered hours, and double time if more than 11 hours are worked in any one day or in excess of 12 hours from the time of first commencing duty when hours of duty are spread. 
Cooks are required to be on duty to meet Service requirements. Times of duty allocated to meet this requirement vary in each unit. Wherever practicable cooks are rostered for five eight hour shifts per week. 
Nil. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
No record is held by my Department of any recent representations made for the release of this land. In 1962 the honourable member asked a number of questions concerning the use being made by the Army of the CMF Training Depot at Marrickville. The Minister for the Army at that time gave an assurance that the site and accommodation was being fully utilised. This is still the case and no change is contemplated. 
The retention of a centrally situated training depot is essential to cater for the large number of CMF members who reside in close proximity to the Marrickville Depot. In addition, current Army planning provides for a regular Army unit, now at Mascot to be relocated at Marrickville due to the development and expansion of civil aviation activities in the Mascot area. 
In view of the above it will be apparent that no useful purpose would be served by such an investigation. 
1 present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker,  and members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Victoria respectfully sheweth: 
That pollution is dangerous to public health and could be better controlled if bottles were made returnable so as to reduce ike titter problem caused by non-returnable bottles: if coloured tissue and toilet paper could be banned until they can be made to disintegrate; if fumes from aircraft could be reduced; and if city councils could collect and dispose of rubbish and dead leaves in pits 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Government take steps to ensure that bottles are made non-returnable, fumes from aircraft are reduced, tissue and toilet paper is made to disintegrate and councils adequately collect and bury rubbish for the better protection of the environment. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I agree that there has been a degree of tension and dissatifaction in this area. I do not agree with the conclusions that have been drawn and which are implied in practically every statement made by the honourable member. As to the specific complaint in the first part of his question, I will examine it and give him an answer as soon as possible. 
My recollection is that I have received only two or three letters regarding this matter. In regard to the specific periods involved, I would have to examine the question and supply the honourable member with the answer. I regret that T cannot give it to him immediately. But my recollection is that this matter has been raised in only two or or three letters. 
The honourable member will be aware of my interest in this area. He will be aware also of the community's interest which is not new. As this nation has grown and developed so the population has become more aware of the degradation of the environment by pollution. It is not just a State problem or a national problem; in fact it is a global problem. 
I will refer to the Murray River in a moment. The Prime Minister announced at the last Senate elections our policy in regard to pollution. It is not just a hollow slogan or a fashionable theme. We are making constructive moves. The Army has taken action in regard to the pollution of the Goulburn River by silt. We were able to re-sow land adjacent to the river. I have taken note of what the honourable member has said and I will investigate it as far as possible. The Army plans to incorporate anti-pollution devices in new works programmes. I will do what I can in regard to the suggestion raised because we have a genuine interest in this matter. The Army has a practice of cleaning up areas where it has been operating. 
No, the Army has not fouled it up. This may in fact be a contributory factor but no more than that. 
 The answer to the hon ourable member's question is as follows: 
The mines used by the Australian Force in Vietnam are mainly of the United States M16 type. Any M16 mines used by the enemy in Phuoc Tuy Province could have been obtained from a number of sources as this mine ls the only one commonly used by all forces, including local 
Vietnamese security forces throughout Vietnam. In addition, the Vietcong has its own supply of mines from outside Communist sources and from local manufacture. It is not possible to assess the type and origin of every mine or booby-trap detonated during operations and therefore the number of M16 mines used by the enemy, and the source of their supply, is unknown. 
Australian Council for the Arts (Question No. 1356) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Yes. 
Not applicable. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Three. 
None of the officers were posted to Puckapunyal at the time of resignation. Two officers were Captains and one was a Lieutenant. 
The establishment for RAAC officers was recently increased by 10. The RAAC is currently deficient 28 officers against establishment. This deficiency by rank is1 Lieutenant-Colonel, 6 Majors, 18 Captains and 3 Lieutenants. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question  is  as follows: 
The cost of training an infantry soldier to the stage where he can take his place as a full member of a fighting unit is of the order of $4,000. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I do not accept any of the assumptions implicit in the honourable member's question. I think the matter has been already fully explored. 
The assumption again is incorrect. The Army was not running down its civic action programmes. The controversial aspect that was raised a few weeks ago arose from a paper produced by the Chief of Staff Australian Force Vietnam which was headed 'Guidelines for Planning' and nothing more than that, and certain viewpoints were expressed therein. It was then to be discussed by Army officers, then by the Ambassador and then by the Minister for Defence and myself. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Publication of the Australian' Army Summary has been discontinued for the present. It was first published in February 1968 on a monthly basis, but was reduced to once eachtwo months from September 1970. The last issue was made in November 1970. 
Recipients of the Australian Army Summary were: 
Press Gallery (for major metropolitan Press). 
All members of Parliament. 
All Army Commands in Australia, and the Territory of Papua and' New Guinea (for redistribution to local Press). 
Australian Force Vietnam. 
Department of Foreign Affairs for redistribution to Embassies. 
Other interested departments. 
The total number of copies produced to cover  this distribution was 935. 
The reproduction and distribution costs are estimated to have been about $250 per issue. Preparation of the Summary was performed by various officers at Army Headquarters and in the Commands as part of their normal duties, and the cost of this element cannot be accurately assessed. 
The Minister for Defence recently spoke of moves that are being made in regard to the Commonwealth Aircraft Factories. The Army is closely watching the evolution of hovercraft and I recall two occasions on which the Army has participated in its usage. The first occasion was at Shoalwater Bay in Queensland where combined exercises were held, and the second was at a, demonstration of a United Kingdom hovercraft on Lake Burley Griffin. On both occasions the use of these craft was studied carefully. A brief is being compiled, but I imagine that it will be some time before a decision is reached. 
Members of the Opposition who have spoken in this debate have strayed from the initial guidelines offered by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  when he initiated the debate. The last 2 spokesmen from the Opposition spent much time attacking the morale of servicemen in our 3 Services, which is the easiest yet most vicious way of denigrating the armed Services. Without recourse to truth, statistics or evidence they have castigated servicemen under the guise of a resolution on ministerial responsibility. In particular the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  in a speech which was notable for its confusion and imprecision talked about a so-called complete breakdown in the inner morality of the armed Services. I think that was the phrase he used - a complete breakdown in the inner morality of the armed Services. 
Listening to his speech I thought it showed a complete breakdown of his inner thought processes. For example, he said there was a collapse of Army morality in Vietnam. After his speech he rose on a point of order and said he did not attack the Army but he was attacking only the Ministers. He simply cannot have it both ways. You cannot talk about a collapse of morality in the Army and then get up on a point of order of that nature. There has been no collapse in the morality of the Army or in its morale as such but I regret to say that there has been a collapse in the honourable member's reputation, undeserved as it was, as an expert on defence matters. It has also been stated in this debate that the armed Services have an inability to move from traditional views. In fairness to the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition he did not say this, but he did point out that the Army Review Committee, otherwise known as the Hassett Committee, emanated from within the Army and is likely to propose widespread changes in the organisation and structure of the Army itself. So much for lack of initiative in the Army. 
I now come to the crux of the matter at present before the House, and that is that the basis of the present controversy stems from a misunderstanding of the fundamental role of government advisers. The Army, and indeed any other arm of the government, has a dual role. The first role is that of expert professional advisers on policy. The second is that of an executive - an implementer of policy - once decided by the proper governmental authority. It is imperative that both these roles are well understood. The Army would be failing in its first responsibility if it did not put forward its untrammelled professional view. On the other hand, the Government would equally be failing the country if it accepted this view without testing it against the many other aspects which must properly be taken into consideration in the decision making process. Inevitably there will, for example, be political, economic and sociological factors to be weighed against the basic professional military view. It follows therefore that advice is not necessarily accepted. 
The distinction between advising and deciding is common to all enterprises, whether public or private. The Chief of the General Staff and members of the Military Board have lived the whole of their professional lives in this environment. It is not a new gimmick; it is part of democracy. The Army well understands, and has always accepted, the reality of Cabinet and ministerial responsibility, yet it has been suggested today that a prime cause of the alleged rift is the Army's refusal to accept civilian control. Civilian control of the armed forces is a sine quo non in a democratic way of life. Surely, not even the Opposition would suggest this should be otherwise. 
What has given rise to this debate is a complete misunderstanding of the Army's role vis-a-vis that of the Government and. more directly, vis-a-vis that of any Minister for Defence. The Minister for Defence is primarily responsible to the government for Overall defence policy and the Army is an adviser. Naturally, if having weighed all the factors, the Minister and through him the government rejects this advice, the Army - having objectively given its view - may be disappointed, lt may well have pressed its view in the strongest and most determined manner; but disappointment is one thing, and understandable. Refusal to comply with a contrary decision is an entirely different matter and. if it occurred, would be indefensible and contrary to the whole concept of government. 
This, of course brings us to the second role I mentioned earlier, namely that of implementation. The Army has no right to expect, nor does it expect, to have all its advice accepted. However, once the decision has been taken it is implemented with the same dedication as is applied to the implementation of any other decision. In fact, in my experience, the Army works even harder to make a success of a decision which, in a wider context, has been taken against its advice. To put the question in perspective, honourable members should appreciate that decisions requiring action contrary to that advised by the Army are rare. In fact 1 can recollect only very few instances where it has occurred. One which occurred before I took the Army portfolio - it has been commented upon in this House - is that of the location of the task force base at Townsville. In spite of the loction being different from that originally recommended by the Army, honourable members who have visited Townsville will know how effectively the Army has implemented the Government's decision to locate the task force base in this area. It has been suggested that the Army paid little or no heed to directives, went its own wilful way, determining policy for itself with no cognisance of Government wishes. This is a complete fabrication.  1  have traversed briefly some of the current issues, but before concluding  1  want to make it absolutely clear that the Government has the utmost confidence in the loyalty and the devotion of the armed Services. At the levels of policy formulation which we have discussed here, able, experienced and dedicated men are involved who, whether they be military or civil, press their views with the utmost vigour without, however, affecting their mutual respect. It would be a sorry day if this were not so and if a Minister was surrounded by a clique of sycophantic yesmen. It is known by the overwhelming majority of those in this Parliament that this situation does not exist today. 
May I in conclusion refer to one matter which was mentioned in passing by one of the speakers today and 'which was commented upon in an earlier controversy, namely, the Army's role iri civic action. Civic action was an Army initiative. With the increase in strength of our force in Vietnam and with a full time civil affairs unit, the scope of civic action has greatly increased during the time we have had a military commitment to Vietnam. Road construction, water supplies, market places, agricultural work, as well .as medical and educational activities have been undertaken. Housing and classroom construction has been significant. It must be remembered that this work is separate from and additional to the civil aid given under programmes controlled through the Department of Foreign Affairs. 
At present there are major projects in hand and these will continue; yet accusations have been made that we are to reduce our civil aid in this current financial year. A start has yet to be made upon the building construction' entailed in the jungle warfare training' centre, although the planning for this is developing satisfactorily. Meanwhile the jungle warfare training centre is functioning very well in accommodation vacated by the 8th Battalion. Work has just begun on a new road linking Xuyen Moe with the village of Dat Do, which will then link Xuyen Moe with the province capital at Baria. 
In the totality, therefore, these major projects and some  20  others of lesser significance indicate no reduction in the present civic action programme undertaken by the Army, which is fully aware of the importance of civic action and civic aid to the security and the economy of the province. Of course, in the future, with the reduction in our task force and increasing Vietnamisation, there will be a steady progression of handing over of programmes to the Vietnamese, but to suggest that the Army wishes to cut down what it originally inspired is nothing short of deceitful. Clearly, the initiative, as  I  said earlier, was the Army's, with the full backing of the Department of Defence, of the Department of Foreign Affairs and, indeed, of the Government. I hope that what 1 have said on this subject will illustrate quite clearly to the House notwithstanding the earlier allegations, that the Army has encouraged rather than opposed civic action. 

 Mr BRYANT (Wills)-  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. During the course of the debate the Minister for the Army  (Mr Peacock)  gave the impression that we had raised the issue that the Army had defied ministerial authority and had failed to cany out orders. At no stage did anybody on this side of the House say that. 
 I thank the honourable member for Swan  (Mr Bennett)  for his reference to my staff.  I  will repeat to the House what 1 have already advised him. The honourable member was kind enough to indicate to me that he intended to raise this matter but it was not until approximately 11.15 p.m. last night that 1 was so advised. As a consequence a signal was sent to Port Moresby with a copy to Perth and to Vanimo. The signal was sent to Vanimo because that is where the soldier is stationed at the present time. For those who know New Guinea, it is almost the last outpost before the West Irian border and communication is therefore somewhat difficult. I expect to receive a full reply from New Guinea by approxi mately  5  o'clock this afternoon. It is true that in accordance with current provisions relating to the granting of emeregncy leave, this soldier has no entitlement to leave or to attendant free travel. Sergeant Smith is a married man and the question of compassion arises in regard to his next of kin.  His  immediate next of kin is his wife who is residing with him in New Guinea. However, one would be less than humane and less than human if one were not cognisant of the strains thai would be imposed on the family, in view of the circumstances put forward by the honourable member for Swan in regard to the other members of the family apart from the soldiers wife. 
The signal was sent under my direction and it conveyed all the circumstances to the soldier wilh the request that any recreation leave or travel entitlement may perhaps be made available for his return to Australia. At this juncture I do not know whether the soldier himself wishes to return and it is of great import that this be established, lt can only be established if all the circumstances are forwarded to him. The signal did convey all the circumstances and I await the reply. The advice I have received from Perth is regrettably akin to that which has been enunciated by the honourable member for Swan. The advice is to the eflect that the doctor attending the soldier's brother says that the patient .is heavily sedated and probably would not be able to recognise his brother, and furthermore the soldier's presence would not materially assist the medical condition of the patient, according to the doctor. But at the same time, bearing in mind the matters proffered by the honourable member, I repeat that I directed a cable be sent to the soldier. I give to him the undertaking that if it is practicable to return him to Australia the earliest possible arrangements will be made. He will be aware that there are only 2 flights out of Vanimo, I think one on a Tuesday and the other is certainly on a Saturday, so there is still time to get him from Vanimo to Port Moresby tomorrow morning. I hope that other aspects of his journey can be expedited. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
House adjourned at 4.14  p.m.  until Tuesday, 6 April at 2.30 p.m. 
The honourable member will be aware, from statements that have been made in the House previously, that my Department and the department of my colleague, the Minister for Labour and National Service, work closely together in determining the medical standards for those who are called up for national service and the medical standards for those who volunteer for the Australian Regular Army. I would like the honourable member to supply to me specific details of the cases he mentioned so that I can investigate them and give him a detailed answer. As to the latter part of the question, for reasons which I could explain to the honourable member, sleep walking, which is no laughing matter, relates to the psychological assessment of personality. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: (l) 
As the honourable member has indicated I did announce last year the establishment of the Army Review Committee, chaired by Major-General Hassett, to examine the organisation and command structure of the Army. I not only gave details of the composition of that Committee but also referred broadly to its detailed terms of reference. Since then the Committee has been engaged wholly on the organisation of the Army. This is the first time since federation that such an indepth detailed examination has been made by the Army of its own organisation. The Committee has travelled widely, lt has interviewed dozens of witnesses and it has received many submissions during the course of its deliberations. lt has reported on 2 separate occasions with interim reports to the Military Board and to me. In the early part of this year the Committee's final report was received by the Board and me. The Committee has carried out its task, which was an enormous one, expeditiously and well. The final report has been considered by the Board and me but it is now the subject of interdepartmental consideration by the Department of Defence and my Department. I would be unable to provide any further information other, than that which  r  have given to the House with the exception of adding that  I  should commend the  Chairman  and the Committee on the excellent work which has been clone over such a detailed area. 
The first part of the honourable member's question touches upon a subject that the Army calls localisation of the Pacific Islands Regiment. The honourable member mentioned the question of increasing the number of Pacific Islanders as commissioned officers in the PIR. There are, of course, 2 groups to be considered here; there are the other ranks as well as the commissioned officers. I will deal with both. In the first instance, in 1964. apart from one battalion of the PIR, very few Pacific Islanders were taken into the technical and trade units of the PIR. Since that time the numbers have increased to approximately 70 per cent of the strength of the technical and trade units and, overall, of a strength of approximately 3,000 in the PIR, approximately 2,600, or 86 per cent, are Pacific Islanders. 
In regard to the specific question of commissioned officers, there are now 2 methods whereby Pacific Islanders may become commissioned officers in the PIR. The first method is by attending the Military Cadet School at Lae for a course of approximately 18 months and upon graduation going to the Officer Cadet School at Portsea. Twentyfour commissioned officers of the PIR have graduated in this way, have become second lieutenants and have commenced their careers in the regiment. The second method was commenced in August last year and involves an in-service commissioning system which applies to those who have achieved the rank of sergeant or warrant officer and served  a  minimum period of 5 years in the regiment. Slowly but steadily Pacific Islanders are taking over a greater role in the Pacific Islands Regiment. The other part of the honourable member's question deals with a delicate and difficult matter. The Army broadly adopts an attitude which is basically two-fold. It seeks to provide an efficient army capable of playing an effective role - indeed, a vital role - in the defence of the Territory and to provide for the future a reliable, well balanced, disciplined and stable force loyal to the duly constituted authority of the day. 
Firstly I would say that the normal and accepted safety methods were adopted on this occasion, as I am advised. Secondly, the matter is being investigated. My inquiries yesterday revealed that the investigation had not been completed but immediately it is I will advise the honourable member. In reply to the question as to whether we will actually revise the safety methods adopted on this occasion, this will be dependent upon the result of the investigation. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Except for Part 2 (b) the information sought is not available and cannot be produced as there is no requirement to record this data. 
Statistics of casualties to Army personnel arising from accidents involving civilian vehicles driven by Army personnel, but not owned by the Army were: 
This matter was the subject of a joint departmental discussion between the Department of Defence and the Department of the Army. A report was completed last year and has been under discussion, together with the very detailed costing which has been required by officers of both Departments. This has not yet been concluded. It is one of a number of matters which I will be taking up for discussion when the Minister for Defence returns from overseas. There is nothing else I can add at this juncture. 
This question relates to the lithographic section at Fortuna which I have visited and which has been the subject of representations by the honourable member for Bendigo, and therefore 1 think I have a right to answer it. Essentially, the question relates to the pay of that lithographic section which, at the moment, is aligned to the Federal graphic arts award. That award has been surpassed by the Public Service Board, which has added to it an increment and struck a special rate for printers within the Government Printing Office. It is the desire of members of my Department to have this matter examined in detail by the members of the Kerr Committee, and the previous Minister for Defence forwarded this matter to that Committee for examination. As I said, the honourable member for Bendigo has made representations in the past on this subject and has been given a series of answers. He raised the matter in the Parliament last week. I understand that he contacted members of the lithographic section on Friday and the matter has received some publicity. The matter is before the Kerr Committee and I am hopeful of an early resolution of the problem. It is not a matter in which my Department can act unilaterally, but we have expressed our sympathy with those who are engaged in this work in that section. 
I recall answering both questions last week," one relating to Army vehicles and the other relating to vehicles privately owned by soldiers. I was asked to what extent both types of vehicles were involved in accidents. Yes, the Army views with concern the increasing number of privately owned vehicles involved in accidents. Formulating preventive and corrective action is rather difficult. It is a problem which is commensurate with problems facing the community as a whole, but I think it is fair to say that although one cannot be pleased with the number of Army vehicles involved in accidents, oh a proportionate basis the number of Army vehicles involved in accidents is lower than in the case of vehicles privately owned by soldiers. 
I can relate some of the methods that have been adopted, which on their own may perhaps solve little, but taken together may help to improve the situation. There is a routine order at one Army camp which prevents soldiers from proceeding more than a distance of 200 miles on a weekend. That would mean a total of 400 miles in less than 2 days. This may seem at first glance to be somewhat rigid but it is being given a trial to determine whether it reduces the road toll. Other actions such as liaison with local police and road safety authorities for the showing of appropriate films could be helpful. Inspection of privately owned vehicles at a unit level to determine whether they are roadworthy is another action that is being taken. Perhaps the role of the co-ordinator of Army safety could be extended to privately owned vehicles to a greater extent. This is a matter about which I am gravely concerned. I am glad that the honourable member has referred to it again. I took note of the answers supplied to the questions on notice and I say again that I will take whatever steps I can to ensure that there is a recognition by members of the Armed Services, particularly the Army, of the need to drive safely. 
The answer to the hon ourable member' question is as follows:  (1) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
23 CMF Officer production courses have been conducted over the last 12 months. 
Courses are currently being conducted at Brisbane, Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide, Perth and Townsville. A course was completed in Hobart on 1 April 1971. 
No. 
No. The bulk of CMF officer production is centralised at Officer Cadet Training Units (OCTUs) and at University Regiments. The units are located in capital cities except where the distance between capital cities and major CMF centres is considerable as in the case of Townsville. In units outside the metropolitan area of a hospital city, potential officers are trained under unit coaching arrangements and are carried on the strength of OCTU which controls their studies, assignments, and practical training through unit supervising officers. 
In Victoria, this system is employed for country units and sub-units except that, where these units are reasonably close to the metropolitan area, as in the case of Geelong, candidates attended specified weekend and/or camp activities with the OCTU. 
It is anticipated that candidates for OCTU from the Geelong area will commence training as country students in approximately six weeks. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There are currently twenty seven members in civilian gaols either serving a sentence of imprisonment or remanded in custody for civil court hearing. 
This figure fluctuates as it is normal for any member sentenced to a term of imprisonment to be discharged from the Army while the sentence is being served. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(1) 
In reply to the first part of the question, as the Prime Minister said last night the plan is for most of the combat element to be withdrawn by Christmas but that plan does presuppose that a small combat element will remain for the security of the base, stores and the logistic personnel who will remain for packing and dispatching of stores and equipment. I might add that detailed planning is still proceeding so it would not be wise for me at this stage to go into the intricacies of this. In regard to the second part of the question relating to the officer cadet training unit at Scheyville, the present duration of the course for officer training of national servicemen is 6 months and this will continue. The Army will therefore have the benefit of national service officers for approximately 12 months after their graduation and of course their additional time on the reserve list. It is intended that by a method of cross posting an equitable discharge of servicemen will occur irrespective of where they are serving. 
May I say in conclusion, particularly because the question has been asked by the honourable member for Herbert who has such an interest in servicemen and who represents the Laverack Barracks in his electorate where at present 2 infantry battalions are stationed, that as the Minister for the Army.l should not resume my seat so shortly after the Prime Minister's statement without paying tribute to all those who have served and are still serving in South Vietnam in a particularly difficult war and commitment against an enemy which is everywhere and nowhere at the same time. This service has imposed extraordinary strains on our servicemen at a time when they have also been hindered by  ivisive elements both at home and abroad out despite their critics they have per.formed admirably. 
I will not involve myself in the arguments that the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  put forward tonight because we have heard them all before. They have been strung out. 1 have before me a speech that 1 made in 1968 from which I was going to quote and 1 see that on that day I followed the same honourable member and his speech was a similar sort of song, a constant regurgitation of cliches, catch-cries and slogans, but put forward with this spiritual soul-searching in which he casts aspersions on the Government and charges that we have not got the sympathy, the thinking or the feel of the pulse of the nation. We have heard it before. He has never understood. He has never tried to understand. The only accuracy that was contained in the speech of the honourable member for Wills was the very passing remark and reference to Cambodia, and I give him credit for what he said when he visited there last year. But he stuck his neck out, he got it chopped and he has been back in his burrow on the subject ever since. But I give him credit for having brought it forward to the nation last year and it is a pity that others have not followed him. 
I would not praise you for anything else but you deserve praise for that one utterance and that is all. I want to refer briefly to the announcement of the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  last night in which he stated that we as a Government would now be withdrawing all remaining combat forces from Vietnam. I will be very brief in what I say because, as I said at question time, I wish to pay tribute to those who have served and are still serving in Vietnam. We committed troops for a number of reasons, among them being, it should be recalled, to maintain our alliance and treaty obligations, because it was a strategically vital area, and also to permit the South Vietnamese to choose their own form of government and not to have terror and coercion imposed upon them from North Vietnam. A great deal has been achieved and the large number of soldiers who have participated there deserve, as I say, the reference that I made at question time this morning. Theirs has been an unenviable role but they have played it in the best tradition of the Australian Army. Apart from the Army's important and direct military assistance it as an institution has built up a great and substantial record of assistance in Vietnam in the field of military civic action and perhaps insufficient credit has been given to it for this. It too has reflected the increasing involvement of the South Vietnamese themselves. 
Vietnamisation has tended to become the sort of catchcry that is used for the justification of many activities, but in governmental action, in the capacity of the South Vietnamese forces to defend themselves and in the field of assistance and social welfare policies this Government in South Vietnam is beginning to reach out to the people to an extent that it never had before. We have encouraged this and in this field of civic action we encouraged a move by the Government of South Vietnam for the further decentralisation of self-development funds to village councils. This is the sort of thing we have been espousing in encouraging the South Vietnamese to obtain greater access and control over the area. In April this year in Phuoc Tuy alone the Province Development Committee was established with the role of meeting monthly to review development in the province and to consider priorities and proposals for inclusions in the province development plan. So the whole range of our civic action efforts, whether they be in the field of housing, medical and dental work or educational, agricultural or village developmental work, is a successful record of which the Australian Army can be proud. 
A military commitment buys time. I think I recall the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  using that expression once many years ago. He said that a military commitment essentially buys time. The Opposition was not even prepared to give this tiny country the time in which to develop, stabilise and reach out into the area that it now controls. It was a small country that had suffered wars for centuries and that had dictatorial groups in power. There were no such things as elections but they have now been given this opportunity. They have been given the opportunity to reach out and hold elections. Prior to the commitment there had been virtually no liaison between the Government and the people. But this tiny country has been given the chance to establish itself and we have made a contribution that allows it to have that chance, a chance that the Opposition would have denied, the chance that the Opposition would have tried to scuttle away from if it had had the opportunity and not assisted in the stabilisation of the area. 
I have paid credit to the Australian Army which is primarily what I wanted to do today, the day after the announcement by the Prime Minister. I now refer to the speech made by the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  yesterday and in particular to this statement: 
For Australia and our neighbours, (his changing pattern of relationships offers new challenges and new opportunities. It calls for policies that are sensitive, flexible and imaginative. At this time Australia is seeking to broaden its relations with the Soviet Union and to normalise its relations wilh the People's Republic of China. 
The Minister went on: 
We are giving particular attention to the development of our relations with Japan. We continue, of course, to attach the first importance to our relations with the United States. 
In other words, there is a need for us to call forth the new perceptions required to meet these contemporary issues and not to grandstand on an international stage in the manner of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam).  The Minister continued: 
We recognise that the establishment of full and normal relations with the People's Republic of China on mutually acceptable terms will bc a difficult and perhaps protracted exercise. 
But obviously the Leader of the Opposition believes that matters such as these can be changed overnight without regard to the ramifications of important international affairs and without regard to the important ramifications which must obviously occur in the field of international relations and within the world power struggle itself. 
The House will remember, of course, that the Prime Minister has praised the Nixon initiative and said that Australia in fact had been seeking a normalisation of relations with China since October last year. The Prime Minister was at pains to warn that the initiative itself did not automatically mean the end of conflict in the South East Asian region, for we have to keep matters in perspective, a concept and viewpoint that the members of the Opposition tend to forget. It must be admitted that some of the pundits have tended, together with members of the Opposition, to get carried away by the possible implications of both the Nixon visit and the possibilities of Australia's dialogue with 
China. Although it may be one of the most exciting and hopeful moves in world diplomacy for more than a decade it does not mean the whole world is going to change directly and immediately as a consequence. 
In his recent statement the Prime Minister said: 
We have no hostility to the great Chinese people whose history and culture have contributed so much to the achievements of mankind. 
I would thoroughly endorse this remark. I would now like to examine briefly the strategic importance of the Indian Ocean to the peoples of South East Asia and China. The Indian Ocean is immensely important to Australia. Because it touches 3 continents - Australia, Asia and Africa - it is the centrepiece for the underdeveloped world. The Indian Ocean, if you like, is the Afro-Asian Ocean. It is the ocean of economic under-development. It is the ocean of the new nations and therefore an area of compulsive change; the testing ground for the new political and economic patterns of the post imperial world. China has- 
I wrote it myself. I do not want a second-rate stooge who left the Department such as yourself to write my material. I was able to write it myself and 1 am proud of what I am putting forward. 
1 withdraw the reference to 'second-rate stooge'. Perhaps I should replace it with 'first-rate stooge'. 
 I move: 
Thai the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to increase existing pensions payable under the Superannuation Act in accordance with the decision announced in the Budget. Honourable members will be aware that the Superannuation Fund is a contributory pension scheme for the Commonwealth's own employees. The Fund, which is built up from the contributions of the employees,  menu  a part of each pension payment and the Commonwealth as the employer provides the balance from consolidated revenue. In the case of pensions paid to former employees of Commonwealth authorities outside the Budget each authority meets the employer's share from its own resources. The last adjustment of pensions payable under the Superannuation Act was made in 1967. In the intervening period there have been significant changes in the cost of living which in particular have affected adversely the purchasing power of those pensions in existence at the time of the last increase. 
It is proposed once again to determine the increases in pensions by what has become known as the notional salary method. Under this method of adjustment, the employer's share of each pension in existence at 30th June 1971 will be increased to the amount that it would have been had the pensioner retired on that dale, taking into account changes since his retirement in the salary he then received. As on previous occasions the proportionate reduction principle will apply to the increases received by those pensioners who, for one reason or another, retired on pensions that were less than their full entitlement. 
Provision has been made in the Bill to increase, as appropriate, a pension that became payable, on or before 30th June 1971, to a person who elected to have the preservation provisions of the Superannuation Act 1971 apply to him and who took his preservation benefit in the form of a deferred pension. As on previous occasions, a widow will receive the appropriate proportion, five-eighths or one-half, of the increase that her husband would have received had he been alive and in receipt of a pension on 30th June 1971. Certain orphans will also receive increased pensions. Nevertheless, the position of orphans and children will be given special consideration when the results of the quinquennial investigations of the Superannuation and Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Funds become available during the next 12 months. 
The increases resulting from adoption of the notional salary method will for many pensioners be substantial, particularly for those longer standing pensioners who, perhaps at some sacrifice, maintained fully their contributions to the Superannuation Fund until their retirement. The Govern ment now has serious reservations about the results produced by applying the notional salary method but decided to adopt it again as pensioners, and others on their behalf, had indicated on many occasions that they favoured this method and had every expectation that it would again apply. The method is however complex in its operation and close examination has shown that it generates anomalies and inequities between pensioners. The Government proposes, therefore, to examine simpler methods of adjustment which would produce more equitable results with a view to future application on a regular basis. I have arranged for circulation to honourable members of an explanatory memorandum on the effects of the Bill on pension entitlements. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Crean)  adjourned. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill which is a companion measure to the Superannuation (Pension Increases) Bill that I have just introduced, gives effect to the Government's proposals to provide increases in certain defence forces retirement pensions. 
As with pensions paid from the Superannuation Fund, pensions payable under the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Act were last increased in 1967 when the notional salary method of adjustment was used. The Bill provides for the same method of adjustment to be used on this occasion. The pensions of persons who retired on their full pension entitlement will therefore be increased by five-sevenths of the difference between the actual pension and the pension they would have received had retirement occurred on 30th June 1971. Those who retired on less than their full entitlement or who, after retirement, commuted part of their pension for a lump sum will receive an appropriate proportion of this increase. 
Deferred pensions that may have become payable before 30th June 1971 in accordance with the preservation provisions of the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Act 1971 will be adjusted as appropriate. Increases will also be payable to widows and to certain orphan pensioners. The Bill provides for increases in the pensions payable to 2 other small groups of pensioners. The first group comprises invalidity pensioners who, at the time of their retirement, were under 18 years of age and were not able to contribute to the DFRB Fund. The second group consists of pensioners who receive pension based on the entitlement for which they were contributing under the Superannuation Act in 1948, immediately prior to their being transferred to the DFRB Fund. Examples of increases provided by the Bill are set out in the explanatory memorandum to be circulated to honouraable members. 
As f have already said when introducing the Superannuation (Pension Increases) Bill, the Government will be examining simpler methods of adjustment which would produce more equitable results than the notional salary method of adjustment adopted in this Bill, with a view to future application on a regular basis. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Crean)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be  now  read a second time. The purpose of this Bill is to increase existing parliamentary and ministerial pensions payable under the Parliamentary Retiring Allowances Act in accordance with principles similar to those incorporated in the two Bills already introduced into the House providing for increases in existing superannuation and defence forces retirement benefits pensions. The increases provided by the Bill will result in the consolidated revenue component of existing pensions being raised to the level that prevailed for a member retiring on 30th June 1971. But, because the rates of pension applying to members and office-holders currently contributing to the parliamentary and ministerial retiring allowances funds have remained unchanged since 1st December 1968. The effect of the Bill is to increase only those pensions in relation to persons who qualified prior to that date. 
The Bill also increases by one-half the Prime Ministerial pensions payable to the widows of two former Prime Ministers who died before the commencement of the Parliamentary Retiring Allowances Act in 1948. These rates of pension have remained unchanged since 1959. Information regarding the new rates of pension provided by the Bill' is contained in the explanatory memorandum being distributed to honourable members. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Crean)  adjourned. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of citizens of the Commonwealth of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the sales tax on all forms of contraceptive devices is 27) per cent. (Sales Tax Exemptions and Classifications Act 1935-1967). Also that there is Customs Duty of up to 471/2 per cent on some contraceptive devices. 
And that this is an unfair imposition on the human rights of all people who wish to prevent unwanted pregnancies. And furthermore that this imposition discriminates particularly against people on low incomes. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the sales tax on all forms of contraceptive devices be removed, so as to bring these items into line with other necessities such as food, upon which there is no sales tax. Also that customs duty be removed, and that all contraceptive devices be placed on the National Health Scheme Pharmaceutical Benefits List. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
The Civil Affairs Unit will be withdrawn from Vietnam together wilh other units during the latter part of this year. That Unit has been carrying out precisely what its designation indicates, lt has had a great effect, associated with the task force in Phuoc Tuy province, in carrying out a degree of military civic action over the period since the first Civil Affairs Unit went there in 1967. It has always been the aim of military civic action to work itself out of a role, and this is precisely what has occurred with the increasing progression of the handing over of the programmes to the Vietnamese and the increasing degree of Vietnamisation. This has been handled satisfactorily. 
For example, earlier this year medical, dental and educational assistance was handed over to the Vietnamese at their request, as a consequence of their increasing confidence, ability and capacity to handle these matters. During the year, also, water reticulation schemes and the construction of schools and houses have continued. The overwhelming majority of projects handled by the Unit will be completed before the end of this year. In regard to any other matters relating to civic action or civil aid, as the Prime Minister mentioned in his statement last week, the $25m aid programme is a matter for government to government negotiation. 
If I may, I will answer this question as it comes within my Department. We had been continuing with 9 months as the period required for training up until the change that has been brought about by a reduction of the period of service announced by the Prime Minister last week. It is considered that the minimum period, which would include recruit training and some specialised corps training, could be 6 months, thereby leaving approximately 12 months for the Army to use those national servicemen who come within its command. As a consequence of the changes in training a programme will be worked out and determined over the months ahead. As to the second part of the question, the reason for national service training has been given before in this House. It is based on the best military advice available. It has been indicated to us that there is a need for a regular Army of approximately 40,000. With selective national service training we achieve this objective. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Records show that some 47,305 rounds of artillery, mortar and anti-tank ammunition were fired on the Holsworthy Range during the 12 months period 1st July 1970 to 30th June 1971. The break up of the particular type of ammunition fs as follows: 
A decision as to whether a statement ought to be made in this House does not rest unilaterally with me. This is a mater - particularly in regard to the Citizen Military Forces - for discussion by the Minister for Defence, the Leader of the House and me. I know that the honourable member is both interested in and concerned with the decline which has been apparent in the overall strength of the CMF over the last 3 years. The honourable member's interest and concern are shared by me. I have visited various commands to try to confirm the reasons given by those at Army headquarters who are associated with the CMF. Generally speaking there are twin problems of recruitment and retention. I will not go into them in detail because the honourable member's question is primarily related to whether a statement could be made in this House. I conclude by saying that when one talks about the CMF and one bears in mind what this Government has done for the CMF it must be remembered that it is the Citizen Military Forces and as such it requires assistance from those within the community, particularly employers. I have nothing further to say on this matter at this stage. 
Pursuant to section 147 of the Defence Act 1903-1970, I present the annual report on the Royal Military College of Australia for the period 1st February 1970 to 31st January 1971. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill seeks the approval of Parliament to amend the Western Australia (Southwest Region Water Supplies) Agreement Act of 1965, to raise the upper limit on the Commonwealth's financial assistance payable under the Act from $ 10.5m to $12m. Under the Act as it stands the Commonwealth is providing financial assistance up to $10.5m on a dollar for dollar basis with State expenditure to accelerate extensions to the comprehensive water supply scheme in the south-west of Western 
Australia. The Commonwealth assistance is in the form of loans repayable over 15 years. The purpose of the scheme is to provide water for stock and domestic purposes to new areas aggregating about 4 million acres. The Commonwealth contribution under the present Act is available over the period of 8 years from 1965-66 to 1972-73 inclusive. At 30th June 1971 $9,842,000 had been paid to the State. 
The revised cost of the works to which the Commonwealth is contributing is now estimated at approximately $24m, compared with the estimate of $21m made at the time the Commonwealth agreed to assist the scheme-. It is proposed that the Commonwealth should share with the State the increase in cost, thus preserving the dollar for dollar basis of assistance under the present Act. Accordingly, the maximum amount of Commonwealth assistance payable will be raised to $12m. The terms on which this additional assistance will be available are identical with those under the present Act. In view of the proposal contained in this Bill to provide an additional amount of up to SI. 5m over the remaining 2 years of currency of the Act, an amount of $1,950,000 has been provided in the Estimates in the current financial year. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Dr Patterson)  adjourned. 
SOCIAL SERVICES BILL (No. 2) 1971 Second Reading 
Debate resumed from 26 August (vide page 773), on motion by  Mr Wentworth: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
It is open to a wide variety of interpretations. I indicated on Tuesday last my interest and the Government's interest in this matter- I have discussed the matter with the Leader of the House and, in order to apprise honourable members not only of the vital role played by the Citizen Military Forces but also of the problems as we foresee them and suggested solutions to any of those problems, it is my intention to make a statement to the House later in this session. I hope that this will be not only the culmination of many months spent in reviewing the role of the CMF but also the commencement of widespread community support for the CMF. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to declare the rates of income tax for the current financial year 1971-72: Apart from the changes foreshadowed in the Budget Speech the Bill is to the same practical effect as the comparable legislation for the 1970-71 year. One change of a purely drafting nature is that, in contrast with past practice, the Bill covers both the ordinary rates of tax and the special rates that apply for the purposes of legislation enacted in 1964 to counter legal tax avoidance. The general rates of tax payable by individuals for the current financial year will, under the Bill, be the same as those imposed for the 1970-71 financial year. It is, however, proposed to increase the additional levy payable by individuals from  2i  per cent to 5 per cent of the tax calculated in accordance with the general rates. This change will be taken into account in tax instalment deductions to be made from salaries and wages on and after 1st October next as well as in provisional tax payable in respect of the current year of income. 
The upper limits of the age allowance shading-in' ranges are to be raised as a consequence of the increase in the levy on tax at general rates. Apart from this, no changes to the age allowance provisions are proposed. As in the past, the additional levy will not be added to tax calculated under 'shading-in' provisions of the age allowance. The age allowance provisions proposed for 1971-72 will give quite substantial taxation relief to aged persons. An aged person - that is, a resident of Australia aged 65 or more, if a. man, and 60 or more, if a woman - will pay no tax for the current year if his or her own taxable income does not exceed $1,326, and may pay reduced tax if the taxable income is more than $1,326 but not more than $2,286. The equivalent upper limit for 1970-71 was $2,273. A married aged person will pay no tax if the combined taxable income of husband and wife does not exceed $2,314 and there may be reductions in tax if the combined taxable income is more than $2,314 but not more than $4,155. The corresponding upper limit for 1970-71 was $4,102. 
It is proposed to increase the rates of tax payable by companies for the 1971-72 financial year by 5c in the $1 on the first $10,000 of taxable income. Friendly society dispensaries will continue to be taxed at a flat rate of 37.5 per cent on the whole of their taxable income. For other companies, the existing differential between the rate on the first $10,000 of taxable income and that on the remainder of the taxable income is 5 per cent in some cases and 10 per cent in others. The proposed charge will eliminate the rate differential for some companies and reduce it to 5 per cent in others- 
Apart from raising needed additional revenue, the increase in rates on the first $10,000 of taxable income is directed against the taxation encouragement there has been in the past for taxpayers to arrange their affairs so that, instead of income being derived by a sole company, it is derived by 2 or more companies each of which is taxed at a lower rate on the first $10,000 of its taxable income. Details of the proposed rates of company tax for the 1971-72 financial year- that is, the 1970-71 income year of companies - are set out in a table which, with the concurrence pf honourable members, I incorporate in Hansard. 

<graphic href="073131197109132_10_0.jpg"></graphic>

It will be seen from the table that public companies will be taxed at the rate of 47.5 per cent on the whole of their taxable income, other than income taxed at special rates. For private companies the rate on the first 10,000 of taxable income will be 37.5 per cent and the rate on the balance will remain at 42.5 per cent. The rate of additional tax payable by private companies which have not distributed sufficient profits as dividends wm remain at 50 per cent. 
In keeping with the increase in the rates of tax payable by mutual life assurance companies and ' other life assurance companies in respect of mutual income, and consistent with past practice, the rates of tax payable on the first $10,000 of the investment income of a superannuation fund that does not invest a sufficient proportion of its assets in public securities is being increased by 5c in the $1. This change will apply in respect of the 1971- 72 income year of funds affected. 
Technical features of the bill are dealt with in an explanatory memorandum that is to be circulated to honourable members. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Crean)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The principal amendments to the law proposed by this Bill will give effect to the personal income tax concessions announced in his Budget Speech by the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden).  By one proposal the upper limit of the amount that may be allowed as a deduction to a taxpayer for expenditure incurred by trim in the education of a fulltime student will be increased from $300 to $400 a year. By a second proposal the age below which a full-time student may qualify as a dependant from whom a taxpayer is entitled to the 'maintenance' deduction will be raised from 21 to 25 years. The deduct:on for expenses paid in respect of the education of a full-time student will also be available where the stu dent is less than 25 years of age instead of 21 as at present. Under a third proposal a concessional deduction will be available for legal expenses and fees incurred by taxpayers in adopting children. It it proposed that a taxpayer who adopts a child will be allowed an income tax deduction for amounts expended in connection with the adoption by way of solicitors' or barristers' fees, fees paid to a court granting the adoption order and fees paid to a Government department or authority or to an approved adoption agency through which the adoption is arranged. 
The Bill also proposes an amendment of the gift provisions of the income tax law to authorise the allowance of deductions for gifts of $2 and upwards to the Productivity Promotion Council of Australia. This Council has largely taken over the role of the Australian Productivity Council and the proposed change to the gift provisions recognises this. Gifts to the Australian Productivity Council will no longer be deductible. These amendments are all to apply to assessments based on income derived in 1971-72 and subsequent years. 
Other amendments proposed by the Bill will give effect to certain income tax exemptions provided for in the agreement between the Australian and United States governments relating to the establishment of the Joint Defence Space Communications Station at Woomera. Honourable members will recall that the present law contains exemptions provided for in earlier agreements relating to other joint projects of the 2 countries in Australia. The amendments proposed will extend to the Joint Defence Space Communications Station the exemptions now authorised in respect of those projects. Broadly speaking, the relevant provisions exempt from our income tax income derived in Australia by certain United States employees, contractors, sub-contractors and their employees from work done on the projects, so long as the income is subject to United States tax. 
Technical aspects of the Bill are given in a memorandum to be circulated to honourable members. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Crean)  adjourned. 
In a civil emergency the resources of the Army may be used to assist the civil authorities in their task of dealing with the emergency. I think it is also fair to point out that care must be exercised to ensure that the resources of the Army are not exploited, that they are used only when essential. Many emergencies are in fact predictable. The one indicated by the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby),  which concerns grasshopper plagues, probably falls into that category. On other occasions there are droughts, and so on. It should be normal in these cases for the State authorities to seek assistance through the normal channels. I do not want to sound as though I want to bog down with red tape, but the honourable member is dealing with Government instrumentalities and calling for their assistance. Therefore, I think he would agree that what he has done tonight is to alert me and the members of this House to the problem, as he sees it. 
I am sure that the granting of a request for Army assistance would, in normal cases, be one of the last measures adopted, but it may well be, as the honourable member says, that we are coming to that situation. If we are, this would be what could be described only as a form of State civil emergency. 1 do not want that to sound too high, but this is the normal descriptive term that is used on important occasions such as this. As honourable members will be aware, there are procedures, to which I have just referred, laid down for requests of this nature to be channelled through the State authorities on to the Army. I have taken note of what the honourable member has said. I do not want to surround it with red tape. I know that he wanted to point out and to alert me to this position. He in turn knows that the request could be made through these normal channels. The Army is prepared to act, as I say, generally as a matter of last resort and provided it is within its facilities and capabilities to assist. Having just heard the honourable member's speech I am not in a position to assess whether this is so in this situation at this juncture. However, when the request comes through from the responsible authority, I will examine it as thoroughly as possible. 
 Mr Speaker,  may I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation? 
 in reply -  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I do not wish to speak at any great length. I will convey to the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  the viewpoints that have been expressed by the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  who led for the Opposition and by the various speakers from both sides of the House in this debate, who have all spoken in support of the  3  Bills now being debated. 
May I refer quickly to a couple of points that I have noted here and on which I think comments ought to be made? Perhaps it could be said that the Treasurer or myself in indicating the reasons why these Bills have been introduced could have presented points of view over and above those reasons as to the concern that was felt about the notional salary method. However, it was indicated that we wished to inquire further into this matter. I would imagine that the reason why the Treasurer has not expressed himself further on this matter is that he does not wish to pre-empt the inquiry in any way by setting out certain lines which could be followed and then finding that there may be other ones or that in fact what he has suggested is not the approach to be followed. After all, the Treasurer does wish the matter to be investigated fully. I am certain that he would not wish to pre-empt this investigation in any way. 
I turn, secondly, to a point raised by the honourable member for Perth  (Mr Berinson)  in regard to Government instrumentalities. He will be aware that employees in those instrumentalities are not covered by the Act in question but are covered by Acts dealing specifically with those instrumentalities. The honourable member is correct in saying that the consent of the Treasurer is required for increases to apply to people in those categories. I will ensure that his views are conveyed to the Treasurer who, I know, has been dealing with the matter. It would be proper for him, rather than for me, to reply to the honourable member. 
Finally, I mention the point raised by the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Jess).  The honourable member queries the reason why the expenditure in respect of the Defence Forces Retirement Benefits Act was classified as part of the Defence vote. As the honourable member will appreciate, notwithstanding my undoubted loyalty to and support of the Treasurer, the primacy of my position is Minister for the Army. It would be wrong for me to express any intention, even on behalf of the Treasurer - he is not in the House at the moment so I cannot do even that - because it might place me in the position of having a conflict of interests. I have noted the views of the various speakers and I give my undertaking to convey them to the Treasurer. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from the Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
 Mr Deputy Speaker,  may I have the indugence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation? Before the debate on this Bill is resumed I would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill, the PayRoll Tax (Territories) Assessment Bill 1971 and the Pay-Roll Tax (Territories) Bill 1971 as they are associated measures. Separate questions may, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the close of the debate. I suggest therefore,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you permit the subject matter of the 3 Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
 in reply - It is not my intention to range far and wide, as other honourable members have done, or to attempt to reply in detail to the philosophical viewpoints which were expressed about assisting the States. It is refreshing to hear, on occasions, the Opposition indicate its preparedness to assist the States. I say no more in regard to that matter. Referring now to the assumption by the honourable member for Kingston  (Dr Gun)  that no honourable member on the Government side was prepared to discuss this issue, it should be pointed out that both the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  and the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden),  over and above the Treasurer's second reading speech, have discussed the reasons for accepting the fact that the States needed access to a new area of growth tax. Consequently, the Commonwealth offered - and of course the States accepted - the transfer of payroll tax as a useful addition to State resources for revenue raising purposes. 
The honourble member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  made the point that he believed that the Territories' rate of payroll tax of 21 per cent could be increased. I have absolutely no authority to say other than that the rate of 21 per cent was declared for the Territories despite the decision of the States to increase the rate to 31 per cent. In other words, it was subsequent to the States' announced decision, and it would not be right to assume that the Commonwealth should automatically follow the States. These Bills in fact do no more than honour an agreement with the States to provide them with a new area of growth tax in order to assist them in financing their services. The Treasurer, in his second reading speech, pointed out that the transfer of payroll tax to the States would be accompanied by a reduction in the financial assistance grants. As indicated by the Prime Minister also, following the Premiers Conference, the grants are to be reduced by something less than the amounts which the States would have received from payroll tax at the rate of 2 per cent. 
The decision to increase the rate from 2 per cent to 3 per cent was entirely one for the States themselves. The Commonwealth did not impose any conditions in this regard. The States thus have the right to declare such rate as they choose. They have exercised that right and, of course, they accept responsibility for it. 
Question put: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The answer to the honour able member's question is as follows: 
I think the only suitable answer to this question is that the honourable member is quoting from one release in a series over the entire annual period in which awards are made. On other occasions awards will be made when the ratio of other ranks to officers will be completely different from that mentioned by the honourable member. Other than that I have nothing to say regarding the implications contained in the question. 
Pursuant to section 22 of the Gold-Mining Industry Assistance Act 1954- 1970 I present the seventeenth annual statement concerning the operation of the Act and the payment of subsidy during the year ended 30th June 1971. 
Pursuant to section 10 of the Science and Industry Endowment Act 1926-1949 I present the report of the 
Auditor-General on the accounts of the Science and Industry Endowment Fund for the year ended 30th June 1971. 
Pursuant to section 34 of the Services Trust Funds Act 1947-1950 I present the twenty-third annual report of the trustees of the Services Canteens Trust Fund for the year ended 31st December 1970, together with the report of the Auditor-General on the books and accounts of the Fund as required by section 35 of the Act. 
The confused motives and the hypocricies of the Opposition in raising this matter of public importance today are exposed by a phrase in the speech of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard).  He said that the length of the withdrawal had given the Communists all the intelligence they needed to know about the intentions of our Task Force. He accused the Government of 'telegraphing punches to the enemy long before the fight'. The honourable member for St George  (Mr Morrison)  also made similar charges. But over the last fortnight the Australian Labor Party has been asking me, the Army, the Minister for Defence  (Mr Fairbairn)  and, indeed the Government as a whole, to disclose not only the dates of the return of 3 and 4 Battalions but also the disposition of our own forces, enemy forces, movements into the province and all the information that would jeopardise the security of our Task Force in South Vietnam. Yet the very topic we are discussing is 'the security of the Task Force'. The Opposition simply cannot have it both ways. It cannot demand information and also talk of the need for proper and adequate security. 
This phased withdrawal is not based on the notions of some 'public servants' - an expression used by the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for St George. It is based on proper planning and the best military advice available. This is not a rout; it is a phased withdrawal on the basis of our best military advisers' approach to this matter. Today we are having, to use the words of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition: 'an exercise to seek an explanation of clarification of the disposition of forces in Vietnam'. What sort of tactics are these? What sort of approach is this? As ( said, it is, in itself, an attack on the security of the Task Force if the Government is to be charged with the responsibility of giving the details requested by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition in his speech. The main basis of the planning of this withdrawal is, in fact, the security of the force and the Government will not, in any way, be moved by the remarks of members of the Opposition to give the sort of telegraphing of which the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition has spoken. 
We have ensured in our planning to the best of our ability that the Task Force is properly balanced and will retain adequate fire support. I will say no more on this subject other than that it is not enough to talk about 4 Battalion being left at Nui Dat on its own. The Opposition should bear in mind what I have said. The Government has done its best to plan a properly balanced and adequate fire support for this battalion. 
Only a modicum of military knowledge should convince the honourable member that the approach that I am making is infinitely preferable to the approach which he made in his address. However, I am not concerned whether that, in itself, is not sufficient for the honourable member because he is seeking a great deal more information than any Minister, whether he be the Minister for the Army or the Minister for Defence, can possibly provide in a situation such as presently exists. Members of the Opposition have spoken of the security of our Task Force and have suggested that the phased withdrawal prejudices security. This is a complete fabrication. Statements and questions in this House and elsewhere over the last few days by both the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  and the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition display either their alarming ignorance of military matters or their cynical determination to make political capital, irrespective of the military consequences or considerations that will flow from those statements. Does the Opposition seriously believe that the timings of withdrawals and all the various aspects associated with them should be available and made public? Does it believe that the dispositions of forces and the details of areas of responsibility between our Task Force and the Vietnamese forces should become public knowledge at this delicate stage? 
I have used the phrase already, but I repeat that this is the most difficult part of our commitment to Vietnam and I am not prepared to lay down a schedule of times or dispositions of forces merely for the satisfaction of members of the Opposition who have fundamentally opposed Australia's commitment to Vietnam since the time Australia first committed troops there. Let honourable members read into this the implications of the Opposition's request for the announcement of withdrawal dates. In the circumstanses that the Opposition is trying to create, the enemy would not need to use intelligence sources to ascertain information vital to our operations or, indeed, to its own. The enemy would merely have to read Hansard if that were available to it. The implication is that the Task Force should sit back at Nui Dat and wait for an attack - sit behind a wire and wait for the enemy to come close, set up his mortars and fire. As I said before, any person with even a miniscule knowledge of Army operations would know that this would be to invite disaster and heavy casualties. The task now being undertaken by the Australian forces is no small one. Many complex factors must be taken into account, including the enemy, the resources available to move the force and the vast quantity of stores - however the honourable member for St George might like to term them - which must be cleaned and properly prepared for shipment to Australia. This is not some bureaucratic nonsense. We cannot import disease. The equipment which is to be returned must be properly quarantined and sprayed. It is not just to be left behind. This matter may not be of any import to the Opposition but those who represent the rural areas will realise its importance. 
No, it is not a fundamental matter; it is one of the matters. It is most important and is not to be dismissed in the way that the honourable member has done in terms of bureaucratic nonsense and Public Service planning. All these and other matters have been carefully considered - particularly the security of our forces - and this has resulted in a thoroughly workmanlike plan which anticipates that the bulk of our troops in Vietnam will be home by the end of the year. The Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  stated at the time of his announcement that the enemy was still present and that some setbacks might occur. This is axiomatic in a situation such as the conflict in which we have been engaged. To say, once the announcement of the withdrawal was made, that the Task Force is not being withdrawn quickly and decisively is to deny the evident facts of the matter. The smooth execution of the withdrawal plan so far is particularly noteworthy. It must not be forgotten that to date we still retain a responsibility towards the Vietnamese in the Phuoc Tuy province and this has been mentioned already by the Minister for Defence. 
The recent operation was not 'needless or pointless' as the Opposition has stated but was necessary and proper to ensure the security of the province and the continuance of the Army's duty to carry out its allotted task. The Army cannot protect this area, or, indeed, the populace without patrols. To use the words of a journalist in Melbourne: 'It is talking through your hat to suggest that you can protect yourself without patrols going out to determine whether the enemy is moving in in any form or shape at all'. This is not done. The Opposition knows as well as I do that such patrols are absolutely essential to the security of our own forces. It has never been claimed - I mentioned the statement of the Prime Minister - that Phuoc Tuy province was 'already secure'. It has been evident that the degree of security has fluctuated over the years. The definition of the term 'secure' has always been a moot point and the Government has never denied that. The enemy can still, in selected areas of Vietnam, by gradually building up gain some temporary success and for that reason alone it is necessary to carry out patrols beyond the base camp. The with drawal is not 'a piecemeal reduction* as was suggested by the previous  speaker.  It has been planned to ensure a proper operational and administrative balance throughout. For example, the decision to withdraw the tanks last week, which was mentioned by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, was taken after full consideration of all the factors involved, including the fact that additional fire support vehicles which are equipped with 76 millimetre guns had been added to the force. 
Yes, heavyweight security. It is a mobile cavalry and if the honourable member had any access to military planning he would know that the heaviest material is moved in the earliest stages of withdrawal, provided that, as in this instance, there is some mobile cavalry to support the troops. Recognise these factors; recognise the fundamentals involved. Do not just play with semantics. If you do not understand the factors involved do not engage in semantics. There has been so far no diminution either of air or artillery fire support available to the Task Force. Despite the suggestion by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition last week, Royal Australian Air Force bombers have not been in direct support of the Task Force at any time, certainly not in the last few years and their withdrawal is quite irrelevant to the capability of the Task Force itself. I have no reason whatever to doubt that the professional competence which has characterised the operations of the Task Force will be equally in evidence in this difficult phase of withdrawal. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The number of married personnel in the Puckapunyal-Seymour area at 30th June 1971 was 913. 
The total number of married quarters available in the area is 818. 
Applications for married quarters in the Puckapunyal-Seymour area: 
Lodged in 1970-71-540 
Still outstanding at 30th June 1971-23. 
(a) There were 11 married members renting private furnished accommodation in the PuckapunyalSeymour area at 30th June 1971. (b) It is not possible to provide a figure for members buying private accommodation although there would only be a few members, if any, in this category. 
Consideration has previously been given to matters of this nature. I cannot inform the Leader of the Opposition as to what policy is adopted throughout Australia, particularly in the more remote areas such as Townsville. 
I am well aware that it is a city, and it is primarily the thriving city that it is because of the injection of capital particularly from those associated with the Army who are stationed there. Townsville owes a great deal to the Army. Over the years, the area has become greener and greener and more pleasant to live in. It is a very pleasant environment now. The Army is interested to ensure that all its depots, bases and facilities are as attractive as possible, not only to the servicemen, but also to those who live in surrounding areas. The honourable member for Reid will be aware that I am endeavouring to get him some lemon-scented gums for his electorate, and that it appears this will be possible. I may add, just to complete the answer, that I am giving him these lemon-scented gums at his specific request for his electorate. I cannot give any more detailed and updated information on this matter. As the Leader of the Opposition said, it is not the sort of thing that occupies my mind daily, but I will look into it to see what can be done. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
On 14th September 1971 three Bills were introduced to give effect to the decision to transfer payroll tax to the States. The purpose of this Bill is to enable Commonwealth authorities that have in the past been subject to Commonwealth payroll tax to be made liable for State payroll tax. It is considered that these authorities should not be relieved of their liability to payroll tax by virtue of the fact that this tax is being transferred from the Commonwealth to the States. The Bill does not itself make the authorities to which it applies liable to pay State payroll tax. It merely removes the barrier to payment of State payroll tax that exists in the constituting legislation of a number of Commonwealh authorities. Some 16 Commonwealth authorities will be affected by the Bill. There is, however, a number of other Commonwealth authorities which will also be liable to State payroll tax, but in respect of which no Commonwealth legislation is necessary because their constituting legislation contains no barrier to the imposition of the tax by the States. A list of Commonwealth authorities in both these categories is attached to copies of the speech I am making now, and with the concurrence of honourable members will be incorporated in Hansard. 
COMMONWEALTH AUTHORITIES WHICH HAVE BEEN SUBJECT TO COMMONWEALTH PAYROLL TAX AND WHICH WILL BE LIABLE TO STATE PAYROLL TAX 
Authorities to Which the Pay-roll Tax (State Taxation of Commonwealth Authorities) Bill Applies: 
Australian Canned Fruits Board 
Australian Coastal Shipping Commission 
Australian Dried Fruits Control Board 
Australian Honey Board 
Australian Meat Board 
Australian Tobacco Board 
Australian Wool Board 
Australian Wool Commission 
Commonwealth Banking Corporation 
Commonwealth Serum Laboratories Commission 
Exports Payments Insurance Corporation 
Housing Loans Insurance Corporation 
Reserve Bank of Australia 
Snowy Mountains Hydro-Electric Authority ' 
Incorporating the three member banks: 
Commonwealth Development Bank of Australia; 
Commonwealth Savings Bank of Australia; and 
Commonwealth Trading Bank of Australia 
Authorities to Which the Pay-roll Tax (State Taxation of Commonwealth Authorities) Bill 1971 does not apply: 
Australian Apple and Pear Board 
Australian Capital Territory Electricity Authority 
Australian Capital Territory Totalisator Agency Board 
Australian Dairy Produce Board 
Australian Egg Board 
Australian Industry Development Corporation 
Australian National Airlines Commission 
Australian National University 
Australian Servicves Canteens Organisation 
Australian Wheat Board 
Australian Wine Board 
Canberra College of Advanced Education 
Canberra Theatre Trust 
Overseas Telecommunications Commission 
Snowy Mountains Engineering Corporation 
Trustees of the Services Canteens Trust Fund (Note: Some of the above authorities operate in the Australian Capital Territory only, and would not in fact pay State payroll tax unless they were also registered as employers under State payroll tax legislation). 
It is proposed that the Bill come into operation on the date of commencement of the Pay-Roll Tax (Termination of Commonwealth Tax) Act 1971. As the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  explained when introducing the latter Bill, subject to the Commonwealth and necessary State legislation being enacted in time, the effective commencing date will be 1st September 1971.I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Crean)  adjourned. 
-I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The main purposes of this Bill are to authorise the payment of interest-free capital grants totalling $209.8m to the States to meet part of their 1971-72 works programmes, and to authorise the borrowing of funds up to that amount to assist in the financing of these grants. The Bill also authorises the payment, at the same annual rate as for 1971-72, of similar grants in the first 6 months of 1972-73 pending the passage of comparable legislation in that year. At the June 1970 Premiers Conference the Commonwealth agreed to provide greatly increased funds to the States under new revenue assistance arrangements to apply over the 5 years 1970-71 to 1974-75. 
This increased assistance took 3 forms - additional financial assistance grants, new grants to meet debt charges on a portion of existing State debt, and the replacement of part of the loan funds received by the States from their annual Loan Council borrowing programmes for works and housing by interest-free capital grants. This Bill is concerned with the third of these forms of assistance. At the June 1970 Premiers Conference it was agreed that the amount of the interest-free capital grant to be provided by the Commonwealth would begin at $200m in 1970-71 and would increase in future years in proportion to the total of the States' works and housing programmes approved by the Loan Council in those years (excluding any special allocations to individual States in particular years that do not form a part of the basic programmes). 
At its meeting in June 1971 the Loan Council decided on a total programme for State works and housing of $860m. In accordance with the arrangements agreed in June 1970. $209. 8m of this is to be paid in the form of interest-free grants and the remaining $650.2m will constitute that part of the programme for the States to be met from borrowings. The capital grant is to be distributed between the States in the same proportion as the total works and housing programmes. I should like here to outline to the House, in general terms, the attitude taken by the Commonwealth in relation to the States' Loan Council programmes for 1971-72. We took the view that, in the light of economic conditions then prevailing, the Commonwealth should support borrowing programmes for the States and their authorities such that, when these programmes were added to the estimated level of specific purpose capital payments being made by the Commonwealth in 1971-72, the total funds from these sources in 1971-72 would represent an increase over those in 1970-71 not greatly in excess of 6 per cent. The programmes decided on by the Loan Council were broadly consistent with this objective. With the concurrence of the House, I shall have incorporated in Hansard a table which compares the capital funds estimated to be available to the States and their authorities from these sources in 1971-72 with those in 1970-71. 

<graphic href="074131197109303_18_0.jpg"></graphic>

Honourable members will note that specific purpose capital payments to the States, excluding natural disaster relief payments, are estimated to increase by 12.7 per cent in 1971-72, compared with an increase of 7.8 per cent in 1970-71. This large increase is in spite of the fact that, as indicated in the Treasurer's Budget Speech, the Government has, with relatively minor exceptions, avoided entering into any significant new commitments this year involving additional specific purpose capital payments to the States in 1971-72. The decision to limit these payments was in line with the general budgetary aim to restrict Commonwealth expenditures as far as possible. But, more particularly, it was recognised that any increased capital funds made available to the States for specific purposes would have reduced the Commonwealth's ability to support the States' works and housing programmes, including the interest-free capital grant. The funds which the States obtain from these programmes, unlike those deriving from the specific purpose payments, can of course be spent by the States as they themselves determine. 
We believe that the estimated increase in total capital funds from these sources in 197 1-72 of 6.6 per cent, while lower than the States would have wished, is reasonable, particularly when regard is had to the strong probability that, partly as a result of the additional revenue assistance being provided by the Commonwealth and addi tional State revenues made possible by the transfer to the States of payroll tax, the States' revenue budgets will rquire considerably less support from their loan funds in 1971-72 than they did in 1970-71. In other words, it can reasonably be expected that the scope for State capital expenditures to increase will be appreciably greater than the increse in funds available from these sources might suggest. It must also be borne in mind that about one-third of the capital outlays of the States and their local and semi-government authorities are financed from sources other than Loan Council borrowing programmes and payments from the Commonwealth. 
I turn now to the specific provisions of the Bill. Honourable members will note that, besides authorising the payment of grants totalling $209. 8m in 1971-72, the Bill authorises the Treasurer to make advances in the first 6 months of 1972-73 up to a maximum of half the grants payable to each State in the current financial year. The purpose of this -provision is to enable advances to be made to the States in 1972-73 pending the passage of comparable legislation in that year. The Commonwealth's undertaking to pay portion of the States' works and housing programmes to them as grants has continuing effect and it seems reasonable to ensure that advances can be made to the States on a regular basis from the beginning of 1972-73. A similar provision wasincluded in the equivalent legislation last year. Clauses 4 and 5 of the Bill authorise the Treasurer, within 1971-72, to borrow funds, up to the total amount of the grants in 1971-72, for the purpose of financing these grants. It is the Government's intention to apply the proceeds of any public borrowings made overseas in 1971-72 (other than those raised to finance purchases of civil aircraft) to this purpose. 
The level of overseas borrowings which might be made during the period up till 31st December 1972 obviously cannot be predicted. However, it seems wellnigh certain that it will fall short, and probably far short, of the total grants payable to the States under this Act. To the extent that the grants cannot be met from the proceeds of such loan raisings, therefore, they will be met from the Consolidated Revenue Fund, and clause 6 of the Bill provides accordingly. The purpose and effect of these grants is not, of course, to add to the capita] funds available to the States. Rather, by substituting grants for what would otherwise be loan funds the effect is to relieve the States of interest and sinking fund charges which they would otherwise have had to meet from their revenue budgets and thus to free funds for expenditure in other directions. For example, the effect of the $200m capital grant paid to the States in 1970-71 was to reduce the amount of the special loan which the Commonwealth had to raise from its own resources on 30th June 1971 to meet the shortfall between the States approved Loan Council borrowing programmes in 1970-71 and net loan raisings from the public in that year. 
Since interest and sinking fund charges on the (thereby reduced) special loan did not become payable until 1971-72, there were no savings in debt charges to the States in 1970-71. The savings in 1971-72 as a result of the capital grants paid in 1970-71 will total nearly $ 12.8m. The approximate amounts by which each State will benefit are as follows: 
Similar savings will, of course, accrue to the States in 1972-73 as a result of the grants proposed under this Bill to be paid to the States in 1971-72. Whether there will be any further savings in 1971-72 as a result of the capital grants being paid this year and, if so, how large they might be, depends on the amount and timing of public loan raisings during the year and cannot be predicted in advance. As for subsequent years, the savings to the States will depend on a number of further factors at present unknown, including the level of the borrowing programmes to be approved by the loan Council (which will in turn determine the future level of the interest-free capital grants) and the level of interest rates prevailing in those years which would otherwise have been payable by the States on the amounts in question. However, on the arbitrary assumption that interest rates were to continue at their present levels, and that the borrowing programmes were to increase at much the same rate as in recent years, it is estimated that the savings to the States will have totalled about $135m by the end of 1974-75. However uncertain such calculations must necessarily be at this stage, I am sure that honourable members will agree that that will constitute a very significant contribution indeed to the States' revenue budgets within that period. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Crean)  adjourned. 
I regret to say that I could not hear all parts of the honourable member's question, but I think the essential part of it was that he wanted to be assured that the majority of troops will be  home in time for Christmas. 
Opposition members - All troops: 
Honourable members opposite have already been advised by the Prime Minister in his statement that most of the combat elements will be home by Christmas. They have subsequently, been advised by myself and by the Minister for Defence of the forces that will be remaining and what they will be undertaking during the few months for which they remain in Vietnam after Christmas. Honourable members opposite also have been advised in relation to those troops whom we are endeavouring to have home by Christmas. We mean by that that we hope to have them embarked and home with their families by that time. The methods which we will need to use to do this will be covered by the normal financial arrangements as agreed to by other departments. But honourable members opposite can be assured that we will do all in our power to have those who arrive in Australia before 25th December with their families on that date. 
by leave - I wish to inform the House of certain action that the Government has taken in regard to Australia's participation in the third replenishment of the resources of the International Development Association, or IDA as it . is commonly called. Honourable members will recall that in May of this year Parliament approved legislation authorising Australia to contribute a further sum equivalent to $US48m to IDA over a period of 3 years commencing in 1971-72, in accordance with the agreement previously reached between various countries regarding the third replenishment of the resources of that institution. This agreement, however, is subject to the explicit condition that it will not enter into effect unless and until at least 12 developed member countries with subscriptions and contributions totalling not less than SUS 1,900m have formally notified IDA that they have taken all the steps necessary to enable them to make the payments designated for them. In practice, this means thai the agreement cannot become effective unless and until it is ratified by the United States. lt was hoped that this condition would be satisfied by 1st July, by which time IDA had exhausted all its existing commitment authority. The position at that date, however, was that 10 developed member countries, including Australia, with subscriptions and contributions totalling SUS 1, 008m had given the requisite formal notifications to IDA. Although the United States Administration had commenced proceedings to have Congress pass the necessary legislation to authorise payment of the subscription and contribution totalling $US960m for that country, action on this matter had not then been completed and indeed still remains outstanding. 
This left IDA in the position where it had to curtail its previous rate of lending substantially, since there was no guarantee that funds would be made available to it when needed to finance new projects approved after 1st July. A similar situation occurred 3 years ago when the second exercise to replenish IDA's resources was held up for 12 months due to a delay by the United States Congress in ratifying the relevant agreement. Then, IDA was able to carry on only because a number of countries, including Australia, agreed to make voluntary contributions to it in advance of the second replenishment formally entering into effect. 
In view of the critical importance of IDA to the many developing countries with pressing external debt servicing problems and a limited capacity to service additional borrowings overseas on commercial terms, the  President  of IDA,  Mr McNamara,  appealed to individual developed member countries recently to make voluntary contributions to IDA in advance of the third replenishment formally entering into effect. That IDA has been able to continue its lending activities since July has been largely due to the fact that a number of countries, including Canada, Denmark, Finland, Norway, Sweden, the United Kingdom, Japan and Yugoslavia, have responded to this request and agreed to make such voluntary contributions to IDA. 
As. . has been previously stated in this House, Australia continues to hold IDA in high regard as an effective and efficient aid institution. It is by far the largest agency lending on concessional terms in the world today. It has been of particular benefit to developing countries in our own part of the world. In the past, about three-quarters of all IDA lending has gone to countries in the Asian region, including in particular India, Pakistan and Indonesia. There is no need for me to emphasise the importance of these countries to Australia, or our interests in helping them to develop their economies and raise the living standards of their populations, in future. It is also likely that Papua New Guinea will benefit from the third replenishment of IDA's resources. So far, Papua New Guinea has received loans and credits totalling $US45m from the World Bank group. Further proposals to borrow from these institutions on the Territory's behalf are under consideration at the present time. 
With these considerations in mind, line Government decided that Australia should join the other countries I have mentioned in making a voluntary contribution to IDA equivalent to the first annual instalment - $US16m - of our commitment under the third replenishment exercise, subject to the explicit understanding that this contribution would be duly credited against Australia's obligations under the relevant agreement when it enters into effect. I might add that because of the usual lag between commitments and disbursements of funds by IDA, this action is not expected to add to the burdens on the Commonwealth Budget in the current financial year. IDA is not short of funds at the present time. What it is seeking is authority to enter into additional commitments which will require outlays in the future. 
The Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  announced the Government's decision on this matter during his address to the annual meeting of the Boards of Governors of the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank - and its 2 affiliates, IDA and the International Finance Corporation - in Washington on 29th September. 
The International Development Association (Further Payment) Act 1971 which was passed in May provides sufficient legislative authority for Australia to make such a voluntary contribution to IDA without further recourse to Parliament. However, I thought it only right and proper to inform honourable members of the Government's decision and to give some account of the considerations which lay behind it. I present the following paper: 
Voluntary Contribution to IDA by AustraliaMinisterial Statement, 6th October 1971. 
Motion (by  Mr Swartz)  proposed: 
That the House take note of the paper. 
I have to admit that the only Press report I have seen on this matter was contained in a Sunday journal last Sunday week and this report was erroneous almost in its entirety. It was based on the fact that there was being conducted monthly a company from Australian and New Zealand units within the ANZUK component at Singapore on rotation. It has been the intention as has been stated by me and the Prime Minister, that companies would rotate solely for training purposes around the vicinity of Butterworth and be stationed there, and that each company in turn would be doing this. There has been no engagement in the manner mentioned by the honourable member. There have been no woundings of Australian servicemen because they have not been engaged in this sort of activity. So I can say that, to the extent that this matter was discussed by that particular Press report, the report was erroneous. 
The matter of public relations in regard to forces stationed at Butterworth comes under the control of the Minister for Air and he has, of course, a public relations officer there who in that particular report was quoted as giving information that there was a jungle warfare centre and that other countries were committed there. So, in a nutshell, the Australian activities in the area are confined solely to the rotation of companies. This is part of our agreement under the 5-power arrangement with our ANZUK forces there and it is for training purposes. Our forces have not been engaged in any way in the activities mentioned by the honourable member and the only article I have seen reported falsely on this matter. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill seeks the approval of Parliament to a borrowing by the Commonwealth of $US11,310,400 ($A10.1m) from the Export-Import Bank of the United States and the Boeing Company, and to an appropriation of the Loan Fund of an amount not exceeding $A1 3,1 50,000 to assist Qantas Airways Limited in financing the purchase of not more than 2 Boeing 747 jet aircraft and related equipment, spare parts and services. The Bill also contains a minor amendment to the Loan (Qantas Airways Limited) Act 1968. 
The loan agreement with the ExportImport Bank and Boeing appears as the First Schedule to the Bill. The proceeds of this loan will assist Qantas in financing the purchase of a fifth Boeing 747 aircraft and related equipment, spare parts and services estimated to cost in all $US29.3m (SA25.7m). Honourable members will recall that the Commonwealth has arranged loans totalling $US113m (SA99.Im) to assist Qantas in financing the purchase of its first 4 Boeing 747 aircraft. These loans were approved by the Loan (Qantas Airways Limited) Act 1968 and the Loans (Qantas Airways Limited) Act 1971. 
The general arrangements for this borrowing from the Export-Import Bank and Boeing are similar to those approved by Parliament for other loans for Qantas and Trans-Australia Airlines in recent years. The Commonwealth will be the borrower in the first instance, and the full proceeds of the loan will be made available to Qantas on terms and conditions to be determined by the Treasurer pursuant to clause 7 of the Bill. These terms and conditions will be the same as those under which the Commonwealth itself borrows the money. As the airline will be required to meet all charges under the loan agreement, the Commonwealth will, as usual, assume the function of an intermediary in these arrangements. 
Drawings on the loan will commence as soon as the legislation has been enacted and the bulk of the funds will be drawn in September 1972, when the aircraft is due for delivery. In accordance with normal lending practice in the United States, a commitment fee of one-half of one per cent per annum is to be paid on the undrawn amount of the Export-Import Bank loan. The Export-Import Bank loan is to be repaid in 7 semi-annual instalments commencing 15th November 1979. The Boeing loan is repayable in 4 semiannual instalments commencing 15th May 1978. Interest on the Export-Import Bank loan will be at 6 per cent. Interest on the major part of the Boeing loan will be at 6i per cent with the balance at 6 per cent. The terms and conditions of the loan have been approved by the Australian Loan Council. 
It will be noted by honourable members that the agreement with the Export-Import 
Bank and Boeing does not contain a provision headed 'Special Representations, Warranties and Covenants'. Such a provision appeared in the agreement with the Export-Import Bank shown as the First Schedule to the Loans (Qantas Airways Limited) Act 1971. Following criticism of this provision by honourable members representations were made, successfully, to the Export-Import Bank for its deletion. However, the Export-Import Bank has asked for a letter from Qantas stating that it is not Qantas' intention to use the aircraft principally in a Communist country (as defined in section 620(f) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, as amended). The terms of this letter are at present being negotiated with the Bank. I expect to be able to table the text of this letter when the Bill is debated. The honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  will be happy with that arrangement. 
I said that 1 expect to be able to table it when the Bill is debated. The honourable member knows that the Government is not the sole party in this. As I have already mentioned, the other main prupose of this Bill is to appropriate loan fund by an amount not exceeding SA 13,150,000 to assist Qantas in financing the purchase of a fifth and sixth Boeing 747 aircraft and related equipment. This amount represents the Australian currency proceeds of a recent public bond issue by the Commonwealth in Europe of 15 million European units of account (equivalent to $US15m). 
As this loan was the subject of Press statements by the Treasurer dated 20th July 1971 and 5th August 1971, I do not propose to dwell on the mechanics of this issue, except to say that it offers the borrower a considerable degree of protection against currency revaluations. Briefly, the loan carries an interest rate of 8 per cent and was issued at 99) per cent, with repayment over 15 years. The repayment provisions give an average life of approximately  10i  years. The terms and conditions of the loan were approved by the Australian Loan Council. The terms and conditions on which the Commonwealth will lend the proceeds of this loan to Qantas provide that Qantas will pay to the Commonwealth sufficient funds to enable the Commonwealth to meet, on the due dates, interest, principal and other payments required under the Loan Agreement The loan will therefore involve no net charge on the resources of the Commonwealth. 
As I have mentioned, part of the proceeds of the unit of account loan are intended for the purpose of assisting Qantas with the purchase of a sixth Boeing 747 aircraft estimated to cost approximately $US29m ($A25.4m). Qantas has entered into a contract with the Boeing company for the purchase of this sixth aircraft with an option to cancel delivery at any time on or before 1st July 1972. In the event of cancellation (in which case Qantas will forfeit the initial downpayment of $US60,000 already made), Qantas will apply the entire proceeds of the unit of account loan to financing the purchase of the fifth aircraft 
Finally, the Bill contains a second schedule which details a minor amendment to the Loan (Qantas Airways Limited) Act 1968. The purpose of the amendment is to provide an extension from 30th November 1971 to 28th February 1972 of the final date on which drawings can be made under the Loan Agreement approved by that Act. This extension will enable Qantas  to  draw the loan in full. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Charles  Jones) adjourned. 
APPROPRIATION BILL (No. 1) 1971-72 In Committee 
Consideration resumed from 6 October (vide page 1988). 
Second Schedule. 
Department of the Treasury 
Proposed expenditure, $103,984,000. 
Advance to the Treasurer 
Proposed expenditure, $25,000,000. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
A survey conducted in September in the Puckapunyal area revealed that 81 servicemen in the Puckapunyal/Seymour area had children of secondary school age. 
These children attended schools in the following categories: 
150 attended Government schools in the Seymour area. 
28 attended Catholic schools in the Seymour area. 
7 attended Government schools elsewhere. 
9 attended Catholic schools elsewhere. 
There were no children at other private schools. 
In addition, one child took correspondence lessons, but details of the education type and standard are not known. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There is no specific project which has as its aim 'to determine the nutritional values of various foodstuffs'. There are, however, nine final reports touching on the matter referred to and these are: 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill seeks parliamentary approval to a borrowing by the Commonwealth of up to $US90m from the Export-Import Bank of the United States to assist in financing the purchase of general defence equipment in the United States, and approval for the execution of the loan agreement on behalf of the Commonwealth for this borrowing. Under the Loan (Defence) Acf 1970, the Commonwealth arranged borrowings of $US89m to finance orders for general defence equipment placed with United States suppliers in 1969-70. The amount of that credit has been fully committed. 
Under the Loan (Defence) Act (No. 2) 1970, the Commonwealth arranged borrowings of $US123m to finance orders for general defence equipment to be placed with United States suppliers during 1970-71. However, $US74.2m of this loan was subsequently cancelled by the Commonwealth. This cancellation was due in large part to a re-evaluation , by the Service departments of equipment needs during that year. Negotiations have recently been completed for a  credit to cover orders placed during 1971- 72. The present Bill will provide the necessary authority to enter into an agreement for this further credit. 
The loan agreement with the ExportImport Bank which is set out as the schedule to the Bill, follows the usual form of agreements with the bank for defence loans. The loan will carry an interest rate of 6 per cent - the rate current for this type of Joan when the. loan was approved in July 1971. A commitment fee of onehalf per cent will be payable on the undrawn amount from 8th August 1971. Drawings on the loan may be made at any time up to 31st December 1975, and repayment of each amount drawn will be in 14 semi-annual instalments commencing on 15th November next following the close of the financial year in which the amount was drawn. Since the borrowing is for defence purposes the approval of the Loan Council is not required. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Crean)  adjourned. 
I make no comment on the threat made at the end of the speech of the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson).  Frankly, I am more interested in trying to reach a conclusion to the matter. The honourable member is aware that it is neither my responsibility nor that of my Department to fix the dates of inquests. It is entirely and utterly misleading to make a statement branding my Department as being at fault in this matter, then to point to other factors and to come back to the point and say that we are the ones who should be determining the date of the inquest. This is not within our power. The honourable member knows it is not within our power. 
It is not within our power to fix the date of a coronial inquiry or inquest. The honourable member also knows that I have been liaising with the respective departments in Victoria in an endeavour to have a date fixed for the inquest. I share the same feeling with the honourable member that it gives one no pleasure to have to go into the details of this matter. I do not want to go into the earlier details. What information could be conveyed was conveyed both to the honourable member and to the parents' solicitors and to other parties interested in the matter. I will be pleased to see the matter dealt with because I can imagine the relief that it will bring to the family when there is some finality. 
The Director of Legal Services in my Department is examining the matter again as a matter of urgency. I trust that the negotiations that I am trying to finalise with the State department and the negotiations that are proceeding merely on the basis of asking that this matter please be expedited will soon come to an end. I cannot direct that they be finalised. It is not within my power to do so. I trust that we will be able to ensure that the matter is brought to finality, not because of any threats that have been made but because I can well understand the feelings of the parents and, indeed, the concern that the honourable member feels. It is not the threat that motivates me but rather the sympathy that I feel for the parents. For this reason I hope to have the matter finalised. 
I am not answerable to the police. 
Yes. I have asked. But I am not prepared to go into that matter in any further detail, nor do I have to. But, as the honourable member is aware, I have asked the police and I have been informed that the matter can shortly be dealt with. I trust that the person who advised my staff of that opinion is giving an accurate assessment of the matter, but I cannot direct finality; I can only hope for it and encourage it. 
In accordance with the undertaking I made to the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  on 7th October, during my second reading speech on the Loans (Qantas Airways Ltd) Bill (No. 2), I present the text of a letter to be exchanged between Qantas and the United States Government on the use of aircraft. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
As at 25th August 1971, there were '550 members of the Citizen Military Forces in Papua and New Guinea. 
This comprised of 387 indigenes and 163 expatriates. 
(a) Officers. 
indigenes - 1 
expatriates - 49 
Other ranks: 
indigenes - 386 
expatriates  - 114 
Pacific Islander members of the Citizen Military Forces receive rates of pay equivalent to the appointment/enlistment or promotion rate applicable to the regular Pacific Islander soldier. Expatriates receive the same rates as indigenes plus an expatriate allowance which, in effect, brings expatriate rates up to the same level as received by mainland Citizen Military Forces members. 
The amounts paid to members of the Citizen Military Forces in Papua and New Guinea for the financial years 1969-70 and 1970-71 are as follows: 
The honourable member will be aware of the policy behind the movement of Army personnel. I have previously answered questions in this House on the question of travel by train and about those who opt to travel by plane, and also the manner in which this is done. The honourable member will also be aware that I have before me representations by himself and others in relation to this matter. As to the latter part of the question, in regard to the return of personnel of the 4th Battalion in particular who some think may be arriving at Townsville and so will be unable to reach Western Australia by Christmas Day, I have directed my Department to ensure so far as possible that all servicemen in Vietnam who are scheduled to return to Australia before Christmas and who live in other than the eastern States be returned by air and that the difficulty mentioned in both the correspondence and in the latter part of the question asked by the honourable member will not be faced. As to whether this is completely practicable I do not know, but I know, prima facie at this stage, that it is highly likely that the disadvantages referred to by the honourable member will not be experienced by those who are to return to Australia before Christmas Day. 
In returning to the provisions of this Bill I wish very briefly to discuss 3 particular points. Firstly, there is the matter raised by the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  regarding the constitutional situation which flows from the decision of the High Court of Australia in the Rocla pipes case. I point out that it is, of course, still not certain to what extent this case has clarified the Commonwealth's constitutional powers to control financial corporations. This aspect of the High Court judgment is under examination. 
Your fees are too exorbitant. This aspect of the High Court judgment is under examination by the Government's legal advisers and the scope of the Commonwealth's powers should not be assessed at this stage as being allembracing. 
Secondly, in regard to matters raised by the honourable member for KingsfordSmith  (Mr Lionel Bowen),  it is fair to point out that the introduction of this Bill does not signify any change at all in the long-standing policy not to grant overseas interests authority to carry on banking business in Australia or to allow them to acquire interests in existing Australian banks. That policy has been maintained since 1945 without the assistance of the present Bill. Among the methods used in the past in maintaining the policy, moral persuasion has proved quite successful because overseas interests would naturally be very reluctant to disregard the Government's wishes in matters of this kind. The Act will provide the Government with an additional measure for use in some circumstances but other methods will remain available as before. With regard to the detailed application of the policy, a distinction can be made between overseas investment in Australian bank shares of a portfolio nature and overseas investment with a view to exercising an influence over an Australian bank. The Government has not previously found normal portfolio investment by overseas interests in Australian bank shares a threat to the policy and there is no reason to believe that this situation will necessarily change in the future. 
However, if purchases of bank shares - and this was referred to by the honourable member - within the 10 per cent limitation by overseas interests were for purposes going beyond portfolio investment, such as to give overseas interests a voice in the affairs of an Australian bank, the Government's opposition to such purchases will be the same after the Bill is enacted as it has been in the past. Finally, in regard to a matter raised by the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  prior to the dinner adjournment concerning the Australia and New Zealand Banking Group Limited, the only major bank to which the Bill will not apply is that bank, which is incorporated in the United Kingdom. However, that bank remains subject to section 63 of the Banking Act which provides that except with the Treasurer's consent the bank shall not enter into an arrangement for the sale or disposal of its business by amalgamation or otherwise or effect a reconstruction of the bank. The Australia and New Zealand Banking Group Limited savings bank subsidiary will be subject to the Bill, since the savings bank is deemed to be incorporated in Australia by recent United Kingdom and Victorian legislation. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
in reply - In response to a matter raised by the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  I merely want to say, in elucidation of the sentence contained in my second reading speech, that this Bill did not seek to make authorities liable to pay State payroll tax. But within the constituting legislation of a number of these Commonwealth authorities there was a bar or a barrier to their payment of payroll tax. Hence this legislation removed that bar or barrier. 
It could be expressed in different forms but, as a consequence, it did not permit States to impose payroll tax on these Commonwealth authorities. By the passage of this legislation the States will be able to impose payroll tax on these authorities. I think that is sufficient explanation. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to continue the incentives to exporters formerly provided under the Commonwealth pay-roll tax rebate scheme. Honourable members will recall that when introducing the Pay-roll Tax (Termination of Commonwealth Tax) Bill on the 14th September last - to give effect to the agreement to transfer the payroll tax to the States - the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  foreshadowed the early introduction of separate legislation to give exporters the same benefits as they would have expected to receive in rebates of their payroll tax liabilities. The Bill proposes that direct Commonwealth grants be payable in respect of increases in exports during the financial years 1971-72 and 1972-73, the years for which the pay-roll tax rebate scheme was to remain in force. The grants will be equal in amount to the rebates that would have been allowed in respect of pay-roll tax levied at the rate of  2i  per cent and will be governed by the same conditions of eligibility as applied under the rebate scheme. In broad terms, an exporter will be entitled to a grant of an amount equal to 101 per cent of the increased export sales made by him in either the 1971-72 or 1972-73 financial years, the increase in exports being determined by reference to a base period amount generally calculated as one-third of the value of his exports during the first 3 of the 8 years immediately preceding the particular export year. 
The grant in respect of a financial year will be limited to the amount that would have been payable by the exporter if the Commonwealth pay-roll tax had continued to be imposed at the rate of  2i  per cent. Where the grant is limited in this way any excess entitlement, up to an amount equal to one-half of the pay-roll tax that would formerly have been payable, may be carried forward and paid as a grant in any of the next 3 succeeding years in the same way as excess rebate entitlements could have been carried forward under the payroll tax rebate scheme. The proposed grants scheme will be administered by the Commissioner of Taxation who is already responsible for the administration of the pay-roll tax rebate scheme. The Bill contains provisions for objection by a person who disagrees with a determination made by the Commissioner affecting that person's claim for a grant. A decision of the Commissioner on an objection may be referred to a taxation board of review for review and decisions of a board which involve a question of law may be taken on appeal to the High Court. The Bill also contains provisions relating to the observance of secrecy along the lines of those contained in the pay-roll tax law. Notes on the various clauses of the Bill are contained in an explanatory memorandum being circulated to honourable members. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Crean)  adjourned. 
Sitting suspended from 12.44 to 2.15 p.m. 
 I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. The main purpose of this Bill is to authorise the payments in 1971-72 of special grants of $7m to South Australia and $7,800,000 to Tasmania. These payments are in accordance with the recommendations by the Commonwealth Grants Commission contained in its thirty-eighth report, which has already been tabled. The Bill also seeks the usual authority for payment of advances to the 2 States in the early months of 1972-73 pending receipt of the Commission's recommendations for that year and the enactment of legislation to provide for the grants to be paid in that year. 
Special grants are paid to financially weaker States to compensate them for such factors as lower capacity to raise revenue from their own resources and higher costs in providing Government services of a standard similar to those in the financially stronger States. When special grants were first paid they constituted the only regular form of general revenue assistance paid to the financially weaker States for this purpose. The main way in which special compensatory assistance is now provided is through the higher per capita financial assistance grants paid to the less populous States. The financial assistance grants are, of course, the main general revenue grants to the States. The special grants may, therefore be regarded as supplementing the financial assistance grants, and as having the special characteristic of being independently and expertly assessed by the Grants Commission. 
Up to 1959, South Australia, Western Australia and Tasmania received annual special grants on the recommendation of the Grants Commission. South Australia withdrew from the special grants system as from 1959-60 and Western Australia as from 1968-69, but Tasmania has continued to apply each year. At the June 1970 Premiers Conference the Commonwealth indicated that each of the 4 less populous States was free to apply for a special grant on the recommendation of the Grants Commission should it believe that its financial assistance grant was too low relative to New South Wales and Victoria. Under the previous arrangements, all States that bad not been applying for special grants were expected to continue to refrain from doing so. South Australia applied for, and received, a special grant in 1970-71, and presently remains a claimant State. 
As honourable members may be aware, the Queensland Government has recently applied for a special grant for 1971-72. The Commission can be expected to submit a special report on Queensland's application later in this financial year. If the Commission recommends payment of a special grant to Queensland, and if the Government accepts that recommendation, then legislation will have to be introduced to provide for the payment of the grant before the end of 1971-72. The method used by the Grants Commission, briefly put, is to calculate grants which will bring the claimant States' budgetary positions up to those of the States taken as 'standard', after allowing for differences between the States concerned in their financial practices and in efforts to raise revenue and control expenditure. This involves a detailed comparison of the standard and claimant States' budgetary revenues and expenditures. 
From 1959-60 the standard States have been New South Wales and Victoria. The Commission, in its 1967 and 2 following reports, had contemplated changing to a standard based on the experience of all the non-claimant States as from 1970-71. However, in its 1970 report, the Commission announced that it was reconsidering this matter in the light of the revised financial assistance grants arrangements and in this year's report it has announced that it will retain the standard bas-:d on the experience of New South Wales and Victoria alone. The reasons for this decision are set out fully in paragraph 3.29 of the Commission's report. Briefly, they are as follows. 
First, the Commission believes that, in the situation where all of the 4 less populous States are free to apply for special grants, a standard based on the experience of all of the non-claimant States could lead to uncertainty on what the standard would involve from one year to the next. Secondly, the Commission takes the view that, because of the then Prime Minister's statement, at the June 1970 Premiers Conference, that each of the 4 less populous States was free to apply for special grants if it considered that its relative financial position was adversely affected as a result of the additional per capita grants being paid to New South Wales and Victoria, it would be logical and consistent to use a standard based on the budgetary experience of those two States. Thirdly, the Commission considers that a standard based on the experience of all the non-claimant States would involve it in an undue amount of work given its limited staff resources. 
Particularly with Queensland now a claimant State, there would in practice be very little difference between a standard based on New South Wales and Victoria alone and one based on all of the nonclaimant States - that is, the 2 States I have just mentioned plus Western Australia. While the Government is not convinced of the validity of all the arguments advanced by the Commission in favour of a 2-State standard, it will not seek to reopen the decision in present circumstances. The Commission has announced no other major changes of principle or method in this year's report. However, the Commission is in the process of reviewing its methods in relation to a number of important areas, especially expenditure on hospitals. It has also continued to refine the bases of its calculations in a number of more minor respects. These matters of detail are dealt with in chapters 2, 3 and 4 of the Commission's report and I shall not attempt to summarise them here. 
The recommendations by the Grants Commission for payment of special grants consist of 2 parts. One part is based :&gt;n an estimate of the claimant State's financial need in the current financial year, and is treated as an advance payment subject to adjustment 2 years later when the Commission has compared in detail the budget results and standards of effort and of services provided in that year for both the claimant State and the States which it takes as standard. The other part represents the final adjustment to the advance payment made 2 years earlier and is known as the completion payment. 
The Commission has recommended the payment of an advance grant of $7m to South Australia in 1971-72, compared with the grant of $5m paid last financial year. The advance grant paid in 1970-71 will be subject to adjustment next financial year after a detailed examination of the State's relative financial position. This year's advance grant will be similarly adjusted, if necessary, in 1973-74. These adjustments could be cither positive or negative. The 
Commission has recommended a total special grant of $7,800,000 to Tasmania in 1971-72, made up of an advance payment of Slim for 1971-72 and a final negative completion payment of $3,200,000 in respect of 1969-70. With the concurrence of the House, I seek leave to incorporate in Hansard a table which compares the amounts recommended for payments to Tasmania in 1971-72 with those paid in 1969-70 and 1970-71. 
1 have forgotten the words which the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  used in castigating the Government- 
He said it was close to double dealing. With great respect, 1 would say that unless the honourable member has read the recommendations contained on page 1 8 of the Tariff Board's report it could perhaps be said that that part of his speech in which he moved the amendment was misleading, because on page 18 the Tariff Board recommended that 
the Government can most appropriately fulfil or discbarge its obligations to those enterprises referred to in the reference by payment of compensation; and - 
assistance should not be accorded the production in Australia of the goods under reference. 
The Government cannot accept the amendment proposed by the honourable member for Dawson that clause 3 of each Bill be postponed. The Government accepted the Tariff Board's recommendation that it can most appropriately fulfil its obligation to those enterprises by the payment of compensation. The Tariff Board's report was dated 26th June 1970. The Government proposes to pay the bounty until 31st May 1972 in order to give the industry a reasonable period of time in which to plan to meet the new circumstances. Thereafter, compensation  -  in contrast to a bounty - will be paid. 
May I also just refer to a matter raised by the honourable member for Braddon  (Mr Davies)  during the second reading debate on this Bill in relation to the Northwest Acid company. The Tariff Board recommended that local production of pyrites and sulphuric acid from pyrites be not assisted. The Government adopted this recommendation. The Board reported that the Tasmanian producers would not require assistance at prices likely to be paid for sulphur in the foreseeable future. It added that North-West Acid had largely insured itself against adverse fluctuations in sulphur prices in the next decade by arranging long term contracts with its customers. In conclusion - not wishing to wind up the debate but dealing with the matters raised, particularly by the honourable member for Dawson and also on that point made by the honourable member for Braddon - I point out that if, through changed circumstances since the Board's report, the industry is suffering injury, then of course it is open for the industry to approach the Government through the normal channels for assistance. Officers of . the Department of Trade and Industry naturally would be available to discuss this matter with the companies concerned. 
 in reply - I think honourable members will be aware of the difficulty I am under in not being responsible for the Department which this Bill affects. However, I am advised in relation to the matter raised by the honourable member for Braddon  (Mr Davies)  that the choice of how the Government could discharge its obligation was between, firstly, a bounty which would be paid until 1974 or, secondly, the payment of compensation. The Tariff Board in fact recommended compensation. I referred to this earlier and said that the Government accepted this recommendation. I have been advised that no approach has been made by the industry since the Tariff Board report was released and this. I think is of considerable importance. 
I am not in a position here to judge whether the arguments produced today are correct. But I repeat that if the industry has a case - and I am not here either to confirm or deny it but to put the Government's view - then I am sure that it will make approaches to the Department of Trade and Industry. 
Question put: 
That clause 3  (Dr Patterson's amendment)  be postponed. 
I indicated previously during the cognate debate before we moved to the Committee stage on this particular Bill that the Government cannot accept the amendment proposed by the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  and I have given reasons why this cannot be done. But I also wish to point out now a fact which has been overlooked presumably because certain honourable members, I know not all honourable members, who have been speaking either have not read the Tariff Board report or have forgotten the report. 
The tariff revision of 26th June 1970, the one to which I referred earlier. For those who either have not read it or have forgotten it and have spoken in terms of broken promises and have used equally strong phrases in condemnation of the Government, I refer them to page 16 of this report where the Board states: 
The Board notes, however, that North West Acid made its decision to erect its plant at a time when it was not the Government's intention to encourage the production of sulphur from indigenous sources. The investment was presumably thus considered to be commercially viable in terms of existing and likely world sulphur prices. Also, the company has largely insured itself against adverse fluctuations in' sulphur prices in the next decade by arranging long-term contracts with its customers. 
That .is an absolutely crucial viewpoint that has to be put before the Parliament, made by the independent authority referred to by honourable members, namely the Tariff Board in its report. 
It is the report dated 26th June 1970. Since that time, if there have been any changes within the industry, I have already indicated that the industry should make known its position to the Department of Trade and Industry. I assume that if it has not already done so. it will take such action as it deems desirable and necessary to place the information before the Department. If it has not done so I find it strange, in the circumstances described this afternoon, that no such action has been taken. I conclude therefore by reiterating that we are in the circumstances taking what appears to me to be an entirely proper approach in not accepting the amendment proposed by the honourable member for Dawson. 
I do not want to traverse once again all the ground that has been covered in the debate and I shall not in any way detract from the remarks made by the honourable member for Braddon  (Mr Davies)  who spoke most fervently on behalf of his electorate and those in it. The statement made by the honourable member for Cunningham  (Mr Connor),  who has just resumed his seat, that the Australian Labor Party was essentially a Party of protection would be challenged, I am sure, by certain of its members who are developing new theses in relation to that. 
They will be challenged, will they? I am glad to have that assurance. We might see some agreementin the Opposition in due course. I do not wish to engage in Party politics but to correct one aspect of the quotation I made from the revised Tariff Board report. I mention it not merely because it is of great import in putting the record straight in regard to the Board's recommendation but also because North West Acid Pty Ltd has longterm contracts to supply acid and Mount Lyell Mining and Railway Co. Ltd owns, I am advised, 50 per cent of North West Acid Pty Ltd and supplies pyrites to North West Acid in order to make the acid referred to in the long term contracts. Therefore, I believe that the reference Imade was relevant. 
Question put: 
That the clause be postponed. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Detailed planning commenced in 1966. 
An order of cost for the remaining stages of the proposal is about $8m.  lt  would provide for the construction of the further administrative, technical, training and additional living accommodation and facilities required. It is at present planned to complete this project in 2 phases, the first of which would consist of the School administrative and training facilities plus additional living accommodation at and estimated cost of some $3. 190m. 
Because of the magnitude of cost the prior approval of Cabinet and the Parliamentary Works Committee will be necessary before construction could commence. This question therefore, cannot be answered precisely at this juncture. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Suitable movement arrangements have been made to ensure that those servicemen, whom it is planned should return to Australia by Christmas, will do so. Movement to Australia will be by sea and air. In this regard, I have directed my Department to make arrangements for South and West Australian soldiers to be returned to Australia by air to allow them sufficient time to be reunited with their families for Christmas. 
This would not be practicable having regard to the continuing need for personnel to be retained in the theatre to pack and ensure the security of equipment etc. still to be returned. 
The answer to the hon ourable member's question is as follows: 
It is not Army practice to charge men suffering from sunburn with having a self inflicted wound. 
Not applicable. 
Electoral Rolls: Northern Territory (Question No. 4529) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Army does not maintain any depots, farms or stations for the purpose of breeding horses. 
 The answer  to  the  honourable  member's question is as follows: 
The buildings referred to were erected about 1941. 
These quarters will cater for up to 33 officers. The number of officers occupying this accommodation varies according to the number and size of the courses being conducted at any time. As at 9th October 1971 there were 30 officers living in. 
It is not planned to replace this accommodation in the immediate future as other accommodation requirements with a higher priority must take precedence within funds availability. 
Army: Armoured Centre at Puckapunyal (Question No. 4325) 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Armoured Centre, originally the Armoured School, was established at Puckapunyal early in World War II. Some additional buildings have been added since. Kapyong Barracks which, primarily accommodates members of the Armoured Regiment, was built in 1958. 
Planning has been proceeding for some time. It is planned eventually to replace all hutted administrative, living, training and technical facilities. 
No firm estimate is available as it is not planned to replace the existing facilities in the near future, because of the necessity to undertake work of a much higher priority. 
See answer (3) above. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There are 256 CSHA houses in the PuckapunyalSeymour area. 
As at 2nd November 1971 there were 4 houses vacant as follows: 2 Dockery Street, Seymour - 8 days vacant - 
Repainting being carried out.  7 Dockery Street, Seymour - 2i months vacant - Extensive repairs and maintenance  have just been completed.  9 Dockery Street, Seymour - 24 months vacant - Extensive repairs and maintenance  have just been completed.  29 Morrison Street, Seymour - 34 weeks vacant - Awaiting allocation. 
The standard of houses and, in particular, CSHA houses is presently being considered by an Interdepartmental Housing Committee convened by the Minister for Defence. 
This is dependent upon decisions arising from (3) above. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No further permanent married quarters have been planned for the Puckapunyal-Seymour area. 
See (1) above. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The present position is that the proposals are still at the investigation stage and no firm decisions have yet been taken. Every effort is being made to bring the matter to finality as soon as practicable but it must be remembered that a number of private landowners and governmental authorities are involved. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Records show that 14,437 rounds of artillery, mortar and anti-tank ammunition were fired on the High Range training area, which is some 25 miles- from Townsville, during the period 1st July 1969-30th June J970. A total of J 1,432 rounds were fired during the same period in 1970-71. None of these rounds Were fired' in (he Mount Stuart training area near Lavarack Barracks. 
The break up of the particular type of ammunition fired is as follows: 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of certain residents of North Balwyn, Victoria respectfully showeth: 
That they are deeply concerned with the plight of the Pakistani refugees in India. 
That the amount of aid allocated for East Pakistani refugee relief earlier this year, is well below that which our wealthy nation is able to contribute. 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that the Government increase the present level of aid to an amount which is fitting to this land of affluence. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
In regard to the first part of the question, I can assure the honourable member that the Army is earnestly pursuing a policy of localisation in the Pacific Islands Regiment. I think I can give the figures to the House from memory. About 98 per cent of the noncommissioned officer positions in the establishment and 85 per cent of the other rank positions are locally filled. The officer component of the PIR is being swelled through not only the ranks of the Military Cadet School at Lae - through the in-service, commissioning scheme which commenced last year - but also through those who have attended the Officer Cadet School at Portsea. Indeed, a further 6 Pacific Islanders will graduate at the end of this week, bringing the number of officers in the PIR who are Pacific Islanders to 34, and a further 11 will attend at Portsea next year. 
In relation to the second part of the honourable member's question, which perhaps has a more important long term bearing, I would say that, broadly speaking, the Army's attitude in regard to the PIR is twofold. It is, firstly, to develop an efficient Army capable of playing a vital role in the defence of the Territory and, secondly, to provide for the future a well balanced, disciplined and reliable force completely loyal to the Government and the Administration of the Territory. As a consequence, it is necessary that the PIR should not receive purely military training in isolation for we well know the experience of newly emergent countries in other areas of the world. Extensive training and education programmes are required. We are cognisant, in fulfilling our duty in this regard, of the need to ensure that there is liaison with members of the House of Assembly, with the Administration and with villagers in the carrying out of civil affairs projects and the like in an endeavour to ensure potential neutralism. 
The brief answer to the honourable member's question, the full reply to which would require the enunciation of the figures over a period to show trends, is firstly that the full effects of the cutback caused as a consequence of the reduction in the period of national service have not been felt completely because it is operating through the months of November, December and January. As a consequence, to go into all the details would be quite impossible even if figures were here. In regard to those forces which comprise elements within the ANZUK group to which the honourable member referred - not only the field battery but also 6 RAR - the fact is that these elements, particularly the battalion that is there, have been operating under the normal strength of a battalion as we would see it if it were operating in Vietnam, because the prime purpose of the battalion in Singapore is different from that of a battalion in Vietnam. Of course, it is a component within the overall concept of the ANZUK force with New Zealand and the United Kingdom. I will convey the actual figures to the honourable member, but that is the broad outline of what I think is the correct reply to the question that he posed. 
by leave - Earlier in the session I indicated my intention of making a statement to the House on the Citizen Military Forces, its role, its place in the community, its problems and, hopefully, some solutions to these problems. It is not my purpose here to enlarge upon the strategic situation and the basis of defence planning, but 1 feel that by way of background to my remarks on the CMF and its importance to our overall defence structure, I should attempt to sketch in, very briefly, the situation in which we find ourselves in what is fast becoming the post- Vietnam era. The withdrawal of Britain as a key power in the South East Asian area, together with the implications of the Nixon Doctrine, have important consequences for Australia. It is clear that we as a small but highly developed nation, must accept an increasing share of responsibility in defence arrangements with our friends and allies in the region - and for our own defence. 
The basic function of the Army remains the same - the conduct of operations on land for the defence of Australia and Australia's interests. Manpower and economic limitations mean we cannot expect to be able to maintain, in times of peace, the regular forces likely to be required to meet every situation with which we might be confronted. We now have to provide for a great variety of politico-military situations, including subversion, insurgency, revolutionary warfare and other types of low intensity conflict. There is an obvious need for a strong and viable CMF to augment the Regular Army in time of defence emergency or war and, with the Regular Army, to provide the basis for expansion of the whole Army upon general mobilisation. Let me make it quite clear that the very essence of the CMF's role and value is that its members are liable for call-up for service overseas in a period of defence emergency. It is a vital part of our defences; those who serve in it, whether as a consequence of their national service obligations or not. are playing their part in accordance with the Government's intentions. 
Historically, citizen soldiers have taken a leading part in providing the military forces for the defence of Australia. Indeed, until after the Second World War our field forces in peacetime were almost entirely those of the CMF. This traditon of voluntary military service was seen at ils finest during the First and Second World Wars, and it has been carried on by the CMF since it was reformed in 1948. The Regular Army, with a field force component, was raised in 1948 and the role of the CMF then became that of providing the initial supplementary forces which would be needed in a major war. Since that time, as the Regular Army developed its capability, and particularly since the regular force has achieved something approaching a divisional structure of 9 infantry battalions, it would seem there is now a school of thought that believes Australia no longer needs her citizen soldiers. This is not so. Australia is a vast and sparsely populated country bordering an area of possible political instability. It is a nation faced with exciting and exacting development problems that will place great demands on all our resources - including that most scarce and valuable resource, manpower. 
The needs of defence must be weighed against the needs of other high priority tasks, lt is against this background that the Government has fostered the development of Regular forces, which are within the capability of Australia to maintain. However, the Government accepts that the Regular Force, by its very nature and because of manpower limitations in peace time, can provide only the first element necessary to meet a major defence emergency. To meet such a situation, it is essential for the Army to have both Citizen Forces and Reserves to augment the Regular element, particularly in providing trained leaders and specialists. Full realisation of our proposals for the CMF must be dependent on the Government's ability to provide the necessary finance for the purpose. 
The Citizen Military Forces, trained in and capable of playing their part in a defence emergency or war, are an essential element in our defence planning. I stress this point not only because I wish to place the importance of the CMF in proper perspective for honourable members and the public generally, but also because I wish to get the message through to the 'hard core' of officers, warrant officers and noncommissioned officers, whose dedication through the years, often in the face of adverse criticism and morale destroying cynicism, has sustained the flame of the old volunteer spirit and held the CMF together as a viable institution. We owe them a great deal and they will need our continued support for their efforts in the future. 
Here f wish to mention one important concept which could improve the CMF's capability of contributing quickly in response to any situation of defence emergency. There is a proposal, which in one form or another has come from a number of sources, to establish within the CMF a force which would be brought to a higher degree of readiness than is possible with the CMF as a whole. Such a force would receive a higher priority for training facilities and equipment and be the first element of the CMF to be deployed in an emergency. Considerable thought has been given to the practicability of setting up a higher priority force of some kind, and feasibility studies have recently been conducted within the CMF aimed at developing a viable proposition. It appears that such a force, capable of deployment on relatively short notice, would necessarily have to be made up of sub-units drawn from a number of parent units throughout Australia. 
There are obvious problems, such as the difficulty of effective training with geographically dispersed sub-units; the possible need for longer training periods to maintain operational efficiency, which might not be supported by some employers; and the basic problem of obtaining and retaining the necessary numbers, which is, of course, part of the general CMF manpower problem, to which I will refer. On balance, a high priority formation would have a great deal to commend it. not the least of which, as I have said, would be the CMF's ability to contribute rapidly and effectively to any operational tasks which might be required of it. Provided there is careful planning - and, of course, the enthusiastic support and co-operation of the CMF members themselves - most of the problems can be overcome; I believe the merits of the proposal are such as to outweigh any residual difficulties. 
As a consequence, I am pleased to be able to announce that approval has been given for the establishment of a higher priority force within the CMF to be known as the Ready Reaction Force, and detailed planning to give practical effect to this decision is proceeding as rapidly as possible. Much remains to be done; and at this stage of development I am unable to give precise details of the shape and size this force will finally take. It will be an evolutionary process, beginning in a small way and expanding progressively as experience dictates and in accordance with the response received from all concerned. I firmly believe that the scheme, if it receives the support it undoubtedly deserves, will not only be of benefit to the motivation and morale of CMF members, but will also be a milestone in the development of the CMF. 
I would now like to refer to the decline in CMF strength, mentioned in the recent Defence Report, which has been the subject of study over the past months. CMF officers from formations and units, as well as regular officers from all Australian commands were consulted; and the views of leading academics, employers' organisations, and many private citizens and organisations were obtained. During this period the 2nd and 3rd CMF Divisions each conducted conferences, which I attended, at which the shortfall in CMF enlistments and retention rates, and the likely under-lying motivating factors, were discussed at length by a cross-section of experienced CMF officers. 
It is clear that wastage is traditionally high in respect of the volunteer element and over the past 10 years discharges have averaged around 10,000 per year. The main reason behind such a consistently high wastage rate is believed to be that the CMF members' tenure of service has become more generally sensitive to factors related to their personal affairs, such as marriage, increased family responsibilities, business or educational commitments and transfers in civil employment. In the next 6 months, it is anticipated that further wastage will occur as a result of the cut from 6 to 5 years in the length of service required as an alternative to national service. In addition, recruiting figures, which were relatively stable in the years 1960 to 1967, have fallen from a peak of 13,800 in 1965-66 to 7,060 in 1970-71. 
As might be expected, the reasons advanced for the decline in recruiting, gome of which have their effect on retention, cover a wide spectrum embracing 2 broad categories - those of external and general community origin and those internal to the Army itself. It would not be practicable or appropriate here to try to cover all these aspects in detail, and I will confine my remarks in this respect to outlining some of the more important points. On the internal side, if we are going to be realistic, we must first of all accept the fact that if the CMF is to attract and hold young men, it must be seen to be modern in its outlook. This outward promise must also be fulfilled when the new recruit actually arrives. 
Contrary to the cherished beliefs, perhaps, of some old soldiers of earlier wars and earlier times, the Australian Army does change, and has been at some pains to ensure that its procedures and man management methods are both modern and enlightened. The key point is to ensure that in the process of modernisation, dis cipline and individual efficiency are maintained at the level necessary to ensure operational efficiency in the event of war and to prevent the lives of Australian soldiers being endangered unnecessarily. 
In my discussions with CMF commanders it was clear they considered it most important to keep to a minimum the sort of minor irritations that can arise in parttime Service life. In this I have given them every encouragement. Another aspect interna] to the Army, on which a great deal of emphasis has been placed, is the quality of the training a CMF member receives. Imaginative, effectively organised and executed training is a most important factor in maintaining high morale and individual interest, as well as achieving operational efficiency. The preparation for training exercises of this calibre often tends to fall quite heavily on the shoulders of CMF officers and NCO's and is not always compatible in terms of time with their career responsibilities and their inevitable social obligations. Greater efforts will be made to improve the strength, calibre and effectiveness of the Australian Regular Army cadre supporting staffs in CMF units, so as to relieve the units of as much routine administration as possible and also enable the cadre staffs to contribute more fully to training preparation. 
To gain maximum benefits from these cadre staffs, their appointments should be of sufficient duration for the unit to gain from their experience and they should attend a special familiarisation course before taking up their appointments. Neither of these requirements has been implemented previously because of the Vietnam commitment, but the situation should ease from now on. We should also be able to increase gradually the seniority and experience level of the Regular Army members involved. 
For the past 12 months or so, an Army organisation and methods team has been reviewing CMF administrative procedures and another team has been similarly reviewing unit accounting procedures, with the object of reducing the administrative load on units to a minimum. The Vietnam commitment also reduced the number of vacancies available to the CMF at Army schools. Attendance at these schools is important for CMF members to enable them to keep pace with current doctrine and techniques. With the withdrawal of our forces from Vietnam, this situation is now being corrected and more vacancies are being made available to CMF members. We have also been looking closely at what additional training assistance Regular Army units can give to the CMF and this is being further examined in the light of the implications of the reduction of national service to  18  months. 
A major step forward has been the production of CMF officers at centralised officer training units and in university regiments. This has proved extremely successful and demonstrated its advantages over the old unit system. The main advantage is that uniform standards are achieved. Centralisation also allows students to concentrate on their officer training without being interrupted by the routine tasks inherent in regimental duties. In a recent survey within the CMF. all those interviewed were quite adamant that the young CMF officer being produced by the officer training units is a far better product than his fellow in the past. Regular Army officers support this appraisal and are satisfied with the professional standards which have been reached by CMF officers who are required to pass the same promotion exams as their regular counterparts. 
The training of CMF soldiers in remote areas has also been improved with the success of the units popularly known as the Bushman's Rifles. Normal short camps and night parades were replaced in these units by centralised and continuous training at longer camps with resulting economies in time and effort and higher standards of training and morale. It appears that similar advantages might also apply to a centralised system of producing CMF NCO's, and a feasibility study of establishing such a system is now under way. One proposal also being studied is to establish a special wing of command training groups to conduct courses designed to train and qualify potential NCO's in leadership, instructional techniques and sub-unit administration at the level required for first promotion. The centralisation of recruit training into larger groups, now the practice in most capital and provincial cities, has also produced benefits in increased efficiency in training procedures and in boosting morale in the important first few months of the new member's service. 
There have been various schemes for improving the operational efficiency of the CMF, which may not be generally known. For. example,  600  CMF officers have visited Vietnam since  1967  to spend  10  to  12  days as observers with Regular troops; annually since  1968,  selected CMF officers have visited the mainland of New Guinea to familiarise themselves with the terrain and to help plan their tropical warfare training programmes; additionally, interstate training facilities may be arranged where it is necessary for particular types of training for which facilities do not exist in the unit's home State. The benefit to the CMF from the flow-on of the experience gained under these schemes, particularly from Vietnam, has been felt already and will have a continuing effect. Other elements in the improvement of training, attracting and retaining recruits, are greater availability of modem equipment, improved training depots and better facilities for CMF units. These are of course bound up with monetary allocations and the inevitable priorities, which in some cases have had to be given in other directions, notably to the Vietnam operations and associated requirements. These are complex matters and, at this stage, I can only say that every effort has been and wilt continue to be made to equip and house CMF units to the best of our ability in the light of resources, having increasing regard to such changes in priorities to the benefit of CMF units that may become possible as the Vietnam withdrawal proceeds. Some notable improvements in the CMF equipment fields include the provision of the Ml  13  family of light armoured fighting vehicles to Armoured Corps CMF units; the issue of modern radio sets; and the issue of combat jackets to infantry, armoured, artillery and signal units, and university regiments and officer cadet training units will also receive the latest pattern web equipment, and adequate stocks of lightweight sleeping equipment are now becoming available. 
Before concluding my remarks on the internal Army side, there are two other points that  1  believe should be made. Firstly, it must be borne in mind that the Government's 'one Array' policy means that the CMF cannot be looked at in isolation from the rest of the Army. The Regular, Citizen and Reserve forces are complementary parts of the whole Army, each with their assigned role. In examining the feasibility of proposals involving changes, regard must be had for the problems facing the Army generally. I mention this matter merely to give some idea of the scope and complexity of the problems with which we are coping, in what might be called the preliminary stages of the postVietnam era, and to counsel a little patience on the part of those who might be anticipating rather more rapid and, perhaps, spectacular action in the CMF field than at present may be feasible. However. 1 can give an assurance that the matters mentioned in my remarks today, and many others besides, will be pursued vigorously. 
The second point 1 wish to make concerns another important part of our reserve forces, the Regular Army Reserve, and its significance in regard to our security. As a preliminary, I should mention that the decline in CMF strengths has not been right across the rank structure. There has, in fact, been a small but steady increase in officers, which is expected to continue. Senior NCO's have declined very little. The main deficiency has been in the rank and file although even in this category there have been increases in Darwin, North Queensland and Papua New Guinea. In other words, the decline has not seriously affected the CMF's vital task of producing officers and NCO's, nor is it expected to do so unless, of course, in spite of our efforts, the decline becomes more pronounced. With the advent of national service, the Regular Army Reserve, which normally holds national servicemen for 3i years following their full-time period of service - and ex-regular soldiers as well - has been steadily building up and now totals some 28,000 ail of whom have been trained to operational standards and have had at least 2 years full-time service in the Regular Army. Beyond this, there will be within a few years, an additional pool of some 40.000, mostly still under 30 and who would require only limited refresher training should their services be required. Thus we will have a trained reserve in excess of 60,000 ex-Regular Army personnel and the CMF is producing through its training programmes the officers and NCO's to lead them. 
To turn to problems external to the Army, there can be no question that the 
CMF, like other voluntary organisations in the community, is competing for its members with a great number of alternatives and distractions open to young men now. Such interests as sporting and social activities, post graduate studies, and family pressures, to name some of the more obvious, are all competing to some degree for the spare time of the sort of young man we wish to attract. In other cases, adverse attitudes in some parts of the community, the views of vocal extremists or opposition on the part of some employers must all exert an influence on the potential recruit. Whatever the influences, the CMF today is being evaluated in competition with other factors; and, if not considered attractive enough, it loses, and the member seeks discharge or the potential recruit is lost. The CMF would benefit here from better public relations and the general fostering of a wider understanding of its true value and purpose. Methods of achieving this on a wide and continuing scale are receiving close attention. 
One attractive proposal is for greater involvement of CMF units in local community activities on a nationwide basis. Apart from the resultant contribution to community service, such a scheme would enable people everywhere to come into direct contact with units and to make their own personal assessments of the merits of the CMF. as distinct from second hand impressions derived from other sources. Another aspect is the attitude of some employers towards the CMF and in particular towards releasing CMF members for camp and other training. Officer training appears to be generally well regarded by employers for a promising young executive, bat sometimes only up to the stage where preoccupation with the CMF tends to conflict with job requirements. There is no doubt that the training a member obtains in the CMF is of value to the community at large and particularly to his employer. Development of the qualities of leadership flows on into all the fields of acceptance of responsibility, decision making and man management. These intangible benefits are not always recognised by employers, and it is proposed to establish closer liaison with them on this matter by advising them when members of their .staff join the CMF, and outlining for them in brochure form not only the obligations involved but also the positive benefits of CMF service. 
Australian governments and instrumentalities and many private organisations have given an exemplary lead in recognising the overall value to the community of the CMF service performed by members of their staffs and in releasing them for training. The Commonwealth Government in particular has marked its special recognition of the importance of the CMF by making CMF pay tax free. One can only hope that an increasing awareness of the CMF's role and value as an essential part of our defence system, and as a means of developing the individual's own capacities, will encourage employers generally to facilitate, in the national interest, CMF service by members of their own staffs. 
Enough has been said to demonstrate to honourable members and the public in general that the Government regards the CMF as a vital link in our defence arrangements and that the Army, as a result of careful studies, has laid bare many of the problems relating to CMF effectiveness and is endeavouring to the best of its ability and within prevailing financial limits to meet the challenge with imaginative and practical ideas. In the post-Vietnam situation, it is essential that the Citizen Army be developed to the level and standard required to enable it to fulfil its role. With the infusion of new ideas and attitudes, such as the Ready Reaction Force I have mentioned, and with the enthusiastic support of all members of this Parliament andthe people of Australia, I have no doubt that the Citizen Army will become an even stronger and more viable force on which we can rely for an adequate and purposeful contribution to our defence and of which Australia can be justifiably proud. I present the following paper: 
Citizent Military Forces - Ministerial Statement,  8th  December  1971. 
Motion (by  Mr  Howson) proposed: 
That the House take note of the paper. 
The very short answer is that there are officers attending staff colleges at both Quetta and Wellington. They are going about their normal business and 1 understand they are in liaison with officials from the Foreign Affairs Department. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) The establishment at the Trials and 
Proving Wing of Army Design Establishment, Monegeetta, consists of 2 ARA and 51 civilians. In addition there is at present a supernumerary establishment to carry out trials on a 1 ton truck. This consists of 25 ARA and 2 civilians, (b) The strength at Monegeetta consists of 2 ARA and 50 civilians plus 21 ARA and 2 civilians supernumerary, to establishment. 
Civilians employed at Monegeetta consist of: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No survey has been made of the HolsworthyIngleburn area. The survey of the PuckapunyalSeymour area, to which the Honourable Leader of the Opposition refers, was undertaken as a special task to provide answers to a question asked by the Member for Bendigo. 
The survey conducted in the Puckapunyal.Seymour area required considerable staffing effort to collect and collate the data, however, because the Seymour-Puckapunyal area is relatively concentrated and the number of servicemen with children of secondary school age comparatively few, it was possible for this survey to be conducted. 
To undertake a similar survey in the HolsworthyIngleburn area, which is such a large geographic area and where a great number of servicemen are located, would be a very costly exercise and I am not disposed to authorise the necessary expenditure. In addition, the turbulence' arising from the return of servicemen from Vietnam would cast doubt upon the accuracy of any statistics collected at this time. 
Education: Servicemen's Children in Townsville Area  (Question No. 4592)  Mr Whitlam  asked the  Minister for the  Army,  upon notice: 
Has a survey been conducted in the Townsville area, as in the Puckapunyal-Seymour area (Hansard. 13 October 1971. page 2324), lo ascertain the number of servicemen who have children of secondary school agc and the categories of schools which their children attend. 
The answer  to  the  honourable  members question is as follows:  See answer to Parliamentary Question' No. 4511. 
Defence Personnel: Accommodation  (Question No. 4779)  Mr Kennedy  asked  the Minister for the  Army,  upon  notice: 
Mow many applications for married quarters in the Puckapunyal-Seymour area are still outstanding. 
How many have been outstanding, for (a) 1 week to 1 month, (b) 1 month to 3 months, (c) 3 months to 6 months and (d) longer than 6 months. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
As at 26 November 1971 there were 72 outstanding applications for married quarters in the Puckapunyal-Seymour area. 
A break up of this number is shown: 
1 week to 1 month 38. 
I month lo 3 months 32. 
3 months to 6 months Nil. 
longer than 6 months Nil. 
As at 26 November 1971 2 members applications have been outstanding for less than 1 week. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Army holds medical statistics, in the form sought, only from August 1969 to &gt; 1st October 1971. To obtain the information in this form prior to August 1969 would involve detailed examination by medical officers of thousands of medical records. In view of this, and as the records are held in nine different locations, this is considered impracticable. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Centurion tanks were first acquired in 1952. 
Within the period 1952-1961, a total of 127 tanks of all configurations were received. In 1969 one further tank and three hulls were purchased from New Zealand and in 1970 a further 15 tanks from the United Kingdom (ex Hong Kong). These latter purchases were made to sustain the repair/rebuild cycle supporting tanks deployed in South Vietnam. Total acquisition since 1952 has thus covered 143 complete tanks of various configurations. 
The only, overseas theatre where Centurion tanks have been deployed by the Australian Army is Vietnam. 
At present 80 of the total fleet are fully operational, of which 18 are in depot stock. Repair programmes for the remainder of the fleet are in hand. 
It would not be in the public interest to provide this information. 
The average price of the tanks initially procured was $120,000. Later procurement of used tanks was at an average price of $14,000 from the United Kingdom and $8,000 from New Zealand. These acquisition costs do not reflect the cost of modifications and rebuilds, which cannot be fully established. 
The crew of the Centurion tank is 4, comprising Commander, gunner, radio operator and driver. The Commander could be an officer, sergeant or corporal. A percentage of the gunners, radio operators and drivers may be corporals or lance corporals and the remainder of the crew are troopers. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Citizen Military Forces (CMF) unit located in Bendigo, 6th Company, Royal Australian Army Service Corps (RAASC), was originally raised in 1923 in Melbourne. It was relocated in Bendigo in 1962. 
The structure of the unit has not basically changed since its location in Bendigo. 
As at December 1962 the strength of 6 Coy RAASC was 4 Permanent Military Forces (PMF) and 125 CMF. 6 Coy RAASC Workshop also located at Bendigo, had a strength of 14 CMF. As at December 1967, the strength of 6 Coy RAASC was 3 PMF and 87 CMF. 6 Coy RAASC Wksp strength was 4 CMF. 
At the end of October 197). the establishment and strength of both units was: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Statistics held show that 416,809 men and women enlisted in the first AIF. A total of 727,703 enlisted in the second AIF. 
The number who served overseas in the first AIF was 331,781 and in the second AIF was 396,661. 
No statistics are held on the marital status of those enlisted and to obtain these statistics would involve a manual search of well over a million service dossiers. 
Industrial Relations (Question No. 3S42) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(D- 
The provisions relating to expenditure on community facilities are as follows: 
Baby Health Centres. No authority exists for expenditure provision for baby health centres in Army establishments in Australia. 
Pre-School Centres. No authority exists for the provision of expenditure for these facilities in Army establishments in Australia. 
Family Stores. Services Scales and Standards provide the authority for these facilities on a rental basis paid by the Australian Services Canteen Organisation (ASCO), subject to approval by the Departments of Defence and the Treasury, who will take into account the following factors: (!) The availability of existing commercial facilities, including deliveries: 
Any future planned commercial expansion or development of the area; 
The extent of existing facilities; and 
The number of families to be served. 
(i), (ii) No authority exists for expenditure on maintenance for Baby Health Centres and Pre-School Centres, (iii) Financial provision for expenditure on maintenance of approved Family Stores is made in the normal Repairs and Maintenance Programme procedure. 
The expenditure of Commonwealth funds on maintenance of these facilities by areas is shown below. The source of funds for this expenditure is the Army Repairs and Maintenance Programme. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Records for the period 1945-1959 are not complete and it would involve considerable administrative effort, to extract the statistics sought for this period. However, these statistics are held for the period 1960-1971 and the required information is contained in the following table. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. In addition to civilian radiographers employed under the Public Service Act, who meet the educational requirements specified by the Commonwealth Public Service Board, military personnel are employed as radiographers at 2 levels. The lower level of the military radiographer structure undertakes a specially designed course conducted, on behalf of the Army, by St Vincents Hospital in Melbourne. They are employed under supervision on appropriate basic radiographical duties. The higher level of radiographer is required to possess the same qualifications which are required for employment as a radiographer in the Commonwealth Public Service and to perform the full range of radiographical work. 
(a) Radiographer Grade 1 $3959-5179 (Rank range, Private to Sergeant). Radiographer Grade 2 $5179-6479 (Rank range, Staff Sergeant to Warrant Officer Class 2) 
The basic Commonwealth Public Service rates for radiographers are currently: Radiographer, Grade 1 (male) $4028-4823; (female) S3827-4582. Radiographer, Grade 2 (male) $5088-5618; (female) 4834-5337. Radiographer, Grade 3 (male) $5883-6148; (female) S55S9-5841. Radiographer, Grade 4 (male) $6413-6678; (female) $6092-6344. 
However, special pay rates have been determined by die Commonwealth Public Service Board for radiographers in the following States for recruitment and retention purposes: 
Radiographer, Grade 1: Queensland (female) $4028-4823. Tasmania (male) $4028-4935: (female) $3904- 4840. 
Victoria (male) $4028-5004; (female) $3827- 4754. 
South Australia (female) $4028-4770. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The statistics and other information sought are not maintained by the Army. However, officers of my Department are endeavouring to obtain what information is readily available and I will convey this to the honourable member in writing. 
The answer to the honour able member's question is as follows: 
(a) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
At 30th November 1971, there were 1607 companies registered on Norfolk Island, consisting of (a) 1513 companies incorporated on the Island and (b) 94 companies incorporated elsewhere and registered on the Island as foreign companies. 
and (3) Under section 3a of the Companies Ordinance which came into force on 12th July 1971, the Registrar is required to satisfy himself that a company is a local company on the lodging by the company of its annual return. The Registrar's decision is subject to an appeal to the Supreme Court. The actual number of companies entitled to be declared local companies will not be known until late 1972 when applications for that purpose will be due to be lodged. I would not be in a position to pre-determine which companies are or are not local companies trading on Norfolk Island. 
 Mr Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
The short answer to the honourable member's question is that the oil palm project not only is meeting expectations but also, at this stage, is exceeding them. Earlier this month I visited the plantation at Kimbe and I was advised that the palms had come into bearing much earlier than was anticipated and that the yields were exceptionally high. I am aware that the honourable member for Balaclava has visited the area. He will recall that the project is a joint venture between the Administration and a company called Harrison &amp; Crosfield (ANZ) Ltd and that one-half the Administration's equity capital is held by the Commonwealth Development Bank for subsequent allocation to the people of Papua New Guinea. At the end of the last financial year the nucleus estate, as it is termed, had planted 4,000 acres of oil palm and small holders had planted 6,000 acres. 
A further point in answering the latter part of the honourable member's question regarding sharing of the project is that each small holder receives a Development Bank grant of up to $1,900 for block development and a cash living allowance is paid. I understand that income from the project is now being received. In summary, this is a most important project which is clearly successful both economically and socially. So far as the latter aspect is concerned, it is bringing together people from varying backgrounds and they are working together harmoniously. Undoubtedly, this will be a major contributing factor towards the economic development of Papua New Guinea. It is a valuable new and profitable venture for the people of the area. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) As stated by my predecessor in his answer of 29th September 1971 (Hansard, 29th September 1971, page 1710) the matter referred to is one which falls within the authority of the Assistant Ministerial Member for Local Government in the House of Assembly for Papua New Guinea. The Administrator, on the advice of the Assistant Ministerial Member, has advised that records are not maintained in Papua New Guinea which would enable statistics to be provided of the number and percentage of plantation owners who have established trade stores. It has been possible, however, to compile statistics of the number of stores operated by plantation owners and to calculate for each district the percentages that these totals represent of all trade stores In each district. The figures are as follows: 
by leave - In 1952 the Commonwealth Government and a Canadian company, Bulolo Gold Dredging Ltd, formed a joint enterprise, CommonwealthNew Guinea Timbers Ltd, to establish a veneer and plywood industry at Bulolo as a major pioneer industrial venture. The Commonwealth Government subscribed $1,500,002 to the paid up capital of $3m. In 1966 Bulolo Gold Dredging Ltd amalgamated with Placer Development Ltd. The Commonwealth Government has now approved the sale of the Commonwealth's shareholding in CommonwealthNew Guinea Timbers Ltd to the Investment Corporation of Papua New Guinea. The Commonwealth would make provision for long term loan finance on favourable terms to enable the Investment Corporation to take up the Commonwealth's shareholding. 
The Government's policy is to encourage overseas investment in Papua New Guinea which will assist in developing the country on a sound and balanced basis. It looks to such investors to meet a number of condi tions including the provision of opportunities for a significant local share in ownership. The Investment Corporation was set up to enable this condition to be realised in cases where the people of Papua New Guinea lack the financial resources or the knowledge to take advantage of such opportunities individually. The Corporation is empowered to obtain a share in the ownership and control of selected major overseas investment projects and hold this share for future sale to individual Papuans and New Guineans. The Corporation commenced operations at the beginning of the year and this represents its first major acquisition. It is fitting that with the progress of Papua New Guinea towards self government the Commonwealth's interest in this highly successful partnership with private enterprise should pass to the Investment Corporation. In 1970-71 the plywood factory of Commonwealth-New Guinea Timbers Ltd produced 42 million square feet of plywood of which 26 million square feet valued at $2.5m were exported. The company also produces sawn and dressed timber as part of its Bulolo operations. 
The Government has also endorsed proposals for subsequent consolidation of Commonwealth-New Guinea Timbers Ltd with other interests in Papua New Guinea owned by Placer Development. This will extend the range of business interests in which there is local equity through the Investment Corporation which will have a substantial shareholding in the consolidated company, one of Papua New Guinea's major industrial enterprises. In due course a Bill to repeal the New Guinea Timber Agreement Act, passed in 1952 to approve the agreement between the Commonwealth and Bulolo Gold Dredging Ltd with respect to the formation of CommonwealthNew Guinea Timbers Ltd, will be brought before the House. The present arrangements for duty free entry into Australia of 16 million square feet of Papua New Guinea plywood annually, will be maintained. 
by leave - I wish to advise the House of recent events in Papua New Guinea which may be of interest to honourable members. Elections were held in February and March of this year for the third Papua New Guinea House of Assembly which will run until 1976. These elections were contested by 3 main political parties, namely, the United Party, the Pangu Party, the People's Progress Party, a number of smaller parties such as the New Guinea National Party, and political associations such as the Mataungan Association and a number of independent candidates. The results of the elections gave no one party a majority in the 100 elected member House of Assembly, but shortly before the opening of the House on 20th April the Pangu Party entered into a coalition with the People's Progress Party, the New Guinea  National Party, the Mataungan Association group and a group of independents led by the former  Speaker, Dr John  Guise, to form a governing coalition group. This group was successful in setting up a Ministerial Nominations Committee of the House of Assembly and, following agreement between the Committee and the Administrator, in having the House endorse its list of members to form the executive government of Papua New Guinea. 
Following acceptance by the House of Assembly of the coalition's list I formally created 17 Ministries and the Ministers then elected one of their number to be the  Deputy Chairman  of the Administrator's Executive Council. The Ministers elected  Mr Michael  Somare, the parliamentary leader of the Pangu Party, to tie the  Deputy Chairman  of the Administrator's Executive Council and the House of Assembly in turn endorsed that election. Following discussions between the Administrator and the  Deputy Chairman  of the Administrator's Executive Council, the Administrator recommended to me the allocation and distribution of portfolio responsibilities among the Ministry and those Ministers who should make up the elected membership of the Administrator's Executive Council. On 28th April I executed instruments under the Papua New Guinea Act giving effect to these recommendations. I am placing copies of these instruments in the Library for the information of honourable members. 
May I say finally that I and the Government look forward to working closely with the newly elected members of the House of Assembly and, in particular, with members of the Administrator's Executive Council. Already I have had a number of discussions with them and I look forward to continuing those discussions. As honourable members are aware, the Deputy Chairman of the Administrator's Executive Council, who is in effect the Chief Minister, and 4 of his Ministers will arrive in Canberra tonight. Bearing in mind the -distinctive role that the House of Assembly has in the move towards self-government we welcome their arrival in Canberra, albeit on this occasion it is primarily to discuss budgetary matters. We wish them well during their term of office. 
This is a Treasury Bill dealing with a loan in order to provide telecommunications. It is not a Bill introduced into this House by myself or dealt with by my Department per se as a guarantee Bill on Papua New Guinea. As a consequence, 1 shall not deal generally with the development of Papua New Guinea in the broad but shall relate my brief remarks to matters covered by the Bill and flowing therefrom. There are one or two points arising from the speech of the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  to which I should like to refer. I shall mention the major points which arose near the end of his speech before returning to the matters under discussion. I point out that both my predecessor and I stated that, although Papua New Guinea has what generally is regarded as a Westminister system of government, this is the provision of a system of government which is not immutable or inflexible and, indeed, it is capable of adaptation by a future government of Papua New Guinea as it sees fit. At this juncture, I shall leave that point. A fortnight ago 1 mentioned a short background description to recent events in Papua New Guinea - the formation of the new Government - and I shall not traverse that area now. 
International lending agencies are playing an important role in the provision of finance for Papua New Guinea. Total Papua New Guinea borrowings from international agencies including those negotiated this year for telecommunications and ports amount to $60.6m. This is made up of $39. 3m from the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, $ 17.5m from the International Development Association and $3.8m from the Asian Development Bank. The greater part of these borrowings has been for telecommunications, roads, ports and hydro-electricity projects. Further borrowings are expected to be made in future years for additional infrastructure development. 
With the help of Australian aid and international financial assistance the Papua New Guinea economy has expanded at a remarkable rate over recent years and has gained greater stability through a successful policy of diversification. Gross national product - outside the subsistence economy - increased by over 14 per cent per annum between 1965-66 and 1968-69 and by 33 per cent in 1969-70, although that was largely as a result of the development of the Bougainville copper project. New agricultural crops have been introduced, mining has achieved major significance, large forestry and fisheries projects are under way or have reached an advanced stage in planning while the expansion of secondary industry continues at a fast pace 
Transport facilities and telecommunications are of critical importance - the latter was mentioned by the honourable member for Melbourne Ports - to both economic and social development and contribute to the cohesiveness and national consciousness of the country. In this financial year expenditure on communications in the broadest sense - roads, bridges, ports, airfields, telephone and radio links - will exceed $55m. This is a considerable investment and there will be continuing demands for better access to remote areas and improvements to existing facilities to reduce the burden of costs. It will of course be difficult for Papua New Guinea leaders to find the means to meet these needs. The demand for funds for these needs will compete with other equally pressing social, urban and other demands. 
The rapid development of the economy therefore has placed great strain on port facilities. Cargo handled at Port Moresby increased from 354,000 tons in 1967-68 to 464,000 tons in 1970-71, and cargo handled at Lae port increased from 292,000 tons to 544,000 tons over the same period. Despite a 3 shift system, ship delays are serious and are increasing at Lae. At Kieta significant growth in cargo traffic has accompanied the Bougainville copper mining development, whilst at Alotau a new port on the mainland at Milne Bay is being developed to replace the old island port at Samarai. 
Port improvements to be made with International Development Association financial assistance will include land reclamation and storage facilities at Port Moresby; construction of a deep water berth at Lae as an extension of the existing wharf; construction of coaster berth facilities at Kieta; and construction of a wharf at Alotau. The loan to which the Bill under consideration relates is to further improve telecommunications following the 4 year programme, proceeding since 1968 with World Bank assistance, with the aim of improving the local network and access to international communications. 
The framework for expansion and diversification of the economy has been laid down in the Papua New Guinea development programme which covers the period 1968-69 to 1972-73. Under the pro gramme Administration expenditure is expected to total about $ 1,000m of which about half will be contributed by the Commonwealth Government. In addition to this, net expenditure by Commonwealth departments in Papua New Guinea should be of the order of SI 60m over the period. 
The present 5-year programme will be completed in 1973 and a new 5-year national development programme is being prepared. Later this year the Administration will present the main issues of the new programme in a White Paper to the House of Assembly. The preparation of the programme can then be guided by the reaction of the House and of the wider public to the White Paper. The draft plan itself will again be fully debated in the House of Assembly. 
Once the plan has been approved, the House of Assembly members will no doubt be active in encouraging their people to work towards its fulfilment. The success of the plan will depend also on contributions by Australia and on other foreign aid so that the national programme will not only need to be acceptable to the people of Papua New Guinea but also must inspire confidence beyond Papua New Guinea and attract outside support. The new programme will seek to further strengthen Papua New Guinea's capacity increasingly to mobilise its own domestic resources for continuing economic growth. 
Approximately a fortnight ago I informed the House of the sale of the Commonwealth's interest in Commonwealth New Guinea Timbers Ltd to the Papua New Guinea Investment Corporation and mentioned the important role of the Corporation in encouraging foreign investment whilst providing opportunities for a significant local share in the ownership of major new enterprises. The Government's guidelines for foreign investment in Papua New Guinea seek to promote increasing opportunities for Papuans and New Guineans in both ownership and management of major enterprises and encourage the optimum use of Papua New Guinean resources. 
I have no doubt that the new Papua New Guinea coalition leaders have the wisdom to continue with a policy of actively encouraging the introduction of foreign investment and know-how subject to the appropriate guidelines. I am confident, too, that Australians will continue to avail themselves of promising investment opportunities in Papua New Guinea, thereby demonstrating their confidence in Papua New Guinea's future to investors from other countries. I commend the legislation to the House. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
Message from Governor-General recommending appropriation announced. 
The honourable member is correct in describing the Gazelle Peninsula as a focal point of controversies, disturbances and difficulties that have been encountered. This was a major contributing factor in my decision to seek out both the members of the House of Assembly who represent the area and members of the Gazelle Local Government Council when I went to Rabaul some months ago. I was able to hold discussions with them and the future of the Gazelle Local Government Council was discussed. Of course, this is not primarily within my jurisdiction. It comes within the jurisdiction of the Papua New Guinea Local Government Minister, but I felt that it was a matter of such importance that I ought to raise it with the members and councillors concerned. Subsequently the Administrator's Executive Council discussed the matter and resolved that the parties involved, namely the Gazelle Local Government Council, the Warbete villagers and in particular the Mataungan Association, should be brought together for discussions, if possible. In fact that has eventuated. 
Discussions were held between the 3 groups and it was decided by them that the Gazelle Local Government Council ought to be suspended and replaced by a management body. I understand this has taken the form of a recommendation to the Administrator's Executive Council which, I am advised, will consider the matter next Tuesday, 30th May and then recommend what future action should be taken. Naturally, we welcome these decisions that have been taken and the discussions that will eventuate. 
Both contract officers and permanent officers are covered by legislation that does give them* an opportunity to resume careers back in Australia. What the honourable member for Leichhardt is talking about, I assume, are the representations that have been made to me by the Public Service Association in particular. I have had 3 discussions with representatives of that association since becoming Minister for External Territories. I have indicated to them that I am keeping a close watch on the movements within Papua New Guinea and I am carefully considering the matters that have been placed before me. When the Government reaches a decision on the representations that have been made to me and when I have had an opportunity to discuss them with the Administrator's Executive Council, I will be able to give the honourable member further information. 
For the information of honourable members I present the report of the General Assembly of the United Nations on the administration of Papua New Guinea for the year ended 30th June 1971. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
I wish to make a very short personal explanation. 
Yes. On reading the Hansard report of 24th May, I realised that a question asked of me by the honourable member for Leichhardt  (Mr Fulton)  and an answer supplied by me may well be open to misinterpretation. I therefore wish to clarify one aspect. I said amongst other things: 
Both contract officers and permanent officers are covered by legislation that does give them an opportunity to resume careers back in Australia. 
It is of course correct that permanent officers are covered by legislation. It is also correct that contract officers seconded from the Commonwealth or the States who have their rights preserved in their home services are also covered by legislation, but other contract officers are not. I wanted to clarify that point. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
139 local officers lodged appeals against the provisional promotions of 78 overseas officers. 4  of  these appeals were successful 
442 overseas officers lodged appeals against the provisional promotions  of  52 local officers.  9 of  these appeals were successful. 
The appeals were heard by Promotions Appeal Committees, consisting of a  Chairman  and two members, established in accordance with Part IV, Division 4 of the Public Service (Papua New Guinea) Ordinance 1963-1971. During 1971  Mr J.  B. Sullivan was the occupant of the office of  Chairman  of the standing Promotions Appeal Committee and was engaged full time on committee work. For part of the year a second Promotions Appeal Committee was established on a part-time basis to deal with a backlog of appeals and  Mr F.  E. Daveson, a senior officer of the Department of Education, was appointed  Chairman  pro tern of that committee. As required by the Public Service Ordinance the other members of both these committees represented the department concerned and the appropriate staff association. These two members would not be common for all appeal hearings conducted by the committees. 
I mention for the information of the honourable member that the Public Service Ordinance was amended in March 1972 by the Public Service (Promotion and Recruitment Procedures) Ordinance 1971. The Ordinance now provides for appointments, promotions and transfers in the Public Service of Papua New Guinea to be dealt with by selection committees whose decisions are not subject to appeal by officers. The new system is designed to speed up localisation and incorporates procedures under which local officers can be advanced to positions at higher levels solely on the basis of their efficiency and without the requirement to win promotion in competition with overseas officers. (See also answer to question 5370). 
Papua New Guinea Administration: Staff from Africa  (Question No. 5733) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes but not for Police Force. 
The countries and numbers involved are: 
Zambia - 3 
Libya- 1 
Kenya- 2 
Ethiopia - 1 
Tanzania - 1 
Malawi- 1 
Congo- 1 
The duties presently being performed by these employees are as follows: 
Six Education Officers 
Two Medical Officers 
One Specialist Medical Officer 
One Rural Development Officer 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Expenditure incurred in Papua New Guinea in 1970-71 by Commonwealth Departments and authorities which receive financial support from the Commonwealth Budget is shown below: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The matter referred to is one which falls within the authority of the Minister for Lands and Environment in the House of Assembly for Papua New Guinea. The Minister has provided the following information: 
The picture theatre lease was readvertised on 22nd July 1971 and was granted to  Mrs Opa 
Galli on 17th February 1972. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Detailed proposals for the establishment of a statutory office of Public Solicitor and the scope of legal aid which should be given will be presented shortly to the new Administrator's Executive Council for its consideration. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The matter referred to is one which falls within the authority of the PapuaNew Guinea Minister for Local Government who has provided the following information: 
towns not yet included in any local government council area are Buin, Bulolo, Kavieng, Kokopo, Kwikila, Mumeng and Wau; 
Wau and Bulolo are about to be included in the adjacent council area; 
the inclusion of Kavieng, which was to have proceeded earlier, did not receive approval from the established council with which it was to have been included, although it is now understood this attitude may have changed, and advice from the council is awaited. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. The section of the Public Service (Papua New Guinea) Ordinance 1963-1971 relating to preference in promotion, transfer or appointment for local officers has been repealed by the Public Service (Promotion and Recruitment Procedures) Ordinance 1971 (No. 11 of 1972). The latter Ordinance provides for a new system of selecting officers for promotion or transfer and for appointments to the Public Service. 
The new procedures require that all vacancies which are to be filled must be advertised. Applications are considered by Selection Committees consisting of a chairman (an officer of the Department of the Public Service Board), a representative of the department in which the vacancy exists and a representative of the appropriate staff association. The appropriate Committee is required to select the most efficient applicant within the Public Service for promotion or transfer to the vacancy. If an overseas officer is selected as the most efficient applicant the Committee is required to determine whether any local officer applicant has a level of efficiency which would enable him to satisfactorily carry out the duties of the office. If there is such a local officer applicant the Committee issues a 'localisation certificate' in respect of that officer. Where there is more than one so qualified the Committee certifies the most efficient. The successful overseas officer is then promoted but transferred to another position of equivalent classification, and the local officer named in the 'localisation certificate' is promoted to the advertised vacancy. The decision of a committee is not subject to appeal. 
In relation to appointment to the Public Service the new procedures provide that vacancies may be filled by recruitment from outside the Public Service only where there are no applications from within the Service or where the Selection Committee is satisfied that no internal applicant is suitable for the position. The engagement of overseas staff is limited to those categories of employment for which local persons with the required qualifications or experience are not available. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Two Papua New Guineans have been appointed as Associate Commissioners of the Papua and New Guinea Electricity Commission. They are  Mr John  Akunai and  Mr Toua  Kapena, C.B.E. 
There is no indigenous representation on the Papua New Guinea Superannuation Board which provides pension benefits for overseas officers. There is however, a Public Officers' Superannuation Board which provides pension benefits for local officers on which there is indigenous representation. 
The composition of that Board is: 
Chairman (part-time) - M. Lavin, Representative of the Administration 
Member (Ex-officio; part-time) - S. W. Caffin, Commonwealth Actuary 
Member (part-time) - J. Natera, Contributors' Representative (indigenous) 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Fifteen claims have been met. 
(a) Three formal applications are being investigated. 
There were five preliminary enquiries concerning eligibility. Information and application forms have been provided. It is not possible to estimate future applications. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There are 107 legal practitioners residing in Papua New Guinea. , 
Of these, 37 do not hold Administration positions, retainers, or appointments. 
28 have their principal offices in Port Moresby, 3 in Lae,5 in Rabaul and 1 in Kieta. 
Administration sponsored students for law studies are as follows: 
The matters referred to are ones which fall within the authority of the Minister for Local Government and the Minister for the Interior in the Papua New Guinea House of Assembly, who have provided the following information: 
To be eligible to vote in the elections for the Gazelle Peninsula Local Government Council a person must not be less than 18 years of age and must have been resident in the proclaimed council areas. The proclaimed areas consist of areas deemed native customary usage to be occupied by members of certain specified village group or occupied by persons residing on specified native lands. 
Polling times and places are publicised at regular intervals before the elections throughout the Council area. 
A person is qualified as a taxpayer if he is eligible for enrolment as an elector. 
As at 19th May 1972 there were no persons at Kerevat Central Corrective Institution serving sentences for failure to pay taxes. 
The maximum term of imprisonment which may be imposed for non-payment of tax to a local government council is six months. Persons serving sentences of less than two years do not earn pay under the provisions of regulation 133 of the Corrective Institutions Regulations. 
The estimated daily cost of upkeep of a detainee at Kerevat Central Corrective Institution is one dollar seventy-nine cents ($1.79). 
 The answer to the honourable member's question as at 31st March 1972 is as follows: 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Persons designated Administrative Advisers to local government councils include 
22 indigenes and 
109 expatriates. 
Persons not designated Advisers but having duties wholly concerned with assistance to local government councils, including finance officers, assistant finance officers, local government officers, local government assistants and patrol officers, total 
54 indigenes and 
45 expatriates. 
In addition there are 47 specialist advisers (11 indigenes and 36 expatriates) in the following fields - 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The matter referred to is one which falls within the authority of the Minister for Lands and Environment in the Papua New Guinea House of Assembly. The Minister has provided the following information. 
and (2) (a) Commercial- 
Port Moresby- Expatriates one, Indigenes 3. One lease held by an expatriate and an indigene as tenants in common. 
The answer to the honourqble member's question is as follows: 
The information which my predecessor gave on industrial tribunals and awards in Papua New Guinea (which appeared in Hansard of 7th April 1970 at page 770 and 20th April 1971 at page 1731) has been consolidated and brought up to date for the period 1st January 1965 to 25th May 1972 and is as shown in the following: 
(a) No industrial councils have functioned. 
Three Boards of Inquiry were appointed. 
Five Arbitration Tribunals were appointed under the Industrial Relations Ordinance. In addition a Public Service Conciliation and Arbitration Tribunal was established in 1969 to replace the Public Service Arbitration appointed under the Arbitration (Public Service) Ordinance 1952-68. 
The following table gives information on the date of establishment and membership of the boards of inquiry and arbitration tribunals: 
I have not yet received a record of the statement attributed to an Indonesian general in the 'Australian' newspaper today. But the statement that was attributed to him, I can say, does not reflect the policy of either the Government of Australia or the Papua New Guinea Ministry. To say it does not reflect it is probably the most honest and certainly the most charitable thing one can say about the statement as reported. We have no intention of deporting to Indonesia people who have been granted permission to reside in Papua New Guinea on grounds that they fear persecution in Indonesia. The honourable member is correct in questioning whether there has been a transfer of power in this area. In fact, 8 persons have applied for permissive residence and this has been refused. But it has been refused by the national coalition Government of Papua New Guinea. The power, as it is exercised and has been for some years, is that application is made to the Papua New Guinea Government by persons who may come from another country. The Papua New Guinea Government considers each application and if it believes that there is a prima facie case for acceptance of an application it is referred to Australia. If an application is rejected, it is rejected by that Government and not by the Australian Government and, after all, this is a decision that should reside within the power of the Papua New Guinea Government. On this occasion the applications were considered by the Government of Papua New Guinea and were rejected for reasons based on the normal line of the policy it adopts. The applications were considered in accordance with the normal guidelines and principles of the United Nations Convention on Refugees. The decision was one for the Papua New Guinea Government and that Government alone. It was supported, I understand, by a statement by the Chief Minister of Papua New Guinea this afternoon. 
Whether the actual words attributed to the general are correct or not certainly the inference, indeed the headline, that it was a decision by the Australian Government is incorrect. It was a decision by the Government of Papua New Guinea taken after full consultation with the Administrator's Executive Council and it is in keeping with the powers vested in the Government of Papua New Guinea. After all, Papua New Guinea is that Government's country and that Government is entitled to determine who resides therein and whether people have entered illegally or not. If a person is seeking political asylum that is a different matter. If he is basing an application on the grounds that he fears persecution from the Government of West Irian that is another matter. But the decision taken in this instance is a decision that we can support. It is a decision taken by the Government of Papua New Guinea as it ought to be. 
Another point I might add in conclusion is that, as I understand it, the Australian Government is not aware of any proposal, as referred to in the statement contained in the newspaper this morning, for a joint patrolling of the Papua New Guinea-West Irian border. There are, of course, some patrols by the Administration and by the Pacific Islands Regiment along the border. Also, of course, there are patrols on the other side of the border by the Indonesian Army and the authorities of West Irian. The proposition, as stated in the newspaper, of a joint patrol of the Papua New Guinea-West Irian border has not been considered. Such a proposal would, of course, involve a departure from our present policy and would require consideration by both the Australian Government and the Papua New Guinea Ministers. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now  read a  second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to remove the limitation on the number of offices of Minister of the House of Assembly for 
Papua New Guinea which can be created by the Minister for External Territories. 
Section 24 (1) of the Papua New Guinea Act 1949-1971 provides for such number, being not more than 17, of offices of Minister of the House of Assembly as the Minister for External Territories from time to time determines. Seventeen offices of Minister of the House of Assembly, the maximum number permitted, were created by me on 26th April 1972, following nomination for ministerial office of a list of 17 members by the House of Assembly with the concurrence of the Administrator. 
A formal request has now been received from the Papua New Guinea Government asking the Australian Government to amend the Papua New Guinea Act 1949-1971 so as to permit the creation of additional offices of Minister of the House of Assembly. The Chief Minister of Papua New Guinea,  Mr Michael  Somare, requested the change to permit him to give effect to certain proposals for the enlargement of the Papua New Guinea Ministry. lt should be pointed out that the Bill does not alter the present arrangements whereby additional Ministers cannot be appointed without the House of Assembly taking part in the process through its Ministerial Nominations Committee. 
The Australian Government has for many years adopted the attitude that no obstacle should be placed in the way of a smooth and orderly transition to self government in Papua New Guinea. The Government has consistently maintained that the initiative for constitutional development should lie with the House of Assembly to which it looks to represent the views of the majority of the people. 
The purpose of the Bill is to give effect to this request by the Papua New Guinea Government to remove the limit on the number of Ministers of the House of Assembly which can be created. The Bill is a simple one, but it represents another step forward in Papua New Guinea's movement to self government and independence, on terms determined by the people of Papua New Guinea themselves. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Hayden)  adjourned. 
I move: 
That the Bil] be now read a second time. This Bill repeals the New Guinea Timber Agreement Acts of 1952 and 1953. In an earlier statement to the House on 9th May 1972, I announced that the Commonwealth Government had approved the sale of the Commonwealth's 50 per cent, shareholding in Commonwealth New Guinea Timbers Ltd to the Investment Corporation of Papua New Guinea. On 29th June 1972 these shares were transferred to the Investment Corporation. 
A condition of the sale of the Commonwealth's interest m Commonwealth New Guinea Timbers Ltd was that upon transfer of the shares to the Investment Corporation the other major shareholder in Commonwealth New Guinea Timbers, Placer Development Ltd, would arrange an amalgamation of all other wholly owned Placer assets in Papua New Guinea. with those of Commonwealth New Guinea Timbers. To this end an amalgamation agreement with Placer Development Ltd has been endorsed by the Board of Commonwealth New Guinea Timbers, with the result that the respective shareholdings in the consolidated company, which will still be known as Commonwealth New Guinea Timbers Ltd, will be held 65 per cent by Placer and 35 per cent by the Investment Corporation. I consider this arrangement a most satisfactory outcome to the sale of the Commonwealth's assets in Commonwealth New Guinea Timbers to the Investment Corporation. 
It is the Government's policy in the ,ong term interests of Papua New Guinea that overseas companies operating in Papua New Guinea should provide opportunities for Papua New Guineans to participate in their ventures at all levels. In line with this policy it is the intention of the Investment Corporation, through equity acquisitions such as Commonwealth New Guinea 
Timbers Ltd, to afford the people of Papua New Guinea an opportunity to share in the ownership and control of major enterprises largely financed from outside Papua New Guinea. For this purpose the Investment Corporation is concentrating on building up a diversified portfolio of investments in Papua New Guinea. As a result the people of Papua New Guinea will, possibly in 1973, be given an opportunity to participate directly in these investments through unit trusts or similar arrangements. 
Commonwealth New Guinea Timbers Ltd can be expected to continue to make a substantial contribution to the economic growth of Papua New Guinea in the field of plywood manufacture, and now also in cattle production and mineral development. This in turn will provide further opportunities for Papua New Guineans to obtain employment and training in these important activities. 
Yes, but a 35 per cent interest in the Investment Corporation is being held for the people of Papua New Guinea, which is a substantial share of the dividend which would be paid over. So the benefit is not solely to the amalgamated company; it is also to the people of Papua New Guinea themselves. In this regard it is interesting to note the degree of progress which has been achieved by Commonwealth New Guinea Timbers over the past decade in the training of Papua New Guineans to accept positions within the company which demand considerable skill and ability. 
Throughout the past 10 years the level of employment of Papua New Guineans in Commonwealth New Guinea Timbers has averaged approximately 500. In 1962 only 26 of these were classified as skilled whereas today this number has increased to just under 200. 
Positions of skill include tradesmen and apprentices in most of the crafts, complex machine operators in the plymill, plant and equipment operators in the logging operations as well as clerical positions in the administrative functions of the company. At present there are 13 cadets undergoing training for the more advanced levels of management and the company is confident that Papua New Guineans will become more and more involved as opportunities occur. 
The successful partnership between the Commonwealth and Placer Development Ltd, which originated with the New Guinea Timber Agreement Acts of 1952 and 1953, has now come to an end, and this Bill proposes the repeal of the Acts which approved the 1952 Agreement and brought this partnership about. 
I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Hayden)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Chief Electoral Officer of Papua New Guinea has supplied the following statistics: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The matter referred to is one which falls within the authority of the Minister for the Interior in the House of Assembly for Papua New Guinea. The Minister for the Interior has provided the following information: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The matters referred to fall within the authority of the Minister for Education in the House of Assembly for Papua New Guinea. 
The Minister for Education has provided the following information: 1 (a) (i) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The law of Papua New Guinea does not require that Resident Magistrates should have legal professional qualifications, although Stipendiary Magistrates must be so qualified. One Resident Magistrate,  Mr T.  Mitchell, has a law degree and the other Resident Magistrates have had legal training at the Australian School of Pacific Administration or have passed in some units of a law degree course, or both. All Resident Magistrates have had extensive practical experience as Magistrates. 
(2)- 
Boroko (Port Moresby)-  (Mr K. Walters) 
Port Moresby- (Messrs P. F. Sebire and R. N. Desailly) 
Rabaul-  (Mr T. Mitchell) 
Kundiawa-  (Mr G. R. G. Wearne) 
Mt Hagen-  Mr B.  M. O'Neill) 
Kieta -  (Mr A. Besaparis) 

 Mr R. M. Claridge is on sick leave. 
MrI. B. Tuohy is on pre retirement leave. 
For the information of honourable members, I present the annual report on the Territory of Christmas Island for the year ended 30th June 1971; the annual report on the Territory of Cocos (Keeling) Islands for the year ended 30th June 1971; and the annual report on the Territory of Norfolk Island for the year ended 30th June 1971. 
in reply- I wish to refer briefly to matters raised particularly by the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  and by the honourable member for Kingston  (Dr Gun).  The term 'de facto self government' in fact should be used with great precision. If one uses the term 'de facto self government', ipso facto one is relating it to de jure self government. When one does that one also makes a distinction between self government as such - de jure self government - and independence. It is very important that people understand the distinction between self government and independence, particularly when discussing Australia's relationship with Papua New Guinea. The constitutional talks that I have been having with the Ministry in Papua New Guinea have related to the transfer of administrative and legislative functions leading up to self government in that country. 
The watershed in Australia's relations with Papua New Guinea will come at independence and not at self government, whether it be de jure or, indeed, de facto, because we have responsibilities to the United Nations. We are bound by our agreement with the United Nations to be responsible In a variety of areas. This means that the agreement is not executed until the date of independence - the date of independence as distinct from any date for self government - and we maintain a role and are bound to do so under the terms of our agreement with the United Nations. Our role includes, among other things, defence and external affairs. Therefore, we are required under the terms of our agreement to be responsible for the Pacific Islands Regiment. Having put that to the honourable member I say that it has been a view consistently stated by me that in regard to any functions prior to the attainment of self government and in regard to all functions still held by the Australian Government prior to the attainment of independence, I would seek the opinion of the Government of Papua New Guinea before exercising the power that was still residing with me. In other words, in the areas of residual power I would seek the views of the Government of Papua New Guinea. Therefore, in important areas such as the fields of defence and police, where Papua New Guinea itself is contributing the overwhelming majority of personnel in both areas, it is of the utmost importance that the Government of Papua New Guinea be involved in any decisions made in relation to them. 
The honourable member for Kingston queried the role of the spokesman. Honourable members should bear in mind that the spokesman for defence and the spokesman for the police were asked for by the Government of Papua New Guinea. In response to that request, as in so many other areas, we met that request. I would outline to the honourable member briefly, because we have only a moment to conclude the debate on this Bill, the fact that the spokesman will, of course, at this stage not have any powers of decision because the Australian Government will continue to be fully responsible for defence matters which is, as I say, in accordance with the requirements of the charter of the United Nations and, indeed, the New Guinea Trusteeship Agreement. So initially the functions of the spokesman will be limited to acting as a spokesman for the Administrator's Executive Council - the Papua New Guinea Cabinet - on defence matters in the House of Assembly, including answering parliamentary questions and making defence statements. He will also be advising the Papua New Guinea Government in the formulation of its views on defence matters when they are referred to it by my colleague the Minister for Defence  (Mr Fairbairn)  or myself. He will be the spokesman consulting with the Administrator on matters relating to the development, organisation and training of the Papua New Guinea defence forces and he will be making public statements on defence and attending to ceremonial duties in his capacity as defence spokesman. As a consequence he will need and we will be supplying - and he will be enmeshing with those who are training and localising there - a small defence section which will be established within the Department of the Administrator to assist him as a defence spokesman. 
As was pointed out in the communique referred to by the honourable member, the Chief Minister will be the defence spokesman in addition to his other duties and he will also be the spokesman for police. In regard to the question of the police force which was raised by the honourable member for Fremantle, this, of course, is also a basic power of government. It was touched on in the recent constitutional talks and, as I said, we agreed to the appointment of a police spokesman. 
It is true at this juncture, as has been stated elsewhere, that no decision on the timing of the handover of control of internal security, which is wider than just police functions, has been reached. However, the timing of the transfer of any responsibility for things such as internal security will be a matter for decision in the context of the developing political and administrative arrangements between Australia and Papua New Guinea. As stated in relation to the defence matters and any residual powers which we may hold, we will be exercising them, albeit with final responsibility being vested in us, but nevertheless in conjunction with the Government of Papua New Guinea. It is our role to ensure that they discuss decisions that primarily affect them at all levels. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
We oppose the amendment. We do so because, with respect. I do not think my second reading speech has been read in sufficient detail; otherwise there would be no need for this amendment. May I very succinctly say what we have done in regard to this investment or what the Investment Corporation of Papua New Guinea has done. I made my announcement on 9th May and it was accepted then by the Opposition through the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam).  I said that the Commonwealth Government had approved the sale of the Commonwealth's 50 per cent shareholding in Commonwealth New Guinea Timbers Ltd to the Investment Corporation of Papua New Guinea. That 50 per cent shareholding was transferred to the Corporation. A condition of the sale of the Commonwealth's interest in New Guinea Timbers was that upon transfer of the shares to the Investment Corporation, the other major shareholder, Placer Development Ltd, would arrange amalgamation of all its other interests in the fields - mining. mineral resources, mineral exploration and cattle breeding - and bring them together in the one amalgamated larger company to be known as Commonwealth New Guinea Timbers Ltd, and in that context of a much larger cake, if you like, the interest would be divided 65 per cent to Placer 
Development Ltd and 35 per cent to the Investment Corporation. 
I can say that at the time of the sale agreement negotiations the agreed net book value of Commonwealth New Guinea Timbers Ltd was $3. 2m. It was then to be owned 50 per cent by the Investment Corporation and 50 per cent by Placer Development Ltd. The amalgamation of other Placer subsidiaries in Papua New Guinea, valued at $2. 5m, into a new consolidated Commonwealth New Guinea Timbers Ltd, gave a total net book value of $5.7m of which the Investment Corporation's overall share was 28 per cent. 
As a result of complex financial considerations it was agreed that the Investment Corporation would receive 35 per cent of the share equity in the new Commonwealth New Guinea Timbers Ltd in return for the surrender of certain Commonwealth New Guinea debenture stocks held by the Investment Corporation as a result of the amalgamation of Placer interests. The overall result will be greater profitability for the Investment Corporation and therefore greater benefits to the people of Papua New Guinea. 
In conclusion, referring to the point about Japanese investment, I think we have to face the fact that as the pace of development in Papua New Guinea quickens and the search for export markets widens, we must expect a corresponding diversification in Papua New Guinea's sources of supply. It cannot simply be from Australia. I know that the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  is well aware of this fact. I think that in the year ended 30th June 1971 Japan supplied 17.2 per cent of Papua New Guinea's imports, the United States of America supplied 11.4 per cent, the United Kingdom supplied 3.9 per cent and Australia supplied 51.2 per cent. 
I will take note of the question asked and will write to the honourable member for KingsfordSmith  (Mr Lionel Bowen).  He would know the details of the negotiations which I outlined earlier in the year in a statement to this House which was accepted, as I said earlier, by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam).  I know that he is not making any implications but when a question such as this is raised I think I should look into it and advise him accordingly. I think he is well aware that our record on this matter is very good indeed. At the same time I do not know whether the allegations made by him are correct. The proper thing to do is to examine them. I will do so and correspond with him as soon as possible. 
At the moment I am not in a position to do so. The reason, in fairness to myself and to my Department, is as follows: I gave notice of this matter on 9th May and it is now Thursday, 17th August. The honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  asked why this Bill is being pushed through. He was given notice on 9th May. On Monday of this week- 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Cope&gt;Order! The Minister is now out of order. He can give his reply at the third reading stage. 

I shall do so at the third reading stage. 
Amendment negatived. 
Original question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
in reply - I wish that the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  would tell the truth. As far as I understand it, he knows very well that I received the request for information on Monday, the 14th of this month. Irrespective of when people put information to him, I received the request for information on Monday, 14th. He should also know that the outline of this legislation was given in this House on 9th May. He also knows that more than 24 hours ago I spoke with him and said I had some information at my fingertips, to use his own words, but that I did not think it. was sufficiently detailed to supply to him, and I sought further information. 
I did put. this to the honourable member, did I not? 
Let us face it. There was no cognisance or recognition of this in what the honourable member said a moment ago. He spoke as if I had not obtained the information and was deliberately seeking to prevent him from receiving the information he requested. In fact the information has been received by me today and I. will .be conveying it to the honourable member as soon as I possibly can. When the honourable member realises that he was given notice of this legislation on 9th May, that I received his request on 14th August and that the day on which I will supply the detailed information is 17th August, I think he will agree that the record is fairly satisfactory. .. 
-No it does not. 
No, it does not. The detail has been returned to the Investment Corporation of Papua New -Guinea, and the honourable member would well know that when he asks specific questions we have to seek the information from the Corporation, but I wanted to check with the Administration itself. The honourable member knows how the Investment Corporation is operating at the present time. 
I have a fair amount of information on royalty rates which have been imposed on Commonwealth ' New Guinea Timbers Ltd, and I will be supplying this to the honourable member. I hope to be able to do it before this day is out. The information is available and, as with most other things the honourable member has sought of me, not only do I try to be as expeditious as possible but I also try to convey to him as full an amount of information as is humanly possible. I think he would agree that that has generally been done. There is no intention, as he would well know, to mislead the House. In fact the legislation was put through on the basis that there appeared to be unanimity of purpose on the matter. This is what has been indicated to us in May. So it was a reasonable presumption that in this first week of the sittings before the Budget Bills commence being introduced we would get this Bill out of the way. It certainly was not any intention of the Government or myself to mislead. I will have the information conveyed to the honourable member as soon as possible. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a third time. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The total income received by life insurance companies operating in Papua New Guinea during 1970-71 is not known. Annual premium on life insurance policies existing in Papua New Guinea for the year ended 30th June 1971 was $4,181,000. Particulars of investments made by life insurance companies in Papua New Guinea during 1970-71 are not known. However, investments by life insurance companies in Papua New Guinea public loans in 1970-71 amounted to $6,200,000 including an amount of $3,275,000 invested in the special loan to finance the purchase of equity in the Bougainville Copper Pty Ltd for the benefit of the people of Papua New Guinea as a whole. 
In addition life insurance companies paid loans on mortgage and loans on security of policies amounting to $284,000 in Papua New Guinea in 1970-71. Particulars of the income of general (non-life) insurance companies operating in Papua New Guinea are not available. The only available information about investments is that these companies invested $305,000 in Papua New Guinea public loans in 1970-71. 
The information requested is not available. 
The Treasurer of Papua New Guinea regularly approaches all insurance companies operating in Papua New Guinea for subscriptions to public loans. 
The latest available information on employment by insurance companies is - 
68 indigenous employees 
181 non-indigenous employees. 
These figures include agents and brokers. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Yes. 
The Manpower Planning Unit published in February 1971 its report on 'The Demand for Professional Manpower in Papua and New Guinea 1971-1980'. A copy of the report has been placed in the Parliamentary Library. 
In the review of the development programme for Papua New Guinea for 1968-1973, published by the Administration in August 1971, it was acknowledged that on present enrolments and wastage rates there would be significant short falls in the supply of indigenous manpower at the Class A (professional) and Class B (sub-professional) levels for many years to come. The need for greater outputs from the tertiary institutions is recognised and will become possible as more and higher-standard students become available. 
The report of the manpower expert provided by the ILO as part of the preliminary phase of a programme of industrial and vocational training in Papua New Guinea was received by the Papua New Guinea Administration in March 1972. The report which is being studied by the Administration, has not yet been released for public information. 
The Commonwealth's attitude so far as the non-self-governing Territory of Cocos (Keeling) Islands is concerned is that the Commonwealth Government has absolute sovereignty and control over the islands. I shall answer the honourable member's question also in relation to some publicity which has appeared in the last 24 hours about a report which I received concerning the inhabitants of Cocos (Keeling) Islands. I would say that although the reports are accurate they present one side of the conditions on Cocos (Keeling) Islands. 
I would agree that it is a pretty tough side. If honourable members will bear with me they will receive my response. They will recall also that the Leader of the Opposition asked what action I have taken since administering the portfolio. Reports were placed before me after I assumed control of my Department and it was obvious and it was the opinion of my Department and of my predecessor, who received the report shortly before his retirement, that relations between  Mr 
Clunies-Ross and the inhabitants of Home Island - that part of the Cocos (Keeling) Islands on which his plantation is largely located - were not good. It was the firm view of my Department and myself that the relations between  Mr Clunies  Ross and those inhabitants required a fundamental reappraisal. I directed that this reappraisal should occur. When I talk of a reappraisal or a total reconsideration I remind honourable members that it could not be made overnight and that I am not referring to our acknowledged sovereignty over the Cocos (Keeling) Islands. I stress that firstly, because the relationship between  Mr Clunies-Ross  and the inhabitants is one that is based on the concept that he holds, namely, (hat he has absolute sovereignty over the inhabitants. This is a view with which I do not agree and we have expressed our view to  Mr Clunies-Ross. 
It will be recalled that  Mr CluniesRoss's  ancestors received control over the lands and that, in fact, he holds freehold title to the overwhelming portion of the lands in Cocos (Keeling) Islands. The Australian Government purchased portion of the lands from him and also holds other portions under licence. I say that the matter could not be solved overnight because of the differences of opinion I have just mentioned together with the interests of other departments. But it is the relationship between  Mr Clunies  Ross and the Home Islanders particularly that Government regards with such concern. It is a matter of regret that I was not able to visit the Cocos (Keeling) Islands last week-end but this visit will be taking place within the course of the next few weeks. We have been, as I say, acting for some months on the basis of the report which I received. We view the matter with concern. We are seeking to rectify it. The reappraisal, however, does not relate to the Australian Government's control over Cocos (Keeling) Islands but, in fact, to the relationship between  Mr Clunies-Ross  and the inhabitants of the Island. I intend to supply further details to the House after I have reported to the Government subsequent to my visit to Cocos (Keeling) Islands. 
For the information  of  honourable members I present a joint statement by myself and the Papua New Guinea Chief Minister on the constitutional discussions held during July and August this year. I also present a statement by the Chief Minister to the Papua New Guinea House of Assembly. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
and (3) The information requested under the heads 2 (a), 2 (b) and 2 (d) Hi the case of locally incorporated companies and under 2 (a), 2 (b), 2 (d) and 2 (e) in the case of foreign companies is recorded in the Companies Registration Office at Norfolk Island. In respect of 2 (c), the information requested would in the majority of cases not be ascertainable from the records held in that office as modern practice is to draft the memorandum of association in such a way as to allow a very extensive scope of possible- activities by the company concerned. 
However, having regard to the staff resources available to the Norfolk Island Administration, it would not be practicable to extract the information on record at the Companies Registration Office in respect of l*ie 1,556 companies that were registered there as at 30th June 1972 without the engagement of additional personnel. I have given careful consideration to the matter but am unable to see that the engagement of additional staff for such a purpose would be warranted, particularly in the light of the Government's recent announcement concerning the introduction of legislation designed to put a stop to Norfolk Island being used as a tax haven for the avoidance of income tax. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Additional information relating to changes in shares held and directors appointed, since 6th May 1971, by the Commonwealth, the Administration and their authorities in Papua New Guinea enterprises is set out below: 
THE COMMONWEALTH 
The Investment Corporation of Papua New Guinea has taken over the Commonwealth's share in Commonwealth-New Guinea Timbers Ltd. Reorganisation of the company together with a new valuation of the Commonwealth's former interest in the company has resulted in a reduction in the shares held from 750,001 shares of $2.00 each, being just in excess of 50 oer cent, to 525,000 shares of $1.00 each or 35 per cent. The number of directors on the board of the company has been reduced from 3 to 2. (Further details are given under (C) (ii) below). 
THE ADMINISTRATION OF PAPUA NEW GUINEA 
The Administration continues to hold 25,000,000 shares in Bougainville Copper Pty Ltd. However 5,000,000 additional shares were issed by Bougainville Copper Pty Ltd and the Administra tion's holding now represents a 19.2 per cent equity. Of the additional 5,000,000 shares, 1,000,000 were issued to the Investment Corporation of Papua New Guinea. Thus the combined Administration/Investment Corporation equity holding in the company remains at 20 per cent. 
The Administration's representative on the Board of The Bougainville Copper Pty Ltd,  Mr D.  Morland, retains his directorship but his designation has been changed to Assistant Director (Central Projects Division), Office of Planning and Co-ordination. 
(O OTHER PAPUA NEW GUINEA AUTHORITIES 
The Papua New Guinea Development Bank has increased its holding in Smuggler Motel Pty Ltd from 16,000 shares at $1.00 or 10 per cent to 25,400 shares at $1.00 or 15 per cent 

 Mr R. J. Hill (Senior Field Officer with the Bank) has replaced  Mr I.  C. Dickson as a director on the Board of Allied Enterprises Ltd. 
The Bank has taken up 6,000 shares at $1.00 representing 77 per cent of total equity in Hammond Motu Pty Ltd. lt has one director  (Mr R. J. Hill, Senior Field Officer with the Bank)  on the board of 7 (i.e. 14 per cent). 
The Administration's representative on the board of New Britain Palm Oil Development Ltd, (in which the Papua New Guinea Development Bank holds 50 per cent of the shares)  Mr A.  P. J. Newman, has been replaced by  Mr D.  Morland, Assistant Director (Central Projects Division), Office of Planning and Co-ordination. 
Investment Corporation of Papua New Guinea: Investment Corporation of Papua New Guinea now beneficially owns shares in 5 enterprises in Papua New Guinea. 
The answers to parts (1), (2), (3) and (4) of the original question in relation to the Investment Corporation are set out in the table below: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) As stated in my answer of 27th April 1972 (Hansard, 27th April 1972, page 2171) the matter referred to is one which falls within the authority of the Minister for Local Government in the House of Assembly for Papua New Guinea. The administrator, on the advice of the Minister,has advised that the figures for the Northern and Manus Districts, which were not included in my answer of 27th April 1972, are as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The texts of ILO Conventions are referred to the Administration of Papua New Guinea as they are adopted by the ILO. Under the ILO constitution the making of a declaration in respect of Papua New Guinea stating the extent to which the provisions of any convention should be applied does not, of course, arise unless and until Australia has ratified that convention. 
The Papua New Guinea Minister for Mines has informed me that he expects that legislation will be introduced at an early date which will, inter alia, raise the minimum age of all underground workers to 18 years of age. A committee has been established by the Administrator's Executive Council to examine all policy and legislation in relation to the mining industries with a view to the introduction of new comprehensive legislation. There will then be no impediment to the extension of the Convention of Papua New Guinea. 
by leave - Throughout the year this House has been kept informed of developments in Papua New Guinea, most recently when on 31st August 1972 I tabled 2 statements which resulted from constitutional discussions held with Papua New Guinea leaders in late July and early August. The Papua New Guinea House of Assembly has recently debated the timing of self government. On 27th June the Chief Minister made a statement in the House of Assembly in which he said: 
The view of my Government is that self government should not occur before 1st December 1973 but that it should come as soon as possible after that. 
He moved that the House take note of the paper. The debate was adjourned until the September meeting of the House. On 5th September the Chief Minister moved an amendment to the motion, adding 2 clauses which read: 
That the House: 
Request thai constitutional changes necessary for internal self government be brought into effect on 1st December 1973 or as soon as possible thereafter; and 
Interpret full self government for Papua New Guinea as leaving with the Commonwealth of Australia final powers only in the matters of defence and external affairs which it will exercise with the fullest consultation with the Government of Papua New Guinea. 
In speaking to the amendment the Chief Minister also cited internal security as one of the powers to remain in the hands of the Commonwealth Government after self government. After further debate, the House of Assembly on 19th September 1972 voted in favour of the resolution as amended by a majority of 18 (52 in favour, 34 against and 13 not voting). The Government, for its part, accepts the proposed timing which it notes has a degree of flexibility and will gear its own preparations accordingly. 
In doing so the Government has been obliged to consider whether a majority vote in the House of Assembly conforms with the terms of the United Nations Charter which requires that self government be brought about in accordance with the freely expressed wishes of the people. The Commonwealth Government has followed the policy that it should look to the House of Assembly to represent the wishes of the majority of the people. During my visit to Port Moresby on which I reported to the House on 31st August, I discussed with the Chief Minister and his colleagues how this policy should be put into practice. We agreed that important constitutional changes required a recorded vote in favour in the House of Assembly by a substantial majority of members, the majority being broadly representative of the country as a whole. 
In respect of the resolution on the timing of self government, I point out first that there was an interval of 2 months between the tabling of the motion and the vote on it. I also record that in only one of the 18 administrative districts was there no vote in favour of the motion. Honourable members will note that the Chief Minister referred to self government as leaving with the Commonwealth such powers as defence, internal security and external affairs. This broadly accords with the approach of the Commonwealth. Given the complicated nature of the administrative and legislative steps, some flexibility may be necessary in determining the full list of powers handed over by the chosen date for self government. Self government will be formally signified by amendments to the Papua New Guinea Act which will vest in the Papua New Guinea Government Executive Authority which now legally lies in the hands of the Commonwealth. I see no reason why this formal step should not be completed by the date set for self government in terms of the motion just approved by the House of Assembly. 
The Australian Government's policy towards Papua New Guinea has been to encourage self government but not to impose it. Australia's formal obligations to Papua New Guinea under the United Nations Charter are not completed until that country's independence. We have pledged aid and assistance beyond that time. Australia will not remain involved in Papua New Guinea except in accordance with the wishes of the majority of the people as represented by the House of Assembly. If we are asked to continue to assist we will. There is no question of Australia deciding unilaterally to withdraw its involvement in Papua New Guinea. In informing the House of the Government's acceptance of the timing for self government as endorsed by the House of Assembly, I affirm that it is our intention to put our utmost effort into preparations for effective and responsible self government in Papua New Guinea. The Government has confidence in Papua New Guinea's leaders and their deep concern for planning the future of their country. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
At 31  July  1972 a  total  of 2,230  persons  were employed. 
2,012. 
The Papua New Guinea Public -Service  is  arranged into three divisions as follows: 
First Division - DepartmentalHeads, and certain other officers as determined by the Minister. 
Second Division - All officers whose duties, are ofan administrative, professional or clerical nature. 
Third Division- All remaining officers. 
The Secretary, Department of Transport, is an expatriate officer of the First Division. The following table lists the various offices of the Department the occupants of which are included in the Second Division and shows the number of expatriate and indigenous staff employed in each: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The salaries and allowances paid to Ministers and Members of the Papua New Guinea House of Assembly are: 
I should like to be in a position to give a guarantee; but, as the honourable member would know, on a strict interpretation it is impossible to give the guarantee for which he has asked. The question is far too hypothetical. He has my assurance and the assurance of the Prime Minister that we are .treating this matter with the utmost sympathy and concern. I have had discussions with the Chief Minister over the past few days and well before that when the frosts were deemed to be serious. We have been talking last night and today about this problem. The discrepancy as to numbers is in the minds of those who may misinterpret what has been put to them. An estimate has been made that 30,000 to 40,000 people are at present wihout adequate food. If further supplies are not sent in, the number could reach 140,000 or 130,000- in that vicinitywithin 4 weeks or so. So the time frame is between now and then. We are doing all we can to ensure the sort of situation that I know is implicit in the honourable member's question. As for a guarantee, he knows that I cannot give it. But as for assistance, financial and otherwise, we are considering it and, of course, food supplies already have been dispatched from Sydney. Further food supplies will be sent with the assistance of the Royal Australian Air Force. We can ensure that the difficulties of communication in Papua New Guinea are surmounted by the utilisation of RAAF aircraft as well as the commercial aircraft that are there. 
I will certainly take note of the information contained in the honourable member's question and naturally will be discussing the matter further, as I implied in an earlier answer, with my colleagues, including the Prime Minister, and will take steps to ensure that the Minister for Primary Industry also is involved. 
I will in fact be in a better position to answer this with some further authority from the Chief Minister himself, who is visiting the area today, particularly those parts of it where there has been widespread drought and a degree of grass fires emanating from those areas. He wishes to visit the area personally and examine it and I hope to be speaking to him first thing tomorrow morning. I will take the steps to ensure that the information that I receive over the telephone is conveyed to the honourable member. So far as the situation in toto is concerned, there have been consistent relief flights by both the Royal Australian Air Force anil charter aircraft of food to the areas. It appears that there is sufficient food available at the present moment, and, of course funds from Australia to support the aircraft that are moving the food and also that sufficient personnel are assisting in the operation itself. I am not in receipt of a detailed investigation. Over and above the report I am expecting from the Chief Minister tomorrow morning I wanted a further report from the Administrator himself who, though not visiting the area, was drawing together the assessments of Administration officers in the field. He had been down here last week and was unable to do this for me. I expect to receive that also this week. I will make sure it is sent to the honourable member. The situation seems to be well in hand though, as the honourable member knows, the consequences of the severity of the frost together with the drought itself will be spread over a period of 4 to 5 months. Therefore we want to be quite vigilant over the months ahead, even though the operation at the moment seems to be moving successfully. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The matter referred to is one which falls within the authority of the Minister of . the House of Assembly for Mines. The Administrator, on the advice of the Minister for Mines has provided the following information: 
Data for Papua New Guinea supplementing the information shown for Australia in Table 36 (Value of Minerals produced and State Government collections of Royalties 1966-67 to 1970-71) in the Treasury Economic Paper No. 1 - Overseas Investment in Australia is as follows: 
Papua New Guinea Supplement to Table 36. Value of Minerals produced and State Government collections of Royalties 1966-67 to 1970-71 in the Treasury Economic Paper No. 1 - Overseas Investment in Australia.' 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The matters referred to, except where students are assisted or sponsored by the Papua New Guinea Public Service Board, now fall within the authority of the Ministers for Education, Health, Forests, and Agriculture Stock and Fisheries in the House of Assembly for Papua New Guinea. The Administrator, on the advice of the Ministers mentioned and the  Chairman  of the Papua New Guinea Public Service Board, has provided the following information: 
(i) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In answer to a previous question asked by the honourable member (No. 764, 6th May, 1970) it was indicated that the Public Solicitor had instituted civil proceedings in the District Court on behalf of Councillor To Rangis against Patrol Officer Lapthorne. On 28th June 1971 the hearing was completed and the claim by Councillor To Rangis was dismissed, with costs being awarded against him. The Stipendiary Magistrate found that although Councillor To Rangis had been struck by Patrol Officer Lapthorne, the patrol officer had justification for doing so in that he had been acting to prevent a breach of the peace. No compensation has been offered to Councillor To Rangis in this matter. 
The position with regard to  Mr Tabarang  Marum is unchanged from that described in an answer given by my predecessor to a similar question by the honourable member on 16 th February 1971 (No. 2027).  Mr Marum  has said that he does not wish to take any action against the police since he was well looked after by them and suffered no ill effects. 
Compensation of $50 was paid to  Mr Jerry  Tobebe on 16th July 1971 in exchange for a release executed by, him.  Mr Klak,  who was released from custody on 12th September 1970, did not accept an offer of compensation made to him. He has not instituted proceedings against the Administration. 
Commonwealth Employees Compensation  (Question No. 6086)  Mr Whitlam  asked the Minister for Social Services, upon notice: 
Will he supply information for 1971-72 on the Compensation (Commonwealth Employees) Act corresponding to the information which the Treasurer has supplied for previous years on the Commonwealth Employees Compensation Act. (Hansard, 23rd April 1971, page 2021 and 25th May 1972, page 3194.) 
On what aspects of the Act has the inteidepartmental committee reported since it was established on 7th April 1971. (Hansard, 6th May 1971, page 2840 and 25th May 1972. page 3194.) 
<para pgwide="yes">
 Mr Wentworth_ The answers to the t ember 1971 and repealed the Commonwealth  honourable member's questions are as foi-  Employees Compensation  Act  .1930,  as  amended,  lows:  For this reason the statistics for the year 1971- 
The Compensation (Commonwealth Employ- W72 fall into 2 periods. The Information  ls as  ees)  Act  1971 came into operation on 1st Sep- follows: 
Commonwealth Employees' Compensation Act 1930, as amended - Period 1 July 1971 to 31 August 1971 
Number of new cases: 2476 ) Amount paid under - $ 
Section 9 (accidents) .. ... ... ... ... ... .,. 392,660.85 
Section 9a (travelling) .. r. .,. .. ., ,:. 30,079.06 
Section 10 (disease) .. ... ... .. .. . 34,235.03 
Section 12 (specified injuries) .. . ... ... . .. 234,222.39 
Medical and funeral expenses .. ... ... ... ... ... 185,542.67 
876,840.00 
Compensation (Commonwealth Employees) Act 1971 - Period 1 September 1971 to 30 June 1972. 
Number of new cases: 20,772 
Amount paid under - ( 
section 27 (injury) 4,085,318.92 
Section 28 (accidents involving damage to artificial aids, etc., but no personal injury.) .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 1,538.19 
Section 29 (disease) .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 231,127.38 
Section 32-34 (journeys) ... ... .. ... .. .. 792,266.80 
5,110,151.19 
<para class="block" pgwide="yes">More detailed statistics concerning payments made under the Act are contained in the First Annual Report of the Commissioner for Employees' Compensation which was laid before the House on 18 October 1972. 
lt is not the policy of this Government to give information on these matters which concern advice to Ministers and arrangements between Ministers and their advisers. 
Papua New Guinea: Telephone Tapping Services  (Question No. 6216)  Mr Whitlam  asked the Minister for External Territories, upon notice: 
Under what conditions is telephone tapping now (a) permitted, (b) penalised or (c) practised in Papua New Guinea (Hansard, 3rd May 1971, page 2419). 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (b) The laws of Papua New Guinea have not changed since the answer given by my predecessor to the previous question asked by the honourable member. 
The Department of Posts and Telegraphs, at the request of the police, occasionally taps telephone calls ot an obscene or objectionable nature. The Department at the request of the police, also taps telephone calls where necessary in connection with criminal charges of a serious nature. New legislation to regulate the use of telephone tapping and listening devices generally has been introduced in the Papua New Guinea House of Assembly. 
 The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows - 
In 1971, 1,652 applictions for legal aid were granted by the Public Solicitor in Papua New 
Guinea. Of this total, 1,517 applications were made by indigenes and 135 by expatriates. 
The above figures do not include either applications in respect of which advice only is given, or matters referred by the Public Solicitor to the appropriate Government department Separate records are not maintained of these or of applications refused. In general however, no applications for legal assistance in criminal cases by persons requiring professional representation and who are eligible by the means test to receive legal aid have been refused. 
In answers to similar questions asked in former years, the number of applications received and refused were obtained following research. Because of staffing problems at the present time, such research cannot be carried out to provide the required statistics on this occasion. 
 The answer to the honourable  member's  question  is  as follows: 
During 1971 Papua New Guinea received assistance from United Nations bodies in the form of (a) loans and credits from the World Bank group (IBRD and IDA) and from the Asian Development Bank (ADB); (b) technical assistance consisting of expert services, oversea training fellowships and equipment from the World Health Organisation (WHO), the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and other UN agencies. The nature and extent of assistance received by Papua New Guinea in 1971 is sst out below. 
Loans and Credits from the World Bank Group and Asian Development Bank: 
IBRD $A19.5 (SUS23.2) million loan, for 35 years at 7.25 per cent per annum interest, to assist in the implementation of the Upper Ramu Hydro-Electric Scheme; 
Asian Development Bank $A3.8 ($US4.5) million loan, for 15 years at 3 per cent per annum interest, to assist in the general lending operations of the Papua New Guinea Development Bank. 
Details of loans and credits negotiated prior to 1971 were given on 17th August 1971 in answer to Question No. 2347. The execution of these projects proceeded during 1971. 
Assistance from the World Health Organisation. 
Assistance from WHO is based on a forward 3- year programme. The value of assistance from WHO for Papua New Guinea in 1971 was approximately $A 134,000 ($US 150,000). The nature of assistance received from WHO is set out below: 
Malaria Eradication: Provision of consultants and a number of fellowships at the Malaria Eradication Training Centre, Manila to assist in malaria eradication. The Consultants advised on methods of implementing a malaria eradication programme. 
Short-term Consultants: Short term consultants were engaged in the fields of - 
Education and training. Public health administration. Dental health. Nutrition. Immunology. Health education. National health planning. Child health. 
Obstetrics and gynaecology. 
Fellowships: Fellowships were awarded to Papua New Guinea officers for training in such fields as - 
Nursing education. Maternal and child health Preventive and social medicine. Dispenser training. 
Regular WHO seminars and workshops have been attended by Papua New Guinea personnel. 
Assistance from the United Nations Development Programme and other UN Agencies. 
The total value of UNDP and other UN Agencies assistance, excluding WHO, was $A497,00O ($US596,000). The nature of assistance received is set out below: 
UNESCO-UNDP Secondary Teachers College, Goroka. This project commenced in March 1968 to assist the Papua New Guinea Government in the establishment and initial operation of the College. The College trains teachers for the lower forms of secondary schools. The assistance is in the form of equipment, expert services and overseas training fellowships. The first phase of the project is due to expire by the end of 1972. The total UNDP assistance for the project is $A1.0 (SUS1.2) million of which $A249,262 (SUS299.114) was expended in 1971. 
ILO-UNDP Co-operative College, Laloki. The project is to assist the Papua New Guinea Government in the establishment and initial operation of the College and in the planning and implementation of field extension programmes for employees and members of Co-operatives together with owners of small businesses. Preparatory work with UNDP assistance commenced in 1969 and the actual project became operational in August 1970. The project is due for completion in mid 1974. The total UNDP assistance for the project is SA0.5 (SUS0.55) million, of which SA74.583 ($US89,500) was expended in 1971. 
UNESCO-UNICEF-UNDP assistance on Science Teaching and Science Education. The Project is to assist in the revision of curricula for both students and teachers at primary and secondary levels. This joint project commenced in February 1968. It is due for completion in 1973. The total assistance comprising expert services, oversea training fellowships and equipment is SA0.42 (US0.5) million, of which approximately SA95.000 (SUS1 14,000) was spent in 1971. 
ILO-UNDP assistance for Vocational and Industrial Training. This project which commenced in April 1970 for 1 year is to assist in the development of vocational and industrial training of Papua New Guineans. The assistance comprises expert services and oversea training fellowships. The total UNDP assistance for the project is  $A1  13,500 ($US136,200) of which SA48.590 (SUS58.308) was spent in 1971. 
UNESCO-UNDP assistance for the establishment of an Electronics Laboratory at the University of Papua New Guinea has been approved. This 2-year project did not become operational in 1971. The total UNDP assistance in the form of expert services and equipment is to be $A79,166 ($US95,000) none of which was spent in 1971. 
FAO-UNDP assistance on Home Economics. This project consists of expert services for 3 years to advise on home economics at village level. It commenced in January 1971. The total UNDP assistance for the project is SA70.833 ($US85,000) of which SA15.000 ($US18,000) was spent in 1971. 
UNESCO-UNDP assistance on Training of Laboratory Assistants. This is a 2-year project and became operational in January 1972. The total UNDP assistance of expert services and training fellowships is JA62.278 (SUS74.800) of which $A1,666 (SUS2,000) was spent in 1971 on preparatory activities for the project. UNESCO also contributed $A 12,600 ($US15,000) in equipment during 1971. 
ILO-UNDP technical assistance for Pottery Development. This project commenced' in June 1967, to develop a small scale pottery industry. Total UNDP assistance in the form of expert services is $A47,108 (SUS56.530) of which $A3,333 ($US4,000) was spent in 1971. 
UNIDO-UNDP assistance on Indigenous Entrepreneurship. The project consists of expert services to advise . on long range policy for the promotion of indigenous entrepreneurship on the basis of the experience in other developing countries. It commenced in June 1970, initially for 6 months, and was subsequently extended to October 1972. Total UNDP assistance for the project is $A33,750 (SUS40.500), of which JA5.000 (JUS6.000) was spent in 1971. 
ILO-UNDP assistance on Wood Carving Handicraft. A l:year project for the development of the artistic and skill aspects of wood work was approved. It bas not yet become operational due to the illness Df the ILO expert assigned to the project. Total UNDP assistance for this project is SA29.333 (SUS35.20O) none of which was spent in 1971. 
UNIDO-UNDP assistance on the Paper and Pulp Industry. This 1-year project consisted of expert services to advise on the feasibility of establishing a wood chip or pulp and paper indus try in Papua New Guinea. It commenced in February 1970. Total UNDP assistance was SA20.000 (SUS24.000) of which SA1.666 (SUS2.000) was spent in 1971. 
UNIDO-UNDP assistance for the development of Sericulture on a cottage industry basis. This project was for 6 months from June 1970 and was completed early in 1971. Total UNDP assistance consisting of expert services was SA11.666 (SUS14.000) of which SA1.666 (SUS2.000) was spent in 1971. 
UNDP-WHO Malaria appraisal. Expert services consisting of a UN economist and a WHO malariologist were provided for this 3- month project, from November 1970, which analysed the overall malaria programme in Papua New Guinea, particularly the advisability of initiating a malaria eradication programme or of continuing the existing control measures. The UNDP assistance for this project was $A10,700 (SUS12.000). 
FAO-UNDP South Pacific Commission regional project for the control of Coconut Palm Rhinoceros Beetle. This project is to assist in the evaluation of control measures and training of junior officers, lt commenced in 1964 and extends to 1972. UNDP assistance for the whole regional project is valued at JA0.5 (SUS0.6) million. 
FAO-UNDP South Pacific Commission regional project for the establishment of a regional Fisheries Development Agency in Noumea. The project is to determine fishing areas in the South Pacific region suitable for development. It commenced in March 1969, for 3 years. Total UNDP assistance for the project as a whole is JA0.33 ($US0.4) million. 
A number of oversea training fellowships were awarded in 1971 to Papuan New Guineans by UNDP and other UN agencies in fields such as decentralisation for development, telecommunications, public administration, for an approximate total value of $A5,082 ($US6,100). 
Assistance received by Papua New Guinea in 1971 from Commonwealth schemes and programmes in 1971 was as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The texts of ILO Conventions Nos 2 and 119 were referred to the Administration in 1967 and 1968. Under the ILO Constitution, the making of a declaration in respect of Papua New Guinea stating the extent to which the provisions of any Convention should be applied does not arise unless and until Australia has ratified that Convention. ILO Conventions Nos 2 and 109 were ratified by Australia on 15th June 1972. 
The Papua New Guinea Minister for Labour has recommended that a declaration should be made accepting the obligations of Convention No. 2 on behalf of Papua New Guinea and action is at present being taken to have this declaration communicated to the International Labour Office. The Minister for Labour has advised me that the making of an appropriate declaration for Convention No. 109 is under active consideration by his Department. 
Overseas Investment in Newspapers and Television and Radio Stations  (Question No. 6006)  Mr Calwell  asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
ls he able to say in which Australian newspapers, television and radio stations there is any overseas investment, from which countries this investment is derived and what is its extent in each case. 
ls there any current investigation into any or all of these matters being conducted by a committee of either House of the Parliament. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for External Territories. It is related to an important matter of principle, namely, the request made by the Papua New Guinea Government for the transfer to Papua New Guinea of power over internal security. Is it correct, as reported, that the Minister has stated that he has only noted this request, and is it correct that he will transfer this power only on certain conditions, one condition being that the transfer is revocable, in other words, that the power can be returned to the Australian Government at any time prior to Papua New Guinea gaining independence? 
As has already been stated, honourable members on this side of the House support the Bills before the chamber. May I say, viewing this legislation subjectively, that it gives me a great degree of satisfaction to know that there is such support, particularly for the Commonwealth Electoral Bill. When the former Leader of the Opposition, the present Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  in 1968 introduced the Adulthood Bill,  Mr Hughes,  the then honourable member for Parkes, who later became the honourable member for Berowra, the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  - though he did not have an opportunity to speak - and myself supported that legislation. I was not present in 1970 when the legislation came before the House. At that time the honourable member for Berowra was Attorney-General and for a variety of reasons could not find himself in support of the Bill. I always regretted that I was out of the country at that time. I reiterate today as I indicated in 1968 that I am in favour of the reduction of the voting age. In many ways - I know my colleagues will not mind me saying this because it is an historical factor  -  I wish that the legislation could have been introduced earlier. I believe that if the legislation had been introduced earlier the statistics which showed a diminution of support for my Party amongst those who were covered in his age group may not have occurred, but rather this would have been one of the factors which would have evinced the interest of the then Government in people of the age of 18, 19 or 20. 
I said in 1968, among other things, that the Adulthood Bill did not go far enough and I think that very real and valid arguments could be made now for introducing legislation which will provide greater opportunities for 18-year-olds. Although we accept the premise contained in this legislation that a person is more mature and indeed is able to exercise full franchise rights at 18, we do not extend that to the whole, concept of adulthood. I know that discussions have already taken place for amending the Marriage Act. I urge the Government to look at this matter further and to introduce relevant legislation concerning this matter, soldiers' wills, testaments, settlements, contracts and the like. Although many of these fields are legislated for by State governments the Australian Government also has power in certain areas. I do not think it is simply a matter of viewing this legislation on the basis of giving 18-year-olds the vote. It extends beyond that. The concept must be accepted that 18-year-olds are mature enough to take their place in the community as adults or we must provide on a conditional basis to meet their needs. This seems a strange approach to me because it is a conditional approach to the premise which we are accepting. The reduction of the age of majority and the age at which voting rights are gained is not the conscientious matter it was even 5 years ago when only a few honourable members this side of the House were prepared to support the matter. The seemingly natural human reaction in Australia of conservatism to reform does not prevail today. There was a time when arguments in favour of voting rights for women and Aborigines were also rejected. A similar situation used to exist concerning this matter. 
This subject has been considered in Australia by the Standing Committee of AttorneysGeneral. The Law Reform Commission of New South Wales considered the matter fully and recommended that the voting age be reduced to 18 years. The Standing Committee of Attorneys-General accepted this and made a report to the Government which, I think, deliberated along the lines which the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt)  mentioned today. As I have said, apart from voting rights, the questions of the age of marriage without consent, the age to contract, and matters relating to interests under wills and settlements have all to be considered. I also mention a matter which I omitted before, namely, jury service. Clearly a uniform approach is preferable, although in the United States and Canada in certain States and Provinces different rulings apply. 
The honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Lamb)  referred to the Latey Committee. I think that that Committee issued a most readable report. It is one of the few governmental commissions that not only has produced interesting material but also has  written it  in an interesting fashion. It submitted a report on the age of majority. It did not deal with the question of the voting age but it did concern itself with the concept of the age of maturity and recommended that the age of adulthood be reduced from 21 years to 18 years. The evidence put to the Committee and its conclusions are a valuable guide to any person interested in this subject. I will quote later from the Latey Committee's report and particularly I will refer to one remark by the honourable member for La Trobe. Apart from the Latey Committee's report and some of the words used in its recommendations, in the United States of America in 1968 former  President  Johnson, shortly prior to his termination of office, requested Congress to examine this matter. He said then that he hoped  to grant 'to youth  what we seek of them but still deny to them - full and responsible participation in our American democracy'. 
The British Medical Association in its evidence to the Latey Committee supported the view that adolescents today mature earlier than in previous generations. Other experts have estimated that the age of physical maturity has been reducing by some 4 months per decade in Western Europe over the period 1830 to 1960. They are the latest figures available to me. The fact therefore is accepted that boys complete their growth on average at 17 years of age and probably earlier. That figure certainly can be compared with male maturity at 23 years of age at the turn of the century. The average age of female maturity is much lower than that. Consequently there is abundant evidence to prove - it does not need to be put in this House today as one felt it had to be put 5 years ago - earlier physical maturity. Similarly there is little doubt that young people today are better educated at corresponding stages than their predecessors. Not only do they stay at school longer and go on to tertiary and technical education in greater numbers but the basis of the educational process, placing as it does much emphasis on probing and questioning and analysing accepted concepts, brings about a greater degree of analysis and, flowing from that, a broader understanding of life and society. 
The honourable member for La Trobe mentioned that young people earn more today and therefore contribute more to the nation's wealth. They contribute more in taxes. This economic responsibility ought to be met by equal political responsibility. Youth today has more freedom and it conforms less. They have wider experiences in life. They can marry with consent; they can raise children; they can divorce. They can drive cars, kill or be killed. Their consumption and participation is greater in all respects than even a generation ago. I know that there are some in the community who are still to some extent reluctant to grant this reduction in the voting age; and they tend to do so on the basis that some young people participate in demonstrations to a greater extent than others, though on my own observations I have seen a broad cross-section of the community both by way of age and by vocational background in demonstrations before us. But in any case we cannot regard demonstrations, delinquency or civil disobedience merely as threats. They are signs that young people need more involvement and participation in society. If decisions are not being made, in the way they think they ought to be made, the situation is aggravated for them because they have had no say in that decision. If they are given the vote the decision itself may vary or it may not. But at least the opportunity is there for them to participate and a greater part of the population will have been considered in its formulation, and this surely is the aim of democracy. 
I said that there was no need today to go Into the same detail about the concepts of maturity that there was some 5 years ago. I think that some of the arguments used last year before the High Court of Australia in the matter of King v. Jones and 2 other matters that were heard at the same time, and in which the present Leader of the Government in the Senate  (Senator Murphy)  appeared for the appellant, had some persuasion. Clearly they did not have persuasion to the Court and on reading the judgment this is understandable because the Court was concerned with the nature and function of section 41 of the Constitution and how the term 'adult person' in that section should be accorded and that it should not be, in their terms, accorded a vague and imprecise meaning such as mature person'. 
The fact that the High Court was not prepared to accept arguments about earlier maturity today in no way changes the right or indeed the necessity for us to face the fact that younger people are maturing earlier today because these matters, as the Court deemed, could not be considered in interpreting the Constitution itself. It did not make the arguments invalid so far as this Parliament is concerned and so far as this Bill is concerned. It possibly was invalid - indeed the Court found that it was - to argue that way in endeavouring to ascribe a meaning to sections of the Constitution itself. There were those who said that the national Parliament might not be able to legislate in this way. For those who thought so. again in this instance the High Court would support the view that the Parliament could of course create a franchise which makes the attainment of some other age a condition of its franchise. Indeed  Sir Garfield  Barwick in his judgment set out at page 531 of the Aus tralian Law Journal Reports for September 1972 said: 
Of course, the Parliament may create a franchise which makes the attainment of some other and lower age a condition of its franchise. If that age is less than twenty-one years, the restrictions on the Parliament's legislative power implicit in the opening words of s. 41 would have no application. 
He went on to say more in that paragraph. So, too, did  Mr Justice  McTiernan and so, too, did  Mr Justice  Menzies. So there is, of course, as the Minister said, no doubt that this Parliament can legislate in the matter of the Bill before it. 
Before closing my remarks I want to mention a matter referred to by the honourable member for La Trobe, who quoted one portion of a speech of mine. I do not wish to do him an injustice but I do have the feeling that he plagiarised to some extent the lengthy material contained in my speech without attribution but saw fit to quote the latter portion of that speech which I recall was uttered when I was answering an interjection from one of my colleagues at that time. The honourable member also referred to the Latey report. I know he could not read all the details but he made some reference to the statement - I feel it is a hackneyed statement - that if you are old enough to fight for your country then you are old enough to vote. The Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Enderby)  used the same argument. Both of them were impressed by the Latey Committee's recommendations. Both of them used this phrase but both of them ignored the fact that the Committee put its mind to that argument and rejected it. It said: 
The hackneyed 'If you are old enough to fight and die for your country' argument was put before us. Looked at in isolation this seems to us to be about as relevant to the problem in hand as was the equivalent military consideration of the weight of the armour in the 11th century- 
And I would agree with those remarks -  and indeed the frequency with which the young seemed to have swallowed this argument whole was one of the factors that almost inclined us to leave the age of majority firmly where it was - not that the young were alone in this. To start with, there is nothing in the military life which imposes responsibility on those not considered by their officers to be ready for it. To go on with, the sort of warfare we have nowadays ls quite as likely to compel a child of 3 to 'die for his country' as his elder brother in the army. And, finally, the age at which it is appropriate for the country's welfare to call up young men or women could well vary; the military might decide that they needed them at 15 or at 20 or at 25. We can hardly imagine much enthusiasm for the idea that the age for marriage and mortgages should fluctuate according to such military requirements - yet that is the argument's logical conclusion. This consideration only has force if it takes its place as one among many responsibilities which have come into being by 18. 
In that section the Latey Committee dealt with the neatness arguments that '21 is too old and 18 is right because it falls halfway between the school leaving age and 21' - that does not relate to Australia - 'and anything less is not worth while'. 
The crux of the Latey Committee's report is contained in section 125 at page 39 wherein the Committee puts forward arguments to support the reduction of the age to 18. The report states: 
The main arguments in favour of reducing the age to 18 we have already set out as arguments for reducing it at all. The age of 18 seems to us the most suitable because: 
There is undeniably a great increase in maturity towards that age. 
The vast majority of young people are in fact running their own lives, making their own decisions and behaving as responsible adults by the time they are 18. 
Those of our witnesses who seemed most closely in touch with the young favoured 18 as the age at which it was not only safe to give responsibility, but undesirable, if not indeed dangerous, to withhold it. 
The report goes on with other arguments which I have not time in this debate to read. 
Australia, too, has a youngish population. That is to say that the proportion of young people in the population is increasing every year as it is in the rest of the world. Furthermore, some States have already legislated to provide voting for 18-year-olds. Each major party, as evidenced by the remarks by the Minister for the Capital Territory, feels that it would get more youth votes than the other. Both parties now support the move. It is important that both parties should be ever more conscious of the demands of young people and of their' need as parties to appeal to that section of the community. We are formulating policies all the time, as members of parties, which are of interest and appeal to young people. Young people today are less interested in hard line ideological stances. They are more interested in soft issues such as social welfare, the environment and even inflation. It is in this direction that the political movement is heading today. 
It is with great pleasure that I support this Bill. In conclusion let me put 2 matters to the Minister. The (first does not relate so much to his portfolio as to that of the AttorneyGeneral. When we talk about those people who are not adults perhaps we could use the term minor' instead of 'infant'. This may seem to be a matter of minor import, but the practice of addressing people who are almost at the age of maturity as infants belongs to a bygone era. I hope that we will refer to them as minors when we are contrasting them with adults. The other point I want to raise refers to the day on which a person can enrol. Originally at common law a person was said to reach a particular age on the day before his birthday because the law did not take cognisance of a part of the day. I cite the case of in re Shurey reported in (1918) 1 Ch. 263. As I understand it, the public tends to believe that a person attains a particular age at the moment the day of his birthday anniversary commences. If my recollection is correct, the High Court has given us some guidance and has indicated that the relevant date is the day before the birthday anniversary is attained. Perhaps the Minister could clarify this because where there is a cut-off point and where there is a date for enrolment, to be made when a person turns a particular age - formerly 21 and now 18 - on that particular day, there could be some confusion. Overall I support the Bill, as does my Party and the Australian Country Party. I look forward to the enrolment of those people between the ages of 18 and 21. 
1 shall confine my remarks to the abolition of sales tax on contraceptives and the role of women in the community. The Government's all-male Ministry and all-male Parliamentary Party has shown a degree of realism in relation to the women in the community that I did not expect. Very few men can appreciate the burden which today's women are expected to carry. The party opposite, although it has claimed for a lengthy period of time both to have the interests of women at heart and to understand them, rarely gives them a role to play in this Parliament. When 1 first came into the Parliament there was a woman member of the Australian Labor Party in the Senate. As a consequence of Machiavellianism at the preselection level, she is not there now. During the period I have served here there have been a woman in the Ministry and a woman member of the House of Representatives, both from the Liberal. Party. There have been 4 other women serving with the Liberal Party in the Senate. I ask the Government: Where are its female members? It does not have any. 
Manning the polling booths is where one finds them. That sums up the Labor Party's attitude towards women. In my party in Victoria women have equal footing with 50-50 representation in the organisation. 
I have just said that my Party has had a 500 per cent greater contribution from women than the Australian Labor Party has had in the period that I have been in the Parliament. Let me borrow the words of the immediate past Secretary-General of the United Nations Organisation who said in a declaration made on Human Rights Day in 1966: 
The objective of family planning is the enrichment of human life, not its restriction. 
This Bill, particularly in relation to the removal of sales tax on contraceptives, will assist that aim. I support it. 
However, I cannot accept the erroneous and specious material which leads certain honourable members opposite to support zero population growth. It is axiomatic to observe that different countries have different problems. We should not discuss population policy as if it were one homogenised mass opinion, governed entirely by global forces and global policies. Yet much of what certain Ministers have said, particularly in the last week or so, is predicated on those lines. Nor can I accept that the Government, by introducing this simple measure, can be regarded as filled with understanding of women's problems. 
I want the House to consider a particular group - namely, women - who I believe are under-involved, who are vitally important and who would be able and willing to do more if certain difficulties could be resolved. At the moment in Australia there are slightly more women than men, at any rate of working age, which is taken to be from the age of 15 onwards in the work force figures. Yet about 80 per cent of those not in the work force are women. In the work force itself women numbered 1.7 million in May 1971. The figures that I will be using are based, regrettably, on 1970-71 statistics. That 1.7 million is about one-third of the total number. I make it clear that I realise that the bulk of the women not in the work force are working, and in many cases working very hard, in their homes in caring for their families. I am not denigrating that work in any way. It is absolutely fundamental to our society. I believe that many women feel that at some stages of their lives they can make a greater contribution than they are making to society as a whole. They would feel more personally involved if they were working. Many of these women are not working. If they want to work, they should be given every encouragement. Gone are the times when marriage was a form of sentencing women to the house for the term of their natural life and when vocations were thought to be the preserve of the divorced, the separated or the frustrated. 
I feel that there is great room for improvement in the employment figures. There are 2 relevant areas of interest. The figures which I am about to give are, regrettably, statistics from 1970-71. The first figures show the breakdown of the female component in the work force by age and compare that component with the male component. The figures show that when boys and girls leave school the percentages of those working are very nearly equal. In the 15 to 19-year group 59 per cent of girls work and 61 per cent of boys work. As the women reach marriageable age their numbers in the work force decline and the numbers of men in the work force increase. In the 25 to 34-year bracket only 40 per cent of women work, compared with 97 per cent of men. This would be the time when most women are looking after a young family and when most men are supporting one. One would expect that as women got older some would return to work. This is the case. But there is not a large increase. In the 35 to 44-year bracket the number of women working rose from 40 per cent to 47 per cent. The number of men working remained constant at 97 per cent. From this age group onwards the gap between the 2 begins to widen quite dramatically. In the 55 to 59-year bracket only 30 per cent of women work, compared with 90 per cent of men. In the 60 to 64-year bracket the figure for women is 16 per cent, compared with 70 per cent of men. The key difficulty, of course, is the problem that a woman has of being a mother and looking after a home, on the one hand, and working on the other. Many women would like to work, but they feel that the burden would be too great or that they would have forgotten what they knew by the time they went back to a job after an absence of, say, 10 years. 
There are things that we can do. I would hope in future to see more child minding centres for daytime care and more experiments on part time work. A woman should be able to spend at least half the day at home. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Luchetti)Order! I would like the honourable member for Kooyong to relate his remarks to the Sales Tax (Exemptions and Classifications) Bill. He seems to be ranging very wide of the specific points contained in the legislation. 
I would resist the temptation to become too specific on a matter such as this,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  but if you wish some guidance I shall state what I am driving at. If we can afford opportunities for women to spend more time in the work force as  a  consequence of their consuming more contraceptives, the points that I am making flow from that. I intended to say - after having said earlier that one of the key difficulties that  a  woman has is being a mother and looking after a home, on the one hand - that this is where the aspect of abolition of sales tax on contraceptives comes in. 
The Opposition supports the Bill. I do not wish to be uncharitable to the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Bryant)  but in his somewhat rambling, somewhat pretentious and discursive second reading speech on this Bill he indicated that the Bill provided about 50 per cent more than was granted by the previous Government for a whole year. Our grants to the States for 1972-73, as conveyed through this Parliament last year, totalled, it is true, $ 14.5m but that was only slightly more than one-quarter of the total provision for direct Commonwealth expenditure on Aboriginal advancement for the entire year. In the last Budget the amount allocated to Aboriginal welfare rose from $3 1.3m to $53.2m, an increase of approximately 70 per cent. The Minister's speech was condemnatory of the previous Government. It implied that we showed little concern. But I would have to say that if the Minister's future actions during his term of office are as abysmal as his recollection of our record then that term will be one of rhetoric and reckless disregard for the wishes of the Aboriginal people. 
I recall that the previous Minister for Aboriginal Affairs said last year in a second reading speech on a similar Bill:   . . because of the nature of the programs to which the finances are devoted, a substantial proportion of the funds are being applied to the advancement of the younger generation of Aboriginal Australians. The housing programs aim primarily to assist families whose children will benefit thereby. A great deal of Health activity is devoted to improving the health situation of Aboriginal infants and children; the bulk of expenditure in education is, of course, for  younger  Aborigines; while the employment training scheme and other activities of the Department of Labour and National Service seek in particular to assist school leavers. 
An important distinction must be made between the problems faced by Aborigines in major towns and cities and the problems faced by Aborigines living on reserves or in remote areas. The number of Aborigines who have moved into the major cities has been extremely high. At least 30 per cent of Aborigines are living in urban centres and consequently increasing emphasis must be placed on programs to assist them. Primarily this involves ensuring that they can participate to the fullest possible extent within the urban communities in which they reside. That means assistance with accommodation, health programs, education and employment. The long term aim should naturally be that such assistance in urban areas should run its course and create a favourable situation in which, in due course, the need for government assistance should diminish. 
If there are handicaps in the way of stable employment opportunities for Aborigines then the Department of Labour and State authorities must help to remove those handicaps. So far as the Aborigines in remote areas are concerned, I understand that the majority of them are living in static communities. It must be extraordinarily difficult for them to cope with an entirely different environment. I agree with the Minister that we are duty bound to respect their traditions and culture. There have been, and I assume there will continue to be, difficulties - for example, in adjusting to a cash economy or in becoming accustomed to a radically changed diet. There will be other demands of economic development which will impose certain social strains because they require adjustments to old established patterns of life and work in the community. The path to success in the fields of social and economic adjustment is not easy and will take time and great effort. Obviously we must approach such a transition as flexibly as possible for we are dealing with individual human beings who have as much right to understanding as we but who have a greater need for such understanding. I know that the Minister understands this aspect of his portfolio. I only hope that he is also able to practice it. 
I was pleased to hear him say: 'One of the most interesting exercises upon which we have embarked has been to consult the Aboriginal people themselves'. That is a view to which I have always subscribed and it is a view that I subscribed to when I held the portfolio of Minister for External Territories. We had to look to the people of Papua New Guinea. After all, it was their country, their future and their nation that was involved. The spirit of looking towards the Aborigines for guidance and indeed for direction also is a cardinal one as far as I am concerned. For too long we were inclined to direct the people of Papua New Guinea and perhaps for too long we were prepared to direct the Aboriginal people as to what we thought was best for them. 
The Minister raised the question of the border problem between the Torres Strait Islands and Papua New Guinea. I would have liked to have elaborated on this matter because he raised it in this debate and discussed the issue at some length, but I do not think it would help the successful outcome of discussions between the Commonwealth Government and the Queensland Government. I am pleased to note that discussions are to be held between the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and the Premier of Queensland on this issue. There is no point in drawing lines on issues such as these where people are involved. It is simply not the arbitrary boundary and what flows therefrom. Therefore I hope that the discussions will be aimed at a compromise that will accommodate the legitimate demands of the people of Papua New Guinea and the claims for title and area of the Torres Strait Islanders. I am pleased that the earlier statements that the future of the Torres Strait Islanders was to be abandoned has been changed. 
I am glad of that interjection because the matter was under consideration by the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. He knows that I have a great respect for him. He knows that if I wanted to refer to anything he said I would be particularly accurate. He knows that he went to the Torres Strait Islanders last year and said that he supported their stand and that he would marshal public opinion in support of their claim, negating directly the viewpoint of the people of Papua New Guinea. Fortunately he has been inclined to abandon that stance. I do not want to criticise him for that because it is far too easy, as I said at the outset of my remarks on this problem, for people to draw lines and never build the bridges. This problem simply will not be solved unless the Commonwealth Government and the Queensland Government are prepared to talk to one another. I am delighted that this is to take place. 
I merely make the point that the change has been made and I congratulate the Minister for his change in stance. It is perhaps a pity that he did not show the perception earlier on to recognise that this sort of compromise would be necessary. But I congratulate him for seeing the light at this stage. I agree also with the inherent message contained in bis second reading speech on this Bill. I shall say no more than that 1 am pleased to know that discussions are taking place. This is not the time to do it, but I could advance reasons for and against changes in the boundary of Papua New Guinea. I hope there will be an occasion in which I can do so, but this is not the occasion because I applaud the fact that discussions are to take place - I understand that they are to take place - between the Commonwealth Government and the Queensland Government. Without those discussions no solution can be reached. If there is no solution the interests of both the Torres Strait Islanders and the people of Papua New Guinea whom I know so well will not be enhanced. The Minister mentioned this in passing in his speech and that is why I have raised the matter. 
Let me return very briefly to the question of Aborigines deciding primarily the conduct of their welfare or future negotiations between themselves and the Commonwealth Government. I have always regarded it as sheer arrogance for us to insist that there ought not to be diversity within Australia. What sheer arrogance it is for us to insist that we alone know best. Fortunately the trend has been changing. I know the deep and abiding interest of the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  in furthering the cause of Aboriginal people having a direct say in the advancement of their own affairs. The last 2 Prime Ministers, the honourable member for Mackellar and his successor made a number of statements indicating that we must look to the Aborigines themselves to provide the voice for the pattern of development. This thought should be encouraged to ensure that Aborigines participate in the management of their own affairs. The present Minister for Aboriginal Affairs is indicating that he is prepared to continue with such an approach and to endeavour to give the policy more life and breath by ensuring that responsibilites are handed back to Aboriginal people. I agree with that approach. All human beings have a desire to satisfy their innate needs of identity, security and challenge. Identity is one of the most basic and important yet one of the most frequently overlooked desires. 
On 26th January 1972 the former Prime Minister said: 
The Government recognises the rights of individual Aborigines to effective choice about the degree to which and the pace at which they come to identify themselves with that Australian society. 
It could well be that their choice is one of contrast to our own way of life. If that is the case, so be it. It is their future and their way of life that is important. Australians should be generous enough to welcome such diversity if it is  desired by  Aborigines. This measure increases the allocation to the States that the former Government was prepared to make, and we therefore support it. 
I thank the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  for extending to me the opportunity of speaking in this debate. As indicated by my colleague, the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp),  who is the Opposition's spokesman on international trade, the Opposition welcomes the International Cocoa Agreement. I join with the Minister in expressing appreciation to  Mr John  Poe, the Minister for Trade and Industry in Papua New Guinea, and those in Papua New Guinea who are concerned with cocoa production and who assisted in the work involved in the preparation of this Agreement. I agree also with the honourable member for Hotham and the Minister that it is a matter for regret that the United States has not yet accepted the Agreement. The United States is the largest consumer of cocoa. It is therefore of the utmost importance that it should lend its support to the Agreement. 
This Agreement, as has been said, represents the culmination of many years of difficult negotiations. Australia's membership will extend to Papua New Guinea. She will join with us and we will ratify the Agreement as an exporting member with Papua New Guinea. I think the honourable member for Hotham mentioned that. The Papua New Guinea cocoa industry is not large by world standards but, as indicated by the Minister, it has a most significant effect on the Papua New Guinea economy. In 1971-72 her exports were worth $llm in Australian currency. Cocoa is Papua New Guinea's third most important agricultural export.  Her  cocoa has achieved wide acceptance as a fine or flavour cocoa. The main areas of production in Papua New Guinea are in New Britain, including the Gazelle, Bougainville, New Ireland, Madang and the northern district. The extent of the indigenous production is approximately one-third of the total production. As I recall, the indigenous area under cocoa is approximately 47,000 acres and the nonindigenous area is 132,000 acres. I understand also that contrary to other trends throughout the world, the total 1973 output will be down due to the extensive drought in Papua New Guinea during 1972. 
The Minister has stressed the importance of the cocoa industry to Papua New Guinea. I fully endorse his statement. Papua New Guinea must to a large extent live by her export income. Even if only one-third of it is produced at this stage by local Papua New Guineans that is most important. I am sure the Papua New Guinea Government looks for growth in this sector, as I certainly would. Such an increase in indigenous production can, of course, occur only if the people can witness more stable prices. The previous wide fluctuations did not assist in engendering confidence in this regard. Provided this Agreement stabilises prices undoubtedly it will contribute to increased indigenous production. I conclude with a quotation of the Deputy Governor of the Ceylon Central Bank and Chairman of the Cocoa Conference 1972, who said: 
We have the text of an international agreement but the existence of a text by itself is not sufficient. It must be put into operation and. how effective it will be can only, be seen in time. 
I fervently trust that the Agreement will in fact be effective and reiterate that the Opposition supports, the Minister's statement on the Agreement. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
The Opposition welcomes and supports this Bill. The greatest single need of the Papua New Guinea transport system is the extension and improvement of the roads system into at least a minimum network connecting major population, production and resource areas to each other and to the outside world. This loan will assist to some extent in meeting this need. It provides for a guarantee by the Commonwealth for a borrowing in various currencies equivalent to $US9.8m or $A6.9m by the Govern ment of Papua New Guinea from the Asian Development Bank. I pause to state a small but important point, namely, that although the definition clause of the Bill defines the administration as the 'Administration or Government of Papua New Guinea', the speech of the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  and his Letter of Assurances contained in Schedule 1 and the Loan Agreement contained in Schedule 2 refers solely to the Administration. It is perhaps a minor point but nevertheless while Papua New Guinea has not yet reached the formal stage of self government it is virtually that now, and perhaps it is time at least in Ministers' speeches if not in the legislation, to refer to the government of Papua New Guinea as just that. 
The proceeds of the loan will assist in financing a highway project in Papua New Guinea. The project involves 2 highways together with the consultancy services for both. This field of governmental activity is a matter of joint Papua New Guinea and Commonwealth responsibility. The initiation of projects for international loan proposals falls within the authority of the Papua New Guinea Minister responsible, in this case  Mr Julius  Chan, by virtue of the Loans and Assistance (International Agencies) Ordinance 1971 No. 52, while the Commonwealth Government formally guarantees such loans from international agencies. Pursuant to this arrangement an Asian Development Bank appraisal mission visited Papua New Guinea last year for a first hand examination of the proposed highway projects. This agreement follows from that examination. Papua New Guinea, of course, became a member of the Asian Development Bank in April 1971 following qualifying associate membership of the Economic Commission for Asia and the Far East. A previous loan was negotiated with the Asian Development Bank in December 1971 for the Papua New Guinea Development Bank for general lending operations and this loan was guaranteed also by the Commonwealth. 
I want to mention the wording used in the Letter of Assurances. So far as the Commonwealth's guarantee is concerned, on this occasion it appears to me by reading the Letter of Assurances contained in Schedule 1 of the Bill to be similar to the clause guaranteeing the previous Asian Development Bank loan for the Papua New Guinea Development Bank. Evidently the Asian Development Bank is more relaxed about guarantees than the World Bank which insists that the loans be guaranteed until repaid. In clause 1 of the Letter of Assurances the following words appear: 
Until such time as Papua New Guinea assumes responsibility for its own international relations. . . . 
Then are set out certain Australian responsibilities in 3 sub-clauses. I believe I am correctly interpreting the words quoted as meaning 'until independence'. Perhaps it would be better to say just that. In clause 5 the following words appear: 
Australia will use its best endeavours to ensure the continuing security of the Loan and the smooth devolution of responsibility with respect thereto. 
This tends to connote, to me at least, a devolution of responsibility for the guarantee. Yet I believe this is probably not meant. I mention these only because they are not necessarily expressed with precision and perhaps expressing them without precision may well have been the intent. The Minister referred in his speech to the borrowings carrying an automatic guarantee by virtue of the operation of section 75a of the Papua New Guinea Act 1949-71 but, of course, such a guarantee can never be interpreted as a firm continuing guarantee for the simple reason that the section could be amended at any time, thus occasioning the guarantee to disappear. 
I am aware that the Treasurer in January this year gave an assurance that the Commonwealth guarantee will continue on all loans in existence at independence until they are repaid. This means that the loan is also guaranteed by virtue of the statement of policy but the question arises whether loans negotiated after the date of independence as distinct from those existing at that date will receive any guarantee from the Commonwealth. I am sure that such a matter will need to be clarified in line with the continuing aid programs to Papua New Guinea during 1973-76. However, I well understand if the Minister for Externa] Territories  (Mr Morrison)  who is at the table now, or the Treasurer, is unable to comment on this matter until after further discussions on aid programs have been held with the Papua New Guinea Government. But the matter is important and I would like to receive information on it in due course. 
I assume the now normal practice has occurred and that Papua New Guinea has made the choice of currencies and that we have endorsed it. Under the transferred power this after all is Papua New Guinea's right.  1  am delighted that Papua New Guinea has received the assurances of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  regarding long term aid to Papua New Guinea. The nature of this aid has yet to be determined and it is worth reiterating what I have said on previous occasions as Minister for External Territories, that few independent countries, even developed countries, are really wholly independent of other states. Dependency may result from trade ties, reliance on capital for investment, lack of vital raw materials, the need for defence arrangements or the need for technical assistance. If there are to be changes in Australia's aid pattern after independence these need to be considered and agreed to before then. Some of the questions to be answered include the extent to which financial aid should be fully on a project basis or whether, as is the case now, some of it should be devoted to supporting an annual or multi-annual program of expenditure; whether there should continue to be an oversight of project aid; whether Papua New Guinea projects will continue to have preferential access to the Australian market; and. as mentioned tonight, whether Commonwealth assistance by way of guarantee of Papua New Guinea's international loans and through encouragement of investment will continue. 
I know that the question of aid is a matter to which the Minister for External Territories  (Mr Morrison)  has given close attention. This was shown by his performance as a member of the Parliamentary Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs when it was considering the matter of aid. I am sure that he is directing his attention to this matter and is considering some of the questions I have just posed. Other countries may well wish to direct some portion of their overseas aid towards Papua New Guinea. On this matter I assume that the attitude of the Government of Papua New Guinea would depend on many factors which it would weigh up at the appropriate time. Obviously, one of these factors will be the terms and conditions of such assistance. But, speaking personally, I see no reason why Papua New Guinea should not welcome assistance from other donors. There may even be occasions when Australia and another country undertake to assist a Papua New Guinea project together. Certainly some of Papua New Guinea's natural resources have such a potential that their development might best be financed by such an arrangement. A good example could be the massive hydro-electric potential of the Purari River. However, the prime motivating factor is naturally the attitude of the Papua New Guinea Government. But there is an increasing tendency in the sphere of international aid for a number of countries to join together in a consultative group to place their assistance to a particular under-developed country on a well-planned basis. Therefore, it is not impossible to imagine such an arrangement being made with an independent Papua New Guinea. 
Australia is now withdrawing from Papua New Guinea. Although we will continue to assist, increasingly the brunt of decision making will be with Papua New Guinea's own leaders - and so it should be. It is not our country but theirs. It is not our future but theirs. The present Government in Papua New Guinea has shown how capably it can administer its affairs. There can be no doubt that the next few years are the most important to the future of Papua New Guinea. It is the time of decision and of actions that set the course of a new society. I believe that, above all countries with which we are associated, Papua New Guinea needs special consideration as it moves through selfgovernment, independence and beyond. Our relationship is changing as we discard the former relationship of administering authority and administered country. So far this process has been achieved without bitterness or recriminations from either party. On the contrary, the relations between our 2 countries have been soundly based on goodwill and trust. The fact that independence is coming will not mean an end to our assistance or indeed to our association. The events of history and geography have dictated that our  2  countries must have a close relationship. We are too important to each other for it to be otherwise and not to be to the detriment of both countries. The Opposition supports the Bill. 
Apart from tabling the report, the Minister for Secondary Industry  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  is hardly advancing his Government's activities at all. All that he said has been said before by the previous Minister for Trade and Industry, the present Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony),  who will speak with me on this matter, and his predecessor as Minister for Trade and Industry. However, I join the Minister for Secondary Industry in congratulating and expressing appreciation to the Committee on Small Business which is under the chairmanship of Fred Wiltshire. What the Minister has said is merely a continuation of the previous Government's policy regarding small business and the gratuitous remarks of the Minister about the previous Government frankly can be left as stated, which is possibly more than they deserve. 
The significance of small businesses in Australia is well known and the Minister's figures and percentages put before the House today are accepted. They, too, have all been quoted often enough before. I have not had the opportunity in the short time available to reread the report but the important thing in respect of small businesses as in Australia is not to control them but to seek to remove their problems and allow the competitive processes to operate. It appears from the summary at the commencement of the report that the major and basic problems of small business are succinctly dealt with. These problems include dealing with money matters, decision making and working under pressure. These are the sorts of problems with which small businesses such as small companies and family firms are saddled. In addition there is the lack of capital and lack of power to delegate to others. They all create problems in competing with larger corporations. In my view probably the  3  major problems of such businesses are the financial problems including taxation, management and the domination by big firms and the danger of takeovers. These matters are dealt with in the report the summary of which says in relation to the financial problems: 
Where this ls an ignorance of business and money management, production, planning and marketing, this must limit the assistance which can be obtained through the normal financial channels. 
It is fair to point out that most small businesses and others who have looked at the matter generally accept that there are limited sources of growth capital. 
Debate interrupted. 
It is generally accepted that there are limited sources of growth capital for proprietary companies in Australia. A private or proprietary company in Australia simply has no access to the money market and the stock exchange and so has only limited areas from which to draw funds for growth. Prior to 1950 it is as well to remember that the trading banks supplied a considerable proportion of the growth capital requirements of proprietary companies. The present policy appears to be based on the concept that it is not for trading banks to supply long term funds to business enterprises but rather to accommodate them for the shorter term fluctuating work capital requirements. In 1945 the Industrial Finance Department of the Commonwealth Bank of Australia was established specifically to provide finance for the establishment and development of industrial undertakings, particularly small undertakings where capital could not be obtained through ordinary commercial channels. In 1957 the Industrial Finance Department and the Mortgage Bank Department of the Commonwealth Bank were merged into the newly created Australian Development Bank but their functions remained substantially unaltered. 
Because potential borrowers often have difficulty in demonstrating to the bank that there are reasonable prospects of continuing to be or becoming a profitable undertaking, finance from this source is not alawys readily available. I recall that before taking over a portfolio a few years ago I drew attention to this point in the House in respect of one industry in particular where I felt the Development Bank was not fulfilling its charter. The main source of finance to proprietary companies is usually made in one form or another by proprietors, members of their family and shareholders and consequently they are generally undercapitalised. Necessity obliges them to plough back as much as possible into the company but this does not in many cases meet the problem of financing growth. I know there are other avenues that are used, such as life assurance societies, the facilities of hire purchase companies particularly for plant and equipment, leasing of factories and buildings, factoring of book debts, the borrowing on floating charge over the assets and undertakings of the company and so forth. But the lower rates of primary tax also affect the situation. The lower rates of primary tax applying to the proprietary company, compared with those applying to the public company, are a helpful concession towards accumulating capital but this concession is soon dissipated by the incidence of the undistributed profits tax at the rate of $1 in every $2, if a company fails to make a sufficient distribution of its profits after tax within the prescribed period. 
The forced distribution of dividends forces taxable incomes into the hands of shareholders but the taxation legislation does allow the dividend to be declared and to be paid to the shareholders who can pay it back to the company or have it credited to their accounts. It is possible, therefore, for the company to preserve its liquidity by not parting with the funds but personal taxation paid by the company for the shareholders from its loan account depletes the resources accordingly. I have mentioned those points only because I know that the lack of finance is uppermost in the minds of those who are in charge of proprietary companies or small businesses. 
So too with this question of management itself, in the field of ownership and management the small firm has very special difficulties. Death duties cause special problems in family firms and even if they can be overcome frequently there are difficulties in ensuring adequate succession of competent ownership and control. Big firms can, as I mentioned earlier, employ specialist managers and a great deal of work can be delegated through the administrative system. In small firms not only are many proprietors completely unwilling to delegate but frequently they do not have anyone to whom they can delegate and the owner of a small firm may well have to be the production manager, sales manager, personnel manager and financial manager all rolled into one. 
It is pleasing to see that the report that the Minister tabled goes into this area for there are a number of important economic functions performed by small firms and they make a very special contribution to the wellbeing of the economy. These functions include being an important derivative of innovation in techniques, products and services notwithstanding the comparatively low expenditure on research and development. The small firms can provide competition and a check on would-be monopolies and indeed on the inefficiencies which can breed on monopolistic practices. Thus the economic system as a whole benefits by their existence. They act as specialist suppliers of parts and components to larger companies. They add greatly to the supply of products and services offered to the consumer, and above all they provide a means of entry into business for new commercial and entrepreneuria talent from which companies can grow and stimulate established leaders of industry, and for that reason alone they ought to be supported. 
The Minister has mentioned overseas examples and the one that readily comes to mind is in the United States where thousands of small businesses are helped to stay competitive under the United States Government's small business administration scheme. Much can be learnt from that scheme. I urge those honourable members who are interested in this matter to read the United Kingdom Bolton Committee report presented to the House of Commons in November 1971. The Minister has not mentioned it. I am sure his attention will be directed to it. The Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  will follow me in this debate so I will conclude my remarks. I have cautious optimism concerning the future prospects for small businesses in Australia provided that the obstacles which inhibit or restrain small firms are removed. As I said at the outset, the real need is to remove those barriers and allow the competitive processes to operate. As to how these businesses will cope with the environment established by this Government remains to be seen. 
by leave- The Opposition welcomes and agrees with the statement. As the Minister for External Territories  (Mr Morrison)  said in his concluding remarks, for which I thank him, this policy was endorsed by the former Government when I held the portfolio of External Territories. Therefore, I am pleased indeed to support the Minister's statement today. The Minister's statement is largely factual and I do not disagree with it at all. It is a recognition of the problems which will face the residents of Christmas Island as the phosphate deposits become exhausted. I regard the provision for health and character checks referred to as one aspect of the Minister's statement as being essentially a control measure and not necessarily a means of excluding from entry to Australia applicants who might, as a consequence of the checks, be the subject of adverse reports. 
In those cases where it is clear that Australia should should accept obligations for the resettlement of the persons concerned, entry will not be denied, should objection arise. provided arrangements can be made to safeguard the interests of the Australian community by the provision of suitable controls or supervision either prior to or following movement to Australia. The only matter I query is that it is my recollection - I have not been able to check this out - that the previous Government agreed that, in line with the Citizenship Act, young people who were on the island when Australia took responsibility on 1st October 1958 and who can now opt for Australian citizenship at 21 years should be allowed to opt at 16 years with parental consent. Not many would be in this category. Perhaps the Minister could advise me outside the chamber later regarding this small matter. I do not ask for it to be dealt with now. 
There should be no significant problems associated with the Government's decisions. The fact that the decisions have been formulated well in advance of the ultimate depletion of the island's deposits will mean that with proper administration the best interests of the island residents should be served. From 1st January 1958 Christmas Island became a separate Crown colony until 1st October 1958 when it became a Territory of Australia by Acts of the British and Australian Parliaments. At infrequent intervals a number of correspondents offered the view that the Government of Australia, of whatever complexion, would face an embarrassing dilemma regarding the resettlement of residents of Christmas Island. This prediction has not been proved correct. The previous Government was prepared to deal with the matter in the only human and moral way possible. I express my thanks to my colleagues in the former Ministry who supported my view that this decision should be taken. This new Government is implementing our decision which, as the Minister kindly mentioned, we endorsed late last year. Naturally we support this action. 
Sitting suspended from 6.12 to 8 p.m. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Civil Aviation. Is it correct that he is threatening the close relations that exist between the Papua New Guinea Government and the Australian Government? Is it correct that the Minister has not only refused the recent requests of the Papua New Guinea Government concerning that country's future national airline but has also threatened the Somare Government with the withdrawal of future development funds for civil aviation, and has even threatened to make that Government immediately responsible, financially and otherwise, for functions now performed by his Department - functions which could not immediately be readily assumed by the Papua 
New Guinea Government and which do not come within the ambit of recent transfers of responsibilities by the Minister for External Territories, details of which I gather he will announce in the House today? 
by leave - Both the content of the speech of the Minister for External Territories  (Mr Morrison)  and the material contained in the instruments tabled in the Parliamentary Library by the Minister are substantially matters agreed to by the previous Government. The Minister was kind enough, and I suppose accurate enough, to make reference to this throughout his statement. As he said, the movement to self government is a continuing one. He cited, among other things, some matters have developed during his period as the occupant of the portfolio of External Territories. One of these is the creation of the Department of the Chief Minister. 
I assume that there will be a withdrawal of the role of the Administrator as a result of that movement. This further decline in the direct influence of the Administrator brings to mind the remarks of the previous Leader of the Opposition, the present Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  when he described the present Administrator as the final and probably the finest Administrator. I should like to place on record, although the term of office of  Mr Leslie  Johnson is not yet completed, the fact that many members of this House and many Australians should be grateful for the role  Mr Johnson  has played as the Administrator of Papua New Guinea. He has been exceptional and outstanding. Because of the regrettable dearth of knowledge of Papua New Guinea affairs in Australia many people may not recognise or be cognisant of the contribution that this outstanding man has made to the close relations between Papua New Guinea and Australia and to the development of self government in that area. 1 am not here just to extend plaudits, but his predecessor, the Secretary of the Departmental of External Territories, and the officers who work in that outstanding Department who have done so much to bring about even the acceptance by the United Nations of Australia's role in Papua New Guinea, should have their performance placed on record before that Department is merged with other Commonwealth departments. 
The Minister seems to be working extremely closely with the Government of Papua New Guinea and for this we can be most grateful. The handling of the movement towards self government and independence is most delicate. There will be occasions when there will be differences of views between the Australian Government and the Papua New Guinea Government. Australia needs to be tolerant of this. We must recognise as each step is taken that Papua New Guinea is becoming an identifiable force in world affairs - a minor one at this stage but an identifiable country. 'A separate international identity' I think were the words the Minister used. We have to take cognisance of this. Although Australia does not look for gratitude for the role it has played in Papua New Guinea it looks for close ties with her in the future. But her role as a separate entity in world affairs which is beginning to develop will mean that inevitably she will be looking to problems of her role in Asia, the Pacific and the world through the eyes of Papua New Guineans and not through Australians' eyes. We must be tolerant of this viewpoint. 1 hope that these remarks do not sound as though I am lecturing in this regard. But I think that there is a tendency for Australians still to think that they must exercise a more overt authority over Papua New Guinea than is realistically necessary. We are now close to the stage where self government and then independence will occur. This is the first step and not the last step. The second step will be in the development of Australia and Papua New Guinean relations post-independence. I trust and I am sure that the Minister and the Department are giving thought at the moment to the way in which Australia's relations with Papua New Guinea will develop. The watershed between Australia's relations with Papua New Guinea will occur, after all, at independence and not at self government. There ought not to be a sudden break on the day of independence. We ought to be determining now the relationships which will occur between Australia and Papua New Guinea. Of course it is essential that the movement to self government and independence be as smooth and as orderly as possible. This has occurred and is continuing to occur. [ trust albeit that the Australian Labor Party has a policy on independence for Papua New Guinea that the Government will not arbitrarily or unilaterally determine the date of independence. I hope that the date of independence will be in response to the wishes of the people of Papua New Guinea. That must be the cardinal motivating factor in relations between our countries and in the movement of self government and independence. We should be responding to Papua New Guinea's wishes. The Minister said in the earlier part of his statement that he and the Australian Government will work with all due speed toward independence for Papua New Guinea in the closest consultation with the Papua New Guinea Government and the House of Assembly. 1 trust that it will not be just consultation but that Australia will look to the views of Papua New Guinea as the motivating factor. 
Sitting suspended from 1.1 to 2.J5 p.m. 
 I second the motion. I will be even briefer than the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp).  No matter has been dealt with in a more restrictive and appalling way than the manner in which this contingency motion regarding a matter that is to be brought up tomorrow has been gagged. There will be fewer than onefifth of the members - either on this motion or on the matter tomorrow - who will express their views. Do not tell me that that is symptomatic of an expression of the institution of Parliament on one of the greatest social issues placed before this Parliament. There has been no opportunity for people to put views on this contingency motion which was gagged, foreshadowing a gag or a limitation of lime on the matter of substance tomorrow. I do not know what speaking arrangements are to be organised for tomorrow but I have the feeling that very few honourable members will get the opportunity to express their views, which I am not entitled to put in speaking to this motion. 
I put in the strongest and firmest terms my opposition to the gagging of this motion. It is a denial of the inherent right of honourable members to speak in this Parliament. It is a denial of a right to speak on the most important social issues that has come before the House in decades and it is a denial of the persons who have indicated their concern to receive their members' views as expressed in this assembly. AH honourable members - no matter what their views on the matter tomorrow - who support the gag on this contingency motion are preventing members of Parlia ment from giving to their constituents their avowed and expressed intent on the Bill and their opportunity to speak on a matter of great importance. I protest in the strongest possible terms. 
The Opposition supports the Bill. The Bill seeks approval for a contractual guarantee for overseas borrowing in foreign currencies by Papua New Guinea not exceeding $A14.3m. I wish to refer to matters concerned with the controversy that occurred over the future of the Papua New Guinea national airline. I shall relate my remarks to the raising of funds under this loan Bill because they have some significance to the fact that this is the first time that the Australian Government has given a guarantee to Papua New Guinea for that country to seek funds overseas other than from the Asian Development Bank or the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. We support the contractual guarantee because, as it relates to the first loan that is to be raised in this manner, if Papua New Guinea is to be favourably recognised as an emerging international entity it is absolutely essential that the first issue be successful. Therefore our contractual guarantee must be included in the prospectus to assist in obtaining the borrowings. 
This is obviously the reason for the urgency of this Bill. The Opposition fully recognises the need to depart from the normal procedure of giving parliamentary approval after a loan agreement has been signed. I said earlier that theloan will be the first raised by Papua New Guinea on international capital markets. But it is, as I inferred, not the first time that Papua New Guinea has obtained overseas borrowings. References are made in the second reading speech of the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  to the borrowings from the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the 
Asian Development Bank. In such cases, the guarantee has been given after the loan agreement. Clearly, it is imperative on this occasion, as I have said, to give the guarantee in advance. I understand that the guarantee will continue for the duration of the loan, that is, it will therefore continue after independence. In this sense, it is akin to the guarantees given previously to the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, but not to the Asian Development Bank which has never insisted on the condition that the loan continue until independence, as I understand the IBRD does. 
The other distinction is that the Joan is not for specific projects which normally are undertaken specifically in relation to the loan from the ADB or the IBRD. In this case the loan will be to finance the public works and services of Papua New Guinea. In other words, it is to support its budgetary matters. So, as far as the nature of the guarantee is concerned, we are fully in agreement with the Government's proposing it in this matter and with the form of the guarantee as referred to in the Bill itself. What I want to raise and call into question is that here we have a situation in which Papua New Guinea is seeking loans overseas, and it is saying in its prospectus that it will receive a guarantee from the Australian Government. This should add weight to its borrowing powers. But at the same time, as a consequence of statements made by a Minister in this House, the actual security of investments in Papua New Guinea has been called into question and the manner in which the Government has been administering Papua New Guinea has also been called into question. 
I do not relate my remarks to the Minister for External Territories  (Mr Morrison)  who, as I said on a previous occasion, appeared to me to be working particularly closely with the Government of Papua New Guinea. He has my full support in what he is doing in working so closely with that Government. I have abstained from making remarks in this Parliament about the statements of the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Mr Charles Jones)  because I believed that it was only right that the matter be cooled and that a fresh and proper approach be taken to the national airline of Papua New Guinea. This will be the subject of discussions on Friday between the Minister for External Territories and the Minister for 
Civil Aviation. I have abstained from making remarks in this House on this matter because I wanted to be sure that a re-examination would be made. But as this Bill is before the Parliament and as it refers to the opportunities for Papua New Guinea to borrow overseas, it is related to the question of the development of an airline and the close association of Australia to Papua New Guinea, and it is necessary only a few days before the Minister's return to Papua New Guinea to register a couple of points. 

 - Mr Speaker, 1  ask you to hear me on that question. [ reject the submission that has been made by the Minister for External Territories and  1  submit to you as persuasively as I can that the submission should be rejected for the following reasons: When we have a Papua New Guinea Loan Bill before us, it normally is for. specific purposes. On this occasion, the proposed Papua New Guinea Loan is to support the budget of the Papua New Guinea Government and the funds provided by the loan will be spent also on civil aviation facilities. In other words, it is a loan from international markets which will contribute to the budget of Papua New Guinea. The loan is not being made to fix a road, to develop a highway or to make a bridge. It is a very different loan Bill from the normal ones and I am entitled, I submit, under this particular Bill, to make reference to these matters which will come naturally, under the aegis of the Papua New Guinea budget. 
I also add,  Mr Speaker,  that I am very well aware that the civil aviation powers have not been transferred. 1 think I am as well aware of that as is any man in this chamber! T arn aware too that if we were discussing the transfer of powers, we would have done so under the Bill which the Government introduced a fortnight ago. That has nothing to do with this Bill. 
The Opposition welcomes the motion of 'he 
Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Bryant)  to establish a Standing Committee on Aboriginal Affairs. We support the concept of the Standing Committee and the terms as indicated in the notice. The honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  and I said on 15th March when speaking on the States Grants (Aboriginal Advancement) Bill that we support all measures for the advancement of the Aboriginal people and their real interest. There should be no doubt about this. We view the Committee with favour and, as we stated then, we do not seek political divisions on this question. If there are political divisions they will be of a nature that we cannot foresee at present. Our prime aim is to look for the advancement of the Aborigines themselves. 
I trust that the Committee will provide information to the Australian people. I hope that the reports of the Committee and the sub-committees will be published because there is no doubt in my mind that there is a dearth of understanding in Australia of the complexities and the difficulties of the whole Aboriginal program. I do not want to go into those difficulties and the distinctions between the Aborigines themselves. The fundamental and crucial issue is to consult with Aborigines - that is the primary matter of importance. There has been insufficient consultation in the past. When there has been discussion, too frequently the information that has been forthcoming has not been fully utilised. The opportunity is now before us to evaluate the difficulties and indeed the contradictions in our own program. The Opposition, as I said at the outset, welcomes the motion. 
I address a question to the Prime Minister in his capacity of Minister for Foreign Affairs. I refer him to a number of resolutions adopted by the General Assembly of the United Nations on 14 December 1972, dealing with decolonisation and racial discrimination, which Australia supported and voted for. I refer him specifically to resolution No. 2984 (xxvii) which, among other things, called for a time-table to be established for the self-determination and independence of the Cocos Islands. Australia, of course, did not vote in favour of a similar resolution in 1971. The support of this specific resolution represents a drastic change in attitude and policy. Therefore, I ask the Prime Minister: Was the Government aware of what it was doing regarding this resolution, and when is it now planned for the Cocos Islands to be independent? 

 - Mr Speaker, I rise to order. I am forced to raise a point of order because I wish to have incorporated in Hansard, with the leave of the House, the resolution to which I referred at question time. I believe that I am duty bound to seek to do this as soon as possible after question time. I was not able to get the call from you,  Mr Speaker,  although I was on my feet. I now seek leave to have resolution No. 2984 (XXVII), to which I referred in my question, incorporated in Hansard. 
These Bills are most important pieces of legislation. Without any false modesty may I say that, as with so many recent matters relating to Papua New Guinea's movement to self-government, these Bill formalise in the main decisions reached during my period as Minister for External Territories. It could hardly be expected therefore that the Opposition would oppose the legislation. Indeed, so far as the former Government was concerned, both Liberal and Country parties in Cabinet accepted the matters contained in these Bills with the exception of the border agreement between Indonesia and Australia. But there the guidelines had been set; in fact, we had been hopeful of bringing that matter to fruition but we were unable to do so. 
What is a more important reason for our support is that there was acknowledgment by the Australian Government of the importance of the need for Papua New Guinea to have the transfer of this responsibility made as soon as possible. During 1972 the then Australian Government and the Papua New Guinea Government decided jointly to transfer responsibility. Inter alia, the decisions on the matters before us covered, firstly, the transfer of the responsibility for the Papua New Guinea Public Service and the Public Service aspects of statutory authorities from the Minister for External Territories to local executive authority by August 1973; secondly, the implementation of the recommendations by  Mr Moxon  Simpson on arrangements appropriate for the employment security of overseas officers in the Papua New Guinea Public Service; and, thirdly, the transfer of the AuditorGeneral's function in respect of Papua New Guinea to a Papua New Guinea AuditorGeneral. 
In the short time to which I have agreed to confine my remarks I want to speak particularly about the Simpson report. The problem of employment security for overseas officers was long drawn out, to say the least. At some stages it appeared to be impossible to resolve. Last year, when Cabinet endorsed my suggestion that  Mr Simpson  should be appointed to conduct a full scale, independent inquiry into both the employment security of overseas officers and the provision of future staff by Australia, I suspect - indeed, I was told - that few people other than the officers in the Department of External Territories and myself believed that  Mr Simpson  would be successful in recommending acceptable and appropriate solutions. However,  Mr Simpson  handled the matter thoroughly, expeditiously and perceptively.  His  report was endorsed by all concerned and speaks volumes for the outstanding service that he rendered to both governments. I commend to honourable members the reading of the copies of the report which the Minister for External Territories  (Mr Morrison)  has made available. They will see in the earlier part of the report the matters with which  Mr Simpson  had to wrestle and the essential criteria that he adopted. 
In clause 31 of his report at page 20 he says: 
In my recommendations I have tried to balance equitably the following needs: 
for Papua New Guinea to be able to retain a solid core of experienced overseas permanent and contract officers until independence, and thereafter; 
for Papua New Guinea to be able to dispense on just terms with the services of overseas officers when they are no longer needed because of localisation, constitutional development or other reasons; 
to provide  overeas  officers with just compensation for any loss of career or premature termination of services as a result of Papua New Guinea's rapid progress towards selfgovernment and independence; 
to provide overseas officers, both permanent and contract, with clear information on which to plan their future and, in particular, to assure them by appropriate Commonwealth legislation that the financial inducements to them to continue to serve in Papua New Guinea will in fact be met; and 
to consider the ability of Papua New Guinea to meet the financial liabilities under the employment security arrangements which I consider should be made as a result of my inquiry. 
In the whole process of the transfer of legislation and administrative functions to Papua New Guinea, probably no single matter occupied quite as much time as this. Its importance has not been lost on the present Govern ment, which has accepted the decisions we reached last year. 
In endeavouring to alleviate the difficulties and uncertainties faced by the expatriate officers in Papua New Guinea, it was necessary for  Mr Simpson  to balance a number of needs, which I have just quoted. He did this admirably. The principal change that he proposed is the separation of the permanent and overseas contract officers from the Papua New Guinea Public Service, deeming them to be employees of the Australian Government for as long as their services are required in Papua New Guinea. Thus their terms and conditions of service, superannuation and retirement benefits and employment security arrangements will be covered by Australian legislation. Many of  Mr Simpson's  proposals flowed from that basic change and are included in the legislation that has been presented to the House. Naturally, the cost of these proposals is high, but it must be borne in mind that much of the expense is involved in contingent liabilities which the Australian Government would have had to meet in any case - that is, for the previously existing retirement benefits, fares and removal expenses and payments for pro rata leave. As I recall,  Mr Simpson's  own words in this connection were: "The whole exercise amounts to paying out the present value of an already existing future liability'. Fortunately, Cabinet accepted the advice that  Mr Simpson  gave in that regard. 
I have indicated how valuable  Mr Moxom  Simpson's report was to me as Minister. I also wish to record the dedicated and seemingly endless work so tirelessly carried out on a project of this enormity by the officers of the Department of External Territories. With selfgovernment formally occurring on 1 December 1973, or at least as soon as possible thereafter, and with the undertaking to transfer the Public Service in August, it is essential that this legislation, so thoroughly reviewed before today, be passed without delay. If  Mr Simpson's  report had not been supported by the previous Government and endorsed by the present Government, I am certain that Papua New Guinea would have been totally unable to deal with emergency situations such as last year's famine or with the extensive program for selfgovernment and independence. I know that at the time we received the report both the Chief Minister and the Administrator shared this view with me. 
The legislation dealing with overseas officers represents a more than fair response to an independent inquiry and a report which was both comprehensive and sound. It has gone a long way towards restoring confidence and morale among overseas officers. Whilst the Papua New Guinea Government's policy is and must be to localise these officers as rapidly as possible, the legislation allows and encourages such officers to continue serving for as long as their services are needed by Papua New Guinea. Australia, as well as Papua New Guinea, owes these officers a great debt. This legislation provides for them to continue in the full knowledge that their conditions and benefits are assured. It is the very least that we could do. As I said, it is a fair response to the very real difficulties faced by expatriate officers. 
In regard to the transfer of audit functions to the Papua New Guinea Auditor-General to be appointed, I have nothing further to say other than that the previous Government had agreed to this transfer. Also, the border agreement commenced some years ago with the markers being laid. I think the Minister said that it was in 1966-67. It is symptomatic of the friendly ties between Indonesia and Papua New Guinea which brought about a successful agreement earlier this year. Finally, I want to refer to the movement in Papua New Guinea to self-government and independence. I have spoken frequently yet briefly on the sensitivity of this movement. Honourable members know the feeling I have about the transitional stage which Papua New Guinea has been reaching. I recognise, as I have said in this Parliament before, that there will be strains and stresses, but I hope that they will be kept to a minimum. 
I have also mentioned in the House before the matter of the Papua New Guinea national airline agreement. Having criticised the Government for the manner in which this matter was handled, I am glad to say that the Government reassessed the situation and reappraised its own duty and the fact that it had not executed that duty properly. I commend the Ministers for the agreement that was reached at the weekend on the future airline for Papua New Guinea. Communications are an important element in the development of Papua New Guinea. Quite apart from that, the development of an airline is important to any emerging country and we should have met the requests of Papua New Guinea earlier than we did and adopted a different manner in our approach to negotiations. At any event, a change in attitude occurred last weekend on the part of the Minister for Transport and Minister for Civil Aviation  (Mr Charles Jones).  I commend the Minister and particularly the Minister for External Territories on reaching a successful conclusion to that agreement. We support the Bills. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bills together read a second time. 
I ask the Minister for Defence why the Pacific Islands Regiment is still being trained in internal security techniques notwithstanding the Minister's own denial of such a role in the future. 
asked  the  Prime Minister, upon notice: 
What will be the functions of the Protection Policy Division now being established in the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet. 
To what extent does the establishment of this Division represent a transfer of functions relating to protection policy from (a) the Department of Secondary Industry or (b) the Department of Overseas Trade. 
If a transfer of functions is involved, what will be the remaining functions relating to protection policy of (a) the Department of Secondary Industry and (b) the Department of Overseas Trade. 
-Will the Prime Minister permit  Sir John  Bunting to give evidence on oath before the Senate Committee? If he refuses, will he now give reasons for that refusal? 
I seek leave to make a statement. 
The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  has at last made a statement to the Parliament and the Australian people on his recent lengthy overseas visit. 
It is a reasonable thing to say. It may be that honourable members opposite were not aware of the innermost thoughts which were transmitted through the medium of television the other night. I for one have reason to recollect them. The point is well taken that a statement could have been made (Government supporters interjecting) - 
This is a speech of substance,  Mr Speaker;  so there is obviously a desire to interject. What I meant to convey by using the words 'at last' was that there is a duty, after all, to report to this Parliament immediately thoughts that we used to hear expressed frequently by the Prime Minister when he was Leader of the Opposition. I believe that by appearing on television last Saturday night he transgressed the execution of that duty. 
And so he should. I would have put it in different language. I might say that the next time he proposes to do me a favour perhaps he will desist and I will give an undertaking to do the same. 
It was a beautiful kiss of death. As is to be expected of a statement of this nature, it highlights what the Prime Minister sees as the achievements of his travels. Even if these highlights were to be accepted, they should be balanced with the many shortcomings and debits which resulted from his travels and, more to the point, from his statements. The Prime Minister has asserted before that he will show the world that Australia is pursuing a more independent foreign policy.  His  view seems to be that our independence is to be asserted by abrasive and undiplomatic behaviour. Let us take the last port of call other than Honolulu - namely, the Commonwealth Heads of Government Conference in Ottawa. The frequent arguments between him and the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom and  Mr Lee  Kuan Yew of Singapore are well known to the Australian people. I merely mention them. A statement by the New Zealand Prime Minister - not so well known in Australia - which was referred to by  Mr Robin  Day in a television interview, is similar to the accusations which many Australians are making about our Prime Minister. It was alleged by  Mr Day  in the interview that  Mr Kirk  said that the differences between the Labor Government of New Zealand and that of Australia is that 'New Zealand acts and Australia talks'. Do we not know it? 
The purpose in Washington, we understand, was to re-establish the friendly relations between Australia and the United States of America. Who fractured the friendly relations in the first place? The Prime Minister and his Ministers. Yet that was the primary purpose of the visit to the United States - to reestablish those relations. It appeared that those relations were re-established. There was some difficulty in negotiating the discussions with the  President  of the United States of America and the discussions were relatively brief, but they were held. It appeared that all was well. But not only the present  President  of the United States but also two of his distinguished predecessors - Johnson and Kennedy - were maligned by the Prime Minister in Ottawa only days after the endeavour to re-establish friendly relations had been made in Washington. 
Before moving on let me refer to the visit to Mexico, the prime aim of which seemed to be to enlist support for the Australian Government's views, which the Opposition supports, on the French nuclear explosions. It appears that the Prime Minister, in failing to elicit that support, had overlooked the very real ties between Mexico and France. The trade ties between Mexico and France and the extent of French investment in Mexico would have weighed heavily on any Mexican President's mind. The Prime Minister, if he did not overlook it, sought to persuade the Mexican  President  to a different viewpoint. He failed. We live in closer contact with our fellow man today than at any times in our history. Therefore we must consult more closely, more frequently and in franker and more direct terms than ever before. But there are limits and standards of international behaviour and diplomacy and it is regrettable, to put it mildly, that the Prime Minister in his 8 months as Foreign Minister has failed to show an understanding of proper conduct in international relations. I suggest to him in the strongest possible terms that he appoint as Foreign Minister someone who can give his full-time attention to the ramifications of Australia's foreign policy and not treat it as a part-time occupation. It might be found to be exhilarating, but at the same time it can damage relations between Australia and other countries. 
The fundamental fact about foreign policy in the 1970s is that it needs to be conducted in a world where change is occurring rapidly. We are moving towards a new international balance in which the great powers and all countries are seeking a new spirit of detente. In this climate the Prime Minister has made Australia's position equivocal and uncertain. He has shown scant regard for allies and alliances without suggesting constructive alternatives. The confusion within Australia as a result of Labor's patchwork domestic policies has been transferred to the international sphere. The Prime Minister told the Australian people in his international affairs statement in this House in May that this Government had not sought to take Australia in new directions with its foreign policy, yet in an address to the Mexican people he referred to the new direction his policy had taken. This undoubtedly requires explanation. What does the Prime Minister believe? What are we to believe? Again there is uncertainty. 
In the United States of America the Prime Minister continued his attack on the South East Asia Treaty Organisation, again without offering constructive alternatives. If he has offered alternative proposals privately he should indicate to the Australian people what those proposals are. The Liberal Party sees the need for adjustment of SEATO to make it more relevant and more effective as an instrument of regional co-operation and so that it will contribute to international stability. The Prime Minister's gratuitous comment that Thailand and the Philippines needed to be nudged to a realistic situation' can only have given offence to those countries. It is not for us to tell them what they ought to think. It is our responsibility to attempt to understand them and to assist where we can. Any advice which we might feel the need to offer should be given in private and in a spirit of friendship and co-operation. Any proposed change in SEATO, for example, should be the subject of consultation with all members of the organisation. 
Whilst talking about South East Asia and Asia we might well note that the Prime Minister seeks to assume a leadership role in Asian matters, but Asian leaders are reacting against what they regard as clumsy intrusion. It is one thing to seek to understand the problems and aspirations of our Asian neighbours. It is another thing to try to force our attention upon them. It is also important to mention that last night we heard the Government dishonour its pledges on defence expenditure, a point that seems to be overlooked in some commentaries today. Far from maintaining defence expenditure the Government has provided only 2.8 per cent to 2.9 per cent of gross national product to be spent on defence in the current financial year, compared with the provision of 3.3 per cent last year. Given the rate of inflation which Labor continues to condone and has come to depend upon, the amount provided clearly will be inadequate to enable realistic development of our defence forces. In real terms it amounts to a serious diminution of our defence effort. 
Our diplomacy and international reputation will be in question if we do not show others that we are prepared to make a proper effort towards our self defence. I mention this also in the context of withdrawal from the FivePower Agreement and the withdrawal at short notice of an adviser to draw up the program for the SEATO exercises, which run counter to the arrangements between our friends in South East Asia, and with respect to the Five-Power Agreement, with New Zealand and the United Kingdom. These withdrawals run counter to the requests of countries in the region with which we have always had the closest association and with which relations have been impaired as a consequence of the actions of this Government. 
Similarly, the Labor Government is committed to a balanced stance on the Middle East dispute. The Prime Minister has publicly endorsed the previous Government's stand of neutrality. Because of the thrust of change that the Government seeks to bring about I ask: Why the interesting approach in the Security Council in June of this year? We are the thrusting middle ranking power referred to by the Prime Minister, a power of some influence in the world today. To use one of the Prime Minister's favourite phrases we are, together with Austria, one of the most respectable countries in terms of the Security Council so far &lt;as the Middle East dispute is concerned. Why were we not playing a role in seeking some accord and an approach towards a solution in the Security Council? With Australia's limited period of membership of the Council, with whatever period remains - certainly less than the 2-year period - that was the golden opportunity for us to play a role in the Council, one of the most important issues to come before it in June was the Middle East dispute. It is probably one of the most flagrant issues confronting the world today. Again we hear one thing being said about thrusting with new ideas and change in the world but see a running away from facing the responsibility of trying to play a leading role in settling the Middle East dispute. Instead of muddling along in the way we did in June we could have acted with the sort of zeal with which the Prime Minister is so filled in trying to instill a new approach during our limited period of membership of the Council. 
It is a matter of grave disappointment that we did not try to initiate a new solution fair to both sides in the atmosphere of the discussion within the Security Council. It is as inconsistent as what we find in the Prime Minister's statement and the statement made yesterday in the Senate by the Minister Assisting the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Senator Willesee)  on his recent visit to Africa, the region with which the Prime Minister is so concerned in seeking to establish a leading role amongst the countries of the third world.  Senator Willesee  referred to the present Government's changed policies towards Africa and said that African governments now believe that they can count upon the Australian Government for support. He referred to 'a substantial change of policy' but he has made no effort to indicate what it is. 
Have commitments been given to governments in Africa which have led them to believe that they can count on Australia for support? If so, this Parliament and the Australian people ought to be informed.  Senator Willesee  referred to a substantial change of policy, yet when the Prime Minister was recently in India he stressed that in all his overseas visits - to Britain, Canada, Indonesia and India - he had stressed the continuity of Australia's foreign policy under the present Government. The Prime Minister's statements are contradictory and his Assistant Minister appears to disagree with him. There is a need for a proper explanation of these contradictions. One whirlwind tour by a Minister does not make a policy. Throughout the Prime Minister's handling of the Foreign Affairs portfolio this nation and its friends have witnessed a contrived and distorted appraisal of the achievements of the previous Government. Such distortions are again implicit in this statement. It might well be thought by some that it is fine to be taking new initiatives in the foreign arena, but remember the importance of step by step diplomacy, remember that so called concepts of the multiplier effect also occur in diplomacy. 
Look at the steady record of the previous Government. Do not treat it with contempt but regard the changes that occurred and remember the friendly relations which existed between the previous Government and the countries of South-East Asia and do not try and give in future the contrived appraisal such as you have. The present Government could well be proud of the record of association with countries of this region had it continued those associations. It has seen fit to distort the previous Government's attitude. As a consequence of its actions, the present Government has torn asunder those relations between Australia and Singapore, between Australia and Thailand and between Australia and the Philippines. The effect on these is reflected elsewhere. 
If we read the new book entitled 'Australian Foreign Policy' which the Prime Minister is to launch and which is edited by Claire Clark who is a member of the Parliamentary Research Staff, we see that it contains a statement made by the Prime Minister earlier this year to the summer school of the Institute of Political Science in Canberra. 
The Prime Minister made the statement when opening the school. The statement stressed the very real role and key role which ought to exist between Australia and Indonesia. From that- 
It is a pity that he did not get someone else to involve themselves in the writing of statements because it is his own statements that have caused so much of the problem. 
No, I do not want it incorporated. I want to remind the Prime Minister of his words. He said: 'The continued development of our relations with Malaysia, Singapore, Thailand and the Philippines is important not only in the wider regional context but in the context of our own relations with Indonesia'. In other words, after following on a discussion on the Association of South-East Asian Nations if you take certain actions with other countries of this region this will flow on to the relations that you have with each country in that region. Any activity with one leads as a consequence to the others. This is the multiplier effect. The 
Prime Minister should not think that he can argue with the Prime Minister of Singapore without this having ramifications with our relations with other countries, particularly other countries in the region. I wish for a change that the Prime Minister would stop and be cognizant of the consequences of his actions and his statements and the effect that they have on relations between Australia and the nations within South and South-East Asia in particular. 
The relations of the previous Government with the nations of this area were close and they will continue to be when we are returned at the next elections. In future statements it will be my intention, of course, to highlight not only what is wrong with the standing of the present Government in relation to other countries of the world but to indicate what we will be doing when we are returned. At this early stage I have contented myself with I think a valid appraisal of the ramifications of the recent overseas visit of the Prime Minister and compared his record with the record of the previous Government, of which we can be justifiably proud. 
asked the Minister for Supply, upon notice: 
What was the value of purchases made by his Department with respect to goods of (a) Australian manufacture and (b) Overseas manufacture in each of the years 1967-68, 1968-69, 1969-70, 1970-71, and 1971-72. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Defence. Does the Minister agree with  Major Peter  Young, a member of the Australian Labor Party Federal Executive Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee, who yesterday referred trenchantly to the Government's slashing of the defence vote? In particular he said that if the Army's morale had not hit rock bottom it was only 2 inches from it. Does the Minister recognise therefore the appalling decline in the morale of the services? Will he also cease the secret, covert disbanding of units, for example many Royal Australian Air Force units, and the cancelling of procurement orders, for example the assembly of light observation helicopters, the number of which will be cut back? Will he reverse the trend, publicise and build up the Services and recognise that if his claims for a more independent defence force are to be achieved the Government must spend more on defence and not less? 
I move: 
That so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent the honourable member for Kooyong from moving that this House condemns the Government and the Minister for Defence for damaging the morale of the armed forces and significantly reducing Australia's defence capacity. 
I have moved this motion confidently expecting that the Government will in fact support it. After all the invitation was extended to me by the Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard)  during his endeavour to answer a question that I posed. He asked that I do this at the conclusion of question time. So it is with some pleasure that I have accepted that invitation to move the suspension of Standing Orders. It was bad enough for the Minister for Defence not to recognise that Galston was 15 miles from Richmond and that 2 direct consequences would flow from his dereliction of duty, namely, that the residents of Galston could be affected and - and the point so far as this resolution is concerned - the armed forces could well be affected as a consequence of the establishment of an airport at Galston. No study has been made and therefore I move this motion because of the damage which will be done to the morale of the armed forces and the reduction in Australia's defence capacity. Comments have been made on the morale damage since this Government took office not merely by  Mr Denis  Warner but also by other correspondents and more particularly yesterday by the man the Minister for Defence had ghosting most of his speeches last year and during the 1969 election campaign. For this reason- 
In the course of the remarks of the Minister for External Territories in his second reading speech on the 4 Bills before the House, he said: 
The amendments proposed to the Papua New Guinea Act- 
This relates primarily to the Papua New Guinea Bill (No. 2) 1973-  are certainly historic, but the changes brought about are more symbolic than substantive. 
That, of course, is true. What we are doing is legislating for self-government for Papua New Guinea. We are, in fact, enacting decisions which were, in the main, taken by the Government of Papua New Guinea in conjunction with the previous Liberal-Country Party Government. It is most important, however, that people recognise the fundamental distinction between self-government and independence. I recall that when I held the portfolio of External Territories I used to use a definition of internal self-government along the lines that it was a situation in which the Commonwealth had ceased to exercise executive or legislative control in the administration of Papua New Guinea in respect of its internal affairs. External affairs and defence would remain a Commonwealth responsibility. The outward sign of internal self-government would be the formal divesting by Australia of its powers by amendment to the Papua New Guinea Act. This would take place, as I used to say, in the final stages of an orderly progression. The scope of power conferred at internal self-government would probably need to reflect Australia's continuing obligations under the trusteeship agreement with the United Nations. But at the time of this divesting of powers under the Papua New Guinea Act other Commonwealth legislation affecting the bulk of Papua New Guinea's internal affairs would have ceased to be applicable to Papua New Guinea. In the main, that is still a sufficiently accurate definition of internal self-government. 
When I continue my remarks tomorrow I will point out certain differences in approach between this government and the previous Government in relation to the post selfgovernment situation - in other words the preindpendence and then post-independence situation. In concentrating my remarks over the next few minutes on self-government it is well to remember that the situation we are now enacting has come about not as a result of recent and radical change in Papua New Guinea but as a result of a continuing and somewhat accelerating movement which started in 1967. In that year, on the recommendation of its Select Committee on Constitutional Development, the first House recommended that ministerial office holders be appointed from the House and that arrangements to allow for the development of a system of ministerial responsibility be provided for. I will make some remarks tomorrow about the wisdom of continuing with a Westminster system in operation in Papua New Guinea notwithstanding the deliberations of the constitutional planning committee. At this juncture I merely want to retrace the background to the legislation which is now before the House. 
In 1968 the Papua New Guinea Act was amended to give effect to the request I mentioned a moment ago. In 1969 and 1970 ministerial office holders gradually assumed responsibility and became more involved in governing Papua New Guinea. In July 1970 final powers over wide areas of internal government were devolved to Ministers. The initiative for this devolution of authority and responsibility, which is a continuing one, rests with the Papua New Guinea Ministers and with the support of the House. The previous Governments policy - regrettably it is not reflected accurately to date although it has been the aim yet not the result of this Government's administration - that the initiatives for constitutional development should come from Papua New Guinea. As I said continually last year, we would not impose constitutional change regardless of the wishes of the people. Therefore we would not impose self-government or a self-government date on Papua New Guinea. I stated consistently that the Australian Government stood ready to give selfgovernment to Papua New Guinea. Its aim was to help and encourage Papua New Guinea towards that goal, but the decision to accept self-government was one for the House of Assembly to speak about or to indicate the way in which the wishes of Papua New Guinea on the question could be clearly seen. This was done, and it was agreed last year after constitutional discussions between myself and the Government of Papua New Guinea that the aim for self-government would be 1 December 1973 or as soon as possible thereafter. 
What we are doing now is to ensure that Papua New Guinea can in fact and in law reach self-government on that day. We are providing for formal self-government. It is not something that has been accomplished with a single step. I think .he Minister referred to something along that line. It is not a sudden jump from one status and set of responsibilities to another but it should be seen as emerging from a series of steps which were agreed upon in advance by Papua New Guinea and the Commonwealth Government. There was some discussion last year and prior to that as to whether the power over internal security should pass to Papua New Guinea on self-government. It was thought that the power over external affairs and defence would naturally remain with the metropolitan power - the administering authority - but that it may be wise to retain some area of responsibility over internal security. I did not necessarily subscribe to that view but in any case the Government has adopted the attitude - the Government has not put it to us but we have had to glean it from a number of remarks - that internal security and the power over internal security will pass to Papua New Guinea during the period from selfgovernment to independence or prior to 1 December. 
There is no hard and fast rule of constitutional practice, as I understand it, concerning the timing of the transfer of responsibility for internal security. In most former British dependencies the British Government, through the Governor, retained ultimate responsibility for internal security up until the time of independence itself, but whatever arrangements were arrived at prior to that date seem to have been based upon the particular situation in each dependency. The  Chairman  of the Select Committee on Constitutional Development in a statement to the House of Assembly on 17 November 1970 outlined the Committee's understanding of the sort of arrangements which might be likely to exist during internal self-government. He said then: 
Basically the Committee feels that it could be assumed that external affairs and defence would remain the responsibility of the Australian Government and that as far as other areas of government are concerned arrangements would be negotiated between the Territory Government and the Australian Government at the time. 
He went on to say: 
While Australia would remain responsible for the Territory's defence and external affairs, arrangements might be made for sharing of some police and internal security matters between the Governments of the Territory and Australia. 
He then went on to say: 
The Territory might have a new name but Papua and New Guinea -  as it was then known -  would continue as 2 separate Territories and the Territories' constitution would remain in a Commonwealth Act, and the United Nations trusteeship agreement would continue in force for New Guinea. 
That is as it was put in 1970. Of course, some changes have been made. 
I would like the Minister to advise this House of the details of the transfer of responsibility over internal security. If the power is to be transferred, this House should be fully informed of the ramifications and, more particularly in the first instance, of the details of the transfer. The next matter is not this Minister's responsibility but that of the Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard)  who, I would remind the House, consistently criticised the previous Government on an unfounded basis for not making known sufficiently frequently the future standing, deployment and structure of the forces known as the Pacific Islands Regiment. The Minister for Defence referred to the Pacific Islands Regiment in but one paragraph in a lengthy defence statement in this House. He has a prime duty to advise the Parliament as to what program of defence arrangements related to Papua New Guinea is being determined by his Department, by the Department of External Territories and of course by the Government of Papua New Guinea. We must be advised of the study of arrangements deemed necessary by this Government at selfgovernment for the maintenance of internal security as a local responsibility. We need to be advised of the consideration that has been given to the organisation, training and other matters relative to Papua New Guinea forces which could be accomplished now without prejudice to their ultimate size and shape. .We ought to be advised of what study has been given to consultations. 
Debate interrupted. 
I had hoped to continue my remarks last Thursday on the 4 Bills now before the Parliament, but of course this is the first opportunity I have had to do so. At that stage I was referring to the lack of information provided by the Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard)  about the Papua New Guinea Defence Force. Last week I referred to the Force as the Pacific Islands Regiment and I am grateful to the Minister for reminidng me that in fact on 26 January an announcement was made that thereafter it would be referred to as the Papua New Guinea Defence Force. I believe it is more than time for the Minister to advise this Parliament on the stage of negotiations reached between Papua New Guinea and Australia on the future structure, deployment, size, etc., of the Papua New Guinea Defence Force. I referred to some of the considerations that ought to have been placed before us and to some of the discussions which undoubtedly were held and about which we ought to have been advised. I referred, for example, to consideration of organisation, training and other matters relative to the Papua New Guinea Defence Force which could be accomplished now without prejudice to its size and shape. I referred to the need for study and consultations with and increased responsibility by Papua New Guinea authorities in defence matters right up to the time of independence. Papua New Guinea now has a Minister for Defence,  Mr Albert  MaoriKiki. Undoubtedly he will be wanting to play a real role in the House of Assembly in Papua New Guinea. 
We need to be advised of the concepts for the future role and deployment of the Papua New Guinea forces in a post-independence situation as it is seen by both the Papua New Guinea Government and the Australian Government. The former Australian Government was criticised continually for not making sufficient statements on the future role of the Pacific Islands Regiment, as it then was, although we were referring to it consistently. We have heard little or nothing from the Minister for Defence about either the matters I have mentioned or the financial arrangements on defence between Papua New Guinea and Australia in the period of internal selfgovernment and at independence - that is, between 1 December and whatever date is agreed upon for independence. 
That leads me to a couple of points of criticism that I make of the present Government relating to independence. Honourable members are singularly uninformed on the date of independence. All we have is statements about independence in the life of the Australian Parliament - that must have as much relevance to the progress of Papua New Guinea as has the life of the Norwegian Parliament - and statements earlier in the year by the Minister for External Territories  (Mr Morrison)  that independence would be reached some time in 1974. That was contradicted, and properly so, by the Chief Minister who said that he wanted to experience a period of selfgovernment before determining the date of independence. We have had statements by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  that Australia will share equally in the determination of the date of independence. That, to me, is a classic colonialist attitude. 
The date of independence must be determined, at least in the practical sense, by consultation between Papua New Guinea and 
Australia; but the prime determinant must be the desire of the people of Papua New Guinea, as expressed by the leadership group. The Government of Papua New Guinea must determine the date. Australia ought to respond to the date that the members of that Government determine. After all, it is their country and their future, not ours. We ought not to be imposing the date of independence on Papua New Guinea. To me, that smacks of a colonialist attitude. It is a phony approach by a party which says that it is anti-colonialist. It seems to me to be placing stresses on Papua New Guinea instead of easing it along the road towards independence and continuing the smooth and orderly transition towards self-government which was being carried on under the previous Government's administration of the Territory and, in fairness, under the moves towards selfgovernment by this Government. As I said on Wednesday, we must distinguish between selfgovernment and independence. 
A further criticism that I have regarding independence is that it is inconceivable to me that this Government should allow Papua New Guinea to be shortly approaching the stage of independence without determining what the basic relations between Australia and Papua New Guinea will be when that country reaches the stage of independence, or when the watershed actually occurs. It will not occur on self-government; it will occur on independence. Will we stop, look at one another and say: 'Now let us discuss what our relations will be'? We ought to be determining our basic approach now. To me it is the height of foolishness and crass stupidity, apart from maladministration, to be thinking that we can reach a date for independence and then determine relations as if we were pressing a computer button. We must determine the basic approach and be guided particularly by the attitude of Papua New Guinea as to how it sees its relations with Australia as well as its relations with other countries. 
After 1 December Papua New Guinea will be responsible for all domestic matters. I do not quibble with that. After all, the decision was reached by the previous Government in conjunction with the coalition Government in Papua New Guinea. Between 1 December and independence Australia will be dealing with defence and foreign affairs matters on behalf of Papua New Guinea but in conjunction with it. It is well to bear in mind that we ought to be distinguishing now between Australia's relations with Papua New Guinea and Papua New Guinea's own foreign relations. We have to develop our relations with Papua New Guinea having proper regard to Australia's national interests, and we should expect Papua New Guinea to do precisely the same. In particular, we should not expect her to look to us to decide what her national interests are. Nor, as I have said on previous occasions, should we expect that over the years Papua New Guinea's national interests, as they are better defined and as Papua New Guinea's political leaders become more conscious of them, will not become more and more divergent from those of Australia. This is something to which the Government ought to be directing its attention and on which it ought to be preparing papers and information for this Parliament. It should do so in the execution of the fundamental duty that we have had to the Trusteeship Council of the United Nations. We are being given sparse information as to what relations between Papua New Guinea and Australia after independence are foreseen. 
It seems to me that yet another breakdown in relations was the way in which there was fighting over whether Papua New Guinea would be allowed to join in the AustraliaJapan ministerial talks in Tokyo. We understand now that  Mr Albert  Maori Kiki will be allowed to attend the Australia-Japan ministerial committee. To give credit to the Minister, from the leaks I have heard around this Parliament it would appear that it was only through his strong representations that Papua New Guinea was allowed to attend. Where was the Prime Minister? Why was he not agreeing to the move that  Mr Albert  Maori Kiki be a participant in these discussions? Surely increasing investment and improved relations between Japan and Papua New Guinea alone would dictate that  Mr Albert  Maori Kiki be allowed to represent Papua New Guinea. Surely the close and abiding relations between Australia and Papua New Guinea should have dictated that  Mr Albert  Maori Kiki be present at the AustraliaJapan ministerial committee. 
This is another example of the wishes of the Papua New Guinea Government being secondary to the determinations of individual Ministers or the Prime Minister. This has happened not only in relation to these talks and the talks on independence which 1 mentioned a little earlier in my speech, but also in the disagreement over the airport proposals and the disagreement over the nature of aid programs. This is the way in which relations between the 2 countries have diverged. This does not affect the date on which selfgovernment will come into operation but it may jeopardise relations in a postselfgovernment pre-independence situation. I hope it does not. I trust it will not. We have been too close to Papua New Guinea for too long to allow this to happen. 
I stress again the necessity to distinguish between Australia's foreign relations interests and the proper regard that she must pay to her national interests when making those assessments and the fact that Papua New Guinea will be making similar considerations. Therefore mutual discussion should be held now to determine the form which relations with other countries should take as well as with Papua New Guinea in a postindependence situation. It is not good enough to wait until after self-government before holding these discussions. After all, as I have said, Australia's relationship with Papua New Guinea is in the process of changing fundamentally. In working towards selfgovernment and later independence, we are discarding the former relationship of an administering authority and an administered country. Prior to this Government taking over the process had been achieved largely without bitterness or recriminations from either party. Relations between our 2 countries are still reasonably well founded on a sound basis of goodwill and mutual trust. I earnestly hope that that situation will continue. Speaking personally, I always valued a close association with the Papua New Guinea Government and I hope that Ministers in this Government - I mean Ministers in the plural - will see that that situation continues. I agree with what is contained in the article written by  Mr Creighton  Burns which appeared in the 'Age' yesterday. He said that the Ministers of this Government ought to be in Papua New Guinea continuously to reassure the Government of Papua New Guinea about the aid programs and helping it during this sensitive time. They should be there to stress that so far as Australia-Papua New Guinea relations are concerned Papua New Guinea will occupy a special place as a recipient of aid from Australia in the future. 
Some people would regard Papua New Guinea's movement towards independence at the present moment as exciting. One can imagine a situation some time in the future in which Papua New Guinea, independent and developing, has close and friendly relations with Australia that have stabilised into a permanent reality. But let no one dismiss the sensitive period towards which Papua New Guinea is moving now. I have the utmost confidence in the future of Papua New Guinea, provided the government of the day in this country, whichever Government it may be, gives the assistance requested by Papua New Guinea and does not impose its views on Papua New Guinea. The association between our 2 countries cannot end at independence. We ought to be taking steps now to determine what our relations with Papua New Guinea will be after independence. Events of history and factors of geography have dictated that our 2 countries must have a close relationship. We are too important to each other for it to be otherwise and for it to be to the detriment of both countries. I am confident that provided there are efforts by men of goodwill in both Papua New Guinea and Australia we can achieve that goal. We must recognise that she will be taking decisions primarily in her interests. This means that she will weigh up the relations between herself and Singapore and herself and Indonesia. In other words she will look to both the Pacific and South East Asia as she has not had to do before and we should be preparing ourselves - not simply Papua New Guinea - for the time when that stage is reached. 
I have said that I am optimistic about the future of Papua New Guinea. I am sure that the Chief Minister would be as cognisant as most members of this Parliament are of the difficulties she faces. We do not underrate those difficulties. We want to give all the assistance we can give. She has domestic problems of management, a small number of Papua New Guineans in high positions in the Public Service and a small indigenous tax base. She therefore is heavily reliant on expatriates and foreign investment. We would hope that this will change over a lengthy period, but it cannot be changed overnight. There are problems of secession movements, but I do not want to exaggerate them. There is the question of the Papua-Queensland border. One would hope that that matter can be resolved by negotia tion. People in Australia do not seem to realise the deep sensitivity of the question of the Papua-Queensland border and what it could cause internationally and within Papua New Guinea if it were unresolved. I hope an earnest endeavour is made not to shout from the Federal Parliament to the Queensland Parliament that the decision will be taken unilaterally but that cognisance will be given to the provisions of the Constitution and that negotiations will be held between the Queensland Government, the Federal Government, the people of the Torres Strait Island and, in particular, the people of Papua New Guinea. After all, the colony of Queensland in the late 1890s resolved to change the boundary. It did not go ahead. There seems to me to be a prima facie case but that does not mean that the Australian Government should bludgeon the Queensland Parliament into doing as it sees fit. I think it was within 2 days of taking over Government that the Prime Minister said that the boundary would be changed. He should have known that he had no power to change it and it was wrong to mislead the people of Papua New Guinea in that way. The way to resolve all these sorts of problems is by goodwill and mutual discussion. This should be taking place now. 
I have already expressed my views earlier in this House along the same lines and members of the honourable member's Party supported the view I am now putting forward. 
I am pleased that your remarks will be written into Hansard. I congratulate the honourable member on this mutual exchange of goodwill in this House. We must accept that the movement to self government, which has been described in this Parliament on a number of occasions, is reaching its end. We must look beyond the stage of self-government and, as I stressed to the Government, beyond the date of independence itself. We should not wait until the break occurs in relation to the execution of our duty to the United Nations. We must recognise that Papua New Guinea will be independent and looking to Asia and the Pacific. We must recognise that by 'independent' we mean just that. There will be stresses and strains and we, in this Parliament, will need to be tolerant of the relations that occur between Papua New Guinea and Australia. 
What I want to say in conclusion calls for a degree of self-congratulation, not personally but of the previous Government and, to an extent, this Government. 1 believe that no other administering power in the world has been able to bring a country to selfgovernment with such close relations between it and the administered area as has Australia - no country, except perhaps Britain with Fiji, but that might be the only example, and even that I would challenge. I think that Australia can be proud of the role she has played in moving towards self-government and independence for Papua New Guinea but that does not mean that she should be looking for thanks from Papua New Guinea. It was a proper execution of a legal and moral duty. The fact that we have tackled the process of winding down and have done it properly does not mean that we should look for selfcongratulation or gratitude. We have done our job. We should be proud of what we have done. We should be thinking beyond the stage of carrying out our duty and looking to the stage of relations between an independent, friendly country north of ourselves. 
I would like to give my final congratulations to the Department of External Territories because it, after all, evaporates on the date of self-government and its personnel move to various other departments. I have mentioned once before the debt that Australia owes the Department and successive Administrators in Papua New Guinea. Extraordinary tasks have been handled by them. A large amount of credit should go to officers of the Department for rapid movement and transition towards self-government which has been carried out so smoothly and in such orderly fashion. It would be wrong to conclude my remarks without referring to them. At the same time, on behalf of the Opposition - and I am sure that those honourable members who follow me in this debate will say the same - I wish well the Government of Papua New Guinea and the institution of the House of Assembly in their relations with this current Australian Government as they move towards independence. 
My question is directed to the  Deputy  Prime Minister on the proper assumption that this morning in this House he is accountable for the actions of the Government. In view of the statement made on Tuesday that the Government will recognise the new Government of Chile today, and with the understanding that governments may be recognised notwithstanding the manner in which they take government, how does the Minister reconcile this particular decision with the views stated in a telegram to the Chilean Ambassador in Australia on 13 September by eight of his Ministers and 36 other Labor members of Parliament and senators that the new government was illegal and that they would undertake efforts 'to help the Chilean people regain their freedom'? How does the Minister reconcile the decision with the actions being taken by members of his Party, as reported today, that they are urging that Federal Government to move against the Chilean military regime? 
The estimates having come on for debate now, somewhat earlier than I had anticipated, 1 will not make the address that I had planned to make. I want to take up one matter raised by the Minister for External Territories  (Mr Morrison)  and to compliment him on one portion of his speech in which he said it is time - to use his words I think - that we should measure the effectiveness of aid as it relates to people and their welfare and not merely by statistics. Of course, that was said in this House last year and it is being said increasingly around the world today. I would refer those so charged within the Department of Foreign Affairs to take note of what is being said in the international community on the question of assisting those in poverty throughout the world. The basic problem of poverty and growth, as has been said by other people in the developing world, can frankly be stated very simply: The growth is not equitably reaching the poor and the poor are not significantly contributing to growth. It is time that those nations contributing to the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development recognised that they must cease judging the effectiveness of aid programs on the basis of the percentage of the gross national product. The GNP was devised only to be a measure of the distribution of goods and services produced by an economy, and it does not relate to the sorts of needs of which I have just spoken. Perhaps one of the finest addresses in a continuing series that he makes was made on this very issue along these lines by the  President  of the World Bank Group, Robert McNamara, only last month. 
Having produced a bouquet for the Minister I now turn to the other lame duck Minister who is associated with these estimates. I refer to the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  who vacates his portfolio as Minister for Foreign Affairs in a matter of weeks. In doing so he does the nation a service. The Minister for External "erritories - I do not put him on the same basis - goes with his Department on 1 December. He remains, I understand, as Minister for Science and will be looking after Papua New Guinea's welfare on behalf of the Minister for Foreign Affairs. But essentially this is the last time that we shall be taking the estimates so presented with 2 Ministers being responsible for them. There will be one set of estimates through the Department of Foreign Affairs and the present incumbent, though he remains temporarily in the position of Prime Minister, will work himself out of the position of Minister for Foreign Affairs in a short period of time. I do not want to spend a great deal of time on what that gentleman said in a debate this morning about attitudes that I hold on foreign affairs, but in a deliberate endeavour to misquote he used quotations for convenience and in other erroneous manners, and in his concluding remarks alleged that I was in favour of most of the areas in which he has been operating as Minister for Foreign Affairs, leaving aside my criticism of the fracturing of relations with the United States, the United Kingdom, Singapore, Thailand and numerous other areas of the world. He said that all of the significant things the Government has done but for which some elements in the Liberal Party had criticised the Government are, in fact, endorsed by the Liberal spokesman on foreign affairs. That is not true. I have referred to some of those areas in which I have been trenchantly critical of the Government, and the one for which he takes more credit than anything else - China - I would like to refer to very briefly now. Of course, as he said, I accept the fact of recognition of the People's Republic of China, and my Leader has said it and properly so. But we have been critical of the method whereby this Government recognised the People's Republic of China. Methods and style may not be important to some but in the area of diplomacy they are an innate part of foreign relations. Britain is in fact the only Western power which pledged to remove its officials from Taiwan; yet Taiwan had no consulates in the United Kingdom and therefore was not placed in the difficult position in which we placed her earlier this year. Other Western powers were not as discourteous or as undiplomatic and their diplomacy will pay dividends. They have not consciously made enemies in Asia. For example, the images of West Germany, Canada and Austria are therefore satisfactory. Cutting all ties with Taiwan was, to me, illogical. This Government has recognised 2 Vietnams, 2 Koreas, 2 Germanys and one China and has given no explanation for doing so other than it had to be done. Others maintained the link with Taiwan but this Government chose not to do so. Furthermore, Australian policy is out of step with nearly all South East Asian countries, a factor that is important to this side of the House even if it is not important to the Government. Three states - Burma, Laos and North Vietnam - recognise Peking. Four states - Thailand, Khmer, South Vietnam and the Philippines - recognise Taiwan. Three others - Singapore, Malaysia and Indonesia - have Taiwan trade or consular office links. Enough said about the aspect of China. 
In the few minutes of the Estimates debate that remain to me I would like to refer to a statement made by the Prime Minister in his policy speech last year. This relates to questions of significance. He said: 
More than any foreign aid program, more than any international obligation which we meet or forfeit, more than any part we may play in any treaty or agreement or alliance- 
I pause to say it could hardly be stated higher than that- 
Australia's treatment of her Aboriginal people will be the thing upon which the rest of the world will judge Australia and Australians - not just now, but in the greater perspective of history. 
How has this Government conducted its affairs in relation to Aboriginal welfare? Last week we saw demonstrations outside this Parliament which revealed just how much of this Government's policies are mere rhetoric but, as a consequence of that rhetoric, divisive; its policies have fractured relations around the world and have led to divisiveness within this country. The picture is one of muddled idealism, rhetoric and fractured relations. In regard to the most fundamental area mentioned by the Prime Minister before the election, we have seen the sacking of a Minister, namely the previous Minister for Aboriginal Affairs. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Martin)Order!  I would remind the honourable member that the estimates for the Department of Aboriginal Affairs have already been discussed. 
With the greatest respect  Mr Deputy Chairman,  the Prime Minister has indicated to you that more than any other foreign aid program, Aboriginal affairs will be the thing upon which the people of Australia will judge whether foreign relations are effective or not. He went to the people on that basis. 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- You can work that particular part into the debate on these estimates. 
I have mentioned it twice. 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN - I will listen very attentively. 
I appreciate the remarks. One Minister was sacked. The permitted misuse and wastage of funds within that Department all flow over to the judgment which we were asked to cast on this Government's performance in foreign relations, and last week all members of this Parliament were greeted with screaming and frankly dissatisfied Aborigines. That is how successful this major thrust has been. It has been an utter disaster. Our foreign relations are in tatters. Papua New Guinea has been mentioned by the Minister. So many changes have been made by the Minister and his colleagues that one is never quite sure whether we have consistency in our relations there. 
In the few minutes remaining to me I want to touch on the realities of Australia's position in the world - the special position which a developed European nation on the periphery of Asia has - for this must be the starting point in the examination of our relations with South East Asia in particular and those countries that  aTe  nearest to us geographically. The only realistic policy is not to concentrate on vague amorphous international organisations, however important they are - and I stress again that they are important. The sole concentration ought not to be there. Our primary consideration must be given to developing our relations with the countries in our region and in our general area. We must always be conscious in these circumstances that Australia is dealing with developing countries, with countries which have different cultures - underdeveloped countries, if one likes to use that term. These countries require- 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Martin)  - Order! The honourable gentleman's time has expired. 
The Senate's amendment is sensible and proper. Its intent is clear. We accept the commendation of the Minister for Science and Minister for External Territories  (Mr Morrison)  in this regard by supporting the amendment. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Resolution reported; report adopted. 
Sitting suspended from  1.1  to  2.15  p.m. 
The Prime Minister and former Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Whitlam)  has made a brief statement and tabled documents relating to his recent journey to Japan and China. It would be churlish not to concede that there was much in what he did and said during his journey and in the documents that is encouraging. The Prime Minister appears to have dealt with at least some of the doubts and uncertainties in the minds of the Japanese which have arisen since the Labor Government came to power, these doubts and uncertainties of course being caused by the Labor Government itself. However, the Prime Minister has continued the useful practice established by the Liberal-Country Party Government of conducting annual ministerial meetings with the Japanese. He mentions specifically the useful exchange of views on developments in Papua New Guinea in which that country's Minister for Defence and Foreign Relations,  Mr Maori  Kiki, participated. I make the point firstly that we initiated these ministerial talks and that last year we included the Chief Minister and 2 of his Ministers and we welcomed it. There was great difficulty in even getting  Mr Maori  Kiki to attend these discussions. As I understand it, it was not until the Chief Minister actually pleaded with the Prime Minister that  Mr Maori  Kiki was allowed to go and so Papua New Guinea still remains a blot on the Government's diplomatic initiatives. 
However, the Prime Minister has developed our relationship with China. The Liberal Party has made it clear on many occasions that it accepts the reality of Australia's relationship with China. When in Government last year we made some efforts to normalise relations with China and the Prime Minister, then Leader of the Opposition, conceded this in talks with the Chinese Premier as early as 
July 1971. The present Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  has visited China, symbolising the Liberal Party's desire to strengthen relations with China, despite the uncertainties and some of the difficulties we have faced in the past. However, it is the duty of the Opposition to draw attention to the shortcomings or inadequacies of the Government as the Opposition sees them. It is against the background that I have outlined and as the Liberal Party spokesman on foreign affairs that I criticise a number of aspects of the Prime Minister's statements and actions whilst overseas. 
In Tokyo, the Prime Minister faced the problem of clearing up confusion which as I said his own Government's policies have created amongst the Japanese. In particular he had to qualify the attitudes to foreign investment in Australia. He took the opportunity to make an attempt to do so but not surprisingly, uncertainty remains in certain areas, as has been indicated by the Japanese Foreign Minister. Significantly the Prime Minister did concede the importance of overseas investment in Australia and the extent to which this contributed to Australia's growth under the Liberal-Country Party Government. In Tokyo on 29 October he said that, in part due to the contribution of overseas investment, within a generation Australia has developed from a largely agricultural and pastoral economy into a modern, increasingly industrialised and diversified economy. Many questions remain but it seems that the cloud which lay over our relationships with Japan since 2 December last has to some extent been dissipated. We can only hope that this process will be taken a good deal further. The Prime Minister has also stated that to maintain a desirable level of exploration activity the Government will be prepared to accept a lower level of Australian ownership in exploration. But will he take other measures to stimulate exploration which has now almost ceased because of this Government's policies? There is not much purpose in encouraging people to explore if they are uncertain about their rights to be involved in subsequent developments. 
The Prime Minister developed Australia's dialogue with China. The Liberal Party has not dissented from his efforts and does not decry his achievement in this respect. But again the Opposition must raise questions when we see shortcomings or uncertainties which the Prime Minister has failed to clarify. We must ask what the Prime Minister meant when he said that Australia's new aspirations are symbolised more in our relationship with China than with any other country. Ties with China are important but there must be limits on the extent to which Australia's 'aspirations' depend upon them or are symbolised by them. It is important also that the Australian people should know the extent of the Prime Minister's commitment as an emissary explaining China's policies. He said that if necessary he will explain to the countries in our region particularly the Association of South East Asian Nations, China's attitudes. Presumably the Chinese concurred in this. But on what basis did he presume to explain to the Chinese Government the views and the attitudes of the ASEAN countries? This sort of unwarranted presumption on the part of the Prime Minister is rejected by the Liberal Party. Perhaps it is just a matter of style but it is important in international relations that style and aspirations be matched. The Liberal Party in government had closer relations with the countries of ASEAN than this Labor Government can claim, but we would never have presumed to explain to any other government the feelings, the attitudes or the policies of those countries unless specifically asked to do so. That is not our role. It is absurd to assume that it ought to be. 
Again we must ask why the communique issued after the Prime Minister's talks in Japan referred to a wide range of specific international issues while that issued after his visit to Peking did not refer to any. We know now that he raised the issue of Chinese nuclear tests but did he receive any committment from the Chinese that they would try to make their tests cleaner, to test underground or to curtail their testing program? If not, did he indicate to the Chinese what further action he intends to take? Will he tell the House? The Middle East was not mentioned in the Peking communique and it has not been mentioned in the Prime Minister's statement to the House. Did the Prime Minister forcefully put Australia's opposition to China's pro-Arab stance and state that it is unacceptable to his Government. All that we have been told is that the 2 sides expressed different views. The Liberal Party would not shy away from such issues. We would seek action by the Chinese on their nuclear testing and if they refused it we would say that they refused to do so. We would in government, as we are in Opposition, be publicly critical of their unhelpful pro-Arab attitude, an attitude which can only contribute to encouraging further hostilities. The Opposition must ask what the Prime Minister hoped to achieve from his meeting in Peking with Prince Sihanouk. Again, no mention has been made of this in his statement today. We know, for example, that during talks in Peking in 1971 the Chinese Premier referred to Prince Sihanouk and the Leader of the Opposition, as he then was, replied: 'It is tragic for his people that his Government was subverted in this clandestine, in this evil way'. He has since confirmed his Government's recognition of and support for the Lon Nol Government. The Opposition hopes that he is making full use of the resources of the Department of Foreign Affairs to ensure that his actions and his policy are conveyed to the Government of the Khmer Republic. The Prime Minister must realise that such action on his part cannot contribute to the stability and security of the Khmer Republic. It can only encourage those seeking forcibly to overthrow the present Government. To this extent his actions contribute to the continuing turmoil in South East Asia. 
One has tried to be constructive in relation to the Prime Minister's statement. There are, however, as I said, remaining doubts and uncertainties and the new Minister for Foreign Affairs,  Senator Willesee,  in one of his first answers to questions in the other place yesterday has not assisted the clearing of doubts and in some respects he has been downright misleading. He alleged in answer to a question on China that the previous Government looked at a country's ideology and then decided whether it would be friends'. Such a statement is rejected. It ignores our recognition of countries such as the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and Yugoslavia and the initiatives with a country such as Poland. 
In conclusion, one of the most serious aspects of the visit has been the public revelation of the divisions of opinion amongst the Prime Minister's advisers between those on his personal staff and those in the Department of Foreign Affairs - and also the divisions of opinion among the various Ministers who accompanied him, and their departments. On the question of a treaty with Japan, on policy relating to the development of minerals and energy resources, on. the question of the presence in Peking or Prince Sihanouk and the 
Government's continuing recognition of the Lon Nol Government in the Khmer Republic of Cambodia these divisions emerged. The Prime Minister has a difficult task in reconciling these divisions. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Hansen)  adjourned. 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. Yesterday, at his Press conference, the Prime Minister was asked about his concept of a broad regional grouping for Asia and whether he would consider the United States of America and the Soviet Union as possible members. He replied: 'I won't speculate on membership as extensive as that, I have never suggested it'. I ask. Is it not true that in Washington on 30 July the Prime Minister said that China was 'obviously' one of the countries which ought to be involved? Also, in answer to a question on notice on 3 October, did the Prime Minister not say that he saw no restrictions on individual membership, and this applied to the great powers, including the Soviet Union? While accepting that the Government is flexible on the timing, structure and membership of any arrangements, will the Prime Minister say whether he sees any objections to China and the Soviet Union being included in the sort of Asia-Pacific arrangement which he has in fact already suggested? 
It would be a good thing if the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly),  instead of quoting from some second rate British politician's writing on the institution of the parliament had quoted what is involved in the motion for an allotment of time. Legislation that goes through this Parliament is based on powers granted by the Commonwealth Constitution. Under this allotment of time in respect of legislation relating to amendments to the Constitution we will be allowed in the Committee stage 15 minutes on each of the 3 Bills, including voting time. That is probably an effective speaking time of 5 to 7 minutes. The Minister for Secondary Industry  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  said in regard to a previous motion that a referendum is the most democratic form of getting decisions. Of course what he forgets is that under the Constitution itself in this country there can 'be no referendum unless this Parliament makes provision for it to be held and the Parliament must be given the opportunity to have a full discussion as to the warrants, the arguments and the benefits of the case that will be put before the people. 
It is not a question of always opposing. You know that you are bound by a Caucus clique. You do not take your decisions here. You do not use this place as a persuasive body. Your decisions are taken outside. You must march in here and steamroll the decisions through. It makes no difference at all. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Were Australian diplomats recently stopped by armed soldiers or police at road blocks in Tanzania. 
If so, were the diplomats harassed without reason and their diplomatic status ignored by the authorities involved. 
Was one of the diplomats threatened with an automatic weapon. 
Has a protest been made to the Tanzanian authorities over this incident. 
If so, what form did the protest take, and when was it made. 
What assurances has the Australian Government received that Australian officials in Tanzania will not in future be subjected to such treatment. 

 - Mr Speaker, I bring forward for discussion this matter of public importance on behalf of both the Liberal and Country parties. I believe it to be justified. It does not denigrate the Government for all its foreign policy initiatives - there have been some which both my leader and myself have commented upon favourably, albeit that the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  has misquoted me in relation to some of these - but it gives voice to some doubts and uncertainties which have occurred during this Government's period of office so far as its foreign policies are concerned. Australian foreign policy should serve this country's national interest, but the Government's new nationalism in foreign policy is not in Australia's interest. It is not new nationalism but old-style aggressive nationalism, a petulant self-assertiveness that has already harmed relations with the United States, the United Kingdom, Singapore, the South Pacific countries and Japan. Such a claim does not suggest that Australia should adopt a servile attitude towards other countries or that their approval should be sought before decisions are made. 
Australia's national interest is best served by recognising that we are living in an increasingly interdependent world - interdependent in terms of peace and security, in terms of human well-being and prosperity - a world in which Australia could and should make a substantial contribution. Whatever the proclaimed intentions of the Australian Government, its conduct of policy has not inspired co-operation; but rather it has aroused suspicion and uncertainty among the countries of our region and damaged our relations with many countries - damage that throws serious doubt upon the Prime Minister's claim that he had been the greatest Foreign Minister Australia has ever had. As  Mr Maximilian  Walsh, in the 'Australian Financial Review' of 9 November this year, commented, the Prime Minister had described himself in this way with characteristic lack of modesty' and had ascribed to himself ' a role which many would regard as somewhat larger than life itself. 
In addition to earlier tensions created by the Government in its relations, for example, with the United States of America, the tenor of a reply by the Prime Minister to a question at the National Press Club luncheon on 8 
November is said to have further strained relations. When asked about the United States international precautionary alert to its forces, the Prime Minister was reported as replying: 
I do not know if they were put on alert. I was not told. I believe the announcement was for domestic American consumption. 
As Allan Barnes of the Melbourne 'Age' commented,  Mr Whitlam's  statement:  . . shocked a number of foreign diplomats, including some from the American Embassy who were present.  His  remarks are certain to be reported to the State Department in Washington. They will do nothing to help improve the relations with the Nixon administration. 
They are not my words; they are the words of an objective reporter. What the House must realise is that with those remarks the Prime Minister also attacked the integrity of the United States Secretary of State,  Dr Henry  Kissinger, a man whose achievements in the field of foreign relations, to put them at their minimum, have not only been more significant but also infinitely more successful than have the Prime Minister's. 
It ought to be remembered that in answer to the charge that  President  Nixon had ordered the alert to distract public attention from the Watergate scandal,  Dr Kissinger  conducted the most searching examination of the matter and nailed it as a lie.  Dr Kissinger's  statement predated the Whitlam statement. The Prime Minister knew that, rejected it and hurled it back at the United States Secretary of State.  His  statement, therefore, is tantamount to calling  Dr Kissinger  a liar. To make it even worse, if that is possible, it follows the occasion last month when the Prime Minister trenchantly criticised the United States Administration for sending arms to Israel, arms that were forwarded subsequent to the massive re-supply by the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics to the Arabs. I am advised that such criticism caused  Dr Kissinger  to write to the Prime Minister explaining the true position. I am advised further that it was a temperate letter, couched in diplomatic language, but its message was clear: Do not criticise at least until you know the facts - a thoroughly reasoned and reasonable response. What was the Prime Minister's reaction? At the next opportunity it was to criticise the United States' handling of the Middle East crisis. He turned the heat on  Dr Kissinger  himself. But this is the pattern of the Prime Minister's actions - a history and record in the domestic sphere of over-reaction to criticism. Now he is performing predictably on the same plane in the international arena. But the men scorned, men such as Nixon, Kissinger, Prime Minister Heath, Prime Minister Lee Kuan Yew, should not feel too bad. Only last week, in Melbourne, he told us that his own Ministers were headline seekers; talked too much; were not able yet to perform properly in their jobs, and he threatened to resign last week because of a Labor member's resolution before Caucus. Again, as  Mr Allan  Barnes has said, this action was entirely unnecessary - shades again of his swiping at his critics. 
Now let us look elsewhere. Consider the Prime Minister's visit to Japan. There again the actions of the Government in the international field are akin to its actions in the domestic sphere, namely, to act first and think later. We have heard so much about the Treaty of Nara, announced with great ceremony, but frankly no one knows what the Treaty will contain. As the Japanese Foreign Minister,  Mr Ohira,  said after the Tanaka-Whitlam agreement: 
From now on between the 2 Governments the officials will be wracking their brains and will be working hard to come up with a draft of the treaty. 
The Liberal Party would not proclaim a treaty if there were none in existence. These are the actions of our self-proclaimed greatest Foreign Minister ever. When he saw  Chairman  Mao the occasion led to extraordinary ecstasy. I remind Australia's answer to Mohammed Ali that only a fortnight before his visit to China the Canadian Prime Minister,  Mr Trudeau,  also had visited China, had been received with the same organised enthusiasm, had secured a trade agreement to plan long term commerce between the  2  countries, had secured agreement to the establishment of the first non-communist consulate in China, probably to the established Shanghai, and  Mr Trudeau  had also met  Chairman  Mao - but no shades of Cassius Clay from  Mr Trudeau. 
Also in China the Prime Minister of Australia said that Australia's new aspirations are symbolised more in our relationship with China than our relationship with any other country. Just what does this statement mean to us? Just what does it mean to the countries of South East Asia? Ties with China are important, but there must be limits on the extent to which Australian 'aspirations' depend upon them or are symbolised by them. As I have said before, perhaps it is just a matter of style, but it is important in international relations that style and aspirations be matched. This the Liberal Party in government would do. Undoubtedly the Liberal Party whilst in government had closer relations with the countries of the Association of South East Asian Nations than this Labor Government can claim. Indonesia, Singapore, Malaysia, Thailand and the Philippines have all had difficult times during the period of this Government and have been offended by remarks of the Prime Minister. 
The uncertainty regarding the future of the Five-Power Arrangements as a result of the Australian Government's decision to withdraw were well put last week by the Singapore Foreign Minister,  Mr Rajaratnam  when interviewed on the Australian Broadcasting Commission program 'Monday Conference'. He said: 
There are 5 partners to this Five-Power defence agreement and I think 4 of them are more or less in accord; 
I pause at this stage to indicate clearly that at this stage of his remarks he was referring to Australia - one of the partners has a slightly different approach which, if pursued to any extreme logical extent, could materially alter - and very substantially, possibly, alter - the relationship between Singapore and Australia and perhaps the others as well. 
It will be recalled that the New Zealand Labor Government has stated unequivocally that it will not walk out of the Five-Power Arrangements. So far as Papua New Guinea is concerned, we have had numerous changes of direction and stated attitudes by Ministers of this Government leading to the most extraordinary uncertainties. At the commencement of this year the Minister for External Territories  (Mr Morrison)  boasted that the Labor Government would make Papua New Guinea independent by 1974. He was forcibly and publicly challenged by the Chief Minister of Papua New Guinea and told that this was primarily a decision for Papua New Guinea. The Minister for External Territories later retreated from this assertive position. 
We then had the dogmatic statement by the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Mr Charles Jones)  that he would dictate the terms of Papua New Guinea's national airline. Again the Chief Minister was forced publicly to rebuke a Labor Minister and policy was changed. Then we had the riots in Port Moresby in August of this year which the Minister for External Territories dismissed as a mere stoush after a football match. Again the Papua New Guinea Ministers thoroughly disagreed with this assessment. Later the Prime Minister at first refused to allow Papua New Guinea's Defence and Foreign Relations Minister,  Mr Albert  Maori Kiki, to travel with the Australian delegation to Japan and to participate in discussions. He was forced to change that attitude only after the Chief Minister personally pleaded with him to permit  Mr Kiki  to participate in the talks in Japan. 
The period of Labor administration of Papua New Guinea has revealed a record of misconceived intent, confusion of policy and a regrettable continuing state of convulsive colonialism. In contrast, the Liberal Party's policy towards Papua New Guinea was and is clear and unexceptionable. It is the country of the people of Papua New Guinea, it is their future and they should be the determinants of that future. So far as our relations with the South Pacific are concerned it will be recalled that the Prime Minister attended the South Pacific forum at Apia in Western Samoa in April. It was alleged that the Australian delegation would adopt a low profile strategy. As the 'Australian Financial Review' on 9 November this year said: 

 Mr Whitlam's one foray into the Pacific was se close to a disaster it was embarrassing. 
The low profile strategy was somewhat distorted by the presence in Apia harbour oi HMAS 'Vampire' and the Fiji Prime Minister, Ratu  Sir Kamisese  Mara, manoeuvred an internal dispute over Fiji unionism into a regional crisis involving Australian trade union interference in Fiji affairs. No wonder the 'Australian Financial Review' referred to the visit as being close to a disaster. 
The Opposition, therefore, censures the Government and brings before the House a matter of public importance referring to the uncertainties that have been created by the Government's foreign policies. It condemns the Government - and the Prime Minister - for its handling of international relations, for its facade, for its old-fashioned aggressive jingoistic nationalism and above all for its undiplomatic diplomacy. The Prime Minister has created uncertainty. He has misquoted me, for example, to support his arguments. He deserves criticism in the specific areas to which I have referred and the criticism that will be referred to by my colleagues following me in this debate. Undoubtedly amongst the countries of South East Asia and even within 
Australia itself there is grave uncertainty as to the future direction of Australia's foreign policy. 

 - Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Whilst welcoming the move by the Government I must, after all this time and the arguments which occurred in this place, and of course because of the plausible case that was put by my Party in the Senate which induced others to support the amendment that was moved, say that whilst being pleased that the Government has done this, there are some points that bear noting at this moment. I refer to the statement made by the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor)  on 10 May in his second reading speech on the Bill. He said: 
The Bill now before the House differs in one important aspect from the Bill introduced during the previous session of Parliament. This is the inclusion in Part III of the Bill of provisions relating to offshore mining, which together with the associated Royalty Bill will enable the Commonwealth to exercise control over exploration and mining activities for all minerals other than petroleum on the seabed and in the subsoil of the whole area to which the authority of the Commonwealth extends. 
He described in his speech Part III of the Bill as being an important provision. The Opposition took a contrary view. The Opposition sought to explain to this place and then successfully in the Senate that, given the claim by the Commonwealth to assert its right over off-shore oil and the provisions in the earlier Parts of the Bill, it recognised that the States had a different viewpoint and as the Opposition has maintained during this year, resolution of that dispute was desirable. It seemed not only offensive but also quite improper to impose on States at the same time a part of a Bill which was to claim jurisdiction unilaterally on the basis of laws applying in the Australian Capital Territory and with provisions which my colleague,  Senator Greenwood,  so persuasively put in the Senate seemed to be drawn from the scheme of the Mining Code which was contained in the Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Act and which was yet included in this category here. This was done despite the trenchant criticism of the Senate Select Committee which drew attention to the enormous powers which would be vested in a Minister in circumstances such as this and which were the antithesis of the way in which both the Senate Committee and the Opposition felt legislation should be put, implemented and carried out later by regulation. 
In the Senate  Senator Greenwood  referred to extensive chapters in the report of the Senate Select Committee. He put it as succinctly as possible but, as I say, persuasively. I would have to say now, whilst we accept and we are pleased with the Government's decision to accept the Senate recom mendation, it is a contrast to the viewpoints which were expressed, not so much in the Minister's second reading speech which I do not challenge other than the points relating to Part III, but which expressed elsewhere publicly and otherwise as a great challenge to the Liberal and Country Parties with their opposition in this Parliament, yet have now succumbed to the persuasive arguments which were put in another place. What it demonstrates is that there were fallacies in this Bill to which the Opposition rightfully drew attention when it was introduced earlier this year. What it demonstrates for those who sit in another place is that the most persuasive argument can carry the day and that those who would seek to destroy the bicameral system may take some heed from the fact that the Government is accepting this recommendation. The Government therefore recognises that legislation can usefully be amended by the Opposition as is the case now by its acceptance of this measure. 
I could be less than gracious by dwelling on the viewpoints that were expressed both here by certain members of this place- on Part III - as I recall, exclusive of the Minister and by others outside this place as well and the threats that were made to the Opposition parties if they were determined to delay the legislation. What the Opposition parties have succeeded in doing is not bringing about a mere delay but, by their persuasive arguments and of course by the numbers that they could mount in the other place, bring pressure to bear in the most democratic way possible to have legislation properly amended. We therefore welcome the change in attitude by the Government. But it would be less than fair if the Government did not expect us to draw attention to the present divergent attitude compared with what was put earlier in the year. 
I think it is a healthy day for the role of the Opposition, for the Parliament and for those who have been keen to see that the different viewpoints expressed in the Federal Parliament to those expressed in the State Parliament can now be resolved by way of this legislation should the States wish to take the matter to the High Court. This pleases us. It calls into question the desirability of including Part III in the legislation in the first place. It underlines the attitude quite properly taken by the Opposition Parties earlier this year and their attitude  in  the Senate, based not merely on the unilateral application of Commonwealth laws to States - for example, Western Austraia - but on the enormity of the power that was to be vested in the Minister by Part III of the Bill. The Liberal Party has always favoured some restraint on extensive discretionary powers. This was almost the epitomy of widespread discretionary powers being vested in a minister. So I say that because the Government recognised our arguments, because we exposed the fallacies at the time and because the Senate put those fallacies very persuasively we congratulate the Government for accepting our arguments. But surely the Government will allow us some degree of congratulation for the manner in which the case was put. I add to it as a simple rider a gentle plaudit for the Government's acceptance of the amendment moved in the other place. 
I second the motion. This is not the occasion to express party political differences. The orderly and peaceful transition of Papua New Guinea to self-government on 1 December this year may be regarded, to a large extent, as a tribute to the policies of the previous Liberal-Country Party Government. The date was agreed upon last year by the Liberal-Country Party Government of Australia and the Government of Papua New Guinea. As I said in May of last year, it is not the timing of self government or even the act of self-government itself that is of prime importance; the aim must be to achieve a self governing country and not just a legal facade. 
The attainment of self government is also a tribute to successive Australian Administrators and to the officers of the Department of External Territories, both in Canberra and in Papua New Guinea, as well as the officers of other departments which have contributed to Papua New Guinea's progress towards self government. Naturally I place the greatest emphasis on those who worked for the Administrator and the Department of External Territories. Their role has been greatly understated and underestimated. Indeed it is, as the Minister for External Territories  (Mr Morrison)  has said, unparalleled. So too was the contribution made by those from this Parliament who served as the Minister for Territories or Minister for External Territories. Naturally I exclude the present incumbent and myself. I refer to those who are not members of this House today. 
Australia's task in the past has been to carry out the United Nations mandate to advance the people of Papua New Guinea politically, economically and socially to the position where they could run their own affairs and to do this in accordance with the wishes of the people expressed through their elected representatives in the House of Assembly. The people of Papua New Guinea, to all intents and purposes, now run their own affairs and Australia has nearly completed its task. A major step in this constitutional advance occurred in April 1972 with the election of the present House of Assembly and the exercising of increasingly greater responsibilities since then by Papua New Guinea Ministers. 
The date of the next step- that of independence - has become a subject of some controversy. On this I merely wish to say today that the prime determinant of the date of independence must be the desire of the people of Papua New Guinea as expressed by the leadership group. The Government of Papua New Guinea must determine that date. Australia ought to respond to the date that the members of the House of Assembly determine. As I have said before, it is their country and their future, not ours. I said in a speech in June last year: 
Independence should not represent a sudden break from one status to another. Australia has long held the view that there should be a smooth and orderly transition which establishes Papua New Guinea by the time of independence as a state able to manage its own affairs with a government responsive to the wishes of the people. There is a need to plan ahead to avoid the hangover that so often follows the intoxication of emotional independence celebration. 
In most areas of government Papua New Guinea is now responsible for the evolution of policies. That has been so for some time. Indeed, the people of Papua New Guinea are uniquely qualified for this responsibility, since only they have a fundamental understanding of the fabric of life in their own country. Only they can properly develop policies that will assist the progress of national unity, the formation of further land legislation and the evolution of the legal system to marry traditional law with existing concepts of British justice. 
Only they should work out national priorities in various fields, such as in the setting out of new foreign investment guidelines as announced by the Chief Minister,  Mr Somare,  this week and. his eight point improvement program for 1973-74, which outlines his Government's development philosophy. This philosophy envisages a more self reliant economy, decentralisation of economic activity, with emphasis on agricultural development and small scale artisan business activity, and a rapid increase in the proportion of the economy under Papua New Guinean control. In a speech I made in June of last year I quoted comments of a noted Australian economist,  Mr E.  K. Fisk, which are pertinent to my remarks at this moment. He said: 
The aims of development are not solely or even primarily economic. In trying to direct development our concern must be first with the type of society and environment we are trying to produce. In this the economic aspects are of course important, but they are important as a means and not as an end. In the difficult process of defining goals the subsidiary status of the economic factor should not be forgotten. 
So, in determining such priorities, Papua New Guinea now makes the decisions, but Australia and Australians with the necessary expertise still have a role to play in advising, not directing, policies - if our advice is sought - and of helping, not hindering, Papua New Guinea. 
From this Saturday, 1 December, in the period between self government and independence the Government of Papua New Guinea will be responsible for all domestic matters. Between 1 December and independence Australia will be dealing with defence and foreign affairs matters on behalf of the Papua New Guinea Government and its people but also in conjunction wim them. This pattern of cooperation was initiated under the previous Liberal-Country Party Government when Papua New Guinea was represented, for example, at the first talks of the AustraliaJapan Ministerial Committee last year. Before that it became an associate member of the Economic Commission for Asia and the Far East, the Asian Development Bank, the World Health Organisation and the South Pacific Conference. The recent creation of the portfolio of Defence and Foreign Relations in Papua New Guinea and the appointment to it of a Papua New Guinean Minister,  Mr Albert  Maori Kiki, is proper recognition of the fact that Australia will retain reserve powers in foreign affairs and defence only until Papua New Guinea is fully independent. 
A new set of relations based on respective national interest and taking into account political and geographical factors affecting both countries will need to be established. The terms of this relationship will, I hope, be planned and some elements of it negotiated before the actual date of independence. We should be remiss if we found ourselves completing the independence of Papua New Guinea without adequate preparation for the post-independence world. The need to look beyond Papua New Guinea's independence to the future relationship and to the form of the future relationship between the 2 countries is urgent. Events of history and facts of geography have dictated that this must be a close one. We are mutually important to each other. Papua New Guinea will be our closest foreign neighbour; we will be her closest but not her only source of aid and expertise. It is indeed a special relationship. 
On Australia's part, as long as Papua New Guinea looks to Australia for aid, it is the declared intention of both the Government and the Opposition parties in the Australian Parliament to provide such aid. The existing relationship between the 2 countries and between many hundreds, even thousands, of their peoples creates a special kind of situation where the development assistance Australia offers can be given on the basis of much greater understanding than is usual between developed and developing countries. Although it is desirable that Australia and Papua New Guinea should have a special relationship and that Australia in' particular should not lag in fostering that relationship, Australian policies and those of Papua New Guinea need not necessarily always be in tandem, nor should they be. 
It is necessary to distinguish between Australia's relations with Papua New Guinea and Papua New Guinea's own foreign relations. We have to determine our relations with Papua New Guinea with proper regard to Australia's own national interests. We should expect Papua New Guinea to do the same. It should be expected that each country will pursue its own national interests, sometimes complementary, sometimes conflicting. But the relationship between Australia and Papua New Guinea also will be a part of their broader relations - collectively and separately - with the countries of the South Pacific and with other countries in Asia. Papua New Guinea, with its  2i  million citizens and its economic potential, will be a nation of consequence in the Pacific. But Papua New Guinea also will have a major interest in South East Asia, sharing a land border with Indonesia and already developing a relationship of economic interdependence with Japan. I observed in an address to the New South Wales Branch of the Institute of International Affairs in June of last year: 
While Australia will remain important to Papua New Guinea, we should not seek to build an exclusive relationship based on a mistaken belief that past assistance places Papua New Guinea under an obligation to us. Looked at from Papua New Guinea's point of view, Indonesia, Singapore, Malaysia, the Philippines and Japan, as well as the island nations of the Pacific, will have important places in the eyes of the Papua New Guinea Governments. Other Governments will be seeking to assist Papua New Guinea. We will do well to recognise this. Not to do so might adversely affect both our and Papua New Guinea's relations with third countries. 
Through close consultation with one another, Australia and Papua New Guinea could begin now to formulate policies which will make more fruitful our relationship and theirs with both the Asian and the Pacific regions. It is significant that Papua New Guinea's attainment of self-government is acclaimed by all parties in the Australian Parliament and is endorsed not only here but also in the Commonwealth and the 'United Nations. In both these international forums it is expected that Papua New Guinea, on the attainment of independence will take its rightful place as a sovereign nation. 
Finally, may I say that during my period as Minister for External Territories I tried to convey an understanding of trust between Australia and Papua New Guinea, in particular a trust between myself, the Chief Minister and his Ministers, to ensure that the Chief Minister realised at all times that when one spoke of Papua New Guinea one spoke not just of a country but of its people, and that as fellow human beings we should jointly seek a 'better life and a better relationship between our peoples. I hope to some extent I succeeded, but of more importance I fervently hope that it will be the basis of a close and trusting relationship for years to come. We wish the Chief Minister, his Government and his people well in the endless human adventure that is before them. 
My question is not merely supplementary to the question just asked; it restates the final question which the Prime Minister has not answered. All members of this House share the ideal he has just put to the Parliament, but he was asked whether he would seek a solution to the very real problem stated by the honourable member for Perth by taking action in the United Nations. Can we see an identification of action to achieve the ideal he has just espoused, because if he takes that action in the United 
Nations it will have the support of all members of this Parliament? 
I ask the Prime Minister: In view of the Chief Minister foreshadowing an independence date for Papua New Guinea, what are the Prime Minister's intentions for the non-self governing territory of the Cocos (Keeling) Islands? The Prime Minister will recall directing the Australian representatives at the United Nations to support a General Assembly resolution which called for the selfdetermination and independence for the Cocos Islands. He may also recall contradicting this intention when he said in this House last year - I agree with him - that nobody seriously believed that independence would be appropriate for the Cocos Islands. However, during his recent visit to the Philippines it was reported that he cast doubts on the strength of Australia's claims to both Christmas and Cocos Islands. As the United Nations Special Committee of Twenty-four is soon to visit the Cocos Islands - the nature of that committee's work is well known - what advice will be given to it by Australia about independence or not? How does the Prime Minister explain his contradictory statements and stances? 
 Mr Deputy Speaker,  I seek leave to make a statement. 
 Mr Deputy Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER 
 (Mr MartinDoes the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented? 
I do. I have been misrepresented on 4 counts by the Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard).  This is the first time in this House that I have used words such as 'inspired incoherence', or that I have received as much information from the Minister's speech as I have received from a blank file. He told me to bring myself up to date. I referred to the Papua New Guinea Defence Force. As I understand it, this is the terminology that is used for the 3 commands - if one can call them that, but there is no air command in Papua New Guinea - for the joint operations of the Force coming together. Bui within the Papua  New  Guinea Defence Force there is still a Pacific Islands Regiment as one element of that Force. 
A personal explanation. 
I do not know about taking heat out of debates, but if I understand debates, they are the mutual exchange of ideas put somewhat forcibly. I do not come in here with predetermined ideas written out in front of me to be regurgitated, paying no heed to what has been put in the chamber. I am here to answer charges that have been made and to put some views on behalf of my Party. Regrettably, because of calls into Kings Hall, I did not hear what was termed by the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Kerin)  as 'rough quotations' of things I was alleged to have said. But as I returned for the second time I heard him saying that I agreed with practically everything the Government had done. I will have an opportunity to look in Hansard at what he actually said, but I state firmly and unequivocally right at the outset that we do not accept the vague internationalism and the spirit of international brotherhood of socialists as espoused by this Government. 
We do not accept detente per se. We aspire towards alleviation of political tension if that is what one means by detente but we look behind it as well. We do not accept that there is no threat to the region of South East Asia. We do not accept the sort of grandstanding and empty symbolism as displayed by this Government in its handling of foreign affairs. We do not accept the scuttling of the effectiveness of the Five-Power Arrangement by withdrawing from the ANZUK forces and smashing the effectiveness of that agreement. We do not accept the hypocrisy of saying that the Government believes in the Five-Power Arrangement but at the same time the Government being prepared to scuttle the only effective agreement. We do not accept per se the zone of peace as other than an aspiration to which we should be moving in the future, but it is not the premise of our foreign policy. Nor do we accept the concepts of neutrality that the Government espouses. We do not accept the viewpoint that it puts forward about Diego Garcia, and we do not accept the stance that it adopts over South Africa and Rhodesia that it will interfere with internal affairs to seek to bring a government down. That is just off the top of the head for starters and I shall develop other aspects at another stage. So let us not hear any more viewpoints expressed that I embrace the doctrines of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  in his handling of foreign affairs. 
Our foreign policy is based on realities, not on uncertain concepts and the sort of aspirations to which I have alluded. Where are the Prime Minister's achievements in foreign policy? We read so often of the initiatives and the achievements of this Government. Where are his so-called initiatives in the Pacific? The Australian Financial Review' has on more than one occasion described his incursions as being close to disasters, such as in Africa, Eastern Europe and South America. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  referred this morning to the initiatives that we in fact took in those areas when in government, and was able to contrast the little that has been done by this Government since it took office. What has happened to the Prime Minister's grand design for Asia and the Pacific? The extension of trade arrangements, cultural agreements and aid commitments can hardly be considered innovative. The initiative in all these matters was taken by the Liberal-Country Party Government. The Prime Minister's anxiety to stress the development of these long-standing matters demonstrates in fact and in reality the limits of his own achievement. 
I was intrigued to listen to the Minister for Science  (Mr Morrison)  quoting leaders in South East Asia welcoming the Prime Minister in the warmest vein. One would almost need to be in a state of war, frankly, not to get that sort of greeting. I think as an ex-diplomat that the Minister would know that. I was also intrigued to hear him quote messages by  Mr Kenneth  Rush, the Under-Secretary of State of the United States, when he was here. I have here today's Melbourne 'Age'. I think we heard a quotation about 'understanding, candour and friendship' between Australia and the United States. Do not tell me that did not exist with the previous Government. We heard about how successful  Mr Rush's  visit had been. It is interesting to note today's edition of the Age' - it is almost a daily occurrence of course - carries on the front page: 
United States complains about leaks in Canberra The United States has complained to Australia about a lack of diplomatic security in Canberra. 
The complaint followed publication in Australia last weeks of details of a private conversation in Washington between the United States Under-Secretary of State  (Mr Rush)  and Australia's new Ambassador  (Sir Patrick Shaw). 
I seek leave to have the rest of the article incorporated in Hansard. 
My colleague the honourable member for Wannon concluded by saying that the purpose of raising this matter today was to get some clear information flowing from the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Grassby).  It is the view of my colleague on this side that the administration and the equivocation of the Government's immigration policy has caused confusion both here and elsewhere. 
Before starting to develop that point, it is interesting to note that the man who is going to follow me in this debate is the Minister for 
Labour  (Mr Clyde Cameron).  But the man who was taking the keenest interest in what was being said by the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Grassby)  was the man who wrote the policy of the Australian Labor Party on immigration and was refused the right to administer it, the man who was stripped of his position as spokesman on immigration and refused permission on the Opposition side of the House to enunciate his views until the then Government gave him the right to do so. The Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  sits behind these 2 Ministers, casting his beady eye and listening intently to every word that they say and contrasting it with the document which he produced and which was adopted as Labor Party policy. It is not only this side of the House that points to confusion in the implementation of that policy. Let me quote from John Edwards' column 'Politics' in the 'Australian' of 5 March: 
It's not easy to reconcile the announcement that Australia has dropped its racially discriminatory immigration policy with what few facts are available about the results of Labor's immigration program. 

 Mr Edwards goes on to quote the words of a very distinguished diplomat who seems to take a different view from the Minister for Immigration on the occasion of a fracturing or a likely fracturing of Australia's foreign relations caused by the manner in which this Government is pursuing its immigation program. The column quoted a cable dated 22 February 1974 from the Australian Ambassador in the Philippines,  Mr Henderson,  to the Department of Foreign Affairs and Immigration as follows: 
I believe it is a matter of some urgency and of real importance in terms of Australia's relations generally with the Philippines that Australian administrative procedures of immigration be brought into line with the principles enunciated by the Prime Minister. 
At least one aspect of the current procedures embodies precisely the kind of racial bias which we are claiming publicly that we have done away with'. 
They are not my words. They are not John Edwards' words. They are the words of the Australian Ambassador to the Philippines. So much for the friendly relations enunciated by the Minister for Immigration. Although the Minister produced a document challenging this assertion, John Edwards ended his article by saying:   . . isn't it odd that the Australian Ambassador on the spot, presumably advised by his Second Secretary who handles immigration, should have misunderstood so seriously what happens inside his own embassy. 
They are not the words of this side of the chamber, but the words of John Edwards. Some allegations also have been made about the manner in which the previous Government conducted its immigration policy. Let us point again for supporting evidence to objective sources, such as an editorial which appeared in the Canberra 'Times' of 8 March which read as follows: 
The white-Australia policy was buried by previous governments which abolished the infamous dictation tests and quietly began to increase the annual intake of non-European migrants. 
The editorial then went on to refer to a point of interest in Labor's platform. It stated: 
Labor's platform does exclude race, colour, or nationality as a criterion in the selection of immigrants, but  Mr Whitlam  would have been wise to tell the South-East Asians that it contains another criterion of selection - 
The editorial then quoted from the platform - 
The avoidance of the . . . problems which may follow from an influx of peoples having different standards of living, traditions and cultures.'  The editorial went on to state: 
This, under another name, places definite restrictions on the admission of Asians. 
There is no doubt that the Leader of the House, as I recall the words of the statement that he made under great sufferance from others on this side when they were sitting here, would have endorsed that remark. Finally, the editorial in the Canberra 'Times' states: 
There is nothing wrong with this, but our ministers should be completely honest about it instead of inviting a backlash born out of unfulfilled expectations. 
That is the sort of thing nailed by the honourable member for Wannon when he talked about rising hopes in other countries. This is a debate brought about by the failure of the Government to produce a coherent immigration policy. The Government's equivocation is daily exacerbating a confusing situation - confusing to Australia and undoubtedly to the Philippines and no doubt to other countries such as Fiji, Burma and residents of many other nations, some of which were mentioned by my colleague, the honourable member for Wannon. 
I enter the debate to plead with the Minister for Immigration to inform adequately this Parliament and the public. We on this side of the House, in the traditions under which migration has been debated in this Parliament for many years have no desire to spread denigration in this most sensitive arena and I will firmly resist any moves to foster debate on immigration along selfish, arrogant, intolerant or divisive lines. Yet, I would have to say that the Minister's inspired incoherent and equivocal statements are having that very effect within our own community. This equivocation which fans divisions must cease if we - both parties - are to approach the matter in a rational light. The Government is creating confusion and it will grow and recur with the absence of a clear and coherent policy. It is from this confusion that the motley collection of people, arrogant and selfish in their extremes, racist in their attitudes, will fester - not honourable members opposite but people outside Parliament - while, the Minister continues with his equivocal statements. There appears to be a singular lack of managerial and administrative skill on the part of the Minister. 
I have mentioned some aspects which bring about this incoherence in policy itself. Let us look at the background to the matters raised by the honourable member for Wannon. On the Prime Minister's recent Asian trip, he assured the Philippines Government that Australia no longer had an immigration policy which discriminated on the basis of colour. As evidence of this, the Prime Minister made a personal decision to approve the emigration of 35 semi-skilled motor vehicle workers. These workers would be the basis of a pilot scheme for a much larger migration program. The Prime Minister was reported as telling  President  Marcos that no longer would double standards be applied to Australia's immigration policy. On 15 March 1974, following discussions between the Prime Minister and the Ministers for Labour and Immigration and members of the Australian Council of Trade Unions executive, who themselves could get no coherence and, certainly until then, no consultation, the Government announced the shelving of the Leyland plan to bring in 35 semi-skilled Filipino workers. Instead, I understand, the Government will move to recognise trade qualifications for migrants from South-East Asia. South America and the Pacific region. But we are still awaiting the guidelines for such recognition. I understand that a mission is to travel through the areas and make recommendations. 
The major area of criticism relating to the Australian Government's actions on the question of skilled Filipino migrants concerns the lack of provision of adequate administrative measures to ensure that the scheme functions smoothly and is not harmful to either the participants or to Australian workers. This is another classic example, in this case touching on the area of foreign relations, where the Government acts and thinks of the consequences later. Why does not the Government weigh up the consequences and do its homework, not add to the rising flood of expectations and then so cruelly cut them down when it finds it must make changes? I have mentioned the attitude of the Australian ambassador and the fact that Australian administrative procedures were cutting across his role in the Philippines. The Melbourne 'Age' said to the Government, quite succinctly at the end of an editorial on 6 March that the 'Government's credibility is at stake'. As  Mr Henderson  pointed out, so too is Australia's reputation abroad. Above all, I want to see an Australia growing in tolerance, trust and understanding, and recognising that there is a common and noble task for different sections of society to perform in harmony. Perhaps the Minister shares this aspiration, but his administration has been so bereft of skill- 
The Opposition supports the Australian Development Assistance Agency Bill. It also supports the appointment of  Mr Leslie  Johnson as the first director of the Agency. Some 18 or 20 months ago the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  described him as the final and finest of our Administrators in Papua New Guinea. I can do little better than reiterate those words and say that the Opposition has complete confidence in the appointment of  Mr Johnson  to this particular Agency. But I want to express some concern that Opposition members have about the way in which the Agency will work. The concept is acceptable to us but we are concerned that adequate consultation and in particular co-ordination of programs shall be effective. Questions not answered by the Prime Minister in his speech when introducing the Bill included' one as to how the special preference scheme for imports from developing countries is to be carried out. I understand from correspondence flowing between the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  and the Prime Minister that it will continue to be determined and administered by the Department of Overseas Trade. The same applies to educational aid. We do not want a bureaucratic morass which bogs down the implementation of cur aid programs. We want to see that aid becomes more effective than it has been in the past. 
Regrettably also the principles to be adopted by the Agency were not enunciated in the Prime Minister's second reading speech. I would have thought that in the time since the office was formed prior to the Bill being introduced into the House there would have been adequate time for general principles to have been discussed and to have been included in the Prime Minister's speech. So I trust that those who are charged with the responsibility of the Agency and its board will be enunciating those principles as soon as possible. The silence of the Government in this area is akin to its silence in many other areas of foreign policy. That might seem a strange statement to make when the Opposition has criticised the Government so frequently for statements that have been made without regard to the consequences. The symbolism and the endeavours to obtain credit on the cheap are epitomised by the establishment of this Agency. Nothing was put to the Opposition in relation to the principles to be adopted by the Agency. I trust that we will hear about it in the future. 
After all, developing countries in the world have never faced' a greater crisis than they are facing at present, not merely because of the energy crisis, not merely because of oil prices, not merely because of oil inflated prices, but also because of the difficulties that many countries have with nitrogenous fertilisers. I will be developing principles that the Opposition will be taking in regard to the administration of an aid agency but I should have thought that we would have heard from the Prime Minister on this. As for the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Senator Willesee),  who sems to do little more than bag carry for the Prime Minister and who rarely enunciates anything, there is no more silent Minister in this Government. It is not that the Government does not seek to obtain some credit from its morass of foreign affairs relationships and initiatives, but we have heard virtually nothing from the Foreign Minister about aid programs alone. Those who saw the front page of the 'Age' today would have seen what I meant when I said that the Government has endeavoured to obtain credit on the cheap. There are stark photographs of the effect of the famine in Ethiopia. This can be seen in other areas of Africa. Of course some statements have been issued to the Press gallery by the Foreign Minister but insufficient advice has been given to the Opposition. 
An over-abundance of grandstanding and symbolic gestures is symptomatic of the methods by which the Government conducts its foreign policy and, regrettably, its aid policy. The famine in Ethiopia and the appalling situation extending beyond Ethiopia have attracted miserable and paltry assistance from the Government. Not just Ethiopia but other parts of Africa are affected. Government members who come into this chamber and speak to the nation fondly about establishing rapport with Africa do not even produce in the most practical way solutions to one of the most tragic problems facing the world. The Government's stance is even less creditable when it proclaims concern but it is not accompanied by sufficient assistance, which this country can afford. The Government is not credible in many areas of foreign policy but I do not wish to dwell on those alone. I want to urge a more sympathetic and humane approach to the current disaster facing the developing countries in particular. 
It is of no good continuing the attitude of even the previous Administration when it was in power. It is simply not good enough to compare percentages of the gross national product. That is not what aid is all about, The gross national product is there only to measure the extent of goods and services in a given community at any moment of time. It serves little purpose to engage in comparisons with other countries. Let us hear from the Government whether it is carrying out any form of reappraisal. Will it continue large scale economic development to enhance productivity alone or will it adopt a proper balance in relation to the extent of the aid program so that there will be a continuing development posture through large-scale development and also through village and rural development schemes that strike at the role of people in a community? We have not heard anything about this. As I said, it is all very well to form an agency, but we want spelt out precisely what it is to do. 
I would have thought that, taking the example of the energy crisis that I mentioned, we would have to look again at the nations at whom we are directing our aid, some of whom within the whole context of developing countries will benefit to some extent by the energy crisis. Indonesia and Malaysia will receive greater prices for oil. We may well have to look at the effect of other developing countries as a greater priority in the short term. I do not say that we should diminish our aid to Indonesia but there will need to be a reappraisal of the priority and the humane approach that is to be given to countries that are facing stark difficulties at present. I have indicated the concern that my Party has about simply trotting out figures relating to aid as a percentage of the gross national product. The fascination of this country, as of many other countries in the developed world, with the favourable comparison of, for example, Australia's performance as a donor country has tended to obscure the real nature of development and its relevance to Australia's foreign policy, security and external economic interests. It has tended to obscure the most disturbing features of the development problem itself - the complexity of the tasks of promoting effective development, the disappointing results of the efforts made so far by both developed and developing countries and, as I say, the urgent need for a reappraisal of the objectives of development and the strategies that should be adopted by both recipient and donor countries. This is the sort of message that should have been contained in the second reading speech of the Prime Minister. 
For Australia, the development issue is one of fundamental importance. The fact that Australia is the only rich donor country to be located on the periphery of Asia - that region of the world which is experiencing the most pressing and seemingly insoluble development problems - calls for an involvement of a deeper kind than the prevailing level of concern in many donor countries throughout the world. There is, of course, more to our external relations than involvement in development strategy but in the long term there are few other single issues more compelling or of more peculiar significance to Australia than the development issue in its broadest perspective. It carries implications for the whole range of our external relations in the long term. It may be as some observers have pointed out that foreign aid has not always promoted national well-being and stable political conditions. But the proposition that the development issue and Australia's security are quite unrelated and therefore our development assistance efforts will have no impact on our long term security is misleading, if not untenable. The proposition should really be that ineffective development assistance does nothing to promote Australia's security interests in the long term. The fact is that if the efforts to promote development have fallen short of their objectives, it is not the idea of development assistance that is at fault but the inadequacy and the ineffectiveness of the approach to the problem by both the developing countries and the donor countries. An effective aid program will help to promote national well-being and stable political conditions and, as such, an improvement in such a program can only enhance regional security. 
What is the present situation in developing countries? I have touched on some aspects of this. To put it bluntly it is disastrous. Apart from the work of the Development Assistance Committee of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, the World Bank and other international bodies, there have been several major studies on development problems undertaken during the last 5 years and a great deal more is now known about the situation and the extent to which the efforts made so far have been successful. The picture that unfolds is profoundly disturbing. The annual reviews of the Development Assistance Committee, the reports of the World Bank and other accounts such as the Pearson report and the Jackson report tend to differ in emphasis, but in their central message they are united in the conclusion that the economic situation in the developing countries is deteriorating and that developed countries have an obligation to do more than has been done in the past. The gap between the living standards of the developed countries and the developing countries as well as the gap between the living standards of the rich and the poor in the developing countries continues to widen, despite the efforts so far directed towards closing it. While it is true that the net flow of financial resources, to developing countries from the donor countries has increased greatly in size - it amounted to 1971 to $US18,000m - the impact of this expenditure has been undermined to a significant degree by such factors as the world inflationary movement, the energy crisis, the international monetary crisis and by burgeoning population growth in the developing countries themselves. 
Sitting suspended from 6.1S to 8 p.m. 
I wish to continue the remarks that I was making prior to the suspension of the sitting. I was saying that, according to the 1970 report on the world social situation by the United Nations Economic and Social Council, some 70 per cent of the world's population of approximately 3,630 million lived in the developing regions, with Asia alone accounting for a fraction over 50 per cent of the world total. Given present trends, the proportion of the world population in a developing condition will have increased to more than 80 per cent by the year 2000. The present per capita income for Asia is about $100 per annum compared with, according to statistics of at least 12 months ago - these figures, of course would need updating with the inflationary trends - per capita income of $4,000 per annum in the United States and $2,800 in ustralia. On present trends, by the year 2000 the incomes will have risen to about only $200 for Asia, with the United States level being between $8,000 and $10,000 per annum. As  Mr Robert  McNamara has said: 
The basic problem of poverty and growth in the developing world can be stated very simply. The benefits of growth are not equitably reaching the poor. And the poor are not significantly contributing to the growth. Despite a decade of unprecedented increase in the GNP of our developing member countries, the poorest segments of their population have received little benefit. The estimated income of nearly 800 million individuals - 40 per cent of the 2,000 million total - is (in US purchasing power) only 30c a day. This is poverty in the absolute sense .... 

 Mr McNamara pointed out that in a typically developing country the upper 20 per cent of the population receives 55 per cent of national income compared with 5 per cent for the lowest 20 per cent. Essentially, this inequality is a problem for the governments of the developing countries themselves but, as  Mr McNamara  points out in his conclusion to the address from which I have quoted, the developing countries can in fact contribute to the eradication of absolute poverty by expanding the wholly inadequate flow of official development assistance. 
On the basically important question of population control, there has been steady progress but no noteworthy new breakthrough or assessment in the field of demography and family planning As the Development Assistance Committee of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development reported in 1972: 
There is increasing evidence that sufficiently widespread motivation for limiting family size cannot be produced without more families becoming aware that their standard of living is rising, including benefiting from a higher level of education, especially for women. 
In India, for example, the population has grown by more than 100 million people in 10 years, during which time a fairly concentrated family planning program has been under way. 
A very serious problem in developing countries is that of growing unemployment, which is itself a by-product of the population explosion. At present, India has more than 100,000 new entrants to its labour force each week. This number will increase to at least 140,000 by 1980. Unemployment is further complicated by the increasing use of capital-intensive technology and the flow of people from rural areas to urban areas. The problem is particularly serious amongst young people, including the educated. During the First United. Nations Development Decade, namely the 1960s, a tremendous increase in unemployment accompanied a sharp growth in gross national product. A further increase in the GNP is therefore no answer to this explosive problem. Unemployment, apart from its human misery, presents a serious threat to political stability ir developing societies. As  Mr Robert  McNamara described it during an address to the Board of Governors of the World Bank in September 1970: 
The marginal men, the wretched stragglers for survival on the fringes of farm and city, may already number more than half a billion. By 1980 they will surpass a billion and by 1990 2 billion. 
He then went on to say: 
Can we imagine any human order surviving with so gross a mass of misery piling up at its base? A by-product of the population explosion, the unemployment problem, will require tremendous creativity and resourcefulness throughout the 1970s if the Second Development Decade is to have any meaning to human society. 

 Mr Edwin Martin,  Chairman  of the Development Assistance Committee, in his 1972 review made a gloomy comment on the question of unemployment. He said: 
No special section on "job creation' will be found in this year's report . . . because I cannot find that anything significant has happened. 
The needs of developing countries are wideranging and complex. They need more food, more jobs, better distribution of income, new labour-intensive technologies and better access to health and education facilities. They need not merely more resources, but a better redistribution of resources within their society. Developing countries need strong political and social assistance to facilitate the redistribution of benefits, and at the same time achieve high economic growth rates. During the past couple of years, attention has become more sharply focused on the kind of social and economic inequalities as described in the quotations of  Mr McNamara.  Experience has demonstrated that the poor will not obtain a better share of the benefits of growth until the character of growth is radically altered. This alteration can be brought about only as part of a major political transformation. Yet few developing countries have managed to come to grips with this problem. I might say, that from a reading of the Prime Minister's second reading speech this particular country has not yet enunciated a view on this matter. 
I read in the 'Canberra Times' - it seems to me that Opposition members these days rely on information in the Press rather than on dissemination by departments, but more particularly by the politicians allegedly being the Government of the day who should be giving information either to the Parliament or to the people - that an in-depth examination is being made on the question by the office that has been filling the role of the Agency until the Agency has statutory clearance through this House and through the Senate. Perhaps it is again about time that the Minister for Foreign Affairs took both this House and the Senate, let alone the Australian people, into his confidence and told us what he is doing in regard to guidelines for aid programs on behalf of the Australian people. 
I meant to mention before the suspension of the sitting that the need for better nutrition is self-evident. One obvious consequence of malnutrition is limited mental and physical capacity. Job creation requires a massive, co-ordinated attack in conjunction with overall plans for economic growth. Other subjects which have attracted considerable attention at recent meetings of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development - UNCTAD - are the transfer of technology to developing countres and the creation of more favourable access for their exports. We are now in the fourth year of the Second United National Development Decade, the objectives of which are set out in a strategy which was adopted at the United Nations General Assembly on the occasion of the 25th anniversary of the founding of the World Health Organisation. From a development standpoint the strategy has so far proved to be more notable for its promises than its actions. That tends to ring a rather relevant note so far as this Government is concerned. However, that the strategy was agreed to is in itself an indication of significant progress, for 127 countries representing many different stages of development, political and economic assistance, acknowledged the importance of specific social and economic goals. 
Although it would be naive to promote a greater development effort at the expense of defence responsibility, it is nonetheless a sad commentary on the state of international relations that the financial resources made available for the constructive role of development assistance represent only a fraction of the amount spent on military expenditure. In 1968, for example, developed countries spent $168, 800m on defence while a mere $8,500m was spent on all forms of economic aid. Honourable members will note that the preface to those remarks was that it would be naive to promote a greater development effort at the expense of defence responsibility. Nevertheless those amounts ought to be compared. 
In order to give a more complete picture of the realities of development it is necessary to mention the shortcomings in the performance of the developing countries themselves. The pledges to use their resources to improve the wellbeing of their impoverished citizens are often not being implemented. To quote  Mr Martin,  'National pride, desire for personal gain or political power, weak bureaucracies, have all contributed in varying degrees in many countries to the waste of scarce resources, more often their own than ours'. In the view of  Mr Martin,  regimes in developing countries have often spent heavily on purposeless military establishments. 
It would be wrong to depict the developing countries as being generally unaware of or insensitive to their own shortcomings. Frequent access to the 'Times of India' will reveal writings by Indian scholars on this subject. For example, one who wrote in the Times of India' last year said: 
It is easy to transfer from the advanced to the underdeveloped countries, the institutional framework of a modern society. But it does not mean the automatic transfer of the spirit and the values animating those institutions in the countries from which they have been borrowed. 
To sum up, the present world development situation is characterised by a gigantic gap in the living standards between the rich nations and the poor nations - a gap which is unlikely to narrow by the end of the century because, to use again the words of Robert McNamara, the industrial base of the wealthy nations is so great, their technological capacity so advanced, and their consequent advantages so immense'. Is the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Dr J. F. Cairns),  who is continually interjecting, quibbling with  Mr McNamara's  figures? 
The Minister for Overseas Trade has revealed himself as being almost an antediluvian theorist on questions not only of aid but also of economics. If he had wanted to single out and be critical of the preMcNamara World Bank I may have agreed with him, but he should recognise the role that McNamara has played. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes. I have been very restrained over the last few minutes as people have argued whether they said things or they did not. I want to make it quite clear that some imputations were made against me by the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Dr J. F. Cairns),  in his normally gratuitous manner, with which I was not going to deal. But I will deal with one of them. There is no doubt that when the Minister was referring to the nature in which I addressed this House last night he was condemning me for relying in part on addresses made by the  President  of the World Bank,  Mr Robert  McNamara. Those who were in the chamber last night will know that the Minister for Overseas Trade was condemnatory in his comments about both  Mr Robert  McNamara and his figures. 
The figures that I produced last night. This just shows that the Minister is very selective. 
I refer the Minister to Hansard where he will see that he interjected on me. I asked him whether he challenged  Mr McNamara's  figures and he said: 'Yes, I do.' 
Not at the moment. I am talking about last night. I wish that the Minister's recollection would go beyond 5 minutes. He should cast aspersions on his own knowledge of history- 
The Liberal Party - together with the Australian Country Party, as will be enunciated by the  Deputy  Leader of the Country Party  (Mr Sinclair)  - supports this Bill. My remarks will be very brief in indicating our support. The matter was canvassed in greater detail by the Liberal Party's shadow Attorney-General,  Senator Greenwood,  in the Senate. The legislation is a welcome advance. In many ways it flows from the Parliamentary Counsel Act. It was established by a very close friend, the then Attorney-General and then member for Berowra, the Honourable T. E. F. Hughes, who showed much foresight in upgrading the status of parliamentary counsellors and designating them under a separate Act which as I recall was brought into this Parliament in 1970. It then established a separate Office of Parliamentary Counsel and provided for the top 3 positions in the Office to be statutory offices. The separation of the function of drafting Bills from the function of drafting ordinances, regulations and subordinate instruments followed in 1973. The former was to be undertaken by the Office of Parliamentary Counsel and the latter by the legislation and drafting division of the Attorney-General's Department. I give that information only as background. 
This Bill represents a further development which we welcome. From reading the legislation and the speech of the Minister for Secondary Industry  (Mr Enderby)  which was incorporated in Hansard it is clear that the function of the proposed institute is, firstly, to conduct courses of instruction and training in legislative drafting. In dealing with this legislation, it is quite obvious to those of us qualified in the law that it requires more than merely legal training to be a skilled draftsman. Australia has suffered as so many other countries have suffered from a lack of sufficiently qualified personnel to conduct the most important drafting that can be undertaken on behalf of the nation and its Parliament. 
The second purpose of the institute is to assist other countries, especially developing countries, in the training of legislative draftsmen. I speak with some knowledge in this area - I do not want to develop the point - of the difficulties encountered by Papua New Guinea and the shortages that that country has suffered in not having sufficient numbers of trained draftsmen. We will be able to make a contribution not only to the training of draftsmen here to serve this Parliament but also to the training of draftsmen for the States within the Federation of Australia. We are not limiting ourselves merely to training draftsmen for the Commonwealth Parliament. We would probably train sufficient numbers after 10 years and the role of the institute in that regard may well be completed. So, the institute's more embracing role of training people to serve here, in the State legislatures and in other countries is a function which the Opposition fully supports. 
The third function of the proposed institute which is to undertake research into methods and techniques of legislative drafting with a view to the simplification of laws and procedures and the reduction of costs can of course be firmly endorsed, as can its further principles of fostering interest in and encouraging suitably qualified persons to enter the profession of legislative drafting. This of course flows from the first point I made on the functions of the proposed institute. It is extremely difficult to attract a sufficient number of qualified people to undertake this drafting work with the attractions offered in so many other spheres. It is hoped that the proposal to establish the institute will represent a long term solution by fostering an early interest and generating that interest into a vocation so that greater numbers than we have been attracting can see ahead a profession of legislative drafting. As I say, the problems of attracting suitably qualified persons to this area of endeavour is not confined to Australia, nor as I have indicated is it confined to this Parliament. So, we welcome the establishment of the Institute, particularly because it will provide assistance not only to the Commonwealth Parliament but also to the States and to other countries. This is the basic necessity of any such institute. 
I know that the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair)  will be stating the viewpoint of the Australian Country Party but I know that, from the viewpoint that he has put to me, I am entitled to say that both parties are united with the Government in their support of this Bill. It is of vital importance that the standard of draftsmen should not be lessened, indeed, that it should be improved; but more than that the numbersof draftsmen available to legislatures in Australia and elsewhere be increased significantly. I think there is always a temptation when there is a shortage of draftsmen and when, as I have indicated the attractions of other fields of legal endeavour are so great, to believe that the work of drafting perhaps can be done by those who might be regarded as second best. That cannot be sustained. I believe that a constant endeavour must be made to ensure that the maintenance of the highest standards is carried onwards in the years ahead. Undoubtedly, as  Senator Greenwood  suggested in his speech, implicit in this Bill is the attempt to sustain that principle and at the same time to attract into the drafting service by means of the training facilities which the institute can provide persons who might otherwise not appreciate the attractions of the office. So, I compliment the Government on taking the additional steps beyond what the former honourable member for Berowra and Attorney-General, Tom Hughes, did by introducing the Parliamentary Counsel Act, in bringing this Bill before the Parliament. We strongly endorse it. 
My colleague the  Deputy  Leader of the Country Party  (Mr Sinclair)  will be speaking on this Bill particularly in relation to matters raised by the transfer of fisheries power to Papua New Guinea and on what will flow from that transfer of power. This legislation is, of course, part of the transfer of power from Australia to Papua New Guinea, firstly through selfgovernment and later through independence. This Bill grants power to the Papua New Guinea Government to administer its own fisheries legislation. It is therefore all part df the transfer of legislative and administrative functions to that Government. In fact- 

 - Mr Speaker, I wish to be associated directly but particularly briefly and personally in supporting this motion. My wife and I were friends of the Duke of Gloucester's eldest son and heir, Prince William, who died tragically in 1972. We shared many happy times together and the Duchess of Gloucester has graciously befriended my family on more than one occasion. I wish to express my sincere condolence to her and her family. 
Question resolved in the affirmative, honourable members standing in their places. 
DEATH OF FORMER SENATOR N. E. McKENNA 

 Mr WHITLAM (Werriwa- Prime Minister) - The Honourable Nicholas Edward McKenna died on 22 April. He was a senator for Tasmania for 24 years from 1944, sitting for 20 of those years on the front bench. He had been successively an Australian public servant, an accountant and the law partner of a Premier and a Chief Justice of Tasmania. He quickly justified the great reputation which he brought to the Parliament. He was Minister for Health and Social Services from June 1946 to December 1949. During that period he acted as Treasurer, Attorney-General and Minister for the Interior. All these posts he held with great distinction. Indeed, he was for long affectionately known as Labor's man of distinction. 

 His period as Minister for Health and Social Services was of particular importance to the Labor Government of the time and of particular significance for the welfare of the people of Australia. He was the first Minister to operate under the new powers achieved for this Parliament by the referendum of 1946. This, perhaps the most important of the few referendums to succeed, included in the powers of the Parliament: 
The provision of maternity allowances, widows' pensions, child endowment, 'Unemployment, pharmaceutical, sickness and hospital benefits, medical and dental services (but not so as to authorise any form of civil conscription), benefits to students and family allowances. 
Accordingly,  Senator McKenna  had a pioneering role to play and he played it with success and compassion. He sponsored the Act and made the arrangements under which tuberculosis has been eliminated in Australia. He made arrangements with every State under which hospital treatment became free throughout Australia. Only now are we returning to his grand design. For over 3 years he and I served together on the Constitutional Review Committee. We formed an abiding trust and friendship. Without his support I would not have become  Deputy  Leader and later Leader of the Australian Labor Party. 
He said of himself when he retired from the Senate in 1968 that he departed with bitterness towards none. It was a feeling towards him unanimously reciprocated by the Parliament, his colleagues and his oppenents alike. Words like 'integrity' and 'loyalty' may be thought to be the cliches of condolence motions, but they are words which come immediately and sincerely to mind when thinking about Nick McKenna. He was a senator. He had a deep respect for that institution. He had, however, a deeper respect for the Constitution which establishes that institution. Jealous as he was of the proper powers of the Senate and its proper role, he was zealous that it should not abuse its powers or its role. 
In particular, in a record term of 15 years as Leader of the Opposition in the Senate, he acknowledged the total impropriety of action by the Senate which would have the effect of sending this House to the people without senators themselves facing re-election. He firmly opposed suggestions of such a course whenever they were made. He recognised that the Senate could only damage itself by such falsification of democracy. He was a loyal member of the party which he loved. I know of the deep happiness which he received from the return of the Australian Labor Party to office after the long years of opposition, frustration and bitterness which left him, however, without bitterness. He lived to see the Senate attempt to take the course which he had so long, firmly and consistently opposed. I deeply regret that he did not live to see the people of Australia reject that course. I move: 
That the House expresses its deep regret at the death on 22 April 1974 of the Honourable Nicholas Edward McKenna a former senator for the State of Tasmania from 1944 to 1968, a Minister of the Crown from 1946 to 1949,  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition in the Senate from 1949 to 195 1 and Leader of the Opposition in the Senate from 1951 to 1966, places on record its appreciation of his long and meritorous  public service and tenders its profound sympathy to his family in their bereavement. 

 Mr SNEDDEN (Bruce- Leader of the Opposition) - The Opposition very readily associates itself with the motion. I remember  Senator McKenna  well. He served his party extremely well. In fact, he served on the front bench for about as long as almost any other person in the history of the Parliament. He was a Minister for 3 years until 1949,  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition in the Senate from 1949 till 1951, I think it was, and then he was Leader of the Opposition in the Senate right through until 1966 when he retired. As honourable members in this chamber will know, there is not a great deal of opportunity for members of this chamber to have close associations with senators from the other side of the House. Therefore, I did not have the advantage of close personal relationships with  Senator McKenna  but whenever I met him I found him to be an extremely charming man, a very sincere man and a man who commanded the respect of both Houses of Parliament and of all parties. Whenever I heard him spoken of it was in terms of great admiration for the qualities the man possessed. He chose his own time to depart in 1966, having served the 
Parliament, the nation and his party extremely well. We very gladly support the motion. 

 Mr ANTHONY (Richmond- Leader of the Australian Country Party) - I would like the Australian Country Party to be associated with this motion. Like the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden),  I did not personally know Nick McKenna, but he had a reputation of being a very forthright parliamentarian and a very dedicated member of the Australian Labor Party. He was in fact one of the most brilliant debaters in the Senate and I often got a great deal of enjoyment in listening to him debate and in reading some of his speeches. He was an able man and certainly deserved the high position that he earned in the Labor Party over the long period of 24 years that he was associated with the Parliament. He will always be remembered with a great deal of respect as a man who was very generous in his friendliness to members of the Opposition and a man who made an outstanding contribution to his party and to the Parliament. I tender the sympathy of my party to his family. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Defence. I remind the Minister of his statements that Papua New Guinea is virtually exercising control over its defence forces. Bearing in mind that those forces have many hundreds of Australian servicemen seconded to them, what restraints has this Government placed on their activities within those defence forces? 
asked the Minister representing  the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Have any discussions been held or has any proposal been considered by the Government concerning the establishment in Australia of an office representing the Arab League? 
If such a proposal is considered, will the Minister give an unqualified assurance that such an office will not include either overt or covert representatives of the Palestine Liberation Organisation? 
The Opposition does not oppose the Bill to amend the Parliamentary Proceedings Broadcasting Act, but it ought not be regarded as a precedent. As I understand it, the Bill vests power in the Joint Committee on the Broadcasting of Parliamentary Proceedings to determine the manner in which the joint sitting of the Parliament next week is to be televised. This reposes a great deal of power in that Committee, and I assume that we are not reposing it without due consideration of the objectivity of the members of that Committee while conferring on the manner in which the joint sitting will be televised. 
I do not need it, but I cannot speak for others and would not hazard a guess whether they need it or not. I think it is well to bear in mind on this matter of televising of Parliament that there is a division of opinion on both the Government and the Opposition sides. I hope that on some f future occasion there will be a free vote on the report of a committee that has been considering the matter. I am aware that many people are very wary of the televising of parliamentary proceedings and the effect it may have on the checks and balances of the parliamentary system and the performance that people will produce merely for television cameras. I would be particularly wary if a particular committee was exposed to the televising of its processes and investigations. It is well to reflect that, the Supreme Court of the United States has found that a person has been denied due process of law through the televising of proceedings of a committee, because allegations can be made, not answered and not presented in a balanced way. 
Notwithstanding that and notwithstanding the reservations of many of my colleagues and friends, who I see in this Parliament and, who are opposed to the televising of parliamentary proceedings, I would like to present a personal view. I have put to the House that the Opposition does not oppose this Bill as long as it is not regarded as a precedent. My own personal view is that in fact the televising of important occasions in this Parliament would serve the community well. I do not mean occasions like tonight. I am talking about a statement by a Prime Minister after returning from overseas, a statement of a Leader of the Opposition in reply to it, a Budget speech or a motion of no confidence in the Government, provided both sides of the Parliament agree. I think that those who argue against the televising of parliamentary proceedings are turning their backs on the most effective means of communication in the community. If they have no desire to adjust to it as a medium they ought not allow viewpoints that motivate them in that way to stand between the Parliament and the people. For better or for worse, the overwhelming majority of people in the community use television to a substantial extent during their leisure times. It is unquestionably the most important means of communication in society today. 
Those who argue against the presentation of parliamentary views from the chambers of the Parliament itself but who allow political debate to occur in the sterile and antiseptic atmosphere of a television studio, with the  chairman  perhaps not knowing anything about the matter upon which he is probing those who are proceeding before the camera, are inconsistent, to put it mildly. It seems to me that those who are proffering views from the Government or Opposition side of the chamber ought to be able to communicate them through the most effective means available today and that the agreement of both sides of the chamber ought to be able to be reached. 
Those are solely my personal views at this moment. I have expressed those views in a personal capacity at this stage because I believe that the Parliament must turn its attention beyond merely the Committee reporting on the matter to whether in fact its proceedings on occasions can, by agreement of both sides of the House, be televised in order that the people can be properly informed. That is not merely a recognition of television as an authoritative and popularly accepted medium in the community. It is also a fact of life in society today that authority itself is not respected. Parliament must be recognised as a party principle to authority in the community. We ought therefore to provide for Parliament to alleviate the concern and the misgivings in the community today by televising aspects of its proceedings. Again I reiterate, in deference to those of my colleagues who seemingly have totally and utterly different views to those I am proffering, that in that aspect I am speaking solely in a personal capacity. But, on behalf of the shadow minister for the media, whom I represent in this chamber, I say that the Opposition on this occasion and in no way establishing a precedent supports the legislation. 
The legislation provides that the Committee will determine the means whereby the joint sitting will be televised. The test of objectivity lies not only on it but also on those who will be the cameramen, producers and directors of the program. I trust that those who have supported the concept that Parliament ought to be communicated by means of television cameras in the future will pay heed to the manner in which the joint sitting is televised next week, if that is to be when it is to be held. As I have said, debates in television studios tend to be artificially conducted. They tend to be conducted and chaired by those who, on many occasions, are singularly uninformed. Whilst many might feel that those who sit opposite are no better informed when they speak on some matters, nevertheless that is for the electorate, to determine. The televising of various parliamentary proceedings would not only enhance the stature of the Parliament if properly conducted but also would enable a full and effective appraisal of the parliamentary system as such. It is not my desire to detain the House further on this piece of legislation. I repeat that we of the Opposition support the Bill. 
asked the Minister representing  the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
What is the current total staff of the Department of Foreign Affairs. 
How many of these are Foreign Affairs Officers. 
How many of the Departmental total are serving overseas at present. 
How many of these are Foreign Affairs Officers. 
asked the Minister representing  the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
What consideration has the Australian Government given to the question of political asylum. 
In what international discussions or negotiations relating to the question of asylum has Australia participated since 2 December 1972. 
When was each meeting held and where. 
What has been the outcome in each case. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Is the Overseas Property Bureau part of the Department of Foreign Affairs. 
If so, for how long has this been the case. 
What is the status of the Bureau within the 
Department of Foreign Affairs' structure. 
What is the Bureau's total staff. 
How many of these are Foreign Affairs' officers. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Is recognition of the Provisional Revolutionary Government of South Viet-Nam under consideration by the Government. 
If so, has an inter-departmental committee been established to consider the matter. &lt;3) What departments are currently considering this question. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Did Australia recently vote at an International Red Cross conference in Geneva to exclude the representative of the Provisional Revolutionary Government of South Viet-Nam. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Has the Minister for Overseas Trade made representations to the Minister calling on the Government to recognise the Provisional Revolutionary Government of South Viet-Nam '(2) If so, when were the representations made, and how frequently have they been followed up.  i(3)  What has been the reaction of the Minister for Foreign Affairs to these representations. 
It is well and fitting and appropriate that on an historic occasion such as this, when the debate will be recorded in perpetuity, that the fallacious nature of the Labor Party's administration and argument is recorded, particularly the way in which the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson),  who is the current Minister for the Northern Territory, vilified and attacked the member for Northern Territory  (Mr Calder).  If the people of the Northern Territory are upset about the Country Party they would not be returning the honourable member for the Northern Territory, who is a Country Party member, time and again. The justice of the electoral system is shown in that regard. So, too, is the fallaciousness of the arguments advanced by earlier speakers. 
Regrettably, the Leader of the Government in the Senate and Attorney-General,  Senator Murphy,  fell into the same category. I recall that when the Senate debated this matter our Party in that place moved an amendment to have it referred to a committee for examination, particularly as to its constitutional standing and legality.  Senator Murphy  described that amendment as something aimed at stalling the legislation. He said that it was another example of obstruction. That shows how well he and his supporters read the Senate records, because contained within that amendment was a directive that the committee meet only for a fortnight and then report. I well recall  Senator Wright  saying so well in the debate on that occasion: If the Government would use the argument of stalling and obstructionism in the case of a committee which was to report in a fortnight, how would it describe seven High Court judges, in touch with one another, deliberating on one occasion for 15 months in order to reach a determination? Either Government supporters are interested in the constitutional standing of their Government's legislation or they are interested only in their own rhetoric. By the performance put up this afternoon I suggest that the latter is the case. 

 Senator Murphy also said that if this Parliament is to be truly national it must be representive of all people. As the  Deputy  Leader of the Country Party  (Mr Sinclair)  rightly pointed out, what are the Government's proposals for the people of Cocos Island who have opted for Australian citizenship? Indeed, what are its proposals for Norfolk Island or the other Territories of Australia? They are not mentioned. As for what was said by the Minister for Northern Development and Minister for the Northen Territory, all he developed in his contribution to this debate were arguments against the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder).  Those arguments were proved invalid by the decisions of those who voted in the last election and returned the honourable member for the Northern Territory to this place as their representative. 
It is utter hypocrisy for a party to put forward a measure to increase representation in a body that it seeks to destroy. This measure is a sheer and blatant example of hypocrisy in legislative form. The real purpose of this measure is to dilute the Senate, to change the Constitution and to oppose the expressed will of the people. I say that it is unconstitutional. The Government puts forward the proposition that its legal validity arises from section 122 of the Constitution. It says that that section provides sufficient power for legislating in this manner. Even a first year law student would advise that one must read a document as a whole, and therefore, particularly, one must read section 122 with sections 24 and 7. Unless one reads section 7 with section 122, this measure is unconstitutional. 
I said earlier that this measure also is against the expressed wishes of the people. I remind the Government that only  2lh  months ago at a referendum a question was put to the people of Australia which was designed to tie the elections of the Senate to elections of the House of Representatives. That question was defeated overwhelmingly. Yet by this measure the Government proposes to tie the election of the proposed senators for the 2 Territories to the election of members of the House of Representatives. That is the very antithesis of what was determined by the people at the referendum 2V4 months ago. If that is not enough, not only does the Government ignore that referendum decision but it ignores the decision at the referendum in 1967 when the question put to the people was aimed at breaking the nexus between the Senate and the House of Representatives. That referendum was defeated overwhelmingly. Yet the Government is seeking to achieve that aim and providing power to do so in the legislation now before us. These Bills therefore not only are called into question on constitutional grounds but also are substantially against the will of the people as expressed at 2 referenda. All the rhetoric in the world cannot mask the emerging reality that this Government seeks to implement its doctrines through this form of legislation. Furthermore, on constitutional grounds the Senate was created on the basis of equality, originally with 6 senators for each of the States and then the number was lifted to ten. Equality in the Senate is a fundamental tenet. This Bill smashes that doctrine. It is, in a nutshell, a piece of political carpentry structured to tear down such basic tenets that the founding fathers regarded as fundamental to the document they produced. So many members opposite are seeking to change the Constitution but not by the methods proposed by the Constitution. This legislation seeks to do that. Indeed, one of the aspirants for the Ministry who missed by one vote, I understandSenator James McClelland- in the debate on 17 July, said: 
Unfortunately we are stuck with a Constitution which those wise founding fathers made it almost impossible to alter. Let us try to change it to bring it up to date if we can. 
He did not mean to bring it up to date by any referendum proposal but by legislation of a surreptitious nature as is brought forward on this occasion- the third occasion before the Parliament of Australia. That is what he wanted to do to be up with the times. This Government has sought by a variety of means to present itself as being up with the times. Members will recall that the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  himself indulged in a degree of acting in a film of Bazza McKenzie, I am sure with the encouragement of the Minister for the Media  (Senator Douglas McClelland).  I suppose that has to be an example of this Government's seeking to be up with the times. Let us recall that in Monaco they have a film star for a princess; in California they have a film star for a governor; and we have won ourselves a film extra for a Prime Minister. Government supporters say: 'Let us not bother with the law, let us be up with the times. Let us just change it not by the express demand of the people through the ballot box but by whipping through legislation that may well be unconstitutional.' (Government supporters interjecting)- 
I do not mind your interjections. We believe in the forgiveness of sin and also in redemption from ignorance, so you can interject as much as you wish. We are not opposed to change, as the  Deputy  Leader of the Australian Country Party, the honourable member for New England indicated. In fact, we have a vision for the development of this country not merely in its parliamentary structure but also development in its fullest sense. We have an exciting vision for the Northern Territory. We see it developing through self-government to statehood. Where are the remarks now? When this proposition was placed before this chamber 2 years ago by the honourable member for Dawson he indicated that he was in favour of statehood and self-government for the Northern Territory. He has been expressly overruled again by his Prime Minister. He is notching up more defeats in Cabinet than even the Minister for the Environment and Conservation  (Dr Cass). 
This Government is seeking to administer for representation in a piecemeal fashion. Where are your plans? Where are your schedules? Where are your blueprints? They are non-existent. You have no cool commitment, no steady purpose for the Territories. Look at the way you administer the Territories. I will touch on that in a moment. Yet you describe us and particularly my Senate colleagues as being the white anters of democracy, an expression used last week by the Prime Minister. You claim to be the champions of parliamentary democracy and yet in Government you have used the gag and the guillotine in that short period of time more frequently than any other party. To use your own terminology, you are not merely the white anters of the Parliament or of democracy. You are not merely the borers in the framework of the Constitution. You are the piranhas of the parliamentary process and your legislation deserves to be defeated. 
I now turn to a quotation from the speech of the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  when he introduced this legislation. On that occasion he said, amongst other things: 
We believe that while the national Parliament remains bicameral - 
I emphasise the words 'while the national Parliament remains bicameral'. Mark the further hypocrisy because the Government intends to transform this institution into a unicameral system in perpetuity. The Minister said: 
We believe that while the national Parliament remains bicameral, the people of the Territories, like all the people of Australia should be represented in both chambers. 
That is what was said and it has already been called into question. What is the Government doing about the people of the Territories- Cocos Island, Christmas Island, Norfolk Island, Ashmore and Carrier Islands and the Coral Sea islands? There is one man on a meteorological station on one island. Is the Government going to send him here to look after himself as the Senate representative? 
What has the Government done with the Territories of Australia? Its maladministration is reaching disastrous proportions. The Prime Minister is doing secret deals with the Prime Minister of Singapore over the transfer of Christmas Island. The people of Norfolk Island, who are also Australian citizens, are going to petition the United Nations because of the Government's maladministration. The Government is voting in New York at the UN for independence for Cocos Island but when it is questioned about it back here it says that no one in his right mind would believe in independence. The Government says one thing in New York and one thing in Australia. Which is to be believed? What of the electoral system or the elective system on Cocos Island? The last Liberal-Country Party Minister for External Territories reached agreement with  Mr John  Clunies-Ross about an elective system and the Government has not been able to do anything about it or to implement one of the heads of agreement which was reached during those discussions in 1972. So the Government's measures are not only hypocritical; they are not only unconstitutional; they are also the epitome of maladministration in a legislative form. 
Government supporters should not think that they can claim that the Territories will be adequately represented by this piecemeal approach. The Government is not calling forth the aspirations of the people of the Territory; it is dangling this sort of thing in front of them so that it can put aside the proposals for self government in due course for the Northern Territory and for a legislative assembly in the Australian Capital Territory. Why has the Government changed its mind on that? When one notches up the arguments on this legislation; when one calls into question its validity; when one examines the propositions the Government has put forward, one sees how the Government has failed, especially when one compares the Government's achievements since it came into office with the promises it made in 1972. No wonder the Opposition is not prepared to go along with legislation of this nature. 
We say to the Government: 'If it has a plan and a blueprint for statehood or self government for the Northern Territory and the Australian Capital Territory, let us hear it. Do not strike down the fundamental tenets of this Constitution. It is not a document just to be played with. It is the structure and the legislative form on which this Parliament is built. Without it we would not even be here. We would not be speaking here today'. Yet the Government seeks to erode the influence of the Parliament by a cheap form of political propaganda and a watering down of the bicameral system and of the effectiveness of the Senate. It is for those reasons and for the reasons that the  Deputy  Leader of the Country Party  (Mr Sinclair)  and others have put up against this proposition today, that we reject this proposed law. If the Government were truly seeking representation for the Northern Territory and the Australian Capital Territory it would recognise what we did, that is, encourage them and change their representation in this Parliament so that their representatives vote on all matters and not merely on Northern Territory and Australian Capital Territory matters; it would propose and support other propositions for their development and it would not bring in this form of piecemeal legislation. 
We believe that the consistency of our record is well before the people and that when the Government lays before the High Court the arguments on constitutionality the High Court will be interested in reading the document as a whole. It will harmonise section 122 with section 7. Yet the Government has not. It has not even chosen to utilise any other aspect of the Constitution in its argument except section 122. We believe that this legislation ought to fall to the ground on that basis alone, and that is probably the most fundamental basis. But we also believe it ought to fall to the ground because it contrasts so much with the undying principles of the Australian Labor Party's platform to abolish the Senate and reduce this bicameral system, which is provided for specifically by the Constitution, to simply a unicameral system. If that is the Government's fundamental tenet, as espoused by its platform, that is in stark contrast to this legislation, piecemeal and all as it is. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the United Nations University. 
) What is Australia 's attitude to it. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Has the Minister's attention been drawn to the United Nations ' report on 'The World Situation of Youth: Its Needs and Aspirations'. 
) If so, will he make a copy available to Members. 
Has the Government considered this report. 
If so, what action is proposed concerning its recommendations. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Has action on the United Nations' SecretaryGeneral's report on 'The World Situation of Youth: Its Needs and Aspirations' resulted in the establishment of an Advisory Group. 
If so, has the Advisory Group suggested measures to improve international and national contacts between young people. 
If so, what are these proposals, what action has the Australian Government taken on them, and what further action is proposed. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Did Australia vote in support of United Nations General Assembly Resolution 2984 (xxvii), on 14 December 1972, which inter alia called for a time-table to be established for the self-determination and independence of the Cocos (Keeling) Islands. 
Did the Prime Minister say in the House of Representatives on 17 May 1973, in answer to a question addressed to him by me, that no consideration had been given to independence for the Cocos Islands and that he did not think anybody seriously considered that independence would be appropriate. 
If the position is as stated, how is the inconsistency explained. 
Which of the cases in parts ( 1 ) and (2 ) will be put to the forthcoming United Nations Visiting Mission. 
If neither, is there a third alternative; if so, what is it. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
.  Has the Department of Foreign Affairs prepared a submission for the members of the United Nations Mission soon to visit the Cocos (Keeling) Islands. 
If so, what does the submission propose. 
Will he table it in the Parliament. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs: 
1 ) Does Australia intend to give 7,000 tonnes of wheat to drought-affected countries in Africa. 
If so, how will the wheat be shipped. 
When will the wheat arrive. 
How will the wheat be distributed, and by whom. 
asked the Special Minister of State, upon notice: 
1 ) Is he responsible for the administration of the Cocos (Keeling) Islands. 
If so, how will be explain to the United Nations Mission soon to visit the Cocos (Keeling) Islands the apparent inconsistencies revealed in question No. 836. 
asked the Special Minister of State, upon notice: 
1 ) Has a submission been prepared by his Department for the use of the forthcoming United Nations Visiting Mission to the Cocos (Keeling) Islands. 
If so, what does the submission propose. 
Will he table the submission in the Parliament. 
asked the Special Minister of State, upon notice: 
1 ) Were the press banned from travelling on the aircraft taking members of the United Nations Visiting Mission to the Cocos (Keeling) Islands; if so, why. 
Has the ban been lifted; if so, why. 
asked the Special Minister of State, upon notice: 
What has been done by his Department to implement the 'Heads of Agreement' reached between the then Minister for External Territories and  Mr John  CIunies-Ross in September 1972. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
1 ) Has a decision been made to send Australian troops to Cyprus; if so, how many. 
Who has been consulted. 
What action has been taken by Australia at the United Nations regarding such a commitment. 
Was a request received; if so, when, and from whom. 
If such a commitment is to be made, how long is it estimated the troops will be there. 
Will any force sent to Cyprus be comprised of volunteers. 

 -The Deputy Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  has indicated to the House that the Opposition supports the Asian Development Fund Bill which seeks parliamentary approval for a contribution by Australia of $18. 15m, which is approximately US$27m, to the Asian Development Fund recently established within the Asian Development Bank. It is appropriate at this stage to recall the background of this measure. The Asian Development Bank was conceived by the United Nations Economic Commission for Asia and the Far East- better known as ECAFE- and established for the purpose of lending funds, promoting investment and providing technical assistance to developing member countries and, generally, for fostering economic growth and cooperation in the Asian region. It was formally opened on 19 December 1966. Membership of the Asian Development Bank is open to members and associates of ECAFE and other regional countries and non-regional developed countries which are members of the United Nations or any of its specialised agencies. 
The Asian Development Bank's lending activities are divided into ordinary operations and special operations. From the commencement of operations until 31 March 1974 the Asian Development Bank approved 177 loans for 156 projects in 21 developing member countries totalling US$ 1,467.043m. Projects financed by Asian Development Bank loans cover such development activities as construction of highways, processing of agricultural products and development of fishery fleets, industrial plants, water and power supply, ports, airports, multipurpose development schemes, irrigation, medium and small industries through national . development banks and other intermediary institutions, education and telecommunications- a very broad spectrum of activities. Ordinary operations of the Bank consist of loans made at near commercial rates of interest and financed out of ordinary capital resources. Ordinary capital resources comprise mainly subscribed capital and borrowings. The original authorised capital stock of the Asian Development Bank has been increased on different occasions. As at 31 March this year total authorised capital stock was US$3, 366m, of which US$2, 725m was subscribed by the Asian Development Bank's 40 member countries. Special operations are loans made on concessional or 'soft' terms for projects of high development priority in developing member countries. These projects are financed out of special funds. 
Under the Asian Development Bank's charter it may accept contributions to special funds which it may administer on terms agreed upon with the donors, provided the purpose is consistent with the objectives and functions of the Asian Development Bank. Special funds must be held, used, invested or otherwise disposed of entirely separate from the ordinary capital resources of the Asian Development Bank. Under the 'Special Funds Rules and Regulations' adopted by the Board of Directors in 1968, the Asian Development Bank established 3 special funds: Firstly, the Agricultural Fund, secondly, the Multi-Purpose Fund; and thirdly, the Technical Assistance Fund. On 22 May 1973 the Asian Development Bank merged the Agricultural Fund with the Multi-Purpose Fund. However, later in 1973 it was decided to replace the Multipurpose Fund with a single unified fund known as the Asian Development Fund to create a more appropriate and effective framework for financing concessional lending, and it is that fund with which we are dealing under this Bill today. 
The Asian Development Fund, which is multilateral in character, is designed to service the primary source of future concessional lending operations by the Asian Development Bank. Previously, concessional loans were financed almost entirely out of the Multi-purpose Special Fund. However, according to the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  in his second reading speech on the Asian Development Fund Bill on 1 6 July this year, contributions to the Multi-purpose Special Fund had dwindled to the extent that in the absence of early steps to replenish Special Fund resources concessional lending by the Asian Development Bank seemed likely to grind to a halt. 
The proposals for the Asian Development Fund involve the mobilisation of $US525m in contributions from developed countries in 2 stages. Under the first stage US$350m will be contributed, and the balance of US$1 75m will be contributed under the second stage. I understand that stage 1 recently became effective, and the Asian Development Fund is now firmly established. Australia's proposed total contribution to the Fund is US$29m or $A18.5m. In line with the overall arrangements for financing the Fund, it is proposed that Australia's total amount be committed in 2 stages over 18 months or so. The Treasurer has indicated that, consistent with past practice, Australia will use the promissory note technique of payment, which will limit the budgetary impact of the contribution. 
According to the 1973 annual report of the Asian Development Bank, when the Asian Development Fund is substantially operative, the Special Fund 's resources of the ADB will become a fully effective counterpart of its ordinary capital resources, and the financial structure envisaged for the ADB at its inception will be complete. The report continued: 
With these additional resources at its disposal, the Bank will be in a position to mount an organised program of concessional lending for the economic and social advancement of its least developed member countries, rising from the 1973 level of$ 118. 16m to S200m in 1974, and to $250m in 197S. No less important, the Bank will be in a position to extend this assistance on terms which more fully recognise the financial burdens that these countries have to bear, and on conditions that are more flexible and responsive to their needs. This is a challenge the Bank will readily accept. Whether it will have an opportunity to do so depends now upon the ability of the Bank's developed member countries to come forward with the contributions authorised by the 
Board of Governors within the time frame envisaged in the resolutions.' 
That was stated in the annual report of the Australian Development Bank last year at pages 28 and 29. We are meeting our commitment and our undertaking with this Bill. It is a very real challenge to Australia. I want to make some remarks not just related to the Asian Development Bank as such but to aid programs in the broad. After all, this is part of Australia's aid assistance to developing countries. I am not particularly impressed with the record of this Government in that field. Despite the fact that there has been a sizable increase in this Budget, allegedly, for aid programs, it will be recalled if one examines Appropriation Bill (No. 1 ) that the actual expenditure last year fell well below the amount that was allocated in the Budget. The Government in fact stands condemned for the way it went about its aid programs in the last 1 8 months. The amount of money given by way of aid programs in the calendar year 1973- of course they are covered neatly by the Budget, because we are operating on a financial year- was less than the amount given by the previous Liberal-Country Party Government in the 1972 calendar year. 
-It would be far worse in real terms because the situation is exacerbated by inflation- a factor which the Government talks about but ignores in reality. Although we in Australia express our comparisons in financial years, the internationally accepted basis of comparison is the calendar year. This Government's record is condemned by the Opposition because it is just not good enough. To fall below the 1972 amount in 1 973 is in itself enough. 
-The Opposition is not opposing these Bills. They form part of the movement towards independence for Papua New Guinea. As I understand it, they give legislative authority to what has been existing by way of delegation from the Minister for Foreign Affairs as the authority under the appropriate legislation, who delegated his authority to the Minister for Mines in Papua New Guinea to handle off-shore mining within the area described by the Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Bill as an adjacent area. There are 2 Bills under consideration. The first is the Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Bill which provides for the repeal of the provisions of the Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Act that extend to Papua New Guinea. In other words, this amending legislation exercises reference to Papua New Guinea in the Act. Having done that, the second piece of legislation- the Papua New Guinea Billamends the principal Act by transferring to the Papua New Guinea House of Assembly the power with regard to off-shore mining. This is necessary to ensure that there is no doubt that the Papua New Guinea House of Assembly has absolute power over legislation in respect of offshore mining. 
I am not altogether impressed with the legislation that has been presented to the House, but I want to pose a question to the Minister Assisting the Minister for Foreign Affairs in Matters Relating to Papua New Guinea  (Mr Morrison).  I would be grateful if the Minister would answer it. In repealing that part of the Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Act which refers to Papua New Guinea, the amending legislation refers, of course, to the areas designated under the legislation. As I recall, the legislation arose from agreements reached between the Commonwealth and the States. If one examines the report of the Senate committee which examined this matter prior to the legislation being enacted, one finds that there is annexed to that report the agreement which was reached between the governmental bodies, State and Federal. Clause 6 of that agreement indicates that there should be no amendment without the consent of a State concerned 
In this instance, Papua New Guinea and Queensland share a boundary. I speak not of the Papua New Guinea-Queensland boundary but of the areas designated in the legislation. In the legislation they are referred to as adjacent areas. As I understand it, clause 6 of the agreement provides that the State of Queensland ought to be advised of the amendments which are covered by the legislation which is before the House tonight. I would ask the Minister whether that State has been duly advised. I do so not merely because it is a term of the agreement reached between the Commonwealth and the States but also because we have at the present moment a very sensitive issue to deal with. It is not merely the .sensitive issue of the movement of Papua New Guinea towards independence but the sensitive issue of the border between Papua New Guinea and Queensland. I would not like to think that the feeling between the Commonwealth and the Government of Queensland is exacerbated in any way by this Government not advising the Queensland Government that it is taking this move. I would have thought it would have been a prudent step, whether or not it is covered by the agreement, to advise the Queensland Government. But from a formal sense it appeared to be prima facie that there was a necessity in clause  6  of the agreement to advise the Queensland Government. I would be most grateful if the Minister could advise me before he concludes his reply on this legislation whether in fact that occurred. 
The second matter to which I wish to refer is the speech made by a former Minister for National Development,  Mr Fairbairn,  who was then and is now the honourable member for Farrer. It is recorded on page  1945  of Hansard that he said on  18  October  1967  in his second reading speech on the Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Bill  1967: 
While dealing with adjacent areas I should make brief mention of certain agreements which have been reached in relation to the adjacent areas of Queensland and Papua and to some small islands and their continental shelves in the Coral Sea. Prior to the commencement of these negotiations between the Commonwealth and the States, Queensland and Papua had issued adjoining exploration permits with boundaries conforming to the boundary between Queensland and Papua. These permits have been accepted by the companies in good faith and work has been going on in the areas concerned. When it became necessary to consider these boundaries from the point of view of this joint legislation it was found that the application as between Australia and Papua of the median line principle would have resulted in part of one permit and something like half of another permit which has been issued by Papua being brought under the jurisdiction of Queensland, thus resulting in a reduction of the area of continental shelf under the authority of the Territory. 
The Government considered that any transfer of part of these titles back to Australia- no matter how justifiable in terms of logic- might be misunderstood in Papua and New Guinea and in any case that such action would be inconsistent with the high sense of responsibility which Australia displays in working to bring this Territory towards self government. 
He went on to say at a later paragraph: 
The foregoing arrangement is, we think, a sensible one and as a result  I  am glad  to say that both the Commonwealth  and the Queensland Governments are agreed that the boundaries of the existing permits issued by Papua will be left undisturbed. 
There is an important principle involved here. You have a contentious boundary between Papua New Guinea and Queensland- a matter on which the Government of Papua New Guinea has expressed itself in very forcible terms, particularly individual Ministers in that Government, indicating that the boundary between Papua New Guinea and Queensland ought to be moved south. The Queensland Government must be involved constitutionally in any change to that border. The Constitution states that if borders of States are to be changed the governments of those States or the people of those States have to give agreement. If the border is to be changed they must be involved therefore under the Constitution. You have a situation here giving power to the Papua New Guinea House of Assembly over an area that is not consistent with the boundary between Papua New Guinea and Australia. It ought to be borne in mind what was agreed to in  1 967-  as was said by the then Minister for National Developmentthat there is now a variation in the capacity at law of the Papua New Guinea Government to grant permits for off-shore mining, and that the area designated for it to do so is different from the boundaries between the  2  countries. Because the Government of Queensland agreed with this area when the agreements were reached in  1967,  the Opposition is not prepared to oppose the legislation. 
So I would like firstly to be assured that the Queensland Government has been advised that this legislation was coming into the House, and I would like to think that what had been agreed to before is in the minds of those who are concerned with the border between Papua and New Guinea and that the legislation does not place in jeopardy any of the negotiations over the border itself. I say that because the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  when he first came to office, sought unilaterally to move the border between Papua and Queensland or, as he put it, Papua New Guinea and Australia. I have pointed out that he has no constitutional right to do that, and I trust that he will not use any of this legislation as an argument against the government of Queensland. It was indicative, of course, that Queensland was agreeing to matters solely within the province of the Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Bill. So, delinquent and all as this Government has been in many areas, I would assume that it would not break the spirit of those agreements that related to specific measures covered by that Bill. I will return to that matter, though, before I conclude tonight. 
I have said that the Opposition does not oppose the legislation because it is part of the transition towards self government and independence. Self government, of course, was reached in Papua New Guinea on 1 December last year. The distinction between self government and independence is broadly that when an administered area reaches self government it is responsible for all the domestic legislation and control of its own affairs within its own borders at that date, but there are certain powers that devolve and remain existent in the metropolitan or controlling power- the administering authority, if you like- and that is the Government of Australia. In the broad they are in 2 areasforeign affairs and defence. But some powers were not transferred on the date of independence, and we are dealing with one of them now. I thought that we would have heard more of the negotiations between the Government of Australia and the Government of Papua New Guinea in regard to these 2 specific areas of foreign affairs and defence before any likely date of independence was announced. 
This Government, of course, has been accused by the Constitutional Planning Committee of Papua New Guinea of forcing the pace of independence. It is interesting that the Constitutional Planning Committee should accuse the Government of that, because it is described in the terminology of Papua New Guinea as a radical body, but it has felt that this Government has forced the pace somewhat. I do not enter into that argument at all. I think that overall the Government has responded to the wishes of Papua New Guinea, but it seems to me that it would have been wise to settle all areas prior to independence so that on independence the Papua New Guinea Government would not just in fact be governing in all areas but would be doing so at law. 
I am concerned at what will happen when Papua New Guinea achieves independence, whether it be April or May of next year or whatever date the Government of Papua New Guinea has in mind. I would like to feel that matters which are outside the province of the Minister for Science, who is the Minister in charge of Papua New Guinea affairs and the former Minister for External Territories, and which are primarily matters within the jurisdiction of the Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard)  will be put to us clearly and unequivocally. We have heard little from the 
Minister for Defence apart from frequent apologies for not being able to do other than say that negotiations are taking place. I will not develop that matter, so the Minister for Science need not take any point of order. I just wanted to flag the fact that I am concerned that for almost 20 months now I have been standing here asking for information about the defence arrangements between Papua New Guinea and Australia, and I ask for it again in the course of this debate because the Minister himself has said in his own speech that this legislation is part of the movement towards independence. I am concerned that we will reach independence and we will not know clearly what the role of Australian forces seconded to the Papuan New Guinea defence force will be. 
I return now to the matter I was talking about earlier, the border between Papua and Queensland. Equally, too, am I concerned that we may reach the date of independence some time next year, with our blessing, at the request of the Government of Papua New Guinea, without resolving the dispute over the border between Papua and Queensland. I have stated my own position, and I will not regurgitate that tonight. It seems to me to be totally wrong both to deny the constitutional provisions of this country and to seek to act unilaterally, to find that you are bashing your head against a brick wall because the State Government of Queensland is vested with the right of an exercise of power in this area and to do little or nothing about this matter so soon before independence. As I understand it, officials of the Commonwealth Government, the Queensland Government- I do not know about representatives of the Torres Strait Islanders, although they are Australian citizens and ought to be involved- and officials of the Papua New Guinea Government have been meeting to talk about the border. We have heard nothing from this Government about that meeting. We just hear things obliquely. I have warned previously in this Parliament that it is one of those issues that I feel, after independence, will be raised within the United Nations if the Commonwealth Government has not acted fairly in consultation with the Government of Queensland and the Government of Papua New Guinea. Perhaps the Minister could advise me on this matter. 
I do not want to go into the matter in great detail. The Minister himself showed respect to the House by keeping his speech relatively brief, but I have covered the matter of the agreements entered into in 1967 and the questions that arise out of the prima facie reading of clause 6 of those agreements as they apply to the State of Queensland. I have not asked the Minister for Science to give me any answers, but I have asked the Minister responsible for defence matters to advise us at some stage very shortly about defence arrangements between Australia and Papua New Guinea. This self-proclaimed party in government which is so interested in keeping white faces out of Asia and the Pacific is prepared to allow a minimum of 600 Australian servicemen to be seconded to the Papua New Guinea defence force and not even state a role for them. The Minister need not worry: I will say no more in regard to that matter. I just flag it. I have asked for some indication as to what is transpiring in negotiations on the border between Papua and Queensland. All these are relatively delicate matters and I understand that if they are the subject of negotiations at least the Minister could tell us that.. The other delicate matter is the actual transition to independence. It is delicate in the sense that no matter what country in the world is moving from an area where it is an administered power to becoming an entity internationally in its own right, there will be divergences within its community as to the timing. We can only act on the basis of the advice of the leadership group elected by the people of Papua New Guinea in this instance. Members of both sides of the House have spoken of the gradual movement towards self-government and independence. I put in the caveat tonight by indicating that the Constitutional Planning Committee itself was somewhat concerned last year about the pace that is being forced by the Commonwealth Government. I hope that the Government will not continue to force the pace and that it will respond primarily to the wishes of the Papua New Guinea Government. I would hope that this is so, but the transition to independence is at a delicate stage and it is a stage where we should be ensuring that the utmost assistance is forthcoming when it is requested from Papua New Guinea. According to the Minister, Papua New Guinea has agreed in the exchange of correspondence or by some other means to abide by the agreements on the environment and on restricting itself to the adjacent areas of Queensland and Papua New Guinea which is confined to the territorial sea and the continental shelf within the areas designated as adjacent areas. So it appears that this is, as the Minister has said, a further step on the way towards self-government and independence. 
I would like to be able to feel that in so responding to requests for assistance from the Government of Papua New Guinea we could do more than we actually did in the budgetary provisions last night to meet our obligations to that country. It appears to me that a fact that has been neglected is that although the largest single increase in this year's aid allocation to Papua New Guinea is for employment termination and retirement benefits for Australians leaving Papua New Guinea, the amount involved is more than double the total increase in aid to Papua New Guinea. In other words, a good deal of the so-called aid to Papua New Guinea will find its way to Australia. My cursory examination of the documents revealed to me that $43m of an amount which was provided last year for a wide variety of functions that were transferred to the Papua New Guinea Government- a transfer of functions is involved in this legislation; that is why I have referred to this matter,  Mr Speakerwas  not required under the items for the transfer of functions and that it has not been re-allocated or that very little of it has been re-allocated to Papua New Guinea itself but has gone elsewhere. It may well be that there have been other demands. There is a desperate need throughout the world for assistance from the Australian Government. But our special responsibility at this time is to Papua New Guinea. We have placed it as a priority item in all our aid giving. It seems to me to be most unfortunate that money is being used elsewhere at a time when it is required in Papua New Guinea. I should imagine that it has been requested that additional funds be granted to Papua New Guinea. The $43m which was made available for formal requirements in the transfer of facilities last year has been spent in other parts of the world. 
The actual amount- the real amount- given to Papua New Guinea by the Australian Government has been exacerbated by inflation anyway, and Papua New Guinea itself has grave inflationary problems. I do not know whether the actual amount given in real terms has been reduced, but I do know that in reality its value certainly has been reduced. The honourable member for Warringah  (Mr MacKellar)  has reminded me that there will probably be a reduction in aid to Papua New Guinea, especially when the effect of inflation are taken into account. It is clear that the Australian Labor Party is in many ways paying only lip service to the expansion of aid to Papua New Guinea. If the termination and retirement benefits of Australians are excluded the amount of aid to Papua New Guinea has undoubtedly declined. That is unacceptable to me but it is in accord with Labor's well known double standards in so many areas of international affairs. It seems certain that the total aid in 1974 will be again far below the Labor Government's promise of 0.7 per cent of the gross domestic product following a dismal performance in 1973, as confirmed by the Development Assistance Committee of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development. 
I have said and the Minister himself said in his second reading speech that this is all part of the process of gradual independence. I have qualified that to some extent by saying that bodies in Papua New Guinea have criticised the present Government for forcing the pace. That phrase was used in the interim report last year of the Constitutional Planning Committee. When we were in government we hoped that there would be a gradual move towards independence, gradual in the sense that - 
-I had such a close attraction to them in my former days that it is a natural human reaction. I am sure that they give the current minister the same satisfaction in response to his questions as was given when I was the responsible Minister. It is nice to see them here. I was saying that we had hoped that the process of independence would be gradual- not gradual in the sense that it necessarily would be slow but that it would be smooth and not a sudden break from one status and set of reponsibilities to another, which are words that will be familiar to some in this House- so that when Papua New Guinea's independence came it would signify the last step in a long process that had been taken and that a whole series of changes would not be occurring overnight. I am somewhat troubled by the way in which special committees in Papua New Guinea, particularly the Constitutional Planning Committee, have criticised that movement. I had hoped that if we had had our way the gradual movement and actual movement towards independence would contribute greatly to the post-independence period by establishing a government that was practised in governing and a government that could call on the resources, human and otherwise, that are a necessary part of an orderly and developing nation. I think the Minister in fact used words to that effect when he concluded his remarks on this piece of legislation. He said: 
Although the function of Papua New Guinea's foreign relations is reserved to Australia, the policy of the Australian Government has been to involve fully Papua New Guinea and to exercise that function only after the fullest consultation with and advice from the Papua New Guinea Government. Consistent with this policy Australia has encouraged Papua New Guinea to take its place in the international community and one example of Papua New Guinea's increasing involvement in this community was its participation in the recent Law of the Sea Conference in Caracas. 
That, of course, related specifically to the Bill in the sense that it would now be responsible to an area outside its own land mass. I said at the start that I was a little troubled by this legislation. I think I used the term 'sloppy' to describe it. That may be a strong word to some. All I was doing was posing questions about adjacent areas and then moving on to other questions and perhaps the question of the Papua-Queensland border. The reason I said that it was sloppy was because my understanding of the boundary mentioned in the Schedule to the Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Act is that the boundary is in fact inaccurate, that it was drawn in 1967 and that maps subsequent to that date which I recall having seen reveal that part of the description in the Petroleum (Submerged Lands) Act in fact covers the land mass of Papua New Guinea. 
-No, it was not. 
-It is grossly unfair of the Minister to say that because he is well aware that boundaries and areas in Papua New Guinea had to be changed and amended geographically following the use of up-to-date mapping techniques and that areas that were subsequently opened up were drawn more accurately later on. The description which is used in the Act that applies at the present moment and which we are excising by this piece of legislation is in fact a reference to a portion of the Papuan land mass. It is an extraordinary situation when one considers that we are talking about submerged land. So I should have thought that the Minister would have introduced a Bill which ensured that that area was properly designated. I am surprised that he has not done so. I can only question why he has not done so. It must be that he feels that he cannot give me an answer to the questions I have posed about the Papua-Queensland border. Perhaps he feels that things are going to be so bogged down and become part of negotiation and discussion later on that he dare not change the area. But it does seem strange to me that the Government should introduce legislation referring to an area which updated techniques have revealed does not apply solely to submerged land but in fact applies to a land mass on which people live. 
-Well, where people can walk rather than swim, at any rate. 
-It may be a mangrove. The people can still walk rather than swim. I am not so sure that it is all a mangrove swamp. As a matter of fact it would fit the normal description of a land mass rather than that of submerged land, to which this Bill applies. I think the Minister would do well before the Bill goes to another place to have a look at this to see whether the description can be changed so that we are not legislating in inaccurate geographic terminology. We are supposed to be legislating with precision here, so I would hope that would be looked to. 
I am sorry that I have detained the House to the extent that I have but it appears to me there are inaccuracies in the boundary. They ought to be rectified. There are matters to be clarified between Papua and Queensland. They have to be rectified or Papua New Guinea clearly will take the Papua-Queensland border dispute to the United Nations. In rectifying the matter the Queensland Government will have effectively to be involved. The other matters to which I referred in the domain of the Minister of Defence I shall not raise again in this peroration. I simply hope that the Minister for Science will bring the matter to the attention of the Minister for Defence in the hope that this House and the people of Australia will be fully informed as to the role of Australian servicemen in that area. 
Subject to those caveats and those questions that I have raised this evening- hopefully they will be answered- we do not oppose the legislation as it is part of the transition towards independence which has our blessing. But we wish that this Government would be more precise in the nature of the legislation it introduces and ensure that where there are anomalies in the geographic areas it would seek to clear them up rather than bury them amongst the morass of material that is discussed between the governments of Queensland, Papua New Guinea and Australia. 
asked the Minister for the Capital Territory, upon notice: 
Have certain members of the Norfolk Island Council approached the United Nations regarding the Government 's mishandling of Norfolk Island matters. 
If so, what members of the Council made the complaint. 
3 ) What was the basis of the complaint. 
What is his attitude to the complaint. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) With reference to the United Nations report on "The World Situation of Youth: Its Needs and Aspirations", in what United Nations deliberations on this report has the Australian Government participated. 
How many statements have been made by Australian representatives at these meetings. 
On what dates, and where, were these statements made. 
Will the Minister make copies available to Members. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) Is the Department of Foreign Affairs designing a new Australian uniform for Australian diplomats. 
If so, what is the nature and description of the uniform. 
Who designed the uniform. 
Has the uniform been considered or approved; if so, by whom. 
Have the view of departmental officers been sought as to whether they wish to have such a uniform imposed upon them. 
If a uniform is being designed, will the Minister discontinue such a folly. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the Department of Foreign Affairs requested the South African Embassy to withdraw its military attache and not to replace him. 
If so, when was the request made. 
On what grounds was the request made. 
To whom specifically was the request made. 
-My question is directed to the Prime Minister. It deals with a different matter from the one on which he has been questioned today. It relates yet again to differences between he and the Deputy Prime Minister. On 24 May last year, in his first statement to this Parliament on international relations, the Prime Minister said: 
We do not seek membership of the non-aligned movement 
Given that the Deputy Prime Minister is not only a member of the Congress for International Cooperation and Disarmament but also, as I understand it, is its elected president, and given also the fact that that organisation is currently distributing brochures and pamphlets calling on this Government to adopt a non-aligned foreign policy for Australia, will the Prime Minister state unequivocally that non-alignment is not to be the foreign policy aim of his Government? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign affairs, upon notice: 
In what countries does Australia have personnel engaged in (a) bilateral and (b) multilateral aid projects. 
How many Australians are involved in each country. 
Under what programs are these people engaged, and how many are involved in each program in each of the countries referred to. 
-That was the most second-rate performance we have heard from the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor),  who continually proffers secondrate performances in both administration and debates in this Parliament. He did not answer the terms of the matter of public importance. He has been more concerned over the past week with blitzing bureaucrats and continuing to belt businessmen than in developing Australia and her resources. Listen to what he said yesterday in a speech delivered in Sydney. This follows so clearly from what the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  said about seeking to destroy private enterprise in this country. The Minister said that Labor was closer to achieving nationalisation in the minerals field than it had ever been but this would still take a while to achieve. Are you proud of that? 
-There we are. Blitzing business; nationalising the field. We have got it from him- smoked out at last. It is about the only thing he has put before us which has any form of a blueprint for the future, but at last he has conceded his aim to nationalise industry in this country. The Minister has gone out of his way to reduce incentives for mineral exploration. He has gone out of his way to smash private enterprise. The former subsidy for oil search has been abolished. The taxation concession for mineral exploration has been withdrawn. The price of locally produced crude oil has been pegged below the world price. You are seeking to destroy enterprise in this country. You know that and your only answer to us is to criticise us for raising this matter today. You are like your Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  who in another of his brief visits to the country criticises the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  for what he has had to say on the economy. 
I would remind you of what Lord Denning has said frequently; they are perfectly appropriate words. He said: 'Silence is not an option when things are ill done'. You have been doing ill things for many months. What do you think is the approach of a resources diplomacy with which you have been endeavouring to stultify investment in this country? What do you think it is? There is a two-fold aspect to your approach. It has an internal concept and it has an external concept. The Leader of the Country Party discussed the ramifications domestically. I want to discuss the ramifications internationally. But before I do so I would have to say that I agree completely with the Leader of the Country Party who said that you have created utter confusion, not merely in Australia but also internationally. Now the  Deputy  Prime Minister says in Peking that in fact the basis for a resources policy was worked out in Japan last year. It was only the basis of further confusion, and it led to the sort of explosion that occurred between the Minister for Minerals and Energy and the head of the Department of Foreign Affairs last week. We have every evidence to suggest that the Prime Minister was behind that leak and we have every evidence to suggest that the Minister for Minerals and Energy himself thought that for a time. Who was behind  Mr Renouf? 
-Just listen to me for a moment. You were not able to state a policy and there has been ever increasing concern in the Department of Foreign Affairs at the way in which you have approached your portfolio. This exists not only in that Department but also elsewhere in this country. The Shah of Iran was here some weeks ago. He said before he came here that he wanted to enter an agreement with you over uranium but he could not do so because you do not have a policy.  Sir Christopher  Soames was here a fortnight before that. He wanted to talk with you about uranium and start negotiations for member countries of the European Economic Community, but he could not do so because you do not have a policy. Countless businessmen have been here but you do not have a policy. The sole element of your policy is the utter destruction of enterprises engaged in minerals exploration. As to the opportunities that have been lost and the confusion that has been created, you are answerable for all those. You are a second-rate czar presiding over the destruction of one element of secondary and manufacturing industry in this country and you sit there proud of your destruction. You ought to be utterly ashamed of yourself. But you have not even got in mind a concept that you would be accountable for the destruction of industry in this country. It does not matter whether it is the EEC or Japan that wants to talk. Look at a copy of the letter which a businessman wrote to you many months ago and which was published in the magazine 'New Accent' about the likely destruction of arrangements - 
-Mock heroics! We are not making mock heroics. We are concerned about the future of this country. Unless the minerals industry develops in this country we will see the sort of nationalisation you are aiming for. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Order! I suggest that the honourable member for Kooyong address the Chair. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Has the Australian Government considered a request from the Papua New Guinea Government for assistance relating to the proposed Purari Hydro-electricity Scheme. 
If so, can the Minister say whether other governments have also been approached. 
What is the Australian Government's attitude. 
Can the Minister say what reaction has been received from other governments. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) What discussions and meetings have been held, and with whom and on what dates, concerning a Torres Strait border between Australia and Papua New Guinea. 
What progress has been made. 
Is it intended that this matter be settled by treaty. 
If so, who will be the parties to the treaty. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
What action has been taken by the Government to establish, under United Nation's auspices, a permanent mediation authority to settle (a) border disputes and (b) problems of self-determination since 2 December 1 972. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Was it stated in the Australian Foreign Affairs Record in April 1974 that, in dealing with the Korean question, Australia's efforts in 1973 and 1974 were directed at promoting conciliation and consensus. 
If so, by what means did Australia contribute (a) to promoting conciliation and (b) to consensus in 1973 and 1974. 
Does the Government consider that recognition of North Korea at this stage will contribute to these ends; if so, how will this be achieved. 
-My question to the Prime Minister follows a question asked earlier by the Deputy Leader of the Opposition. If the Prime Minister's visits overseas are of such value to him will he inform the House, recognising that he is answerable to the House and to the Australian people for these visits? We would like to be informed. 

 -Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 

 -Yes, Mr Speaker. In the course of question time the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  answered a question referring to a television interview which I gave last Friday and which was shown on Sunday night on the program 'Federal File'. He referred to my allegation contained therein that one of the reasons for Australia denying political asylum to persons from eastern European countries was that there was a desire on the part of the Government to curry favour with the representatives of those countries in the United Nations. The Prime Minister has sought, with a series of misrepresentations, to deny that. The first point of misrepresentation is the use of a quasi-technicality in which he alleges that the Western European and Others group is entitled to the presidency on rotation. That I do not dispute. But it is absurd to suggest that the nomination of that group does not need the overwhelming endorsement of other member states of the United Nations. It is absurd to suggest that the Western European and Others Group itself need not be convinced that the candidate it puts up is acceptable and that there is no doubt about his nomination. 
-I come back to the point I was making, namely, that the Prime Minister said that the presidency of the United Nations General Assembly is automatic on rotation. Three countries in the Western European and Others group, including Australia are seeking the nomination. In any case, if it is automatic that Australia will get this nomination, why is the Prime Minister heralding the likely appointment to the extent that he is? Why is he making it such a big deal? I now refer to the second point of misrepresentation. 
-I now come to the second point of misrepresentation,  Mr Speaker,  having dealt with the first. The second point is that the Prime Minister stated that we had sought the identity of the diplomat himself or his country of origin. This I reject. I specifically said in the interview itself that I would not favour the diplomat being named or his country identified. What I wanted was an explanation of the Government's refusal in this case, as in the case of Ermolenko, to say what the motive was, and we have not been given it. Indeed, in the Prime Minister's own words that I used in that program- if I can finalise this point  Mr Speaker-  why call for the clarification of the issue of political asylum in the United Nations and then cloud it by your own actions here? The Prime Minister cannot say one thing in New York and do another thing in Canberra.  His  actions contradict his rhetoric. Thirdly, and on a more minor point - 
-I am not. With respect,  Mr Speaker  - 
With the greatest of respect I do think on that point  Sir- and  I am entitled to speak to the ruling which you have just giventhat you have been a trifle unfair to me. I have identified 2 areas. I do not want to pursue those 2 areas any further. 
-The final point, having dealt with the first 2 points of mispresentation, is the factual one of being in the House. The Prime Minister accused me of not being here when the question was first raised and when an answer was given. In fact I was here prior to the commencement of the proceedings. I was here prior to prayers being read and indeed that placed me in the chamber before the Prime Minister himself who entered after prayers. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Before the Australian Government announced recognition of the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, did the Government of the Republic of Korea ask that the Aus.tralian Government attempt to persuade a number of other countries to recognise the Republic of Korea. 
If so, to which countries did the Government of the Republic of Korea refer in this context. 
To which of these countries did the Australian Government make approaches along the lines suggested by the Government of the Republic of Korea. 
What was the response in each case. 
Was the Government of the Republic of Korea informed of Australia's approaches and the outcome in each before being informed by the Australian Goverment of the final decision to recognise the Democratic People 's Republic of Korea. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Did the governments of the Soviet Union and the United States of America accept the Australian Government's request in March 1974 that they consult with a view to agreeing to exercise initial restraint in the growth of forces in the Indian Ocean. 
If so, have they held consultations on this matter, and what was the outcome of these consultations. 
If they have not held these consultations, what has become of the Government's proposal. 

 -Mr Speaker, I have proposed this matter for discussion today because of statements by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Senator Willesee)  - 
Motion (by  Mr Lionel  Bowen) proposed: 
That the business of the day be called on. 

Opposition members- The ' noes ' have it. 
I move: 
That so much of Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent the Member for Kooyong discussing the matter of public importance concerning the inconsistent and unrealistic foreign policies of the Government which is listed in his name on the daily program of the House. 
I move the suspension of Standing Orders because I regard this as a matter of vital public importance, not merely because of moves that have been taken in the last few days to indicate support for the expulsion of South Africa from the United Nations but also because in the almost 2 years that this Government has been in power we have had only one major debate on international affairs. On each occasion that the Opposition has sought to debate foreign affairs with the Government, the Government has scuttled from the scene because its foreign policy is seen to be in disarray. Hansard has advised me that in the 10 year period from 1963 to 1972 there were 11 full scale debates on international affairs and 4 additional comprehensive Ministerial statements on international affairs. This Government's record in contrast with that is apalling. I have cited this matter of public importance because inconsistency and lack of internal coherence are among the striking characteristics of Labor's foreign policy. It was for this reason that I proposed for discussion this matter of public importance and now move for the suspension of Standing Orders in order to discuss that matter. 
The Government's intention to support the expulsion of South Africa is a classic example of that inconsistency. For years now we have heard Labor proclaim the internationalist or universality principle of the United Nations. Originally the United Nations was to comprise, according to its charter, only the peace-loving nations, but this Government seeks to change that. 
-Earlier today I moved that so much of the Standing Orders be suspended as would prevent me from debating a matter of public importance dealing with the inconsistent and unrealistic foreign policy of the Government. I was prevented from debating that matter. Although I wanted to cover a wide range of matters in the debate on the estimates for the Department of Foreign Affairs I wish specifically to speak on matters to which I alluded when I spoke this morning. Regrettably I will have to dispense with some of the material which I had prepared for discussion on itemised expenditure in these estimates. I will have to raise these matters some other day. 
Earlier today I referred to the intention of the Government to vote for the expulsion of South Africa from the United Nations. I said that the Opposition condemns the Government for its intention to do so. I also said on that occasion and on a previous occasion when I issued a statement last Friday that the Opposition rejects and abhors South Africa's inhumane policy of apartheid, and in particular it deplores the South African Government's recent extension of repressive laws and the further suppression of racial equality and freedom of expression. But to expel South Africa from the United Nations will not help in overcoming these problems. It may indeed serve to intensify the South African Government's policies of suppression and thereby harm those whom we would wish to help. The expulsion would also establish a dangerous precedent and debase the purpose and ideals of the United Nations. Realism and principle- the principle of universality that I mentioned earlier in the day- require South Africa to remain within the United Nations and we condemn Labor for its move. The Government has taken an intransigent stance on South Africa in contrast to what the Opposition would have done and indeed in contrast to statements of the Zambian  President, Dr Kaunda.  As  Dr Kaunda  has suggested, reason and persuasion are required in dealing with apartheid, not expulsion. Now that the Government is in favour of expulsion, what is its next step? Is it to break off diplomatic relations? It has, as I said earlier, in fact been said that the Government is considering such a break in relations. How utterly senseless and devoid of realism this would be. 
I turn now to matters I would have also raised during the matter of public importance. I refer to the speech made by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  in the United Nations. It will be recalled that during his speech he referred, among other things, to the 'inalienable rights of all people to freedom and independence'. He should tell that to the Latvians; he should tell that to the Lithuanians; he might also tell it to the Estonians, whose aspirations for independence the Government has denied with the stroke of a pen when recognising the incorporation of those states into the Soviet Union. The Prime Minister ought to tell that to the people of Portuguese Timor whose future he has settled by allowing and accepting their incorporation into Indonesia. When I think of the previous calls in this Parliament and elsewhere by Labor regarding the rights of nations and people to selfdetermination I realise how utterly hypocritical those calls become when viewed against the bowing by the Government to the pressure of Soviet colonialism in the case of the Baltic States and its pre-judging the free expression of the Timorese. How selective the Government is; how hypocritical it is; how utterly inconsistent and unrealistic it is. 
The Opposition will not and cannot as a matter of deep principle accept the de jure recognition of Soviet control over the Baltic States and therefore it will when returned to Government review the matter at the earliest opportunity. So far as Timor is concerned it is for the Timorese to decide their future. The Labor Government says that the people of Portuguese Timor cannot be self-sufficient. It ought to tell that to the Nauruans, the Tongans, the Samoans or the Papua New Guineans. Evidently Labor does not realise the ramifications of its inconsistencies. So far as Portuguese Timor is concerned we would prefer to see Portugal remain in control and assist with a program for self-determination. It would then be up to the Timorese to determine their own future in a program that they can work out. 
Again I refer to aspects of the speech that the Prime Minister made in the United Nations. He talked about the deprivation of civil liberties and added: 'There are unacceptable constraints on the right of political asylum'. Who can take those words seriously? Would Georgi Ermolenko? Would the East European who was recently refused not merely asylum but even a migrant visa? How would he react to those words? This Government is the body of persons that has in fact imposed unacceptable constraints on the right of political asylum, to use the Prime Minister's own words. Has this Government assured Ermolenko or the East European that it will protect their civil liberties? Has this Government assured their freedom? Has the Government exercised its right to provide asylum in a humane and consistent manner? Of course it has not. It has neither the courage nor the moral strength to tell the people of Australia the facts and the background to these matters. The Government's shame is eloquent but it degrades Australia. 
What, may I pose, of the Treaty of Nara? It would be inopportune to develop this matter at great length now that the Japanese Prime Minister is to arrive in Australian tomorrow. However, it would be sufficient to say that last year the Australian Prime Minister announced the execution, allegedly, of a Treaty of Nara and it was hailed as one of his greatest achievements. We later learnt that public servants in both countries went scurrying in fact to draft that treaty. There has been a yawning chasm between the draft that the Japanese have proposed and the draft that has been proposed by the Australians over the remaining 12 months. Regrettably one cannot even accept the word of the leader of this country in relation to agreements allegedly entered into. As I have said, the Japanese Prime Minister will arrive in Australia tomorrow. I hope that we will see more than merely an agreement to agree, which is what we got from the visit of the Shah of Iran. I hope that we will see something concrete after 12 months of busying and working between Japan and Australia. If we do we will applaud it. To date there has been no justification for applause about the Treaty of Nara, heralded as it was 12 months ago. We expect more; we have been given a great deal less. I have touched on the whole concept of resources diplomacy before. 
In the remaining few minutes available I would like to refer to notions that the Prime Minister constantly relates to, namely zones of peace and neutrality in the world today, as if they are immediately achievable. We have been told for nearly 2 years now that we are living in a different world, that our foreign policy had been based on the assumptions that detente was sure to work, that the international atmosphere was rapidly brightening and that a threat to Australia during the next decade and a half was scarcely conceivable, and it was, after all, these assumptions alone that gave any plausibility, such as it was, to a policy characterised by a carelessness towards allies, a global busyness which no interest required and no power supported and the rapid rundown of our defence forces. Yet an air of gloom and pessimism was infused into parts of the Prime Minister's speech. He used such phrases as 'a sense of drift', 'events out of control', 'a weakening of will' and 'a nightmare world'. Surely they stand in stark contrast to what has been given to the people over the past 2 years- the delusion and romantic illusions of the Government in its rundown of defence forces and its conduct of foreign affairs. Yet the Prime Minister talks of zones of peace and neutrality as if, as I say, they are immediately achievable. No purpose is served for Australia or other countries of the region by simply serving up platitudes. The Government resolutely refuses to face reality. As I have said, not one iota of realism was injected into the speech that the Prime Minister made in the United Nations. 
In an article I wrote for the 'Age' and some other newspapers that was published on 14 October I used a quotation which I think is relevant to the way in which this Government conducts its foreign affairs. George Kennan, in remarking on 19th century America and the general decline of feeling for reality in foreign policy then said: 
I am afraid they wanted their statesmanship impressive, unfunctional, with the emphasis on outward appearance rather than on inner reality. A situation arose in which we Americans were no longer content just to be something. We were now concerned to appear as something- something lofty, something noble, something of universal significance. 
Regrettably the Government today is giving the lead in fostering illusion of that nature. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Lucock)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) With the representatives of what Governments have consultations of any kind been held concerning the future status of Portuguese Timor. 
In respect of each consultation, will the Minister indicate when and where the discussions were held, at what level, and who was involved. 
3 ) What was the outcome in each case. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) Did  Mr Ramos  Horta, Leader of the Timorese Social Democratic Association, visit Australia recently; if so, when. 
Did he meet with Government Ministers and/or officials. 
With whom did he meet, and when. 
Has the Minister's attention been drawn to reports that  Mr Horta  had previously visited Jakarta and was given a written assurance by the Indonesian Foreign Minister that Indonesia supports independence for Portuguese Timor. 
Has  Mr Horta  sought a similar assurance from Australia. 
Has such an assurance been given to  Mr Horta;  if so, when and in what form was it given. 
Has such an assurance been given to any Timorese or Portuguese leader, if so, when, and in what form was it given. 
Does the Government support indepedence for Portuguese Timor; if not, what is the attitude of the Government. 
What statements have been made on the future status of Timor, and will the Minister outline the substance of them. 
-I wish to make a personal explanation. 
-Yes. Earlier today the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  in answer to a question during which he read from a lengthy document relating to Cyprus, alleged that the Opposition was not interested in the problems of Cyprus. I point out that I attended a rally with thousands of members of the various Greek communities at the Shrine of Remembrance in Melbourne. I was honoured, proud and pleased to be there and to address that rally. Not one member of the Labor Ministry was in attendance at that rally. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) When does the Minister propose that his Department will begin to issue green papers on policy issues. 
Are any such papers at present being prepared; if so on what subjects. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Did the Minister state on 13 August 1974 that most governments which recognised the U.S.S.R. after World War II in effect granted de jure recognition to the Baltic republics which by then had been incorporated. 
If so, will the Minister provide a list with dates of recognition by the governments to which he referred. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Did the Minister state on 13 August 1974 that Finland and Switzerland were examples of Western countries who have recognised de jure the incorporation of the Baltic states into the U.S.S.R. 
If so, did the Minister in fact mean Sweden instead of Switzerland. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
With reference to the de jure recognition of the Baltic states into the U.S.S.R., did the Minister state on 13 August 1974 that recognition will facilitate the carrying out of certain consular activities. 
If so, at which places in the 3 Baltic republics does the Australian Government intend to establish Australian consulates. 
Can he say which other countries have consulates in the 3 Baltic republics. 
To what particular consular activities was the Minister referring, and how will these be facilitated. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Did the Minister state on 13 August 1974 that the de jure recognition of the incorporation of the Baltic states into the USSR will facilitate the reunion of families. 
Can he say whether Sweden which is reported to be one of the countries that has recognised de jure the incorporation of the Baltic states into the U.S.S.R. has been able to achieve this aim. 
What special device will the Australian Government use to be successful where other governments have reportedly failed. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Did the Minister state on 13 August 1974 that most other governments of the world recognise de jure the incorporation of the Baltic republics. 
Which governments explicit verbis have recognised de jure the incorporation of the Baltic states into the U.S.S.R. and on what dates were the recognitions granted. 
What form has this de jure recognition taken in each case. 
Which governments have not recognised de jure the incorporation of the Baltic states into the U.S.S.R. 
Which governments have not expressed themselves on this matter. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Did the Minister state on 13 August 1974 that the interests of NATO countries in Europe are not the same as those of the Australian Government in matters of de jure recognition of the incorporation of the Baltic States into the U.S.S.R. 
If so, what is the difference between the interests of European NATO countries and of Australia in matters of de jure recognition of the incorporation of the Baltic States into the U.S.S.R. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Did the Minister state on 13 August 1974 that de jure recognition of the incorporation of the Baltic States into the U.S.S.R. would make it easier to offer any consular assistance to members of the Baltic communities in Australia to visit their family homeland. 
If so, what are the present limitations for members of the Baltic countries in Australia to visit their family homeland. 
What are the restrictions for individuals from abroad to travel in Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania. 
What areas are restricted to visitors to the Baltic States. 
-I seek leave to make a statement on the speech tabled by the Prime Minister. 

 -Mr Speaker, this matter is before the House not as a partisan matter but as a plea to the Government to produce its policies in this chamber for the information of members of Parliament and, of course, the public. It will be recalled that the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  yesterday gave notice of his intention to move a motion of want of confidence in the Treasurer  (Mr Crean).  The Government has refused to allow debate on that motion to proceed, placing the Treasurer in an impossible position. But we are going ahead with a debate on this matter of public importance in lieu of debate on that motion. The last time a major international affairs statement was delivered to this Parliament by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  was 24 May 1973. The man who held himself out as not merely the great reformer but also the great performer has not performed in this chamber in the area of international affairs. He has prevented urgency motions from coming on. He has allowed his party to gag the Estimates debates. The statement of the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Senator Willesee)  to the Senate upon return from his most recent visit to North America consisted of one and half pages simply advising where he had been and whom he had seen and did not contain discussions of policy matters in any depth. But there has been nothing from the Prime Minister himself. 
It appears that the Government's foreign policies have been just as damaging externally as it has admitted that its domestic policies have been internally; yet no explanation is given from time to time in this Parliament. We have even seen the Minister for Agriculture  (Senator Wriedt),  not the Minister for Foreign Affairs, not the Prime Minister, attending the World Food Conference in Rome. There the Government determined that it would give a certain amount of money to endeavour to meet the world food crisis, not on the basis of guide lines laid down in this Parliament or at the Conference itself, but simply because Canada had decided to give in excess of $30m. As most major newspapers reported, the Minister for Agriculture telephoned the Prime Minister and upped the amount that Australia would give because they did not wish to be seen in a poor light, not because they had any moral basis or any initiatives to put forward at all. 
Recently the Chief Minister of Papua New Guinea was in this country. Only the weekend before last he visited Australia and had discussions with the Minister for Science  (Mr Morrison),  who is at the table, and with the Prime Minister. Not one word has been given to the Parliament about the date for independence, about what is transpiring in Papua New Guinea, about the continued transfer of administrative and legislative functions from Australia to that country, or about the post-independence relations between Papua New Guinea and Australia. There is no doubt that that country will achieve independence next year. We ought to be ensuring that the relations between the 2 countries are well worked out before independence. Yet we would not know whether discussions are being carried out on that basis. Nothing is being put to this Parliament; nothing is being put to the Australian people. That special relationship between Australia and Papua New Guinea, which we hope will continue in the post-independence scene, is not being guaranteed. 
Sitting suspended from 1 to 2.15 p.m. 
-Prior to the suspension of the  sitting for lunch I was giving the background to the discussion of the matter of public importance and then moving through various matters that were to be discussed. I was discussing the lack of information that had flowed from the Australian Government in relation to post-independence relations between Papua New Guinea and Australia and other factors leading up to the independence of Papua New Guinea. I do not want to dwell, in the short time that remains to me, on that matter. It is, though, one of the most singularly important matters and again an area in which we have not been informed sufficiently by this Government. While I have been talking about a small area, the area which I want to pass on to before moving to the basis of the strategic assessment contained in the Defence Report is a territory of Australia which is smaller in area than Papua New Guinea- the Cocos (Keeling) Islands. 
The Territory is not within the ambit or control of the Minister for Science  (Mr Morrison),  who is at the table, but in the control of the Special Minister of State  (Mr Lionel Bowen).  This matter is covered by the wording of the motion. Again we have received no information from the Government and no opportunity to debate the Territory's future. Recently the Chief Minister of Papua New Guinea came to Australia.  Mr John  Clunies-Ross, of the Clunies-Ross estate, also visited Canberra some weeks back for talks with the Government. We have not been advised of the outcome of those talks. We ought to be advised. There is, of course, a discrepancy in the Government's stand on the future of the Cocos (Keeling) Islands. The Government, in the United Nations in December 1972, shortly after assuming office, voted for the independence of the Cocos (Keeling) Islands. Yet in 1973 the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  indicated that independence would not be granted to the Cocos (Keeling) Islands. That was an entirely different approach. Subsequently a Committee of Twenty-four from the United Nations has been making an assessment of the Cocos (Keeling) Islands and will be reporting in due course to the United Nations. 
Reports in newspapers filed by New York correspondents indicate that aspersions may be cast on the way in which this Government has handled the administration of the Cocos (Keeling) Islands. I remind the House that in 1972 I personally visited Cocos and reached agreement with  Mr Clunies-Ross  on a wide range of matters. I asked questions on notice about why these matters had not been pursued and followed up. I have been informed that the agreements reached between  Mr Clunies-Ross  and myself, which covered not only the acceptance of sovereignty but also related to the codification of the criminal law, education facilities, health matters and the like, have been lost by the Department. If that is the case I ask the Minister to advise this Parliament of the Government's intentions for the future of that Territory and how on earth this Government can allow a situation to develop within the framework of its continued maladministration whereby agreements entered into between the previous Government and  Mr Clunies-Ross  are not in the control of this Government. 
Our major complaint is that matters are not placed before the Parliament. There is a lack of information. I question, for example, the substance of the Government's planning of its foreign policies and its defence policies. I refer to the alleged no- threat theory of the Government which ignores the instability in the region, particularly in Indo-China, and which ignores the instability and fragility in regard to detente itself. The Defence Report goes on even further and says: 'If there were any threats we would all have plenty of warning'. That, apart from being an inept statement, is historically incorrect. It ignores the confrontation which caused the outbreak of World War I, the way in which the Korean war was started and indeed the Middle East conflicts of 1967 and 1973. The Prime Minister's own words at the United Nations, using almost alarmist terms, destroy the no- threat theory of the Government. Yet the Government does not present itself in this Parliament to tell us whether in fact its assessments are different. I will quote some of the Prime Minister's own words at the United Nations. He said: 
A drift away from international order today 
He also said: 
A sense of events out of control 
When referring to the world in which we live he said: 
A nightmare world 
He also said: 
The courses of conflict multiply  and- 
The threat of war for the possession of resources 
All this phraseology was used by the Prime Minister and yet this Government maintains that there is no threat to the security of this country for ten to fifteen years. We live, the Government alleges, in an idyllic and tranquil environment. Yet that is the antithesis of the phrases used by the Prime Minister when he addressed the United Nations. 
Why have we not been told about the change in the Prime Minister's attitude over economic nationalism, which was so ridiculed by the Prime Minister at the United Nations? Yet when he returned to Australia and to the Press he seemed to endorse the policies of the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor).  What of the Treaty of Nara that was indicated after the visit? The only time that I can recall the Prime Minister making a statement to the Parliament on an overseas visit- and there have been plenty of them- was when he returned from a visit to Japan and China last year. It was not the occasion of the major international relations debate which took place in May of 1973. When he came back and indeed while he was in Japan he indicated that the Treaty of Nara was one of his and his Government's greatest achievements. In reality the Treaty does not exist. The purpose of the 
Prime Minister of Japan visiting Australia was, at that time when the Treaty of Nara was so conceived and so put, to sign it here. There is no treaty in existence. It may occasion yet another visit by the Prime Minister to sign a treaty next year, but there is no treaty in existence today. 
I have already elsewhere cautioned the Government about treating Japan in an exclusive relationship in the sense that I believe it is wise for Australia to be entering into joint ventures over resources with a number of countries. Until the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  visited the United States in the last week we have seen a scenario painted time and again that this country is not interested in entering into resources discussions with other countries unless they can simply reach an agreement to agree. For example, it was heralded before the Shah of Iran came here that so many worthwhile agreements would be reached between the Government and the Government of Iran. Again, only an agreement to agree was reached. So far as Japan is concerned the Treaty of Nara does not exist. So far as resources diplomacy is concerned we have changed tack so many times that no one knows in what direction we are heading or indeed whether we are prepared to enter into arrangements. The 'Financial Review' of this morning quotes the  Deputy  Prime Minister as saying: 
We've been a bit slow in denning our position -  and - 
We need investments to get our economy going. 
A couple of years ago it might have been strange for the Opposition spokesman on foreign policy to have raised questions on resources relations and economic matters in a foreign policy debate, but there is no way in which the foreign policy of this country can be conducted without having regard to international economic ramifications. Quite apart from the fact that the Government has been delinquent in putting views to the Parliament, it has been delinquent in recognising that as symptomatic of foreign policy today and in not recognising the need to say more than just that we live in an inter-dependent world. In fact, it must see that our trade policies are carried out in concert with our foreign policies so that there is a co-ordination of attitude by both departments. But we get no views on this by the Prime Minister or the Minister for Science who assists the Foreign Minister. 
We are demanding further information on the Government's foreign policy which, as I said this morning, has been just as damaging externally as its domestic policies have been internally. The Government still talks outside this Parliament of alleged zones of peace and neutrality as if they are immediately achievable. We challenge that view. We challenge the Government's view on economic nationalism. We challenge its view on the inconsistent attitudes over the Baltic States and in regard to the Ermolenko affair. What of the visit of the Prime Minister to the Soviet Union that will take place in another month's time? The Prime Minister, I understand, is visiting Europe. We do not know yet of the countries he is to visit, though it has been alleged he will ' not be going to France. That is interesting. Scared of the paranoid attitude of certain groups in the community, he not only shrinks from debating foreign policy in this House but also shrinks from discussing his difference face to face with the Government of France. When he goes to the Soviet Union what will he tell the Soviet Union? Will he ask for an amelioration of attitudes over the treatment of minorities within that community? What will his answer be to questions about the extraordinary statement he made when he was in China? The Soviet Union, with its conflict with China and the conflict over borders will be interested in the statement made by the Prime Minister when in China in which he said: 
With no nation is our new aspiration symbolised more than it is with China, a power not only in our region but in the world. 
How will he answer questions by the Soviet Government over that? Does anybody in this place feel that there is no other country in the world with which we share closer relations or with which our aspirations are symbolised more than they are with China? Of course not. But we cannot get a debate going on these subjects. All I can do is raise these matters seemingly in little more than headings in a 10 to IS minute discussion. We demand that the Government place before the nation through this Parliament its foreign policy which is falling apart at the seams. We demand that it inject a degree of consistency into an inconsistent foreign policy. We demand a statement by the Government in order that we can, on behalf of different groups in the community, whether they be the Baits or others, indicate different attitudes to the Government. It is not sufficient for the Government to deny us the opportunity on matters of public - 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the Minister's attention been drawn to reports that the United Kingdom, the United States of America and the Soviet Union have agreed to a nuclear embargo on India. 
If so, can the Minister say whether these reports are accurate; if so, what are the details of the agreement. 
Does the Australian Government support the agreement. 
Can he say whether other countries have formally associated themselves with this arrangement; if so, will he list the countries that have done so, indicating the means by which each has done so. 
-The purpose of this Bill is to establish the Australian Film Commission. The Opposition is not opposed to the establishment of the Commission and understands the need for the formation of such a body. After all, it was the Gorton Government in 1970 which first recognised the need to re-develop the Australian film industry. It formed the Australian Film Development Corporation and thereby gave encouragement to the commercial film maker in Australia by providing him with assistance. Undoubtedly the driving force behind this move was the then Prime Minister,  Mr John  Gorton, who sensed the need to develop a more complete sense of national identity for Australia and believed that all aspects of cultural and creative work should reflect this national spirit and identity. 
In 1972 Prime Minister McMahon referred the matter of the film industry to the Tariff Board for investigation and report. The formative stage of the industry was perhaps not sufficiently advanced for the normal type of Tariff Board investigation. However, the Board's report unquestionably contains much valuable information regarding the Australian film industry. The industry has been assisted in a variety of ways. Both the Australian Film and Television School and the Australian Film Development Corporation have been of great assistance. 
The aim of this Bill is to establish the Australian Film Commission.  Senator Margaret  Guilfoyle, the Opposition's Shadow Minister for the Media, has spoken in the Senate of the Opposition's desire to see such a Commission established and why we support the broad aims of such a body. However, as she indicated, the Government is being less than honest in the manner in which it is to be established through this Bill as it has been amended by the Senate. The Commission is on the one hand alleged to be a statutory corporation operating at arm's length from the Department of the Media and its Minister. Nevertheless the Bill contains provisions throughout it allowing ministerial approval and ministerial direction to influence directly the Commission's work. Consequently the Opposition secured a number of amendments in the Senate and I now understand the Government wishes to re-insert at the Committee stage the provisions deleted by the Senate. If the amendments relate to clauses previously deleted by the Senate, we will oppose such amendments. I give notice now of such opposition and I will await the Committee stage for further elaboration. 
I mentioned earlier the Tariff Board report into the film industry. Contained within that report were references to the distribution of films, one of the major difficulties experienced by the Australian film industry. It would appear that in the formation of the Film Commission insufficient regard is being paid to both the distribution and the actual screening of films in this country. Obviously other problems referred to by the Tariff Board have not yet been met in the formation of the Commission but these facets were covered by the Opposition's shadow Minister in another place. A most important matter referred to by  Senator Guilfoyle,  however, was the composition of the Commission itself. As she said, the personnel must have the experience, wisdom and ability to recognise the problems and to do whatever is within the power of the Commission to overcome them. Therefore we will be interested in any Government amendments relating to the personnel comprising the Commission. Persons without experience are virtually worthless. Persons with pecuniary interests should not, ipso facto, be excluded. Should they have certain pecuniary interests these obviously ought to be mandatorily disclosed. But such interests ought not to, indeed must not, preclude persons from serving on the Commission. 
If one refers to other Government agencies and corporations one will find provisions whereby those drawn from the particular industry over which that statutory authority is to exercise power are allowed to sit on commissions provided they disclose their interests. I can recall when the Australian Coastal Shipping Commission Bill was introduced in the 1950s. I cannot recall reading it then; I was at a mewing and chewing stage. But I can recall reading later the remarks passed at that stage by the present Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam).  He spoke quite vehemently about persons with pecuniary interests sitting on commissions. Yet I was interested to read a Bill that was introduced by the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  recently which made reference to the Australian Coastal Shipping Commission. It permitted persons to serve on that Commission albeit they may have direct interests in the shipping industry. So in other areas the Prime Minister has seen, over the period since he spoke in the early 1950s, how wrong he has been. Much of the value of the Australian National Line- I dispute some of its operations- has come from drawing into the Commission people thoroughly conversant with the operations of the shipping industry. 
In the formation of the Australian Film Commission we should welcome those who work within the film industry, those who have interests in the industry, provided they disclose those interests and do not participate in a discussion or a deliberation in the Commission on something that would further their own interests, provided they opt out on something relating to their own interests. We should not deny them the opportunity to serve simply because they have a financial interest in the industry. That to me is axiomatic, if one is drawing on the best people available. I do not say that that should be the sole criterion, but to me it seems ludicrous to create a situation whereby those with a particular financial interest in the industry should not be able to serve the Government on its commission. 
Having said that the persons appointed to the management of the Commission should be able to do just that; they should be able to manage the Commission and not be overridden by either the Minister or his Department. A statutory body is supposed to operate at arm's length from the Minister and the appropriate department. This is the whole aim of a statutory corporation. It appears that this Government has forgotten that. If this Commission, as foreseen in the legislation introduced in the Senate and in the Bill now before the House, which provides for ministerial direction and authority, is to operate under that sort of ageis it might just as well be administered by the Department of the Media itself and we should not go through the legal fiction of establishing a commission in whose activities the Minister can directly intervene. 
As I said, it is one of the fundamental aims, in order to provide necessary flexibility in a statutory authority, that it be at arm's length from the Minister concerned. If the flexibility and expertise is overridden by a department or by the Minister, the Commission is nothing more than a legal fiction or facade. Its work might just as well be done by the Department itself. That frankly would satisfy nobody, because of the way in which the Department has been carrying out its Goebbels-like function over the past 22 to 23 months. That statement is not injected for a little bit of light relief. When I read the provisions in the Bill that entitled the Minister to give directions for certain films to be shown- to insist that they be shown- in particular cinemas, I can well imagine the sort of propaganda that this Government would insist on cinematograph producers showing to the people of Australia. The most glossy publications have been produced at enormous expense to the taxpayers to conceal what sort of shambles and mal-administration this Government has been constructing during its period in office. Now the Government is to play on the visual scene and thrust its views on persons in the community, through the film industry, I would imagine at great expense to the community and the taxpayer. But the central factor is that the Government, through the Minister, would direct that particular propaganda be shown in cinemas whether the owners or proprietors wanted it or not. 
I wanted to be brief in these remarks because my colleague in the shadow Ministry wishes to support me in this matter. We shall comment on the proposed amendments that the Minister for Science  (Mr Morrison),  representing the Minister for the Media  (Senator Douglas McClelland),  will proffer at the Committee stage. I reiterate that we support the measure to establish the Commission. But the remarks .1 have made are designed to ensure that the Commission not only will function efficiently and properly but also will be the sort of film commission that can properly serve the people of Australia and not simply serve a government of the day through the Minister that is allowed to have control of it. 

 -Mr Deputy Chairman - 
Motion (by  Mr Nicholls)  agreed to: 
That the question be now put. 
Question put: 
That proposed new clause 7a be inserted. 
I am appalled by the information put to the Committee by the Minister for Science  (Mr Morrison)  in his capacity as the representative in this chamber of the Minister for the Media  (Senator Douglas McClelland).  He talked to us about the Opposition in the other place taking this provision out of the Bill and therefore denying the recommendations of the Tariff Board in its report. It is just as well that members of the Opposition are better informed on matters than supporters of the Government. I have in front of me the report of the Tariff Board to which the Minister referred. He talked about the Tariff Board recommending that for quota purposes films such as those produced by Film Australia as it is now called- it used to be called the Commonwealth Film Unit- should go towards the quota for Australian short films. In fact, the Tariff Board 's report says at page 1 6: 
Certification (for quota purposes) would only be given to shorts not made - 
I emphasise the words 'not made '-  by the Commonwealth Film Unit. 
In fact, what the Government is seeking to do with the extraordinary piece of drafting in the two proposed new clauses that are being considered together is to try to condemn the independent film industry by forcing it out economically by the production of Film Australia shorts that would drive out the independent film producers in Australia. Within these proposed new clauses it insists, in the dragnet, Goebbels style, of the earlier clauses to which the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  was referring that it will demand that these films be shown, irrespective of whether an operator wishes to show them. It is all very well to insist upon a quota of short films, but not if it is going to drive out another section of the industry. Unquestionably the industry understood- I have this on the best authority- that this provision would be amended by the Government, but not by the reinsertion of the clause that was taken out by the Senate, which would stay out. We would be happy to agree to this insertion if the definition of an Australian short film were to be amended by the deletion of sub-clause (a) of the definition, but that is not going to be done by the Government. We would be happy if the Government were to agree to the deletion of all references to the Minister's approach, approval and direction in the Bill, but the Government has just reinserted that provision by supporting it in the division that we have just had. The Government has introduced as part of this amendment a provision which says, in proposed sub-clause (5): 
It is a defence if a person charged with an offence under sub-section (4) proves that he had a reasonable excuse relating to the availability of Australian short films for not complying with the requirement to which the offence relates. 
The onus of proof is being thrown onto the individual charged. The same honourable members opposite who have the hide to come into this chamber on occasions and talk about wanting to introduce a Bill of Rights in the Parliament have thrown aside all conventions and laws relating to the onus of proof. Let me quote proposed clause 8B, which the Government seeks to bring in together with proposed clause 8a. It reads: 
The Minister shall give such directions to the Commission - 
Again we have the Minister saying what it should do; so much for the independent authority-  or an authorised person under section 7a as he thinks necessary for the purpose of ensuring the observance, in the exercise of powers under this section - 
Listen to this-  of the obligations of Australia under the Code of Liberalisation of Current Invisible Operations of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, and the Commission or the authorised person shall comply with those directions. 
I have in front of me a copy of the Code of Liberalisation of Current Invisible Operations. 
Sitting suspended from 6.15 to 8 p.m. 
-Before the suspension of the sitting I had expressed the Opposition's grave reservations about the amendments proposed by the Government. Included, of course, is clause 8B which we have been discussing in a cognate debate. I traced through the Opposition's view that we would accept this amendment if there were changes made in either the definition of the 'Australian short film' in clause 3, or if in fact the references to the approval of the Minister and the direction of the Minister throughout the Bill were changed. I indicated, of course, that as the Minister for Science  (Mr Morrison)  did not seem to be moved by my argument on the Australian short film change in definition and the fact that the previous division had revolved around ministerial direction, I assumed that the Government would not be persuaded by even the most plausible of arguments put by the Opposition on this occasion. 
I went through the economic difficulties that would face local film producers and what appeared to me to be- I trust I was not misrepresenting the Minister- a statement which was made in ignorance of the recommendations which had been contained in the Tariff Board report from which I quoted. I also referred to the onus of proof which changed around in relation to sub-clause (5) of this amendment. I was concluding my remarks on the extraordinary clause 8B which the Minister seeks to reinsert in the Bill regarding the Code of Liberalisation of Current Invisible Operations of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development. I said that frankly I regarded it in the Australian scene as rather ridiculous to be saddled completely by ministerial direction and the thrust of this Code. 
I regard the international obligations of this Parliament and the nation as paramount when we enter into associations such as the OECD. We ought to seek to meet the requirements of the OECD. But there is no need for legislation to make it mandatory through ministerial direction for those requirements to be met by the Australian industry. 
Of course, we aspire as my colleague the honourable member for Moreton agrees, to meet the aspirations of these agreements. But to enshrine this code in an amendment such as this with the Minister again having the power of direction as he thinks fit for the interpretation of that Code is to me not only ludicrous but somewhat dangerous. I have the Code here. 
-Well, the Minister is not blessed with fluency in French. I could translate it for him. I have the French version of it here if he would wish to see it after the debate concludes. Having established only during the suspension of this sitting that the Minister does not speak French, there was not sufficient time to provide him with a translation during the break. I would add that during that time I have been able to obtain an English translation of it and if we had sufficient time I would read it to him. Time, however, is against me at the present. 
-That is the trouble. The Minister who is sitting at the table is handling Papua New Guinea. If we could have an exchange in Pidgin in relation to the OECD we might do well. I might be able to persuade the Minister, in the most plausible terms, to accept the argument we are putting in the House tonight against the amendment that is proposed by the Government. 
It is on those bases that I have put forward that we strongly oppose the amendment moved by the Government. I refer to the definition; the effect on the local industry; the onus of proof which is the antithesis of what is contained in the Bill of Rights which the Government proclaims before us both here and outside the House so frequently; and, finally, enshrining in the legislation the provisions of this Code of the OECD. 
I wish to direct the attention of the Committee to clause 11. Clause 11.(1) reads: 
The Commission may, by writing of its seal, delegate to a member of the Commission with the approval of the Minister,- 
Once again, we have the intrusion into a statutory authority of this Goebbels type creature who looks after the Department of the Media. I remind Government supporters that the whole purpose of a statutory authority is that it may operate at arms length from the Minister. The central argument that the honourable member for 
Moreton  (Mr Killen)  has been putting throughout this debate in the Committee stage is that the Minister for the Media  (Senator Douglas McClelland)  or his representative in this place, the Minister for Science  (Mr Morrison)  ought to remove themselves from a position of having control of the statutory authority. We do not want to regurgitate the same arguments time after time. But the central issue is that the Minister is allowing the arguments to be regurgitated as we debate clause after clause. We ask the Minister for Science, who represents the Minister for the Media in this place, to listen to the persuasive arguments that we have been putting about the withdrawal of the authority of the Minister for the Media over a commission such as the Australian Film Commission. As I said, the whole purpose of the Commission operating effectively and efficiently is that it operates with a flexibility that only a statutory authority can have. If it is to operate directly under the authority of the Minister his Department may as well administer the whole thing. So I say in relation to clause 1 1 that although we do not wish to detain the Commission any further, we ask that the words, with the approval of the Minister, be deleted from sub-clause ( 1 ). 
Clauses agreed to. 
Proposed new clause 1 7a. 
-The argument of the Minister for Science  (Mr Morrison)  is the most predictably schizophrenic argument that I have heard in this chamber since I have been here. How on earth can the Minister say that the Opposition is inconsistent and then stand up and say that if a person has a pecuniary interest in a matter he cannot serve as a full-time member but he can serve as a part-time member? What the Opposition is trying to ensure is that the Australian Film Commission functions as effectively as possible. That means that we should choose the best qualified people, irrespective of whether they have a pecuniary interest. (Government supporters interjecting) - 
-You see,  Mr Chairman,  the schizophrenia is widespread amongst honourable members on the other side of the chamber. The Government will allow people with a pecuniary interest to serve as part-time commissioners but not as full-time commissioners. It seems to me that once you take that step and permit people with a pecuniary interest to serve on the Commission, whether it be on a full-time or a part-time basis, you have crossed the Rubicon and have conceded that these people have a contribution to make. If positions are to be open to them on the Commission to fill as full-time commissioners, the positions ought to be filled by the best qualified persons. Honourable members opposite in Government have a predeliction for saying time and again: 'We have representatives of the housewives association, of the employers associations and of trade unions on a certain body. Is that not marvellous? We have almost the whole spectrum of the community represented on this body'. The fact that such people may know nothing about matters to be discussed does not enter into it. What is important in regard to this Commission is that we get the best qualified people. Of course, it should be insisted that they declare their interests. Of course the Government insists that it is mandatory that they declare their interests and that they are not allowed to take decisions or to vote upon matters in which they have a financial interest. The best people qualified to serve on the Commission should be put on that Commission. The Government has taken the step of permitting such people to serve part time on the Commission. Why does the Government have a bob each way, or in this inflationary time, $5 each way? Why does the Government not go the full step and allow the people to serve, provided they declare their interests? To me it is extraordinary that the Government fabricates an argument against those who have such interests but permits them to serve as part-time members and not as full-time members. The Government's argument falls to the ground because of the lack of logic in it. The Opposition opposes the amendment. 
-My question is directed to the Prime Minister. I suggest to him that he was incorrect in his answer to the Leader of the Opposition about the Palestinian Liberation Organisation. United Nations resolution 242 in no way deals with the PLO. Therefore, is it a fact that this Government has consistently failed, both in this Parliament and in the United Nations, to call on the PLO to renounce violence and terrorism, and has it not failed to call on the PLO to renounce its expressed intention of destroying Israel? Will the Prime Minister now state, without qualification, that his Government opposes the PLO's policy aimed at the destruction of the state of Israel? 
-These Bills are far more important than either the Minister for Foreign Affairs in Matters Relating to Papua New Guinea  (Mr Morrison)  or the Government has divulged. This is in keeping with the manner in which some aspects of the administration of Papua New Guinea have been carried out during this Government's period of office. With the utmost respect to the judges of the Supreme Court of Papua New Guinea, it seems to me that it is most necessary to give them the security provided by this legislation. The transfer of the functions of the Supreme Court to the control of the Government of Papua New Guinea is a most important matter from the domestic point of view, and the Opposition supports it. We commend the provisions dealing with the lower courts, the House of Assembly, electoral matters and trie repeal of appeals to the High Court of Australia, just as we commend the smooth and early transition of Papua New Guinea to independence. Clause 3 of the Bill reads: 
Section 3 of the Principal Act is amended by omitting paragraphs (a) and (b) of sub-section ( 1 A). 
This means that we are transferring two most important reserve powers to Papua New Guinea, namely, the power over defence matters and the power over foreign affairs. If that is the case, I should have thought that, if not the Minister for Science, at least the man who ran away from the responsibility of answering for both the administration of defence services in Papua New Guinea and more importantly the arrangements between Australia and Papua New Guinea in a postindependence scene ought to have been prepared to tell us in this Parliament what the arrangements will be either after this Bill is passed and in due course is proclaimed or after independence what the relations between Australia and Papua New Guinea will be in the defence sphere. 
We are now moving towards the most important stage in the history of Papua New Guinea. The watershed in relations between the 2 countries will occur at independence. At present it appears to me that we are prejudging the manner of independence by placing a resolution before the General Assembly of the United Nations. But I do recall that our duty to the United Nations is in fact and at law twofold. It is first a duty under the trusteeship agreement in respect of New Guinea alone and secondly under the charter of the United Nations in respect of both Papua and New Guinea. At independence Australia's United Nations obligations will be discharged and a new set of relations between Australia and Papua New Guinea will need to be developed. But where is the information regarding this new set of relations that is to exist between Papua New Guinea and Australia? What is the situation going to be in the postindependence scene? What are the postindependence relations in a wide variety of fields to be? We have hardly been told. 
I know that in relation to fisheries and other fields statements have been issued by respective Ministers indicating what the relationship of administrative and legal functions will be under either joint or several arrangements between Papua New Guinea and ourselves. But this Parliament has been largely ignored- I was nearly going to say misinformed- in regard to this important sphere in a post-independence scene. Whilst I was the Minister for External Territories the Government of which I was a member agreed that we would discuss well before independence what the relations after independence would be, on the very axiomatic point that this takes some time to develop, that it would not be in Australia's national interest or indeed in Papua New Guinea's interest to wait until the date is reached and then look at one another, as it were, and determine how we are going to go about things. We wanted certainty and order not merely in the transition to independence but certainly in the relations in the post-independence scene. As I say, we wanted this not only in Papua New Guinea's interest, but also in Australia's interest. But what study of Australia's national interests in relation to our arrangements with Papua New Guinea has been done? We would not know. We have .no[ been told. We can assume, I suppose, by the non-disclosure that very little has been done. 
I would say that those who worked in my Department when I was the Minister have done a great deal. But has the political machinery worked at this end for the Government to be able to set out for us what those relationships are going to be? I trust that the Minister when he comes round to replying in this debate will inject some certainty for those who are concerned about post-independence relations between Papua New Guinea and will advise us. 
I opened my remarks by saying that this is a far more important measure than many people realise. It is important because after this piece of legislation apart from, as I understand it, certain Australian defence legislation that applies equally to Papua New Guinea and will have to be eradicated so that it applies only to Australia, there will be an independence Bill and the final obliteration of the remnants of the Papua New Guinea Act which is being amended by this Bill, and little else. 
We know the reluctance of the Government to discuss foreign relations. There has been one international affairs debate of any substance in this Parliament since the Party on the other side of the House assumed Government. We know its reluctance generally but why the reluctance in regard to Papua New Guinea, that country which has a special relationship with us over and above any other relationship that we have had with any other country. I would say that if we examine the relationship between metropolitan powers and administered entities- whether it be with African countries, whether it be Fiji and the United Kingdom or what other entity one chooses- we would see that there has probably not been an administered area which was as close to the metropolitan power, not geographically but in the way it moved towards its independence- as Papua New Guinea used to be to us. Perhaps in fairness to the Minister who is sitting at the table I should not say 'used to be'. I think that relationship is still very close. 
I have been concerned, however, about the way in which we have appeared to be forcing the pace. This is just not my criticism. The Constitutional Planning Committee in Papua New Guinea last year said that. And, of course, the words of the Minister a couple of weeks ago in a statement in Papua New Guinea conflicted with a statement he made in this House, or appeared to do so by Press reports. According to Press reports he said a couple of weeks ago: 
This unique situation which is unsatisfactory both to Papua New Guinea and Australia will not and cannot continue any longer. 
I put that into the record because it seems to me to be a contrast to what the Minister said only a few days before that in a debate in this House on 1 3 November when he said - 
-There is no point of order. 
-I feel I am grateful to the Minister. I would feel lost if he was not on his feet interjecting at a time when I am making speeches. It seems to be a regular regurgitation when I get to my feet to talk about a matter which I feel I know almost as well as he, although the memory is dimming somewhat now. If the words are as the Minister said, it still applies with the same thrust as I was putting, that it cannot assist for much longer or words to the effect that the Minister used. The intent is the same. If a person stands before you and says: 'This situation is intolerable; it cannot exist any longer' or he says to you 'It cannot exist much longer' then clearly he is bringing to bear pressure on the person to whom those remarks are directed. As I say, they are in contrast. Either way the remarks that the Minister helpfully provided in his alleged point of order or the remarks that he was quoted as saying contrast with the statement he made in this Parliament on 13 November when he said: 
My action has been to resist making any statement - 
He could have fooled me-  that could be interpreted or misinterpreted or as intervention or interference in the very proper role of the House of Assembly in establishing, developing and enacting its own constitution. This has been a difficult period but it is a difficult period that we recognise. It is a period in which we have desisted from making any statement that could seem to be, or could be seen to be, an interference in the affairs of Papua New Guinea. 
The Minister at the table who has just told me some pedantic point of distinction between what was reported and what was said. I think that the honourable member with his keen awareness of the developments in Papua New Guinea would recognise that in fact, in reality, there was no distinction between what he said and what he was reported to have said but a very real distinction between either one of the variants that have been put to us and what was said here. He went on to say: 
I stress any action by us to make a statement that is relevant to the discussion by the House of Assembly which is an autonomous body could be seen and could be interpreted as intervention in its affairs. 
So much for the Minister. I do not want to dwell on him. He has been a good Minister in regard to Papua New Guinea and I do not want to spend time denigrating the efforts he has made in developing a close relationship with Papua New Guinea. But there is a contrast sometimes with this Government which is symptomatic also with this Minister, between what is said and what is done. Here it was a contrast between the 2 statements. It ought to be pointed out for the record on this important occasion on which almost the penultimate Bill on Papua New Guinea has been brought into this Parliament. 
What is more important is the fact that I was mentioning earlier about post-independence relations. When the Government was elected within a matter of days the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  said: 'One of our first actions will be to move the Papua-Queensland border'. It is now just over 2 years since the people inflicted upon themselves a government of the incompetence of the side that sits opposite us in this chamber. In that period of time we have not had a move on the Papua-Queensland border because the Prime Minister spoke without knowledge or, if he spoke with knowledge deliberately warping it and ignoring the provisions of the Constitution which did not permit him to act unilaterallyeither he or his Government- to move the border between Papua and Queensland. This is a very contentious matter in Queensland. It is also a contentious matter in Papua itself, particularly amongst those who represent southern Papuan regions. If Papua New Guinea is to become independent in a matter of months, surely its territorial jurisdiction ought to be certain. Surely the people of that country must have taken heart following the remarks of the Prime Minister when he came to office. But nothing has been done because the Prime Minister ignored the constitutional fact and the legal aspect that the Government of Queensland must be consulted as any State must be consulted if its border is to be changed. 
As I say, it may only be a matter of months, less than 12 months, until Papua New Guinea becomes independent. But it seems to me that we have to keep an eye on relations after independence now as much as we do in the smooth and orderly transfer of functions to the independent State itself. It seems to me that the Government has committed itself to a course that it could not execute in relation to the movement of the border between Papua and Queensland. It has dashed aspirations in Papua itself. Unless the Government rectifies this matter, I have no doubt whatsoever that members, particularly from the southern Papuan region, will be urging their Government to take the matter before the United Nations. 
This Government already has the most implausible record of consistency on voting in the United Nations. I have no desire to see any government of my country irrespective of its complexion, derided in the United Nations because it refused to act upon undertakings that its Prime Minister made- undertakings that he knew could not be executed unilaterally. Why does the Government not clarify the border situation and indicate that the border can be moved only with the co-operation of and in consultation with the people of the Torres Strait Islands, the people of Papua New Guinea, the Queensland Government and itself. Why does it not say that and then set to to ensure that proper negotiations are held? For what the Government will find is that in a matter of months when Papua New Guinea becomes independent, the matter may not be resolved and we may have what history is replete with, namely territorial disputes causing more than casual friction between the countries concerned. I urge the Government to pay serious attention to what it may regard as something about which it was worth while producing flowery rhetoric when it was elected to office. But it has done nothing to implement the alleged aspirations of the southern Papuan people or to meet the Queensland Government which had every constitutional right to defend itself against the unilateral action proposed by the Prime Minister. That is the first matter on postindependence relations. 
The second and most important aspect is that on which I touched earlier concerning the question of our defence forces and the relationship between Australia and Papua New Guinea. In clause 3 of this Bill Australia proposes to transfer the power over foreign relations and defence to Papua New Guinea. These powers will cease to be reserve powers to Australia- reserve in the sense that when Papua New Guinea achieved self government on 1 December 1973 certain powers remained with the metropolitan powerAustralia namely, defence, foreign affairs, the supreme court and certain other stated matters. Those powers are being removed from our control. I put it to the House that other than the 5 pages of the statement made by the Minister for Defence  (Mr Barnard)  on 24 October, we have heard virtually nothing from this Government in regard to defence arrangements between Australia and Papua New Guinea. 
Frankly, as I read them, these 5 pages of that statement seem to me to be a rhetorical embellishment of what we knew, that is that Australia has been abdicating its duties and its responsibilities in determining a proper and cohesive arrangement between Australia and Papua New Guinea. The Minister says that discussions have been occuring since this Government was elected to office. That is true. He says that he has been especially pleased to note the spirit of co-operation and goodwill. Of course one would get that from the Government of Papua New Guinea. It was co-operative in respect of everything that we ever raised with it as it has been in respect of everything that the present Government has raised. 
What else does this statement tell us? It tells us that the Papua New Guinea defence force will have a strength of 3,500 uniformed servicemen, with 2 infantry battalions, an engineers company, a patrol boat squadron and a landing craft squadron. The Minister goes on to say: 
There can be no question that ultimate responsibility Tor the defence of Papua New Guinea will lie with Australia until the trusteeship agreement is terminated. 
Well, honourable members might say, this Government is going to be answerable internationally to the Trusteeship Council of the United Nations. What do we have to fear? Even if it refuses to answer our questions in this House, even if it ignores the very facet of parliamentary democracy on which this nation was built and even if it throws that out of the window, there is still the United Nations to appeal to. What the Government has not told us, what it has not told this Parliament and what it has not told the Australian people is that, in the last weeks, it introduced into the Fourth Committee of the General Assembly of the United Nations the following resolution which I was lucky to come across when reading reports, and reading them somewhat more avidly than, with the exception of the Minister for Science, who is at the table- no, let us just tie it to the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Senator Willesee)-  that Minister seems to read his own reports. 
This is the resolution proposed by Australia to the Fourth Committee and subsequently to be adopted by the General Assembly. It is in these terms:  . . . resolves in agreement with the administering power - 
I interject to say: Namely, Australia-  . . . that on the date on which Papua New Guinea shall become independent the Trusteeship Agreement for the Territory of Papua New Guinea approved by the United Nations General Assembly on 13 December 1946 shall cease to be in force; 
requests the administering power to notify the Secretary-General of the date on which Papua New Guinea will accede to independence and on which the Trusteeship Agreement shall cease to be in force. 
That resolution looks like passing. Well and good. Why are we not told of this? The object of it clearly is that this, the 29th session of the United Nations General Assembly, meeting now, must do this because Papua New Guinea may be independent before the 30th session of the General Assembly commences. But why not tell us? 
Why not tell us that what the Government is in fact doing is providing for an arrangement whereby when Papua New Guinea becomes independent all the Australian Government will have to do is write a letter to the SecretaryGeneral of the United Nations telling the United Nations this and Australia's answerability to that forum is finished and completed? So, it matters not that the Minister for Defence says:  . . . ultimate responsibility for the defence of Papua New Guinea will lie with Australia until the Trusteeship Agreement is terminated. 
Of course it will. But there will be no forum in which to question it or to probe or to analyse what is transpiring unless there is such a holocaust in Papua New Guinea that the relevant body of the United Nations is called together specifically to discuss that holocaust. It seems to me that the Australian Parliament should have been advised of what moves were being taken in the United Nations. To my recollection at least, no such advice has been tendered. What are the arrangements between Papua New Guinea and Australia therefore? This is the Government which says to us repeatedly that it will not allow 'Australian servicemen to serve outside Australia'. It has 650 Australian servicemen at present serving within the ambit and control of the Papua New Guinea defence force, as I understand it. 
-My figure is as at the date the Minister for Defence produced his statement. If the Minister for Science has any doubts about the capacity of the Minister for Defence to put the proper information, those doubts are shared by me. He says here- I see that it is 630. The Minister for Science is right. Australian servicemen integrated in the force will be reduced to a figure of about 430 by the end of December next year, months after the date of independence proferred by the Chief Minister of Papua New Guinea. Therefore, on the Minister's own figuring, there may be 430 Australians serving in Papua New Guinea. We have no complaints on this side about that. We are very happy. We regard it as our duty to do that. But how many of these men will be integrated within the Papua New Guinea defence force? How many will be under the direct control and order of the Papua New Guinea defence force itself? We are told by the Minister that only 7 personnel will be in combat battalions. But combat battalions need supply and support. The remaining 423 persons will be playing a role along the guidelines produced by the Minister for Defence in Papua New Guinea,  Mr Albert  Maori Kiki, if there is any need to bring out the Papua New Guinea defence force in support of the police- in other words, in support of the civil power or to put down any form of uprising. I do not suggest that to inject a pessimistic note into the future of Papua New Guinea. No one in this Parliament or outside it has spoken with greater confidence about the future of Papua New Guinea and about its leaders than I have, but it seems to me that there is a profound duty- which has not yet been executed- on this Government to tell us just what will be the role of those servicemen if in fact there is any requirement for them to be used up there. 
-Of course it is a possibility. It is not something that we would wish or would see as a probability. But the Minister for Defence in Papua New Guinea- as the honourable member for Boothby reminds me by saying that it is a possibility- has put down guidelines as to the circumstances in which servicemen could be used. So it is certainly open to members of this Parliament to ask what will be the role of those servicemen. After December next year, how many of them will be involved? At what cost will it be? To what extent will Papua New Guinea be meeting some of the bill? Is it $25m or $28m for defence alone? Will Papua New Guinea be able to carry that expenditure into the turn of the century? The answer is: Hardly; nor will we expect it to do so. As far as aid is concerned, we will treat Papua New Guinea in a special relationship, as I term it. So many times I have said that Papua New Guinea is deserving of additional aid over and above the aid other recipient countries obtain from Australia because Papua New Guinea has been so closely associated with us at law, geographically and within the ambit of the trusteeship agreement. All these things have made that special relationship. 
But I have no advice from the Minister for Defence. He was kind enough to write to me yesterday, and I am grateful for that, telling me that he would like to give me information. He enclosed a speech which I had already read. It was kind and thoughtful of him to do so. But I would like him to send me more than a speech which he made in Parliament on 24 October because I believe that many Australian are concerned about the way in which our defence arrangements are being carried out in this country, let alone in Papua New Guinea. I simply say that the same degree of what has been termed delinquency in defence which has occurred in Australia applies as an accurate assessment of the defence relationship between Papua New Guinea and Australia. Hopefully it does not apply, though, in Papua New Guinea. We have heard nothing on that. 
So I have no objection to the transfer of control over the Supreme Court and local courts and over the provisions in the Judges' Pensions Bill which provides pensions for Australians who were appointed prior to 1 December 1973 to serve on the Supreme Court of Papua New Guinea. All these areas are contained within the Judges' Pensions Bill and the Papua New Guinea Bill (No. 2). The single exception is the deletion from the principal Act of the reserve power over defence and foreign affairs. The caveat which I inject on the latter 2 matters, defence and foreign affairs, is not that I believe that they ought not be transferred. It is part of the orderly movement that they be transferred. We will still have responsibility until the esteemed Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  writes his note to the Secretary-General of the United Nations telling him that independence has occurred and that we are no longer responsible. 
If the Minister is going to get up and explain to me about the ramifications of trusteeship arrangements, I point out that I do not need to be told. It would be a change for the Government to talk about that matter, but that is about all. When the Government introduces legislation providing for the areas of defence and foreign affairs to be withdrawn from the Papua New Guinea Act in order that Papua New Guinea can rightly introduce its own legislation- I understand that it has a defence Bill before the House of Assembly now- the Minister ought to tell us what the Government is doing about foreign relations between Australia and Papua New Guinea, not only in the lead up to independence but also in the post-independence period when these matters will be beyond our control. Also the Minister ought to tell us what the role, the size, the structure and the cost of defence arrangements between Australia and Papua New Guinea will be. It is a sad and sorry commentary on historical pieces of legislation such as this that the Government injects them into Parliament as nothing but pieces of paper to take their place alongside other statutes in the history of this country. 
The Government does not offer even a backward glance or a forward wink at the relationships between countries with whom we are most closely linked. This would not have happened in my day. It would never have happened in the days of Charles Barnes. In the days when we administered Papua New Guinea we would never have come before Parliament with two important pieces of legislation and more or less described them- although the term was not used- as machinery Bills. It is a matter for regret that I have to speak with such feeling on the matter, but I do feel very deeply about it. The Government is cutting across the basis of the understanding of this Parliament of what we ought to be doing. The Opposition has not sought to make political capital out of the Government's administration of Papua New Guinea. We have not sought to embarrass the Government with things which have caused us concern. But we have reached the stage where we say to the Government: 'After 2 years you have administered the country quite well. You have produced too much pace and pressure on the Government of Papua New Guinea. Regrettably you have refrained from detailed explanations of what you were doing.' I do not blame the Minister; I blame the paranoid and petrified attitude of Government supporters. The attitude they have is consistent with their viewpoints on defence and their involvement with other countries. They do not wish to disclose just what they are up to in relation to the use of Australian servicemen in Papua New Guinea. 
If I make no point other than that, I ask that, prior to legislation coming into this Parliament, the Minister at the table, who is the Minister Assisting the Minister for Foreign Affairs in Matters Relating to Papua New Guinea, advise the Minister for Defence that I expect when he brings in Bills amending Australian legislation applying in the defence area, which also extends into Papua New Guinea, that he will let us know that he has completed discussions or that he has entered into arrangements. I am not talking about a specific defence agreement, which the Minister has already ruled out. I am suggesting that the arrangements between the 2 countries should be such that there is no uncertainty between us when we reach independence. Both countries ought to have a clear blueprint and a clear schedule for the future. 
-For the first time in speaking on a Bill relating to Papua New Guinea I have been remiss in that I did not pay the credit that is due to those Australians who have administered justice in Papua New Guinea through the courts, particularly those personnel who served on the Supreme Court and who served with such distinction, sometimes under difficult conditions and sometimes despite many frustrations with the conditions of their service. By this measure this Government is taking over responsibility for the pensions to be met by the Australian Government, whether they be for people such as John Minogue, who has retired, or others who remain in service in Papua New Guinea. On behalf of the Opposition I would like to say how much we appreciate the work they all have done. It has been of extraordinary quality, sometimes under difficult conditions. I am only sorry that in the course of my remarks at the second reading stage I did not make those viewpoints known. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a third time. 

 -Mr Speaker - 
-I have been called. 
-My question is directed to the Prime Minister. I refer him to the intention of the Government to impose an additional penalty on Australian taxpayers if they are in a position to utilise a motor vehicle not owned by them. As the rate is to be either 12 per cent or 24 per cent, will the Prime Minister advise whether he will be paying the additional tax on the full commercial rate of his $30,000 Mercedes? 

 -Mr Speaker, the speech we have just heard from the Special Minister of State  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  would be the most extraordinary exposition of foreign policy heard in this Parliament for years. If the aim of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  was to become a figure of fun during his overseas tour no wonder he took the Special Minister of State with him and no wonder he had the Special Minister of State represent him tonight and while he was away. The Special Minister of State has no concept of the international economic ramifications facing the world at the moment. He has no understanding of the need to avoid disputes between producers and consumers. He has no concept of what has transpired in the background leading up to international relations today. But I was intrigued to note the admission at last by a Government spokesman that South Vietnam is being invaded by the North. For years honourable members opposite have argued that it was merely a civil war. 
We were told by the Special Minister of State that if the United States of America is able to expand Diego Garcia the Soviet Union will seek access to facilities around the Indian Ocean. My 
Gpd, she already has 6 bases. How many more does the Government want to see in exchange for one United States logistic support base at Diego Garcia? The Special Minister of State then sought to develop the argument in support, I assume, of Australia's becoming one ofthe nonaligned group either with observer status or as a guest, to use his own terminology. I will deal with that in a moment. Primarily we are dealing with the Prime Minister's statement on his overseas visit. This has been the eleventh trip in 2 years. In the first 2 years of his term as Prime Minister  Mr Menzies,  as he then was, made 2 visits overseas.  Mr Holt  made 5 visits,  Mr Gorton  made five, and  Mr McMahon  made three. This Prime Minister has spent at least 130 days outside the country, and this Parliament has sat for only approximately 143 days. That shows the priorities of those who call forth the need for this Parliament to be sitting. The estimated cost of the Prime Minister 's visit is well in excess of $ 1 m. 
We were given the chronology of the visit. We were told that on such and such a day he went to this place and that place. He left aside some other factors including the denigration of the Press for criticising the visit. Let me remind the Prime Minister of a few salient points. On 9 December  Mr Hawke  and  Mr Egerton  said that it was imperative that the trip be called off. On 10 December  Mr Hartley  said that the plan to go ahead with the trip was an alarming failure to come to grips with political reality. On 14 December the Prime Minister left for overseas. On 18 December, speaking in Brussels, the Prime Minister committed himself to opposing tariff increases. What does the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  think of that? What do the trade unions now think of that? Also the Prime Minister failed to obtain any significant relaxation on the ban of beef imports to European Economic Community countries, and this continued throughout his visit. On 19 December the Prime Minister interfered with British domestic issues by telling Britain what it ought to do about the Common Market. On 20 December in the United Kingdom the Prime Minister attacked States' rights. On 28 December he rushed back to Darwin. For a momentary, fleeting glimpse of time he visited the modern ruins of Darwin before returning to the ancient ruins of Crete and Olympia to rejoin the Special Minister of State on 30 December. 
On 2 January he ordered one of his bodyguards to run round the stadium of Olympia. He said: 'I want you to be able to say you have run around the Olympic stadium.' This is the Prime Minister who told us tonight that he wanted to shed the Bazza Mackenzie image. On 6 January he made the most appalling outburst by a Prime Minister when dealing with a tragedy that occurred in Australia. He denigrated the captain of the vessel that collided with the Tasman Bridge. The next day- 7 January- he unreservedly withdrew any imputation. On 9 January he pushed a television camera into the face of a pressman and said: 'It is very embarrassing. Do not take any photographs.' On 17 January was his retreat from Moscow. There is the chronology that the Prime Minister forgot tonight. He alleged tonight, with frequent use of the first person, that he had done much. That is not so, nor has he contributed in any way to any further understanding of this Government's confused and, frankly, debased foreign policy. He can be charged accurately with hypocrisy and duplicity. 
As I said earlier, more space was devoted to denigrating the media for their criticism of his visit than to such matters as the European Economic Community, uranium and energy and the Middle East, as was developed by my leader. So much for his priorities. The Prime Minister's overseas tour had little positive purpose and achieved even less. Much has been made of the possible sales of uranium. In Australia's long term interests such sales would, of course, be welcome. But at the present moment, with the state of the energy crisis, blind Freddy could sell uranium to the Europeans. The real point is that if a sale is successfully made ultimately, it will depend not on the Prime Minister's headlines but on the fine print of any agreement- and none has yet been negotiated. Despite endless talk the Government has failed miserably to develop any kind of resources policy. A Liberal-Country Party government will move rapidly in this area. The term 'resources diplomacy' itself suffers from inherent ambiguity. It runs together and confuses the question of the measures necessary in order to develop Australia's resources in the best possible way. The question of how the power which resources represent should be utilised in the general framework of foreign policy is, frankly, both a political and an economic question and is too important to be left to either the Prime Minister or a czar like the Minister for Minerals and Energy  (Mr Connor). 
The 2 questions I raise are closely related. For example, let me refer to Australia's independence. Honourable members opposite love that terminology. They scream for independence. They have run down our defence forces to such an extent that we are more dependent on other countries than we have been before. They talk and prattle away about independence. How much more independence we will have once our energy resources are properly developed and are not being frittered away and when incentives that ought to be given for those resources are not being retracted. Resources cannot be treated in isolation but must be related to overal objectives, which means that economic, political, technological, ecological and other considerations have to be co-ordinated and balanced. In the foreign policy field one of the first priorities of a LiberalCountry Party government will be to mobilise the expertise required to make informed and considered decisions. One thing can be said now: A narrowly nationalistic approach to resources is not only morally indefensible but is also positively dangerous, for if resources represent a source of political power they also represent a tempting target. A world starved of resouurces is hardly likely to sit idly by while it is held to ransome by the policies espoused by the Special Minister of State. 
Tonight the Prime Minister mentioned detente. He does not face the reality of detente. For too long his virtually uncritical and optimistic view of detente has underpinned the Government's foreign policies. The Opposition believes that the future- indeed the meaning- of detente is now very much in doubt. From the beginning authoritative voices have been pointing out the difficulties and the uncertainties of detente. Others have maintained that even should it succeed the results will be far from wholly favourable for countries like Australia but these warnings have not been heeded by the Australian Government, and the statement tonight reveals once again that they have been cast aside. So far detente has done nothing to lessen the growth of the Soviet's military power. It has given that country important economic benefits and it has loosened the bonds between the United States and its European allies. Fears that it may destabilise the central balance between the super powers are not groundless. The more multi-polar balance to which the Prime Minister was referring tonight is not becoming a reality. The move to European union has, temporarily at least, lost its momentum, and the national economic system is facing critical problems of inflation and recession. Yet these salient facts are virtually ignored in his statement tonight, and as a result both the Prime Minister's trip and his statement are virtually worthless. 
Now I want to turn to the non-aligned movement. The Prime Minister has at last said in the Parliament that Australia is an 'aligned country'. However, his  Deputy  Prime Minister consistently maintains that we are an honorary member of the Third World. This is yet another example of Labor's doubletalk. The Labor Government has in fact and in real terms reduced our aid and assistance to members of the Third World and yet poses as a friend by requesting attendance at future meetings of the non-aligned countries. How empty. How deceptive. Australia cannot by any effort of will or ideology become a memberhonorary or not- of the Third World. In terms of our history, our culture, our social structure, and our living standards ours is a Western country and our foreign policy should reflect this fact. Anything else is phoney and unsustainable. Australia can and should have friendly relations with Third World countries, as it has in the past. Labor's record pales in comparision with that of the previous Liberal and Country Party Government. It has done nothing to equal the Colombo Plan or the opening of universities to Asians. Its performance simply does not match its rhetoricempty rhetoric at that. 
During his overseas visit, as I said at the outset, the Prime Minister became not merely a figure of fun or the subject of bar-room jokes; he became an object of ridicule throughout this country. His statement tonight in no way restores the stature of an Australian Prime Minister. With an ineptness bordering on genius he has managed to achieve the worst of both worlds- to be naive without idealism and opportunistic without advantage. A Liberal-Country Party government will work with a sense of urgency to reintroduce both realism and decency into Australian foreign policy. We will again tie certain concepts of defence planning to our strategic assessments. We will not allow ourselves to be deluded by the concept that there is no threat for 15 years. The Government has utterly failed to develop any sort of coherent and effective defence policy. 
What discussions were held with NATO powers on some arrangement that we could enter into with them? What discussions were had with a view to bringing European forces here from time to time so that they could exercise with us? Not one iota of thought would be given to this at all. If this Government had in fact deliberately set out to destroy Australia's defence capabilities it could hardly have done a more efficient job. We are spending less of our gross national product on defence in real terms than at any time in the last decade or more. We are spending an even smaller proportion of that diminishing percentage on hardware but we are spending more on maintenance. No wonder the Prime Minister does not wish to discuss the matter. No wonder he does not want to raise it in Parliament. No wonder we cannot get an in depth debate on international affairs. I do not consider the debate on a report of this nature to be a full scale debate on foreign policy. It is nothing of the sort. That means that we have had only one full scale debate on international affairs in the time in which the Labor Party opposite has been in government. It is a scandal, but it mirrors the conduct of the Labor Party's foreign policy since it has been in government. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the Government at any time given an undertaking to second and support skilled personnel requested by Papua New Guinea and other islands of the Pacific. 
If so, will the Minister list each government to which this refers, and indicate what action has been taken in each case to inform them of this offer of assistance. 
What requests for this assistance have been received in each case. 
Which of these requests have been met. 
What form has the proposed support taken in each case. 
-The Minister for Science  (Mr Morrison)  made a particularly short second reading speech when reintroducing this Bill. But he did at least say that the main differences between this Bill and the one that was previously introduced into the Senate subsequent to corning down to this place are ones which stem from Opposition criticism of the previous Bill. It therefore might be well for people to reflect. The charges that are so frequently made against the Opposition as purely obstructing legislation fall to the ground time and again. This is a classic piece of legislation in which the Opposition put constructive suggestions forward and after analysis, I am pleased to say, the Government has not only taken cognisance of those criticisms but has also amended the Bill as a consequence. When the Bill was here on 20 November both my colleague the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  and I were extremely critical throughout the second reading debate as we were at the commmittee stage when we moved various amendments. I am pleased that note has been taken of those amendments but more particularly of the amendments and suggestions put forward by  Senator Margaret  Guilfoyle, the Opposition shadow Minister for the Media, when the legislation was in the upper House. 
I will quickly designate what has in fact transpired in the legislation before us and the changes that have been made. I will be brief because I do not wish to hold the House as the Opposition will agree to the passage of the Bill. Firstly, scriptwriters, editors, producers and directors have been included in clause 3. (2) (c) (i) at our request. New sub-clause (3) of clause 8 has been included to cover our objection to the Minister's power to direct the Commission. New sub-clause (6) has been inserted into clause 10 as has new sub-clause (7) which covers some of our objections. Clause 12 in its simplified form overcomes our objections to the power to require information which was contained in the original Bill. Clause 14 has been amended and inserts the Minister's approval and removes the delegation of the Commission's powers to a member of the staff. 
Those amendments in the main flow from Opposition criticism previously put in this House and in the Senate. I note that the penalty against members of the Commission et cetera who do not observe secrecy, which is contained in 'Part VII- Miscellaneous- of the Bill has been increased from $200 to $ 1 ,000 which is probably taking account of the hyper-inflation rate under this Government at the moment. Of course, I make no further comment on that. 
I will conclude by making a couple of brief points. I regret that the Australian Film Commission does not have the independence that we in the Opposition believe a statutory corporation ought to have. On the last occasion when this legislation was before us I spoke of the need for statutory corporations to operate at arm 's length from the Minister; otherwise there is no real purpose served in the flexibility that is engendered by statutory corporations operating at a tangent from the Minister. If they are to be under such tight ministerial and departmental control there is really no purpose in having the corporation or commission established. To some extent this has been taken care of and the Minister does not have quite the same tight control. We appreciate that. But there is still not the independence and flexibility that we would like. 
Despite the defects of the Bill and that sort of objection, we are anxious to see the Commission formed. We look forward to a strong commercial film industry. We hope that the activities which the Government may direct through Film Australia will not operate in unfair competition with the commercial industry itself. The Government has retraced its earlier steps. It would also be totally opposed to the spirit of this Bill for it to allow such unfair competition to which I have referred to occur. We wish the Film Commission well. We are anxious to see it commencing and we are pleased that the Government has incorporated suggestions that we have put forward. Let us have no more of alleged obstruction by the Opposition but rather the assistance that oppositions can convey in the formulation of legislation. We welcome the Bill now despite some minor defects, despite the concern we have about an inflexible position of the Commission and a concern that the commercial film industry will be able to thrive and not face governmental interference and competition. We wish the Commission well. 
My question is directed to the Attorney- General. I refer to an article in the Melbourne 'Observer' of last Sunday, based on an extensive interview with a former Australian Security Intelligence Organisation agent. Are the allegations contained in the report true? Has the man left ASIO? Will a statement be made clarifying the matter? 
-This issue is raised as a matter of public importance. It is a matter which should be dealt with urgently by this Parliament. We see it as a clear public responsibility that any doubts and public concern should be settled. We want to ensure firstly continuing close and friendly relations with Indonesia. I stress that. We place great value on those relations. Indeed, we place them in the highest possible priority. But we also want to ensure, secondly, a just and democratic determination of the future of the people of East Timor, through a free act of self- determination. We wish to ensure, thirdly, the strength of regional co-operation and consultation which is developing. We do not want to see anything happen to damage that present situation. 
As I understand it there are 2 major parties, Fretilin and the UDT, which is the Democratic Union of Timor, which have come together and formed a common program for independence which, in effect, brings the political forces with a following suggested to be as high as 95 per cent of politically concerned Timorese under one leadership. The new leadership has apparently been pressing Portugal for an early declaration that it intends to support independence for East Timor. The Portuguese, as I understand it- I recall a discussion with their Territories Minister who visited Australia last year confirming thisindicated that they would be prepared to enter into discussions regarding a program for selfgovernment. Lately, however, there have been alarming Press reports from Indonesia suggesting military operations. These reports apparently emanate from departmental sources who are concerned at the possibility of an armed Indonesian military operation within the near future. This would place severe strains on AustralianIndonesian relations. We hope the Indonesians would wish, as we would, to avoid this. 
It is our purpose in initiating this debate to urge the Government to action. Ringing rhetoric will not solve it, nor will ideological fantasy. We are faced with some potentially difficult facts which will show whether this Labor Government has any consistency, any honesty or indeed any authority in international affairs. There are some points I immediately want to make on that score. Firstly, the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  gave approval for Indonesia to take over East Timor when he had discussions with  President  Suharto last year. Secondly, when a leading Timorese politician visited Australia in July of last year the Government refused to see him although he had just come from extensive discussions with Indonesian leaders, including the Indonesian Foreign Minister. Thirdly, only now is the Government- today- sending someone to Dili to investigate the matter which should have been done six or twelve months ago. Fourthly, our relations, as I have said, with Indonesia are absolutely vital and I stress this. Fifthly, the decision regarding the future of East Timor rests with Portugal and the Timorese alone and not with Australia or Indonesia as parties principal, as this convoluted foreign policy of the present Government may seem to be in aiding Indonesia with her ambitions over Timor. Sixthly, Australia should seek to bring the parties together for discussion. 
I want to say that the most important action Australia can take is to bring the Timorese, the Indonesians and the Portuguese together to discuss this matter. But so bad are the relations between this Government and the people of East Timor that there has been virtually no communication between Australia and the people of Timor. As I understand it I am the only one in possession of a cable that has been sent by the leading organisations in Timor not to the Government but to me. As I understand it relations between Australia and Dili- that is, Timor- have virtually broken down. What sort of a situation is it when people, under some sort of siege, feel they must cable the Opposition spokesman in a country as close to them as Australia? The euphoria that the Prime Minister speaks about that he feels in the conduct of foreign affairs falls to the ground with that act. I ask honourable members to listen to the words of the Prime Minister when he was in Washington: 
But gentlemen, what a relief it is, what an exhilaration it is, what a help it is to be moving on the wave of great events rather than swimming against the tide. 
He has been drowned by his own rhetoric. Relations in an area so delicate as this cannot even be handled by a Government that holds itself out as a humane, anti-colonialist government that seems to be giving credence to ambitious people elsewhere. The Prime Minister has compromised Australia's position and it is a tragic foreign policy failure. 
-There is no point of order in the matter. If the Department of Foreign Affairs were aware of what is transpiring it would know that at approximately 5 p.m. last night I advised it of the receipt of this cable. As I understand it nothing has been done about it since then and no' one has seen me about it. I was duty bound to tell the officers of the Department of Foreign Affairs about it. I can take it no further if the Government is not prepared to act upon it. I have executed my duty and that is it. I read the cable over the telephone to an officer of the Department of Foreign Affairs. There have been alarming Press reports to which I referred earlier. 
It is our purpose in initiating this debate to see what influence the Government can bring to bear at this stage on a matter that is being described in the Press as an invasion. 'Indonesia to be told: don't invade Timor. PM plans strong note to Suharto ' is the headline in this morning's Australian'. It states that the Prime Minister is going to write a letter which he is going to give to the next Ambassador to Indonesia. Presumably when that gentleman arrives in 14 days time, dog-eared from being in bis pocket for 14 days the letter will be given to Indonesian authorities. The Government can spend Sim junketing around the world but it cannot send a cable to_ our delegation in Indonesia. A dog-eared letter ten to fourteen days old is the sum total of the contribution allegedly to be made by this grandiose Prime Minister. 
In September of last year- for those who feel the Opposition does not follow events internationally I issued a statement critical of this man who claims to be Prime Minister who had indicated to the Indonesian  President  in private that he, as representative of the Australian Labor Government, would not object if East Timor became part of Indonesia. I understand that in the Department of Foreign Affairs there is an 8-page summation of that discussion, 7 pages of which deal with this verbose gentleman, speaking on behalf of Australia, giving his undertakings that logic determined that Indonesia should take over East Timor. This is the man who stands in front of the Labor Party and who for years has called for the rights of people in the world to selfdetermination. I said at that time, 6 months ago, that there should be no pre-conditions on or prejudgments on the future of Portuguese Timor. Time will not permit me to go through the statement I made at that stage in detail. I indicated that there should be no constraints and no intimidation in any act of self-determination. 
The Prime Minister made it clear that he would go along with the intergration of East Timor into Indonesia. Even at that stage there were clearly strains in the Government's relations with Indonesia. The 'Australian' also states this morning that despite the fact that the Prime Minister had said Indonesia should take over East Timor, in December last year the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Senator Willesee)apparently  not advised of the Prime Minister's undertakings- told a Press conference in Singapore that he did not agree with the Indonesian attitude to the colony. What is the Government 's attitude? Has it given encouragement to the Indonesians? Has it compromised the decision for self determination in East Timor? This is a matter that ought to be clarified. Australia, even at this late stage, should be urging the Indonesians to restrain themselves and to get talks going. This is the Government that talks of self determination as a basic principle. Let it now support this principle unequivocally in East Timor. The Prime Minister in the United Nations last year said: 
An attempt by any state to bring about political or economic change in another through unconstitutional, clandestine, corrupt methods, by assassination or terrorism, undermines the rule of international law, encourages  adverturism  and anarchy, endangers world peace and turns quite quickly against even the most powerful nations who would seek to advance their cause by such methods. 
He might also have added that suggestions or fears of such action can have a similar result. 
This is the Prime Minister who finds foreign policy, so 'exhilarating', the Prime Minister who ought to exercise some preventive diplomacy instead of his oft quoted resources diplomacythat preventive diplomacy he spoke about last September in New York. 
I have spoken of an East Timorese leader who came to Australia in July last year. The Minister refused to see him then. The Minister saw him later in the year. I would point out that on both occasions representatives of the Opposition saw this gentleman. On both occasions I held discussions with members of the Indonesian Embassy because I was concerned about the matter. I talked with the Indonesians and I talked with the Timorese. But the Minister for Science, who is sitting at the table, was sadly lacking in both directions. So possessed was he with the desire to fill the rooms with rhetoric that he spoke of logic dictating the takeover of smaller territories. 
When I asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Senator Willesee)  a question in October last year about the talks that he eventually had with an East Timorese leader he refused to reveal details. In answer to yet another question I asked he asserted the right of all people of East Timor to self determination. How empty and in contrast with the Prime Minister's private undertakings to the  President  of Indonesia. The Prime Minister has already imposed constraints by his undiplomatic behaviour. The Government should ensure that the Indonesian Government is not in any way imposing constraints on their freedom. The Indonesians were our closest friends. We used to be able to discuss with them in the utmost secrecy matters of confidentiality between both parties without endangering the other countries in the region. The Prime Minister should be able to ensure that the Indonesian Government is not in any way, even inadvertantly, imposing constraints on the freedom of action of the East Timorese people. 
I understand that an Australian official is to visit Dili today. I have already mentioned this. The Government should have devoted more attention to this issue and should have sought to influence the course of events in a direction which would have posed no threat to Australian or Indonesian interests and to the relations between these 2 powers. We seek to ensure that the relations between Australia and Indonesia are sound. The Whitlam Government inherited soundly based close relations between Australia and Indonesia, a relationship which had been carefully groomed since the Suharto Government came to power. It is disturbing that this relationship could be endangered by developments in Portuguese Timor, partly because the Australian Government has treated the issue with scant regard for the interests of the people of East Timor. 
As I have said, yesterday I received a telegram from a political leader who on his second visit to Australia was seen by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Among other things, it said: 
Coalition Fretilinudt holding over 95 per cent Timors population call your support independence East Timor. Australia has great responsibility maintenance peace this geographical area thus to prevent any conflict real will Timorese people must be respected. Coalition is prepared start talks Australian. Indonesian Government for cooperation towards peace political stability sea. 
The Government did not act upon this matter. It has no response to it now. The Prime Minister ought to be doing more than writing a letter which meander through the Australian States and onwards to Indonesia in over ten to fourteen days. I trust that the Government will have already rectified that allegation made by a spokesman from the Department of Foreign Affairs. I trust that the Government will at least have sent an immediate cable. We believe and hope that the Indonesian Government shares with us a respect for the right of colonial territories to determine their future. As members of the United Nations and as participants in cooperation in this region we, with others, such as Papua New Guinea, also share a concern for the development of the region, for co-operation, consultation and for the security and wellbeing of all in the region. 
asked the Minister for Overseas Trade, upon notice: 
1 ) Have the Australian Council of Churches and a Commissioner of the Roman Catholic Church issued an appeal to the Government for the closure of Australia's trade commission offices in South Africa? 
If so, when did he or his predecessor receive the request, and what action will be taken on it? 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I very much regret that the exigencies of travel and of catching a plane mean that after many months of work on this Bill I have to curtail my remarks substantially. I support the Bill and oppose the amendment. I regret that my dear friend who spoke before me, the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt),  spoke in terms of the Christian ethic. I do not want to deal with that at any length, but simply say that those of us who embrace Christianity feel ourselves to be christians notwithstanding our support for this Bill. In making that statement I am supported, so far as the Victorian churches are concerned, by the Anglican Church, the Methodist Church, the Presbyterian Church and both Jewish faiths- liberal and orthodox. I hardly feel that the Christian spirit or ethic in those establishments will be on the wane as a consequence of this Bill. 
I believe that the Matrimonial Causes Act of 1959 was a landmark. The Commonwealth chose to legislate uniformly in an area which it had hitherto resisted, and I believe that we owe much to those who persevered notwithstanding the strength of criticism at the time that marriage would collapse and that the institution of marriage would be swept aside as a. consequence of that legislation which was ultimately passed. That did not occur, nor do I believe that it will occur under this more enlightened piece of legislation. I have also met with those in my electorate who are opposed to the Bill for religious reasons. My electorate covers 6 Catholic parishes- Balwyn, Balwyn North, Deepdene, Hawthorn, Kew and Kew East. I might say that the tolerance and understanding shown by those people towards the view that I have is in marked contrast evidently to approaches being made by people opposed to the Bill which some of my colleagues who are supporting the Bill allege are being made with some ferocity. I have not faced this. Those who disagree with my view argued their case plausibly and gave me a respectful hearing of my views in a manner that I found most welcome. 
 As a consequence, I have to say that there is one aspect of the Bill about which I am concerned and I wish to foreshadow some form of amendment, if that is possible. I can well understand the difficulty of those who, being Catholics, enter into marriage and because of their deeply held religious belief feel that there can be no dissolution whatsoever of that marriage. They are able at this stage, when there is an irretrievable breakdown of marriage, to avail themselves of a form of separation known under the law as judicial separation. This Bill removes that provision. It would appear to me that there ought to be the opportunity for a judicial separation. After all, this separation is recognised by ecclesiastic courts. Under this legislation it would not be recognised by the civil courts. It is possible, of course, to use the injunctive powers contained within the Bill to provide for judicial separation but, having examined the legislation, I would have to say that the injunctive power necessarily is a power that is basically for a short term. That is the whole idea of injunctions. Certainly in law we do have permanent injunctions, but these have never been used in matrimonial matters, except for non-molestation. Therefore I put to the House that concept, which I will want to follow up at a later stage, because I believe that those of the Catholic faith have a legitimate concern in that area of the Bill. But that does not deter me from my support of the Bill and my opposition to the amendment. 
I said at the outset that the Act of 1959 was a landmark. It did not produce any of the floodgates that were said at that time to be present. It was alleged that writing into a form of legislation for the first time provisions that separation and desertion for 5 years and 2 years were grounds for divorce would lead to a total breakdown in marriage. This has not occurred nor did that Act bring about the so-called quickie divorces, any more than this legislation will. Indeed, at the present moment 47 per cent of petitions in the divorce courts following a break in the marriage union are on the ground of adultery. Under this legislation, those who are able to petition on the ground of adultery will lose their immediate right to so petition. It is well to bear in mind in regard to the allegation that this will bring about quickie divorces that in fact the right to petition for divorce immediately is taken from those who have that right at the present moment on the ground of adultery. 
My colleague the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott),  who is at present overseas, is strongly of the view that legislation should never take away established rights. I do not follow his line of reasoning to that conclusion, but it does seem to me worthy of examination, particularly by those who allege that this Bill will establish rapid divorce, quite apart from increasing the rate of divorce, as that right is being taken from people. The Bill is noteworthy because of the position that it adopts in relation to custody, access and maintenance and the substantial changes that are made in these areas. 
The  provision  of  family  courts is an  outstanding  i  j  - - - * o  one. 
Finally in my remarks I want to refer to the period of 12 months separation. It has been alleged that this time is too short. I believe that that allegation can be answered on 3 grounds. Firstly, there is the answer of fairness. On the immediate ground of adultery being taken away from people, there ought to be a fairness so that the period that they should wait in those circumstances ought not to be too long, and 12 months seems adequate on that basis. Secondly, the family court structure itself will be a helping, ongoing organisation to those who are faced with a breakdown of their marriage during that period of 12 months. Thirdly- I now inject a personal note- from the small number of divorces I handled when in practice I found that unquestionably the second year- I accept the reasoning contained in  Senator Missen's  argument on this point- of the breakdown of the marriage time and time again was the period of the greatest bitterness when one was seeking either a break or a bringing together. 
It is terribly difficult. No one can be certain. No one in the platonic sense can know what is the right period. One can only believe. On the basis of my experience, on the basis of equity, on the basis of the family court structure itself, I support the 12-month period. I reiterate that I support the Bill with one qualm that I have about judicial separation to provide for those with deep seated religious belief. I think that would repay further examination. 
This legislation has been the subject of 3 years of the closest scrutiny in the Senate. An enormous number of amendments have been made. I do not believe the amendment before the House would provide the sort of legislation required. Its consequence would be that this legislation would be taken away to be rewritten. I believe that after the examination that has been made on the matter this Bill is worthy of support. For those reasons I am pleased to stand in support of it. I regret that because of my travel to Nowra I must leave and curtail my remarks so severely. 
-My question is directed to the Prime Minister. I refer him to Government statements that the Government has urged both sides in the Vietnam conflict to end the current hostilities and abide by the Paris Peace Accords of 1973. What precise representations have been made? Were, in fact, the same representations made to each side? Will the Prime Minister table all communications relating to these representations and made since the beginning of this year? 

 -Mr Speaker, I seek leave to make a personal explanation. 
-In no other area have this Government's policies suffered such credibility lapses as in the area of its foreign policy. It has been shattered by the events in Indo-China. Until the last week or so the silence from the Government also was almost shattering. The Government's spasmodic reaction to human suffering throughout Indo-China was matched only by the form of donation when it was advised that an Opposition team was visiting Indo-China. There is now a daily dodging of death throughout Indo-China, and the forms of government which are bringing this about are supported by honourable members opposite. Today the Opposition had proposed the discussion of a matter of public importance which, among other things, spoke of the role that Australia should play in marshalling international assistance to relieve human suffering in the region. That has been thrust aside and must now be withdrawn as we debate the elements of foreign policy itself. I hope that we will have the opportunity to face the stark reality in human terms and what can be proffered most persuasively by the initiatives which the Opposition had developed over the last week. I hope that the Government will accept them. 
The Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren),  the lap dog of the Treasurer  (Dr J. F. Cairns),  who has left the House now with the Treasurer as that Minister has completed his speech, spoke out last week on the matter of refugees. He spoke against humanitarian assistance. After all, humanitarianism must not get in the way of ideological consequencesthe consequences we are seeing enacted in Indo-China at the present moment. Where is the much vaunted independence of the Labor Government? Where is the capacity to influence other governments around the world? What representations have been made to the Government of North Vietnam? What protests have been registered with the Soviet Union and the People's Republic of China which continue to supply the Government of North Vietnam with arms? Where is this much vaunted independence? What is its consequence? Its consequence is virtually silence. 
The Opposition urges the Government to take the strongest action possible in calling on the North Vietnamese Government to cease the acts of terrorism in South Vietnam, to call on those other governments to which I have referred to stop aiding and abetting the North Vietnamese. This Government opposite maintained throughout its days in Opposition that this was a mere civil war and that we would see an army of liberators. One would assume that the people would be rushing to embrace the liberators. They are fleeing by their millions from them. What influence is being brought to bear on this tragic situation? Have we explored the prospects of a concerted regional action in Indo-China? No. Have we sought to solve the refugee problem? Have we taken initiatives in the United Nations? No. Have we made representations to other countries that Australia be a staging post for refugees before they go on to other countries? No. Have we sought to provide adequate medical supplies and supplies of food, clothing and building materials? No. What action have we taken with international agencies? Virtually none. Have we called on countries to cease aggression? No. 
The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  spoke of some of the initiatives that the 
Opposition would take. As he said, the Government has been looking to the past in the statement that the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  tabled and in the Treasurer's speech that followed. Looking to the past, have we heard from the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Bryant)  recalling what he said some years ago about outright aggression in Cambodia? What reference is being made to Cambodia? The Government seeks to run away from the argument that the north is invading the south, albeit that there are at least 400,000 North Vietnamese invading South Vietnam. The Government alleges that it is taking an even-handed approach. That would be bad enough- treat the executioner in the same way as you treat the victim. But I allege that this Government is not even taking an even-handed approach- which would be bad enough. I submit that this Government is giving tacit approval to the Government of North Vietnam. 
Before anyone condemns a person who seeks on most occasions to advance what are colloquially put forward as progressive views and alleges that this is a change of stance, let me remind honourable members opposite what my attitude has always been on Indo-China. More particularly I direct honourable members firstly to the question I asked today and secondly to the request made by the Leader of the Opposition that he be supplied with cables that have been forwarded to Hanoi and Saigon. I submit that on the third of this month a cable went to Saigon stressing that the Paris Accords be implemented and that in particular article 4, chapter 12 be implemented. This deals with the establishment of the National Council for National Reconciliation and Concorde. I submit further that probably on that day or on 4 April a cable, initially couched in similar terms, went to Hanoi but that that cable which would have been received on either 3 April or 4 April in North Vietnam went on to refer to the activities in South Vietnam being inspired by the Provisional Revolutionary Government. Of course, we know their argument. They say that the North Vietnamese army does not exist and that there are not 400 000 troops in South Vietnam. They say: 'Oh, no, the North Vietnamese are not raising their flag in the cities that they take as they carry out executions'. I submit that further on in this cable words to this effect are used: 'We understand that for public relations purposes it has to be said that pressure is being applied to the Saigon Government to get it to implement the Paris Accords'. I challenge the Government to produce the documentation and to reveal the cables that were sent on the 3rd and the 4th of this month. I challenge it to take up the request made by the Leader of the Opposition that he should sight the cables and that the Leader of the Opposition will give the twofold answer that he said he would give. It does not have to be shown to me and it need not be shown to the Press. We are told that this is an open Government, but we see the runaway from that concept daily. It would be sufficient if the Government met only the request of the Leader of the Opposition. 
I challenge the statements of the Prime Minister, particularly those on the 12th page of his speech. I nail the argument not only about evenhandedness but also about the tacit support that is being engendered elsewhere. I also want to refer to another factual allegation contained on the 9th page of the Prime Minister's speech in which he said: 
The truth is that the Australian Government met, as soon as it was received from the American Embassy, a request from the Government of South Vietnam for assistance. The decision was taken to make available 7 Hercules transport aircraft . . . 
He then quoted the message he received congratulating his Government. I stand here with the knowledge shared by the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Sullivan)  and the  Deputy  Leader of the Australian Country Party that on the one day on which those aircraft were used for the evacuation of human beings who had fled to Phan Ran that action was taken as a result of the initiative of the Royal Australian Air Force and not as a result of a direction from the Government. The aircraft were sent there but remained there. They were used as a result of that initiative. When the Government learned that that initiative had been taken it sent a direction indicating that it was not to happen again. The next morning the South Vietnamese  Deputy  Prime Minister and Minister for Refugees sought to examine the refugee problem. He wished to fly in an Australian aircraft on the Thursday morning of last week. When he arrived at Tan Son Nhut airport he was told that he could not board the aircraft because the Australian Government had said that no South Vietnamese were to be carried on these aircraft. He was to examine what food and medical supplies were required. That assistance was again denied. I submit that the cables would also bear that out. 
I further submit that the Australian Ambassador in South Vietnam is hamstrung by red tape. The New Zealand Ambassador has absolute discretion as to the form and the nature of the flights by his Government within South Vietnam. But not so with our Ambassador. He must cable back indicating every piece of material, every type of food supply that is to be provided and the RAAF must await direction from Canberra before it can move aircraft. 
-The honourable member, by making that sort of remark, represents the personification of inhumanity. Last Thursday a Hercules aircraft was loaded with foodstuffs, water, supplies and the like. The RAAF cabled for the direction that it could take off. By Friday afternoon it still had not received a cable from Australia indicating that it could do so. That aircraft stood at Tan Son Nhut airport for approximately 2 days fully loaded with the mire of human misery throughout Indo-China not being alleviated until the following day when the shuttle flights commenced. That is the sort of red tape with which this Government is binding and strangling the South Vietnamese Government and our officials at the present moment. 
The Treasurer stood here today and recounted so many of his past arguments. He argued, as he has always argued, that the success of the North Vietnamese proves that Australian and American support for the South was wrong and that the cause of the North Vietnamese was right. In this form of argument one equates military success with a just cause. Such a proposition is meaningless. The case for intervention rested not on the proposition that success was certain but that the consequences of making no effort and of failure would be serious. Events have not falsified that assumption. If the Labor Party wants to look back to the debate of the 1960s, let it be noted that the claim that this was essentially a civil war in the south is utterly falsified. There are upwards of 20 North Vietnamese divisions operating in the south. The claim that the cause of the Viet Cong was a popular one supported by the mass of the population is utterly falsified by the human flood of refugees seeking at great risk and hardship to escape from their control. 
The ideological response we have had today is akin to what we have had for the last decade. Labor policy towards Vietnam in the last 2 years classically illustrates the weakness of the Whitlam foreign policy. It has consisted of a series of ideological responses interspersed with an occasional humanitarian and rhetorical gesture. We have had the ideological responses in the declaration by the  Deputy  Prime Minister and other Ministers that a North Vietnamese victory is a desired outcome. We have seen the violent and one-sided denunciations of the Americans combined with silence about the 
North Vietnamese aggression and atrocities. We have seen the Prime Minister's condemnation of South Vietnam's alleged violation of the Paris agreements but no public condemnation of North Vietnamese breaches of the agreements or the open aggression in South Vietnam. One could get the impression that it was the South Vietnamese who had upwards of 20 divisions in the north and not the other way around. 
In the short time available to me I want to say that it had been our intention not to discuss defence matters or defence policies but to talk about the need for refugee relief. But I am forced to allude to the question of security itself because this Government has in reality neglected Australia's security. Of course, a foreign policy should be concerned with more than security. It should seek to embody and to express the highest values and aspirations within the communityrespect for the dignity of individuals and the rights of nations, a concern for the peaceful and just resolution of conflicts and the impulse to cooperate with and to assist less fortunately placed countries. But a foreign policy which neglects security is irresponsible. Indeed, it is no foreign policy at all. The world of international politics is too uncertain and the consequences of error too serious to proceed simply in terms of foreseeable threats. The effort and resources spent on maintaining adequate defence forces and keeping alliances in good repair are not wasted if these forces and alliances are not in the event called upon. On the contrary, the very object of having them is to render their use unnecessary. 
We reject- we throw out of hand- the concept once again stated today, the wholly uncritical and optimistic view of the world scene and the wholly uncritical and optimistic view of detente. The only time it has been questioned by this Australian Government was in a speech the Prime Minister delivered to the United Nations organisation. One speech is not a policy. 

 Mr DEPUTY. SPEAKER (Mr Luchetti)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-I seek leave to make a statement on the document just tabled. 
Why? 
My question is directed to the Prime Minister. I refer him to the recent changes in the South Vietnamese Government, namely, the changes in the office of Prime Minister, the reassembled Cabinet, plus the resignation of President Thieu yesterday, all of which were prerequisites laid down by the North Vietnamese as being necessary before any negotiations took place. Will the Prime Minister, even at this very late stage, press the North Vietnamese Government for a negotiated settlement? 
-As is known, I am the representative in this House of the shadow Minister for the Media. I will not be delaying the House for a lengthy period of time in my contribution to the debate on these 3 measures. The Opposition has no argument with the Broadcasting Stations Licence Fees Bill 1974 (No. 2) and the Television Stations Licence Fees Bill 1974 (No. 2), but we are still gravely concerned about the Broadcasting and Television Bill (No. 2) 1974 (No. 2). On 15 November last we debated this matter extensively. On that occasion my colleague, the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen),  put forward a great many views both in his contribution to the debate on the motion for the second reading of the Bill and in the form of amendments to the Bill during the Committee stage. It is not the intention of the Opposition to move all those amendments again. It will therefore be necessary for those people who are interested in this matter to read the report of the debate tonight in conjunction with the debate of 15 November last to ascertain in detail the Opposition's views. 
The Opposition will be opposing the motion for the second reading of the Bill but it will not, as I have said, be moving at this late stage of the night all the amendments moved previously. But it must be understood that our attitude tonight is the same as that taken by us in November last year. Although, as I have said, the Opposition will not be moving all the amendments that it moved last year it holds to its views on them very strongly indeed. The Opposition's views on them are on record and our attitude to them is still the same. But there is a requirement for those interested in the subject to read the report of the debate of 15 November last and of today in conjunction. 
It is to be noted that last year the Minister for the Media  (Senator Douglas McClelland)  said publicly: 
The powers sought in this Bill are not needed for the purposes of controlling private television. We do not propose to disturb in any shape or form private television companies. 
Frankly that is utterly absurd. If there is no intention to use the powers why has the legislation been introduced at all? The purpose of this Bill is, frankly, power. It revolves around powerpower sought by the Minister for the Media, power to control private commercial television stations in this country- and it ought to be identified as such. The Bill provides for the power to direct, the power to control and, if need be, the power to destroy. That is a strong statement but I make it deliberately. The power sought by the Broadcasting and Television Bill, if used, would be so all-embracing that it would permit total control of all private television throughout Australia. It will not receive the Opposition's support. The same view will be put in another place. 
The Minister for the Media has alleged that this Bill concerns standards. The fact of the matter is that the Australian Broadcasting Control Board already has power under the existing Broadcasting and Television Act to produce standards and to see that the industry keeps up to them. The Minister for the Media has also alleged that the Australian Broadcasting Control Board is virtually without power at the moment. That proposition simply does not stand up to examination. The Board has the power to suspend a licence and the power to revoke a licence. What additional power is required? The Opposition therefore opposes the Bill. It will vote against the motion that the Bill be read a second time. The brevity of my speech in Opposition tonight in no way reflects that a cursory examination has been made. I reiterate what I said at the start of my brief remarks tonight, that it will be necessary to re-read the Hansard of 15 November 1974 to obtain the full views of the Opposition when the extensive amendments were properly put by the Opposition. This Bill has come before us again perhaps- we do not know- in the pipeline for a double dissolution; so be it. It is not our choice. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has indicated the Opposition's attitude to elections, and properly so, but we are unutterably opposed to this Bill that revolves around power, to vest in the Minister for the Media power to control private television in Australia, and we will not sanction it under any circumstance. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, today the indictment made by the Opposition - 
Motion ( by  Mr Nicholls)  put: 
That the question be now put. 

 -Mr Speaker, I seek leave to make a personal explanation. 
I support clause 48 of the Family Law Bill. I oppose the amendments which have been proposed. I oppose the amendment which seeks to extend the period of separation, when applying for divorce, to 2 years in most instances. I put it that way because after a great deal of thought and after discussion with the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott)  I am not convinced that this is a sound amendment. In fact, I am quite concerned that it will have a contrary effect. There is an ironic twist to a number of arguments which have been used today. I have found in many instances that those who spoke in such a condemnatory way of quickie divorces have suddenly discovered elements of bestiality and called for quickie divorces to be introduced. They have found in this amendment the mechanism by this might be done. I fear there is an ironic twist in that. 
Some honourable members have referred to the second part of the amendment. It allegedly provides for divorce by consent. This is not correct. In fact, it may well lead to a sort of legal bargaining or plea bargaining and, if I may say so, to the utilisation of pressure of financial means to bring about a conclusion. Those of us who have practised law know only too well that suffering parties will suffer more in certain circumstances when another party exerts financial pressure. Sub-clause (b) of the amendment in relation to a divorce being sought by the parties after 12 months separation contains the words:  . . . each party genuinely desires the application to be granted. 
How do we know that the parties genuinely desire the application to be granted? After living apart for 12 months one spouse may genuinely believe that the other desires this. But on instituting proceedings that party may find, when the matter comes on for hearing, that there is no genuine desire for the application to be granted and the proceedings fall to the ground. Furthermore, my cynicism in this area is such that I fear a little greasing of the palm with a certain amount of money may bring about the alleged genuine desire for the application to be granted. I feel that 12 months is sufficient time for separation and for divorce to be granted. No one can prove this. No one knows. It is a question of judgment. I cannot stand before this chamber tonight and prove beyond reasonable doubt or on the balance of probabilities that 12 months is the best period. I simply say that I genuinely believe, over a period of time of taking an interest in these matters- I note that persons in the Senate after an exhaustive investigation concluded the same way- that in the majority of circumstances it is the second year of separation which leads to so much bitterness, divisiveness, heartburn and breaking asunder of families. So I opt for a 12-month period. 
I am gravely concerned about the ramification of persons allegedly genuinely believing that the marriage has broken down and genuinely believing that an application can be made. I am concerned about the reintroduction of fault in this area. If persons in fact are suffering from intolerable burdens they have the injunctive powers under clause 114. I make a final point. My friend the honourable member for Bennelong  (Mr Howard)  made this point an hour or so ago. I know he put it in good faith. He suggested that the endeavour being made by this clause was to bring about a consensus view. I do not like the idea of a consensus view in matters of social reform such as this. It seems to me that consensus views, if that is the aim of legislation, could well lead to a destruction of the major impact and the major remedies in areas such as this. Legitimate aspirations could be torn asunder. In other words, it is not done to clarify the legislation; it is not done to alleviate the sufferings of persons; it is done to resolve some degree of antagonism by certain groups in the community. That is not a reason for support of this legislation. My belief in the fundamental importance of marriage remains. My antipathy to the exacerbating situation of a breakdown in human relations also remains. Therefore, I oppose the amendments and support the existing clause. 
-My amendment is circulated amendment 8a which relates to clause 4 ( 1 ). It seeks at the end of paragraph (a) to add certain words and deals with the definition of the term 'matrimonial cause'. Under this definition the Bill lists in paragraph (a) to (f) a variety of matters that come within the meaning of 'matrimonial cause'. My amendment is to paragraph (a) which states: proceedings between the parties to a marriage for a decree of- 
dissolution of marriage; or 
nullity of marriage; 
I am seeking to add: or (iii) judicial separation; 
I wish the Bill to provide for the continued recognition of judicial separation. Although I am strongly in favour of this Bill, this amendment from which a series of other amendments will flow is one which I strongly favour. I recognise that within the community there are those who, because of religion or faith, under no circumstances can feel that this Bill can apply to them. I speak particularly of members of the Roman Catholic faith who hold very dearly to their faith and regard marriage as being for life and who cannot condone divorce under any circumstances whatsoever. 
If there is a breakdown in marriage it is true that lawyers could advise members of the Roman Catholic faith to utilise clause 1 14 of the Bill and apply for injunctive relief. It has always been my view that an injunction is for a shortterm benefit but for a long-term relief there is no solution unless judicial separation is recognised. It will be recalled that in the old ecclesiastic courts judicial separation was a form of judicial sanction to the separation and was not in the same category as divorce itself. If practising Roman Catholics do not feel that they can bring themselves to utilise the provisions of the Family Law Bill, under my proposal they could at least live apart from one another protected not merely by the injunctive provisions of the Bill but also by a recognition written into a variety of clauses in this Bill. 
Indeed, wherever reference to 'dissolution of marriage' occurs the words 'or judicial separation' would be put, thereby providing for those who feel that they cannot utilise the very real benefits of the Family Law Bill by permitting them at least to be separated, to have the various custody, maintenance and other provisions applying and not to break their deep-seated religious faith. In that way I think that by this excellent Bill, of which I am strongly in favour, we can provide for those who cannot bring themselves to seek relief under the Bill as it stands at present by defining 'matrimonial cause' as not merely dissolution of marriage or nullity of marriage but also as judicial separation. This would provide a very real area of coverage for a group of persons who will not be satisfied by this very worthy Bill other than by seeking relief as I interpret it under clause 1 14, which is an injunctive provision which normally at law will apply in the short term. 
I want to speak only briefly on this matter. I do so, not with any fear and trembling because I am opposing my learned Leader on this matter, but because I believe that we do not need to amend clause 43 in the way that has been proposed. In fact I think that the amendment may in reality as a principle tend to downgrade the status of women. I also pose the question: What if the husband establishes grounds for divorce, albeit that there may be in normal circumstances a general desire on the part of the woman to continue her role as a wife and mother but on other occasions she may so break that role as to occasion proper grounds for divorce. If we follow the logic of this amendment through as a principle to be applied by the court, I submit that also we would have to insert an amendment which would refer to a man who may wish only to continue his role as a husband and father. So, for those brief reasons, I am opposed to the amendment moved by my Leader, but I may conceivably be persuaded to support an amendment to clause 75 which relates to matters to be taken into consideration in proceedings with respect to maintenance where I think the amendment would be more applicable than as a general principle to be applied by the courts. For that reason I support the clause as it now stands and oppose the amendment. 
I have been in some doubt about this clause. I do not accept the argument of the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  about the need to define 'ancestor' or 'descendant' which he says are not denned. Neither are these denned in the amendment by the honourable member for Mackellar who, in that amendment, has used the very terms 'ancestor', 'descendant', 'ancestress' and 'descendant'. That amendment does not define it either, no matter what the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  may seek to interject. It does extend the categories. It extends the categories to people such as the father's wife. If there was in fact a blood relationship, say, between the father's wife and the other party, that would be a different matter. If there was an adopted son with no blood relationship, though some have discussed this aspect in consideration of the clauses, that may be different. But I do not think this applies. Let me explain what I am troubled about. I would hope that members on this side of the Committee would grant leave to the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  to clarify the matter that troubles me. 
-That is not what troubles me. The aspect that troubles me is the one which was pointed out by the honourable member for Wentworth  (Mr Ellicott)  who said that there are categories listed in the Marriage Act which are not discussed as definitely in the Family Law Bill. It seems anomalous that certain marriages are debarred in the Marriage Act but permitted for divorce reasons in the Family Law Bill. 
-If what I say is the case, I would like the Attorney-General to clarify the position. 
-We will give leave. 
Question put: 
That the amendment  (Mr Wentworths)  be agreed to. 
I support the amendment It will be recalled that I opposed the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  when he sought to amend clause 43 by the insertion of the form of words that he has moved as an amendment to clause 75. 1 said then that I thought that the amendment the Leader of the Opposition had moved to clause 43 was more appropriate to be moved to clause 75.1 heard an interjection when the Leader of the Opposition was speaking that clause 75 (2) (c) would be sufficient. Frankly, it is not sufficient. More than that, I think that acceptance of this amendment would give encouragement to those mothers who wish to continue in the very role referred to by the Leader of the Opposition. A factor that I did not raise when I opposed the amendment to clause 43 but that I took into account on that occasion is that I do not agree with hearts and flowers clauses or philosophic clauses being inserted in legislation, and that is what was sought to be done in relation to clause 43. But in considering clause 75 we are considering the matters to be taken into consideration in relation to the procedures with respect to maintenance. 
I think that there is a distinctive factor in the role of a mother which is accepted in the community and which we not only participate in but also believe in, that those who hold to that belief in their role as mothers ought not to be overlooked in relation to this clause when one is considering maintenance factors. Therefore neither clause 75 (2) (c) or 75 (2) (k), which refers to the earning capacity of the party to the marriage whose maintenance is under consideration, is sufficient. The amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition not only makes it more sufficient but also encourages those who wish to pursue their lives as mothers of children. It is an equitable amendment. It is a proper amendment. It does not compel a woman to do certain things. It ensures a choice. In other words it encourages mothers to look after their children. Therefore I support the amendment. I have not sought to make a regular distinction between husbands and wives in relation to this legislation. In fact, I have applauded the fact that husbands and wives generally have been treated on the same footing. However in taking into consideration maintenance factors, I think that the very matter that is implicit in the Leader of the Opposition's amendment is one that ought to be encouraged. Therefore I support it. 
-On behalf of the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence I bring up the Committee's report on the Omega navigational installation. A dissenting report signed by 7 members of the Committee is included with the main report. I also bring up the minutes of evidence taken in connection with this inquiry. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
-I ask leave of the House to make a short statement in connection with the report. 
My question is directed to the Special Minister of State and refers to the Cocos (Keeling) Islands. Bearing in mind the rapid breakdown in relations between John Clunies-Ross and the Minister's Department, is it correct that a radio station is to be established on West Island with the alleged aim of assisting community relations on Home Island. If so, is a man named Dubney, a Christmas Islander, to operate this propaganda organ? Did  Mr Dubney  travel from Christmas Island with the Administrator of that Territory, former Labor politician Harry Webb, to Canberra last week? Is the aim to divide the Cocos Malays from the influence of  Mr Clunies-Ross  and is all this an indication that the equitable arrangements reached between the Minister for External Territories in the previous Liberal-Country Party Government and  Mr Clunies-Ross  have been neglected and the problems exacerbated by the present Government? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Has the Minister stated that the Government is opposed to nuclear tests both above and below the ground? 
Has the French Government announced that it will conduct underground nuclear tests in the South Pacific during 1975? 
If so, has the Government assessed what impact these tests might have on the environment of the South Pacific; if so, what has been the outcome of that examination; if not, will an investigation be undertaken urgently? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
What action has the Government taken to pursue its proposals for new international measures for the peaceful settlement of disputes. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
What action has the Government taken to further its proposal for new measures with respect to political asylum. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
With respect to the Acts listed in the most recent Administrative Arrangement Order as being administered by the Minister, what sections within the Department of Foreign Affairs have the major responsibility for each Act listed? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs the following question, upon notice: 
Has the Prime Minister stated that Australia will drop its reservations with respect to the jurisdiction of the International Court of Justice. 
If so, will the Minister list the reservations to which the Prime Minister referred. 
Have these reservations been dropped: If so, when, and in what form was this action taken. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) What standing Interdepartmental committees does the Department of Foreign Affairs participate in. 
At what level is the Department represented in each case. 
What was the most recent meeting of each of the interdepartmental committees concerned. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) Is there a section in the Department of Foreign Affairs dealing with resources. 
If so, (a) what is the purpose of the section, (b) what is its actual staff at present and (c) what is the role of the section with respect to the responsibility to other Departments, specifically Overseas Trade and Minerals and Energy. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
What progress has been made to date with the preparation and signature of a treaty between Australia and Japan referred to as the Treaty of NARA. 
Have problems arisen with respect to the proposed Treaty. 
If so, what are these problems, and what action is being taken to overcome them. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
What aid has been given by the Government to liberation movements in Africa to date. 
To what liberation movements has this aid been given. 
How will this aid be dispersed, by whom, and for what purposes in each case. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
What assistance has been given to Cyprus since the conflict there in 1974. 
Did the United Nations request that Australia send additional Police Force representatives to Cyprus; if so, what response was given. 
How many Australian policemen and women are currently serving in Cyprus. 
What are their functions. 
Where are they stationed, and what is their term of service. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
What formal contact does the Department of Foreign Affairs maintain with groups in the community specifically interested in foreign policy questions? 
Will the Minister list the groups concerned indicating the form of communication which is maintained in each case. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the Government announced that it will not participate in the International Energy Agency. 
If so, is this still the case; if not, what action has been taken to change this stand. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) What part has the Department of Foreign Affairs played in consideration of Law of the Sea questions since I January 1974. 
What action in currently being taken. 
What is the relationship between the Department of Foreign Affairs' involvement in these issues and the responsibility of the Attorney-General 's Department. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
What agreements or other arrangements with respect to the Australian Antarctic Territory has the Government entered into since 2 December 1972. 
What is the effect of these agreements or other arrangements. 
When is the next meeting of nations involved in the Antarctic to be held. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) What is the current staff of the Department of Foreign Affairs. 
How many of these are (a) Foreign Affairs Officers and (b) others. 
How many of each group in part (2) are (a) overseas and (b) in Canberra. 
How many of each group in part (2) are not Australian citizens. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Is it the Government's intention that the expertise of the Department of Foreign Affairs should be extended by the lateral recruitment of officers into the Department from other Departments or from outside the Australian Public Service; if so, what action has been taken to implement this intention. 
How many officers have been recruited (a) from each of the other Departments and (b) from outside the Australian Public Service. 
At what level has these officers been integrated into the Department of Foreign Affairs. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
What action has the Government taken to date with respect to the report of the United Nations Visiting Mission to the Cocos (Keeling) Islands in August 1974? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the Minister's attention been drawn to a report in the Melbourne  Sun-Pictorial  on 7 October 1974 stating that the Prime Minister has proposed an Eight Nation group? 
If so, does the proposed group include the United . States of America, Canada, Britain, New Zealand, Indonesia, India and Malaysia? 
What is the purpose of the proposed group? 
-The remarks of supporters of the Government participating in this debate in both the Senate and apparently in this House make interesting reading. There are few honourable members on this side of the House who do not hold the honourable member for Brisbane  (Mr Cross)  in deep respect and high regard. I think it fair to say, if I might use ideological banter, that he is a member of the moderate section of the Labor Party, if not a shade to the right of that. In the Senate little was heard about this Bill from the left of the Labor Party. From looking at the list of speakers in this House there is not one other member of the Labor Party listed to speak. The honourable member for Brisbane has filled in and has put the viewpoint of the respectable right. The wayward left are not to be heard. 
However, with the greatest respect to the honourable member for Brisbane I want, by way of introduction, to take up certain points. There are only a few minutes left before the sitting will be suspended so I will go into the detail of my speech on resumption. The honourable member for Brisbane said, first of all, that the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  would not have repudiated this agreement. Nevertheless the reality is that in March 1973 the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  specifically described the earlier agreement that we are debating today as obnoxious. In March 1973 this headline appeared in the Melbourne  Sun-Pictorial: 
Base pact obnoxious- Whitlam. 
The article beneath it stated: 
The North- West Cape Base agreement with the United States was obnoxious, the Prime Minister,  Mr Whitlam,  said yesterday. He said the Defence Minister,  Mr Barnard,  would renegotiate the agreement with the U.S. in a few months. 
No self-respecting government would have entered into the agreement in the first place,  Mr Whitlam  told a Melbourne Press Club luncheon. 
That is a fine way to continue building up that reservoir of goodwill that the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  so aptly referred to when discussing what was necessary for an alliance to be properly effective. Secondly, the honourable member for Brisbane said that ANZUS is extremely valuable. He said that no leader, or respectable leader- responsible leader is what I think he said- of the Australian Labor Party has ever suggested to the contrary. If we hold to the maxim  expressio unius est exclusio alterius,  I do not know how we can describe the position of  Deputy  Leader of the Australian Labor Party lately removed from the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns).  The reality is that the honourable member for Lalor is  chairman  of a body that is actively seeking nonalignment for this country. The reality is that those who follow the foreign policies espoused by the honourable member for Lalor are those who wish to see the alliance between the United States of America and Australia torn asunder. 
-He got 33 votes. One would assume that under normal circumstances that would be a respectable tally even in the ranks of the oft-changing Labor Party. Those who follow that cause work assiduously for non-alignment as the prime aspect of Australia's foreign policy. Yet those members of the Left will not be heard on the air waves of Australia today. 
Thirdly, the honourable member for Brisbane said that in reality the ANZUS Treaty is vital to Australia. Of course, we agree. If it is so vital, therefore, why did the Prime Minister say what he did on 3 April 1974 in reply to the former Leader of the Opposition? He said: 
The Australian Government takes the attitude that there should not be foreign military bases, stations, installations in Australia. 
It is true that he went on to say: 
We honour agreements covering existing stations. 
But then he went on to say: 
We do not favour the extension or prolongation of any of those existing ones. The agreements stand, but there will not be extensions or proliferations. 
What sort of attitude is it, if security is any form of concept to be taken into account in defence policy or foreign policy, to determine in early 1974 that no matter what the circumstances in 1985, when the agreement supposedly comes to and end, the agreement will not be extended? 
-I am sorry, it is 1988. 1 suppose one would have to be among the ranks of the most optimistic in Australia to assume that honourable gentlemen opposite will be in government at that time, but they are speaking on behalf of the Australian people at this moment and the assumption is made that an agreement already existing can be curtailed. I would have thought the prudent course of action by any person, irrespective of ideology, would have been to assume that the agreement should run to its date of destination, 1988, and to assess the circumstances then- the requirement for security, the requirements for communication. That is the very least. 
I have already referred in passing to the concluding remarks of the honourable member for Moreton in opening the debate for the Opposition when he referred to the question of goodwill and at the same time to the reality that there have been frequent occasions upon which the goodwill existent between the United States and Australia has been either jeopardised or exacerbated. The fact is that it does not matter how many agreements one may have with another country. The ANZUS agreement is only one of over 100 agreements existing between Australian and the United States. It is unquestionably the most important, but it is only one of more than 100 agreements. What the honourable gentleman said was quite correct. The value of any alliance is ultimately dependent on the reservoir of goodwill that exists between the member states to that alliance. The insults, the denigration, the constant calling into question of the value of that alliance, must have jeopardised that reservoir of goodwill to a substantial extent. 

 Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 

MrPEACOCKContinuing the debate on the United States Naval Communications Station Agreement Bill, it will be recalled that I was mentioning the matters raised by the honourable member for Brisbane prior to the suspension of the sitting and in particular those matters that the honourable member for Moreton as our Shadow 
Minister for Defence concluded on, namely, that what really counts in relations between nations is the reservoir of goodwill that exists, not the formal documents alone. I said that there are more than 100 agreements between the United States and ourselves and that of paramount importance amongst those is the ANZUS Agreement. I mentioned that what the honourable member for Moreton had said was quite correct. If that reservoir of goodwill is jeopardised or depleted, those formal words are not of the same impact and are not of the same importance. They cannot be called upon with the same degree of surety at a given moment of time. That reservoir has to be great and continuing. 
May I say here on a question of foreign policy, that this points to an essence of foreign policy that is often overlooked. It is not necessarily relations between governments that is important, but the relationship between the peoples of the countries concerned is of the utmost importance. How would we have felt if we were reading day after day of attacks being made on our government by a neighbouring country such as were made on the Government of the United States time and again by this Government? I just mention as an aside my pleasure in seeing the Minister for the Capital Territory  (Mr Bryant)  at the table. I remarked earlier that the left had been deliberately quiet on this matter. 
It is a shame. I am glad to see the Minister for the Capital Territory, a man for whom I have the greatest respect in his dealings with Aborigines. So great was his success that he was moved to the Capital Territory portfolio and is now going to speak on a foreign affairs matter. He is a distinguished militarist, a distinguished soldier of the Second World War and we will be interested to know what he has to say on our United States Naval Communications Station Agreement. He is the first representative of the genuine left in the Parliament who has been permitted to speak on this matter. We look forward to it with great interest. 
In retrospect there is another matter that ought to be mentioned before I get on with the 3 amendments to the Agreement. It will be recalled that in 1961 the Liberal-Country Party Government was returned, and properly so, but with a very narrow majority. Also as an aside I mention that on that occasion as a student I stood against the now honourable member for Lalor who was then the member for Yarra. I remember carving into his vote to a substantial extent. 
-In 1 96 1 . 1 was still a student. 
She campaigned for me in butchers shops and in the street, so much so that I will produce the Press cuttings which reveal that the present honourable member for Lalor went to the Melbourne  Herald  and complained about her campaigning. That was reported and was publicised. 
-The honourable member for Moreton and I were on a campaign together. However, in 1963, our majority on that previous occasion having been narrowed to an effective majority of one, we went to the polls. But shortly before going to the polls, an historic photograph was taken. That photograph revealed the then Leader of the Oppostion, the late Rt.  Hon.  Arthur Calwell, and the then  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, now the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  waiting outside the Kingston Hotel for their instructions from the Federal Conference of the Australian Labor Party on what their reaction ought to be to the establishment of the North West Cape. We know what the reaction was. We know what the decision was. They were told by the then faceless men to question the establishment of the base- the base to which the present Prime Minister only 2 years ago referred as being obnoxious. That throws back to the vote of the Federal Conference in 1963, when he was waiting for his instructions. 
How much has this obnoxious Agreement been changed? How much has the so-called independent and influential foreign policy of the Labor Government changed this allegedly obnoxious Agreement? This Bill provides for 3 amendments to the Agreement. Are they gigantic or simple? The conclusion can only be the latter. The first amendment is to Article 1 of the Agreement. It provides that the base will be operated jointly. Secondly, the amendment to Article 2 limits United States control to the exclusive occupation of a national room. Those who have visited North West Cape have known for years that the only area that even the general public could not visit was that particular room, yet this is designated in the so-called amendments. The third amendment to this obnoxious Agreement, in the words of another, is to Article 14. It limits the Australian financial commitment to the cost associated with the location of elements of the Royal Australian Navy at the station. The substance of this Agreement is hardly altered at all. The honourable member for Moreton made that point. We made that point time and time again when the Agreement was renegotiated by the former Minister for Defence and Ambassadordesignate. 
The reality is that when the North West Cape Agreement was first formulated we welcomed it. The North West Cape base relays messages to submarines, surface ships and other bases. It initiates no commands, but it does relay commands. The station is a vital component of the United States' defence communications and also of Australia's communications. After all, Australia uses the North West Cape base for communication with its own submarines. At present, as I understand it, 25 per cent of the station's time is devoted to Australian naval needs.  Mr Barnard,  the then Minister for Defence, and the United States Secretary of Defence,  Mr Schlesinger,  saw the status of the station as a bilateral arrangement in the framework of the ANZUS Treatywords that must have been written for  Mr Barnard  by members of the Opposition Partiesfundamental to the ANZUS alliance, fundamental to the ANZUS Treaty and a part of the bilateral arrangement between 2 countries which share a common approach to the world's problems today as stronger members of the Western industrialised democracies. The United States has been assured, evidently, by the Labor Government and by the Prime Minister that the Labor Government will honour this Agreement. 
I referred earlier, and I must do so again more than 2 hours later, to what the Prime Minister had said at one stage about that Agreement- not just the reference to it as being obnoxious in former terms, but the fact that he had said: 
We do not favour the extension or prolongation of any of the existing agreements. The Agreement stands but there will not be any extensions or proliferations. 
I will not develop the point any further than I did earlier, other than to say that to say in 1975 that irrespective of the circumstances a Labor Government will not renegotiate an agreement or that it will not extend it irrespective of the circumstances existent in 1988 is crass stupidity, to put it at its mildest. Irrespective of the security situation, irrespective of the arrangements into which we have entered, irrespective of the threats that may exist at that time, irrespective of the global problems facing the world, the Labor Party says 13 years before the curtailment or cessation of an agreement that under no circumstances will it extend it. What sort of delinquent action is that? It is a response to ideological motivation rather than a realistic assessment of foreign policy. 
The importance of the North West Cape for Australia is that it is- we will state it frankly and we will not run away from it- a cornerstone of Australia's security. It rests on the ANZUS alliance, as has been recognised by the Prime Minister. On occasions we have even had rhetoric from the Prime Minister. For example, in January 1973 he said that Labor had a mandate and a duty to maintain the American alliance. The man must be a human hiccup or some other form of arrangement who goes to and fro from time to time, if he can say that on the one hand and yet on the other hand describe it as obnoxious. Maybe he is simply a humanised form of the well known yo-yo. 
Our friend interjects with a policy of love as the fundamental principle of foreign affairs. It befits him well. The Agreement serves to keep a super power, that to which we are allied, in the area until such time as detente is achieved. I stress now the importance of Diego Garcia in this context. Let us look at the Labor Party's platform and policies. We know that certain segments of the Labor Party are opposed to alignment. They are led particularly by the honourable member for Lalor, and I think maybe even the Minister for the Captal Territory may proffer a viewpoint that a non-aligned foreign policy is in Australia 's interests. Certainly the honourable member for Lalor does. Secondly the Australian Labor Party says that we should have a nuclear free zone in the Indian Ocean. 
-But is not the Government allowing establishments to take place very slowly but surely- the critical words are 'very slowly'south of Perth? Is not the Government permitting the naval base to develop there? Is that not inconsistence? If the Government alleges that it believes in an American alliance- it says it does but it does little to prove it- and if it then opposes the expansion of a logistic support base at Diego Garcia, it is, in racing parlance, trying to ride 2 horses in different directions at the one time, and it cannot be done. Why does the Government not face its hypocrisy? 
We have supported the establishment and the expansion of Diego Garcia, and now the United States Senate and Congress have supported the same viewpoint. That establishment will be there not merely as a balance to Soviet expansion in the Indian Ocean; but reality dictates that if the Azores are closed it will also provide the necessary backdoor entrance to the Middle East. If the 
Government does not overlook that latter factor, it would prefer to do so because its specious doctrine of even-handedness as a policy in the Middle East is no policy at all. 
The amendments leave the Agreement on the North West Cape substantially the same. They are in reality an endorsement of the policies of the Liberal and Country Parties when in government. It is another example of the hypocrisy and the deceit of the Labor Party in government and its lack of purpose in stating the principles of foreign policy honestly to the Australian people. We support the BDI because it mirrors our intent. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
What aid has been committed to date to the recently installed (Provisional) Revolutionary Government in Saigon. 
For what purposes has this aid been given, and how will it be dispersed. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
What overseas building projects relevant to the responsibility of the Department of Foreign Affairs are currently underway. 
What is the estimated cost of each project. 
What projects have been completed in the last 2 years and what was the cost in each case. 
What projects are proposed for the next 2 years and what is the estimated cost in each case. 
-The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  in the House this afternoon made a statement of the Government's attitude to events in Portuguese Timor. The Opposition does not come into the House now with any magic formula to solve the tragedy in Timor. It does, however, come in with a preparedness to put forward proposals that may well assist. The Prime Minister's statement was not only bereft of idealism, but was also completely denuded of realism. It offered nothing. The Prime Minister's statement illustrates more clearly than anything I could say this afternoon the current bankruptcy of Australia's foreign policy. After all the brave words about initiatives, after all the brave words about independence, when an ugly and dangerous situation erupts on our own doorstep this Government can do no more than courageously and independently wash its hands of the whole question. The Prime Minister announced that there will be no use of Australian forces in Timor. Of course there will not. 
The question of the use of force by Australia in Timor or anywhere else is currently a non-question. It could be said in response to the interjection that after 3 years of neglect of our defence forces we have nothing significant to deploy without dangerously denuding our forces at home. The question of the desirability of the use of forces, therefore, does not arise. It is not an option open to us. 
The Opposition recognises the basis of genuine concern on the part of Indonesia in terms of the turmoil in Portugal itself, in Angola and now in East Timor which forms part of the island archipelago of Indonesia, as well as in terms of the Soviet presence in the Indian Ocean and the Sino-Soviet rivalry in South East Asia. Who could but acknowledge the legitimate concern of the Indonesians and of the other countries of the region. Some may wish to pass over those realities but they are the harsh realities of international affairs today. What can Australia do? Do we in the Opposition go along with this sedulous washing of hands of 2 hours ago? We do not. Firstly, there is an organisation in being in the region, namely the Association of South East Asian Nations. We are not members of it although we are closely associated with it. It is widely considered that the central concern of ASEAN is to prevent outside interference and the kind of internal situation which would justify such interference in internal affairs. Is this then not the kind of situation where ASEAN could play an effective role, a role made even more effective by its close knowledge of the region, an advantage which the United Nations lacks? Have we made approaches to ASEAN to see what co-ordinated efforts could be made? No. 
What then of the UN itself? To use the phrase in the editorial of the  Age  newspaper today: 'It has burnt its fingers up to its elbows in peace keeping forces at the present moment'. Regrettably also its recent record in this regard is not reassuring. Nevertheless, on this second front, should Portugal take the matter to the United Nations we would support it. I will go on with third and fourth matters on a humanitarian basis in a moment, but think now of the opportunities missed by the Labor Government over the last 12 months, particularly since the removal of the right wing Government from Portugal, a government that had policies of colonialism, a government that one could have assumed would have been administering Portuguese Timor for quite some time. That changed. Left wing forces and divisive elements in Portugal took its place. This may be a bad thing, it may be a good thing. It is not for us to comment in the field of foreign relations on the internal affairs of another country. The reality is that we should have been commenting, if only amongst ourselves, on the changes this would have wrought in Portuguese Timor, on a policy of decolonisation, a policy shown in Angola and Mozambique and soon to be shown in East Timor. What did we do? We did nothing. 
Surely this is a classic example of how events thousands of miles away can have a direct effect so close to our own area. Again we were myopic and closed our eyes to this. We could have returned the consulate. Some could say that a Liberal-Country Party government removed the consulate but again the reality was that that consulate was removed under a Portuguese government that saw fit to pursue a policy of colonialism, of remaining in charge of East Timor and not setting a program or schedule for any transfer or movement to self-determination. That changed when the nature of the government and its policies in Portugal changed. A consulate there could have predicted the events. Perhaps we do not want to bother about the facts, but the reality is that if there is a conflict between opinion and facts this Government forgets about the facts. Here it says: 'Do not involve ourselves with a consulate in Timor; do not acknowledge the movements that are taking place elsewhere'. Furthermore, had that consulate been there it might have been able to co-operate in the field with the Indonesians much earlier. I acknowledge that at this moment we might well have been evacuating Australians if we had been so involved but earlier on it would have been a positive force for co-operative efforts in Timor itself at a time when circumstances were changing. Again there was no action, which mirrors the no effective words and no action of the statement today. 
Furthermore the Government, following these non-events, as a deliberate act of policy has decided on its own behalf to opt out of any helpful role, as it did with the consulate and as it did with the change of government in Portugal. It was simply hoping that the matter would change, that it might go away. It should be remembered that my saying that the Australian Government ought to be operating at least on the premise of preparedness is not just the attitude taken by an Opposition spokesman now. It must be borne in mind that requests for assistance from Australia have been made by the Portuguese Government and by the Timorese people themselves. It is not the view of the Opposition being imposed on Portugal and being imposed on Timor; there have been requests and they have been virtually turned down. 
What else can we do in the field of humanitarian aid? Obviously there is now a minimum number of doctors in Portuguese Timor. We could offer medical teams. It is the end of the dry season, and therefore there will be food supply shortages. So we could offer food. We hear nothing of that from the Prime Minister. In the short time remaining to me I shall deal with elements of the Prime Minister's statement. In his first paragraph the Prime Minister says: 
In our view, the program mapped out at Macao - 
He says that all the leaders were in Macao, but I doubt whether the Fretilin Party was participating actively there- providing for steady forward movement towards decolonisation . . . , went a long way towards the objectives we support for the territory. 
The reality is that this Government had 2 policies in relation to Timor and those policies were mutually exclusive. Either one or the other had to apply, but both could not apply. The Prime Minister had a policy of allowing the Timorese people to be incorporated into Indonesia, which many people would support. On the other hand, the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Senator Willesee)  had a policy of self determination. The Government could not have both policies, but it sought to have a bob each way, as is frequently the case. Secondly, the Prime Minister  says on page 2 of his statement: 
We have been, however, and we remain opposed to Australian military involvement. 
I dealt with that matter earlier on. He then says: 
One of the first policy decisions of the Government, on assuming office in December 1972, was to determine that Australia would not intervene again in land wars in SouthEast Asia. 
So the Prime Minister is saying: 'Irrespective of circumstances, irrespective of the changing nature of international relations, irrespective of what is transpiring in the Indian Ocean, irrespective of the balance of forces and the opportunities for others to compete for influence- irrespective of those moves- we will turn our back'. The 
Government says: 'We will stick by the decision made in 1972, no matter what changes occur in the years ahead, never to offer any assistance '. 
-Does the honourable member support the Five Power Agreement? The honourable member refuses to answer whether he supports the Five Power Agreement. The reality is that the Five Power Agreement still operates. We are still members of an arrangement which involves members of the Services in the Five Power Agreement. If something occurs are those governments involved in that Agreement to take it that this Government's decision taken in 1972 means that there will be no cooperation with them whatsoever? What is the worth of the Five Power Agreement? I hope that the honourable member who interjected will go on record later and elaborate on his distinctively different views from the Opposition on this point. 
-I have already ruled that out. I will try to spell it out in words of one syllable, if the honourable member would like. No, I am not; but the honourable member ought to have been able to gather that from my earlier remarks. What I am pointing to is the inconsistency and the utter denuding of a policy approach on this occasion by the Prime Minister.  His  statement is one of double negatives throughout. It is a statement which says that we will not offer any contributions or assistance to the people of Timor, to the people of Indonesia, to the region. It is a policy lacking in concern. As the Prime Minister says on page 5 of his statement, Portugal cannot simply wash its hands of Portuguese Timor. I say that Australia cannot simply wash its hands of events in Portuguese Timor. As I said, if anything happens in Portuguese Timor it could have an effect on us because of its closeness to our shores. That again is ignored by the Prime Minister. On page 6 of his statement the Prime Minister says: 
It is a responsibility that cannot be shrugged off on to others such as Australia. 
Neither can it be shrugged off by Australia. For better or worse, we are in the region. We ought to be concerning ourselves along the lines that I have suggested. Those suggestions point not merely to the bankruptcy of the Government's foreign policy but also to the fact that on a critical occasion such as this, when there is bloodshed and terrorism, we are not prepared either to act in conjunction with ASEAN, to act in conjunction with the United Nations, or to suggest some form of mediation. The Opposition does not come before the Parliament with a few words, waving a wand that will solve the situation, but it does not stand before the Australian Parliament opting out of a difficult conflict. It has shown in the past its capacity for facing realities in international relations. The Government has shown that it is continuing to run away from these realities. As I said, it is courageously and independently washing its hands of the whole question. It must be condemned for the statement made by the Prime Minister. It must be condemned for not offering more humanitarian aid. It must be condemned for not facing the facts of life. I have put these views on behalf of the Opposition as a stark contrast to what was offered the House this afternoon. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Nicholls)  adjourned. 
-The Bills before the House are the final historic legislative instruments in the transfer of power to Papua New Guinea. They provide, by their passage through this House and the Senate, the removal of the legislative framework relating to Australian administrative and legislative authorities over Papua New Guinea. We are therefore within a few weeks of the watershed in relations between the territory and the administering authority. Our thoughts on this occasion ought properly to be on Papua New Guinea and her future rather than on indulging in any form of self-congratulatory remarks. 
However, that rather proper hope and aspiration that I have in regard to this legislation is qualified to some extent. Whilst I endorse the Bills and the Opposition supports them, I have to note that I was somewhat disappointed that the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  in his speech on this legislation spent so much time on selfcongratulatory language about the role of the Australian Labor Party in allegedly decolonising Papua New Guinea and that by his incorporation in  Hansard  of lengthy statements from 1970 he proffered the oft-quoted view that it was he, as the then Leader of the Opposition, who really brought about this decolonisation. It is a view that I challenge. It is a view that is incorrect. It is a view that, when the history and the records that are available about this period of time are made available to the public, will be seen to be an illinformed interpretation, though an oft-quoted one in the last 5 years. 
The reality is that the first really effective steps towards self-government and independence were taken in 1970. Let me say how pleased I am, although he does not sit with us on all issues, that the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  is with us in the House today. It was he who perceived the need to make these changes, in a somewhat dramatic way, speeding up the process and transferring more authority to the Ministers and the Assistant Ministers in the former United Party Government in Papua New Guinea in 1970. 1 have always thought that his role and the role of the former Minister for Territories and then later Minister for External Territories, my predecessor in that position, have been underrated. Certainly the steps taken by the right honourable member for Higgins ought to be seen in the proper perspective of the proper hastening of moves in a smooth and orderly manner towards self-government and independence. Regrettably the Prime Minister made no mention of that fact in his address last week. 
I think I can say that my speeches throughout 1972 constantly reiterated the positive goal of independence. As members of the LiberalCouncil Party Government, we put the theme; we set the scene in conjunction with the Government of Papua New Guinea; and we planned with that Government the transfer of the functions which has brought about this position today. Indeed, if I may say so in using the first personal pronoun, I was fortunate enough to participate as Minister for External Territories in the first of the series of constitutional talks between Australia and Papua New Guinea in July 1972. They were, after all, the first government to government talks ever held between the 2 countries. After the impetus of the transfer of activities in 1970 providing more responsibility and decision making for the Ministers in Papua New Guinea, those talks in 1972 were the first government to government talks ever held between our 2 countries. The series of meetings in July and August 1972 was the beginning of a series of transfers of administrative and legislative authorities that has culminated in this legislation today. 
-That is a regrettably fatuous remark by the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Les Johnson),  exacerbated by the former Minister for External Territories and present Minister for Defence  (Mr Morrison),  who is sitting at the table. I could contrast the administration of the Labor Government after the war. I could talk about the development of Papua New Guinea from 1950 or 1960 onwards. I remind honourable members that there are more than 500 different tribes, speaking in excess of that many languages, in Papua New Guinea. The amount of development that occurred was tremendous and it was brought about in a manner that permitted us to discuss in a proper and detached manner the move towards independence today. 
There are few, if any, examples of administered areas moving towards independence which have reached the stage of independence on such close terms with the administering authority. The major factor in this relationship was the steady progress and then the proper acceleration at the proper time brought about by the previous Government. Of course there were faults. His.torians will record them. Commentators today will besiege us with them. Point to any form of government in the world, any relations between human beings, where there are not mistakes. But taken overall, the resultant transfer towards independence is, in my view, something of which Australian governments can be proud and not something to be sneered at on this historic occasion. With the possible exception of the relationship between Britain and Fiji- I do not think even that is pertinent to this case- I would think that there are no other countries in the world that can say that they were on such close terms, following such earnest preparedness for independence, as Australia as the administering authority and Papua New Guinea as the territory. 
As I said, throughout 1972 I made speeches which indicated that we were planning towards this day. Regrettably, the speech of the Prime Minister, apart from a welcome credit for what I did in Papua New Guinea, did not underscore the role of the Liberal-Country Party Government sufficiently. For example, on 3 March 1 972, one month and one day after being sworn into the portfolio of External Territories, in addressing the University of Papua New Guinea on the occasion of its graduation ceremony, among other things I said: 
The Government believes it should help Papua New Guinea towards self-government. It should not just sit back and wait for it to happen. 
About a month later, speaking in the Bowman electorate I said similar things. I said: 
The Government believes it should help Papua New Guinea towards self-government. We should be remiss if we sat back and just waited for it to happen. 
I said such things in a variety of speeches. Bearing in mind the incorporation by the Prime Minister at the end of his speech of some of his previous statements, I seek leave to have incorporated in  Hansard  at the end of this address a speech on future relations between Australia and Papua New Guinea delivered by me to the New South Wales Branch of the Australian Institute of International Affairs. I have received the approval of the Leader of the House  (Mr Daly)  for this and I assume that the Minister for Defence has no objection. 
-I should like to quote from one paragraph of that speech to underline further not merely the concern that we had that there should be Australian attention to the move towards self-government and independence but that as far back as 1972 I was aware that there ought to be proper and adequate planning for the post-independence situation. No one likes to stand here and quote himself, but the reality is that during this period I was the Minister for External Territories. So, I have to do it, just as I assume the Prime Minister might have been impelled by the same motivation when he incorporated his own speeches and statements the other day. I quote this statement because it was made on behalf of the Government in 1972. I said: 
It is necessary to distinguish between Australia's relations with Papua New Guinea and Papua New Guinea's own foreign relations. We have to determine our relations with Papua New Guinea with proper regard to Australia's own national interests. We should expect Papua New Guinea to do the same. In particular, we should not expect Papua New Guinea to look to us to decide what her national interests are. Nor as I have said earlier should we expect that Papua New Guinea's national interests will not over the years, as they are better defined and as Papua New Guinean political leaders become more conscious of them, more and more diverge from Australia's. There will undoubtedly be a residual common interest. If mutual respect accompanies it, if we can succeed in avoiding gratuitous insults to Papua New Guinea's nationhood and sovereignty, then that residual common interest will be of great importance. 
My reason for quoting that is that we come to the stage where Papua New Guinea- albeit she has had her own Foreign Relations and Defence Minister and has had her own staff at missions abroad- will now in law as well as in fact be conducting her own foreign policy and conducting it as it suits her interests and not necessarily Australia's interests. That is something for which we planned, something we have to understand. If we are to avoid misunderstandings in the future it will be well to recall that we were giving consideration to this matter some years ago. 
These 5 Bills, small though some are, in toto are historic pieces of legislation. The Papua New Guinea Independence BUI basically repeals the Papua New Guinea Act. It is the end of the formal association whereby Australia ceases to have any sovereignty over Papua New Guinea at midnight on 15 September thus enabling the Papua New Guinea Constitution to have effect on 16 September, that Constitution not being dependent on any legislative authority from Australia under this legislation. Secondly, the Papua New Guinea BUI transfers to Papua New Guinea the administration of the Pocklington Reef Islands, a matter announced by the Minister for Defence in 1974. Thirdly, the Papua New Guinea Loans Guarantee Bill provides the guarantees for loans entered into by Papua New Guinea prior to the date of independence- guarantees from the Aus.tralian Government until the maturity of such loans. Fourthly, the Papua New Guinea (Staffing Assistance) BUI introduces new staffing aid arrangements and provides for the elimination of the Australian Staffing Assistance Group, which covers approximately 2700 members. They will be encouraged to work not within the ASAG but rather directly for the Papua New Guinea Government. Finally, the Social Services Bill (No. 2) amends the Social Security Act to enable former residents of external territories to qualify for social services if they come to Australia to live. In other words, residence in a territory other than Norfolk Island, which at present is the subject of a royal commission, will count as residence within Australia to satisfy residential qualifications for Australian social services. 
I reiterate, we are not opposed to these Bills for they bring about the sort of goal and aim that we shared with the Papua New Guinea Government under the leadership of Michael Somare and which this Australian Government has carried on. Our duty to the United Nations- and it was that- .Will be executed at midnight on 15 September. We Will have formally executed the United Nation mandate to advance Papua New Guinea politically, economically and socially. Throughout the constitutional process toward independence I have stressed that both the move to self government, which was agreed during our period in government, and this last step to independence were primarily motivated by decisions of the political leadership of Papua New Guinea and responded to by ourselves. It was not a decision imposed by the Australian Government. 
So we come to the stage where what will be the primary importance in our relations is during the post-independent scene- from 16 September onwards. I have constantly reiterated in this House that there ought to have been more planning of those post-independence relations, that the move to independence ought not to have been a sudden break, that we should not have reached the date when suddenly both governments look at one another and say 'How are we to relate with one another', and that there should at least have been more evidence of the planning of this post-independence relationship between 
Papua New Guinea and Australia than has been given in this House in the past. 
I concede that in many instances it may be wise not to enter into a formal arrangement regarding those post-independence relations. It might be wiser to wait until Papua New Guinea is independent and executes her agreement to those relations or to whatever formal arrangements are to be entered into as an independent country so that there can be no accusation that she was coerced into those agreements before independence was reached. If this situation has been adhered to it has my full endorsement, but what I am troubled about is that leading up to that there might not have been within Australia the planning for those agreements to be entered into. That planning I would have hoped would have been carried out. 
-I am aware that in the area of trade a great deal has been done. I assume that in the area of defence quite a considerable amount has been done. But little has been said publicly. In other areas, as I have reiterated time and again here, I have no evidence of the planning that ought to have been done being put before us. I do not wish to be churlish on this occasion. The overriding thought that preoccupies one on this occasion is not to think back so much -both the Prime Minister and myself have probably spent too much time doing that thinking back over our administrations and congratulating ourselves for what we have done- but what Papua New Guinea is going to do. We should be looking forward to her role as an independent country, taking her own role as a sovereign State in the world and as a member of the United Nations as separate from us as any other country. No longer is Papua to be a mere territory of Australia, no longer is New Guinea to be under the mandate of the United Nations. Papua New Guinea is to be a separate entity. There is a limit for all countries as to just how independent they can be one from another. The spirit of interdependence, particularly at a grievous economic time for the world, emphasises the need for countries to relate and co-operate together. There is no doubt that we will be the major provider of aid to Papua New Guinea. I would have hoped that the long term aid arrangements would also have been determined prior to independence. Regrettably that is not so. 
In a speech that is a little more churlish than I had hoped- but as a result of some of the remarks that were made last week- I nevertheless give endorsement to the Bills and give endorsement overall to the administration by Australia of Papua New Guinea. I regret that members of the Australian Labor Party have too frequently in my view indulged in a degree of self congratulations that it is just they alone who ended the colonial role. In law that may be so, for in government they passed legislation providing for self government; but that legislation was planned by us. In law they are providing legislation in this House today for that independence; so in law it may be so but in fact it was a movement established and planned by us. However such arguments are not merely fatuous; they can indeed be dangerous. I have never believed that merely taking the role of the liberator was enough. What was and is more important is that the new nation has more than an even chance of survival. I am certain that it has because of the calibre of the leadership at present in Papua New Guinea. In the longer term it will be partially because of the relationship which we have developed with her. The talent of the Papua New Guinea leadership will take it a long way towards an effective independent state. The dearth of Australian assistance, however, may jeopardise that possibility. Nevertheless few if any administering powers have done as well. It is not just for Australian politicians to take the credit. Without Australian public servants and members of the Administration in Papua New Guinea and without the ability particularly of the Papua New Guinea leadership- the Papua New Guinea people supporting that leadership- we would not be viewing the satisfactory solution in this movement towards independence that we are today. 
With all my reservations about the lack of preparedness for the post independence relations I wish nevertheless to conclude with congratulations to the Government of Papua New Guinea for the way in which it has received the powers that have been transferred. I express the wish that in its independent period as it looks to Asia, the Pacific or elsewhere, and that through the stresses and strains that it feels in the conduct of either its own domestic affairs or its international relations, it will look to Australia. Factors of geography and occasions of history ought to make us close. I hope that it is not merely verbiage today when I say that for we must wish them well in what is probably an endless adventure that they will embark upon on 16 September. They do so with the wholehearted support of both sides of the Parliament. Earlier I obtained leave to incorporate in Hansard a speech entitled  'Future Relations Between Australia and Papua New Guinea '. I now do so. (The document read as follows)- 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
-I address a question to the Prime Minister. I refer to his discussions yesterday with  Dr Santos  concerning East Timor. Can and will he advise the House what formal requests were made by  Dr Santos  for Australian assistance and what was the Government's response? Secondly- again regarding the situation in East Timor- what diplomatic initiatives have been taken by Australia with other countries in the region? I ask the Prime Minister please do not draw the same long bow as he did previously. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
What international agreements, conventions, treaties, or other arrangements have been entered into by the Government since 2 December 1972 and have been registered with the United Nations as required by article 102 of the United Nations Charter? 
Will the Minister list those which have not been so registered. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
What action has been taken since 1 January 197S to pursue the Prime Minister's proposal for an Asian Pacific Forum. 
With whom, and when, has it been discussed, and what has been the reaction. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What is Australia's current role and position in the International Monetary Fund. 
Is any change expected in that role or position in the near future. 
If so, for what reasons is such change expected, and what will it mean in respect of Australia's role and standing in the International Monetary Fund. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
1) Has the Minister said that the Government's aim is to provide 0.7 per cent of Gross National Product as development assistance by 1980? 
If so, is this still the Government's target for development assistance? 
What was the rate of increase in development assistance in each of the calendar years 1973 and 1974? 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs: 
1 ) What programs or other arrangements is the Government currently involved in under SEATO. 
What is the nature of each such program or arrangement. 
3 ) What is Australia 's role in each. 
What is Australia 's financial contribution to each. 
I second the motion and wish to speak briefly to it. We thought the legislation which was before the House last week was the last opportunity we would have to put our view on Papua New Guinea. However, this is a further opportunity. There will be an official party from Australia at the official celebrations next week. That party will comprise the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  the Minister for Defence  (Mr Morrison)  in his capacity as Minister concerned with Papua New Guinea matters, the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  the Leader of the National Country Party of Australia  (Mr Anthony)  and me. I want to say on behalf of the Opposition that we look beyond 16 September when Papua New Guinea becomes independent. We look for a very close association with Papua New Guinea based not merely on the reservoir of good will which exists between the 2 countries, not merely on the geographic tie there is between us, but also on the undertakings we have made to guarantee the aid programs and to retain our close association with Papua New Guinea while it seeks the implementation of its aspirations. We believe that a united Papua New Guinea will be a successful Papua New Guinea and that the relationship between us which is so close now will continue for a long time. I join with the Minister for Defence in offering the Opposition's warmest congratulations to the National Parliament of Papua New Guinea and also to the people on the achievement of their independence. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
What was the total of Australia's development assistance to (a) Papua New Guinea, (b) Africa, (c) Asia, (d) the Pacific and (e) other in each of the last 3 financial years? 
What was the rate of increase in development assistance in (a) 1972-73, (b) 1973-74 and (c) 1974-75 in each case in Part (1)? 
-In the debate on the estimates for the Department of 
Foreign Affairs I wish to speak about Australia's role in peace keeping in relation to the United Nations. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  at last year's United Nations General Assembly took a very interesting attitude towards peace keeping. He said: 'It is not enough for members of the United Nations to pay lip service to the United Nations peace keeping role'. He also said: 'Australia stands ready to participate in peace keeping operations in whatever way will be most useful'. He went on to say: 'We wish Australia to be always among the first nations from which the United Nations would ask for peace keeping forces; we shall be among the first to respond'. 
It now comes to light that last week the Labor Government rebuffed a United Nations plan to deploy an Australian peace keeping force in the Middle East. It seems that the United Nations Secretariat had been considering using approximately 250 Australian troops in a logistical role alongside Canadian peace keeping troops. This followed repeated offers by the Prime Minister and the Minister for Defence  (Mr Morrison)  of such a force. Now there arises a strange mixed story regarding whether these troops have been offered by Australia, how many troops are available, whether a request, official or otherwise, has been made for these troops, and what in fact is the Australian Government policy on this matter. The Department of Foreign Affairs insists that Australia's offer of troops is still open and we know that the Prime Minister and Minister for Defence have reaffirmed this offer. We also know that there is a need for such troops and that the United Nations has been counting on Australian involvement in the United Nations peace keeping operation. We have troops who are trained but we are now told that there has been no official request by the United Nations Secretariat for Australian troops in the Middle East. 
However, we all know that international organisations, and foreign governments for that matter, do not confront other governments with requests of an official nature until such time as informal soundings indicate that these requests will be sympathetically received. We have heard a great deal from the Prime Minister and from the Labor Government on the value of contributing forces under the auspices of the United Nations to keep the peace. Nevertheless, it seems obvious that a less than sympathetic answer to approaches from the United Nations must have been given and given no doubt in the corridors where the reversal of our foreign policy would not be recorded. 
No one can deny the value of United Nations peace keeping forces. Peace keeping is perhaps the one most valuable role the United Nations has to play in today's world. The Australian Labor Party itself has constantly argued that a high priority be given to Australia 's participation in United Nations peace keeping operations. For over a decade official Labor policy has been that Australian defence forces should be capable of deployment as part of the United Nations force. Indeed, for many members of the Australian Labor Party it would seem that the possibility that troops would be used in this way constituted one of the strongest moral justifications for the maintenance of Australia's defence forces.  Dr Evatt,  as far back as the 1945 San Francisco Conference which drew up the Charter for the United Nations, argued strongly that middle powers should contribute to the United Nations peace keeping activities. Even the Prime Minister himself in 1963 said that Australia 'must show a greater willingness to assist the United Nations in its peace keeping functions'. Unfortunately at the same time the Prime Minister, in his ignorance, attacked the government of the day, a Liberal-Country Party government, for not pulling its weight in this regard. This was arrant nonsense. Not only has the Liberal-Country Party always been in favour of United Nations peace keeping operations and an active and responsible participation in these by Australia but also in fact has been very much involved in peace keeping during, I stress, periods of a LiberalCountry Party government. 
Not only was the Prime Minister confused about Liberal-Country Party commitments to United Nations peace keeping but much more recently has been the Minister for Defence. He is reported as saying that he did not think Australian soldiers had served in a peace keeping role for the United Nations in the past, although a contingent of Australian policemen had served in Cyprus. We were in Korea, as the Prime Minister has said. We were and still are in Cyprus, as the Minister for Defence has said. But this is certainly not the limit to our involvement. Australia participated in United Nations peace keeping operations over a span of 28 years- in 1947 in Indonesia; in 1950 in Kashmir; in 1950 in Korea; in 1956 in Palestine; in 1963 as observers to the United Nations Yemen Observation Mission; in 1962-63 for the United Nations Temporary Executive Authority in West New Guinea; and of course since 1964 with police in Cyprus. The Minister for Defence said in Washington just 2 months ago that he had advised United 
Nations officials that Australia was ready to provide troops for any United Nations peace keeping force. He is reported as offering a force of several hundred- I repeat several hundred- soldiers to serve anywhere in the world, probably in the Sinai desert in the Middle East. 
So we have a history of repeated statements of willingness, repeated policy platforms claiming what a splendid and correct thing it would be to provide Australian troops for peace keeping and now, as an extra incentive, if one were needed, a statement that we should have a specially trained force of Australian soldiers to perform such a function. In late August, as we know, 150 Australian soldiers were sent to Canada for 6 weeks training in the art of peace keeping. Now we have to find out why, in the face of informal approaches from the United Nations, the Government members have shown how empty their rhetoric is, how unreliable their promises and how unprincipled their principles. It appears that the forces to the Left in the Labor Party, who are opposed to the recent agreement between Egypt and Israel, may have been responsible for this embarrassing reversal of policy. It seems that sections of the Labor Party sympathetic to the acts of the Palestine Liberation Organisation have opposed an Australian peace keeping offer. Could it be that these sections in the Labor Party now have so much influence that the Government is unable to carry out its policies? Could it be that our forces are now so thin on the ground that it would be an embarrassment to divert some of them? 
Naturally there is now a confusion in the minds of people as to Government policy. Where do the posturing and mouthing of principles end and where does the implementation of policy start? What we find is complete and utter hypocrisy- indeed there may well be outright deceit. The Government has a very confusing and 2-faced attitude toward foreign policy. Timor is another prime example of this. The Prime Minister affirms the principle of self-determination and de-colonisation and yet will take no responsible initiative, will not even discuss the situation and refuses to get involved. We have proposed discussions with the Association of South-East Asian Nations. We have proposed that ASEAN be involved in Timor in bringing the parties together. But this Government will take no initiative whatsoever. The Department of Foreign Affairs behaves in a most secretive manner in this area. Aid has been slow in going to Timor. There is a feeling of embarrassment even within the Labor party about the lack of initiative and involvement. Indeed members of the Labor Party have openly complained about it. 
Timor has been abandoned to its own resources which, as we all know, are very scarce. If ASEAN had been able to play a role perhaps Indonesia would not have been forced to act unilaterally. We understand Indonesia's concern. The events of the civil war in Timor are taking place in an area at the end of the Indonesian island archipelago. Who can doubt the concern that Indonesia must feel. This Government's role has been negligent and negligible. Once again policy implementation is seen for a variety of reasons with left wing influences to be wrested from the hands of the Government.  
Frankly, in a debate on the estimates for the Department of Foreign Affairs it is time that we received a full statement on foreign policy from the Government. We would like to know where the line is between principle and practice. We would like to know what this country can rely on through this Government. We would like to know to what extent other governments and organisations can rely on us. The last such foreign policy statement was made in May 1 973- almost  2Vi  years ago. When in Opposition the Labor Party stressed constantly the need for frequent foreign policy statements. It is time now that it practised what it preached and let us know what we and others can expect of this Government. We have seen delinquency. We have seen a failure to act. We have seen a failure to act in concert with Indonesia on Timor. I think the Government can be described as utterly delinquent in that regard, and in the disparity between what it says about its contribution to United Nations peace keeping forces and what in actual fact it does. There seems to be, as I said earlier, outright deceit. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Labor and Immigration, upon notice: 
1 ) How many refugees from South Vietnam have been granted permanent resident status in Australia to date. 
How many of these are now in Australia. 
How many further applications are currently being processed. 
-by leave-With a degree of false modesty I put forward the proposition that despite the visits that Australian politicians have made to Papua New Guinea, no one in this Parliament has discussed either at such length or so frequently as I have the question of the Queensland-Papua New Guinea border with members of the Government of Papua New Guinea. I also submit that no one has raised in this Parliament since the Australian Labor Party was elected to Government the question of the Papua New Guinea-Queensland border as frequently as I have. I remind the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  that on numerous occasions I indicated to him that if this matter was not settled prior to independence it would go beyond this Parliament into the International Court of Justice and to the United Nations. This is a matter in which I understand the background to the concern of the Papuans and New Guineans. Nevertheless, I have to say that this is a statement founded in deceit. 
The Prime Minister on assuming office knew the background to this matter because I recall that he put questions on notice to me when I was Minister for External Territories. I recall his reference to committees of the United Nations referring to the border question. Within daysnot weeks, not months, but days- of becoming Prime Minister, the honourable gentleman said that, unilaterally, he would move the border between Papua New Guinea and Queensland. He knows only too well what is contained in section 123 of the Constitution because no one reminds us more frequently of his knowledge of the Australian Constitution and no one reminds us more frequently of his role as Australia's greatest foreign minister. He knows only too well the ramifications of that statement. If the Prime Minister within days of his assumption of office had not said that he would move this border on his own, this problem we are facing tonight would not have arisen. Section 123 of the Constitution guarantees the rights of States to determine whether their borders will be changed. I plead with the Government to recognise not merely the views of the Papua New Guineans and the 
Torres Strait Islanders but also the views of the representatives of the Queensland people. 
As I say, this is a statement founded in deceit. If honourable members want to talk about maintaining good relations with Papua New Guinea, I just remind them that the reason independence was accepted on 16 September, supported earlier by the overwhelming majority of the members of the House of Assembly, was that the present Prime Minister of Papua New Guinea, the former Chief Minister, accepted implicitly and frequently the Prime Minister's constant undertakings to grant increased aid at the time of independence. The Prime Minister revoked that promise shortly prior to independence just as he is revoking his knowledge of the background here. This is akin to the Attorney-General  (Mr Enderby)  advocating constitutional anarchy. The Government cannot rip up sections of the Constitution and then come in here and plead ignorance of them. The Prime Minister knows as well as I do that if men of goodwill had got together they could have solved this problem. But the Prime Minister sought to ride over not only the Constitution but also the rights of the Islanders and of the Queenslanders. The Prime Minister knows as well as I do that the Premier of Queensland has sought to move from his former intransigent position to establish a national park. This was the first move. I do not care what example you cite in the sphere of international relations in which parties are apart. The duty of a Prime Minister and a Foreign Minister is to bring those parties together, not to exacerbate the situation by advocating some unilateral decision. The Prime Minister has come into the Parliament tonight with a 21 -page statement. On page 19 of that statement he states: 
Contrary therefore to the suggestion made by the Premier, the document was not in fact a prepared brief or a resolution but was a statement written nastily during the luncheon adjournment. 
I readily agreed to the incorporation in  Hansard  of the statement to which the Prime Minister has referred as being hastily drawn up during the luncheon adjournment. Let honourable members read this statement and let the most senior legal occupant of any bench in the Parliament advise me whether that document could have been drawn up at lunch time. It is like the stories my dear friend the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  tells about the men on the bench in the outer Barcoo and other areas asking counsel: 'Are expressions such as .----Il:- unius est exclusio alterius frequently used in the Barcoo?' and counsel replying: 'They talk of nothing else'. Fancy during a luncheon adjournment drawing up a 3-page agreement between parties such as Islanders, a nation such as Papua New Guinea and Australia. It is just not on. 
The reality is that this was an action conceived in deceit and formulated on the basis of a misconception in the early part of the honourable gentleman's reign of office, days after his assumption of the position of Prime Minister. I remind the Prime Minister that on 6 April 1972- remember, because of the frequency with which letters are produced in this Parliament relating to actions of past governments, that this can be readily produced- some 2 months and 4 days after I was sworn in as Minister for External Territories the then Prime Minister, after I discussed the matter with him on that day, wrote to me suggesting that an inter-departmental committee be formed. That committee reported in July 1972. Therefore, when the present Prime Minister assumed office he spoke on a matter that could have the widest ramifications internationally without even checking what had occurred at inter-departmental levels or at governmental levels. The Prime Minister sought to be the proclaimer of changes in Territories involving 2 soon to be independent nations. 
The Prime Minister knows that what he put to this Parliament tonight is, regrettably, one of the worst statements promulgated by an Australian Government in regard to relations between Papua New Guinea and Australia. I reiterate, if I need to, the views and the sympathies I have with those in Papua New Guinea. I have spoken before. I also know that no solution can be found if people seek to berate parties to a dispute. You can only draw people together and seek a feeling of goodwill to reach a conclusion, not surreptitiously send some public servant whose better days were behind him and who allegedly could draw up a 3-page agreement in legal terminology seeking to transfer territory from one State to another. 
It is not just the Australian Parliament that has taken an interest in this matter. It is not just the Queensland Parliament or the Papua New Guinea Parliament. United Nations visiting missions have taken an interest in it. Section 123, as I said, says that no boundary of a State can be changed without the consent of that State. The Prime Minister came in tonight and used the overwhelming majority of his statement to indicate all the background but he made no reference to the discussions that occurred prior to his assumption of office, no reference to the discussions that occurred shortly before he became Prime Minister, but rather sought to justify an exercise which was bent upon mischief, which sought to get around the Queensland view, and which probably will mean an inescapable venture into disputation for years to come- and not disputes in the Australian Territory but in the international sphere, not just through the United Nations but also at the International Court of Justice. 
This matter could have been handled before 16 September. The Prime Minister has been told month after month when debates on Papua New Guinea have come into this Parliament, and every time I have supported the Government's legislation, expressing not only the interest of Australia but also that of Papua New Guinea. Almost every time I have pleaded with both the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Senator Willesee and the Minister for Defence (Mr Morrison)  to have regard to post independence relations. I have pointed to the problem of the border between Papua New Guinea and Queensland. Do not tell me that within less than 4 weeks of the independence of that country the Prime Minister can come in here and ascribe aU blame to the Queensland Government. He simply cannot wash his hands of this. 
The Prime Minister has had nearly 3 years to get together with the Queensland Premier. The only person who has advocated publicly some form of solution, and he was supported by his Government, was the Queensland Premier. That was the national park that the Government subscribed to. I am not accepting the twenty-one or twenty-two page document put together tonight. This dispute has gone on since the latter part of the last century. There was a possibility of resolving it. As I say, without trying to assume false modesty, there were men of goodwill trying to draw different boundaries. I have here a map of the area that shows 6 boundaries drawn as we tried to narrow down the differences and this map was produced in 1972. Those were the endeavours that were being made. Do not tell me that one man like J.C. himself can walk into the position of Prime Minister and suddenly solve it, absolving himself of all constitutional requirements. 
I do not pretend that this issue can be easily resolved. I do not stand here and say that one man can cure it. What I do say is that if the Prime Minister had sought to bring people together, if he had recognised that after independence this would be a festering problem, it could have been solved. The Prime Minister has caused it all because not within weeks, not within months, not within years but within days of becoming Prime Minister he cancelled almost every option by indicating his opposition to the Federal system and by indicating his opposition to the Constitution itself. By following a course of constitutional anarchy he has jeopardised relations not just between a Labor Government and a Country Party-Liberal Party Government in Queensland, but between 2 countries, Papua New Guinea and Australia. It is well to reflect that the man who sought the tide of Australia's greatest Foreign Minister probably will bring about the greatest dispute between ourselves and our closest independent neighbour, not by delinquency but deceit. 
-My question to the Prime Minister is supplementary to the question asked by the  Deputy  Leader of the National Country Party, which was not answered by the Prime Minister. Did the honourable member for Cunningham have any authority, implied or otherwise, to continue with his overseas loans negotiations? 
-The constant regurgitation by the Government that this is a Bill solely for defence purposes and that it is akin to legislation introduced when the Opposition parties were in power simply is not true. Let me state the reality. If the right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon)  is able to speak on this he will speak with infinitely more authority. The Minister for Tourism and Recreation  (Mr Stewart)  quoted from the preamble to the Bill, saying that this is a Bill to authorise the raising and expending of moneys for defence purposes, but he does not recognise the fact that the preambular passage to the legislation that was introduced by the former Government stated the amount of money itself. But more to the point, I refer to the application of moneys borrowed clause in this piece of legislation, namely, clause 4. When the previous Government provided funds to be expended by way of loan for the Department of Defence it was put on that basis and that basis alone. Into clause 4 the Government has put the following words: 
Moneys borrowed under section 3 shall be applied only for the expenses of borrowing and for services specified under the heading 'Department of Defence' in the  Supply Act (No. 1)  1975-76- 
Then we have the following interesting passage: . . . or in an Act passed after the commencement of this Act and appropriating the Consolidated Revenue Fund for the service of the year that commenced on 1 July 1975 . . . 
This is a fraud. This is a subterfuge. This is a ruse to supply moneys allegedly for defence purposes to be appropriated elsewhere should the Government so desire. Honourable members opposite know that this has been one of the objections to the Bill itself. The dishonesty of the Government, the deceit of the Government in the presentation of the Budget itself, has oft been quoted and referred to since the Budget was introduced. But more to the point, the so-called crisis that we face today has been brought about because of the constant deceit, because of the running away from reality, because of those who sit opposite who will not face the fact that there are persons, if not one very important person, party principal to the negotiations. Despite the fact that the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  sacked others for alleged deceit, delinquency or misleading the House, he is not prepared to take action against himself. 
The reality is that the way in which the Government is seeking to apply funds elsewhere is symptomatic of its behaviour not merely during its period in government but also since the Budget was introduced. Honourable members opposite talk about a constitutional crisis provided for by the Senate. It is provided for by the Constitution. It is the right of the Senate to take the very action the Opposition has been engaged upon. Do not let honourable members opposite come into this House and start berating the Opposition for the attitude it takes on a piece of legislation which is akin to the very worst behaviour of any government during the period since Federation. If the Government wants the money for defence purposes let it state the amount and relate this Bill solely to that. Do not let it give itself the option, the let-out, the subterfuge that is akin to so much of its actions at the present time. The reality is that the Minister tonight has talked at great length- I refer not to the Minister who has just spoken but to the Minister for Defenceabout the way in which the defence services will be run down. That is a most extraordinary - 
-It is disgraceful, as the Opposition spokesman on defence says. It is the most extraordinary statement relating to defence preparedness that I have heard. We know that during the period of this Government ships have been unable to sail because insufficient funds were allotted. We know that during the period of this Government men have been unable to train because of the lack of concern by and the lack of funds from this Government. We know that aircraft have been unable to fly because the Government could not have cared less whether proper and effective action was being taken. We know that since Labor came into power officers are voting with their feet in the greatest numbers ever in the history of this Federation. They are leaving the defence forces in unparalleled numbers. 
Government supporters should not start talking to us about the confusion and concern that they feel. They should not tell me that the rejection of this legislation on the basis on which it was put by the Senate will bring about the disaster about which the Minister for Defence has talked. He is the living repository of disaster in the defence field. It is only now that he is starting to mouth cliches that relate to some form of security and to notions of strategic bases that should have been accepted and analysed by this Government before today. They should not come in here under the guise of legislation being rejected and tell us of their intrinsic interest in the defence preparedness of this country. The Government swept aside the only realistic strategic assessments that ought to have been made. It has given undertakings around the world and broken them before any pieces of legislation such as this came in. What does the Government think it has done in the United Nations where it is praising its supporters for what great men they are with their so-called influential and independent foreign policy? The Government will be the first to offer peace-keeping forces if there is a need for them and the moment its bluff is called and it is asked to provide them it scuttles, just as it scuttled the defence forces of this country. 
A few weeks ago I gave details of the lead-up to the undertakings offered to the United Nations for peace-keeping forces and the retreat which was made, which is consistent with the retreats that have been made in every area of defence expenditure since this Government came to power. No government ever made such a firm commitment and carried it out with the very antithesis of action. During their election campaigns Government supporters said there would be the same percentage of defence expenditure as under the previous Government. That expenditure has been eroded daily as the Government's credibility has been eroded. 
So they should not say that this legislation, which is so open-ended in regard to the application of the moneys to be borrowed, will not have such a dire effect on the defence forces of this country. By its very attitude to defence expenditure since it has been in office this Government has brought about that effect- not only by this piece of legislation, this open-ended commitment, this subterfuge and operation which it wishes to implement. 
When the Government tables documents relating to interim defence arrangements between Australia and Papua New Guinea it should' not sweep aside the reality that for  2Vi  years it was warned that upon Papua New Guinea's independence it ought to have firm arrangements to determine the relationships between the 2 countries and should not wait until after independence. What we have is a mere set of interim arrangements that at some time in the future the 2 countries may conceivably come together. So whether it is in the area of strategic assessment, in the area of application of funds for the Army, the Navy or the Air Force or between our closest independent neighbour, Papua New Guinea, and ourselves, the defence expenditure does not stand up to the analysis that Government supporters were putting forward tonight. They know that this Bill is a ruse. They know that it is a fraud and that it is akin to the actions they have been taking throughout their period in government and more particularly, that it is along the lines of the loans affair and loans crisis with which we are faced today. 
The short address that I am making tonight is to point out not merely the deception and the frauds but also to show that the contrast between the legislation for which the right honourable member for Lowe was responsible in the past and this legislation is stark. Simply to say, 'We introduced defence Loan Bills and will apply the money solely for that purpose', is just not on and is just not acceptable. Because there are a couple of minutes remaining and because these matters are related to what is transpiring in another place, I should like to make some reference to a statement which was made today. 
-I am very happy to be reminded that it was made by my distinguished predecessor in my seat. The statement has been quoted around the corridors of this building with great frequency.  Sir Robert  Menzies, who has been so frequently quoted by the man who is the Prime Minister at the moment and who would seek to be the mirror image of him but who would shatter it by his very performance, said: 
As is well known, I have for a long time abstained from entering into any current political controversy, but the circumstances today are such as to compel me to break that silence for, quite simply, I think more nonsense has been talked about the constitutional position of the Senate than I can comfortably listen to or read. 
Under the heading 'Powers of the Senate' he said: 
If we desire to know what are the powers of the Senate over money Bills we find them expressly set out in the Constitution. The draftsmen of the Constitution included these provisions because they knew- and this is a matter of historical fact- that the smaller States, that is smaller in population, would not vote for Federation unless they have some protection given to them in the Senate and they got it. They still have it. The relevant provisions of section S3 are as follows: 

 Sir Robert quotes them. I will not have time to deal with the entire statement but he said: 
It would be absurd to suppose that the draftsmen of the Constitution conferred these powers on the Senate with a mental reservation that they should never be exercised. 
Why are matters written into the Constitution if it is not a living embodiment of the laws that govern the nation? Are they there simply for the sort of subterfuge in which the Government engages or are they there to have life and breath and to exercise some influence in the community? A constitution is not a mere written document from which nothing derives. The Constitution is the sort of living spirit of the law which governs our institutions today and allows its provisions to be utilised. That theme is echoed throughout  Sir Robert  Menzies' statement. As he said: 
Nobody has any doubts about this legal position, about the reality that the conferring of a power on the Senate does not connote some reservation that it ought never be exercised, that it ought never be utilised. 
So the reference to this debate is quite specific. This is part of the subterfuge, part of the fraud and deception. This Bill does not specify that the money will be used solely for defence purposes but gives a leverage to the Government to get around the legislation and to get around its own budgetary problems. For that reason the Opposition has taken its proper stand on this matter. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) How many diplomatic couriers are employed by the Department of Foreign Affairs. 
2 ) What are their qualifications. 
What are their duties. 
Is the existing diplomatic courier service to be extended or has it been extended recently. 
If so, what is the nature of these extensions. 
In areas of the world where there is no service provided by Australian diplomatic couriers, who provides courier services for Australian posts. 
In view of recent reports regarding the abuse of the proper use of diplomatic bags brought into Australia by Foreign Affairs couriers, what measures have been taken to prevent further abuse. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) Has the United Nations adopted a Convention dealing with the suppression and the punishment of the crime of apartheid. 
If so, (a) what are the terms of the Convention, (b) did Australia support its adoption and (c) what Governments (i) supported, (ii) opposed and (iii) abstained on the adoption of the Convention. 
asked the Minister for Urban and Regional Development, upon notice: 
When is it estimated that the new communications centre being constructed as an extension of the Department of Foreign Affairs will be completed. 
What is the estimated total cost. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
What is the total number of Vietnamese refugees who have now arrived in Australia. 
What assistance is being provided for these refugees in the area of (a) housing, (b) employment, (c) welfare and (d) language training. 
Have any refugees sought repatriation; if so, how many. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
What increase in the current staff level of the Department of Foreign Affairs is anticipated during 1975-76. 
How many of this increase will be (a) foreign affairs officers and ( b ) others. 
Within group (b) of pan (2) in what categories will they be employed. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs upon notice: 
Will any new overseas posts be established during 1975-76. 
If so, where will they be, and when will they be established. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
1 ) What indication has Australia made formally or informally to the United Nations Secretary General that it would be prepared to commit troops to a Middle East peace keeping operation. 
Has the United Nations made an approach to Australia formally or informally seeking troops for peace keeping operations in the Middle East. 
What units does Australia have available for peacekeeping operations. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
What is the United Nations Trust Fund for South West Africa (Namibia). 
What is the Government's attitude to the Fund. 
What contributions has the Government made to the Fund. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
Was a circular distributed in the Department of Foreign Affairs recently asking officers to indicate whether or not they are Australian citizens. 
If so, (a) what information was gained from these circulars and (b) to what use will this information be put. 
Further to part (4) of the Minister's answer to question No. 2747 on 19 August 197S, has there been an amendment to the Citizenship Act so that Foreign Affairs officers who are not Australian citizens are not precluded, by virtue of the nature of their duties, from becoming Australian citizens. 
-I have seen the reports. They are not new. We are not, as a country, represented in Phnom Penh. Therefore we have no independent confirmation of the reports which were cited in the newspapers this morning. If the reports be correct the Government would deplore the atrocities. Naturally we favour a return to peaceful development and deplore breaches of" human rights, terrorism and atrocities wherever they occur. 
-It will be well known that the Government, prior to assuming that office, as the coalition in Opposition supported the extensions to the logistic support facilities at Diego Garcia. We said so during the election campaign of 1974; we said so during the election campaign of 1975. We fully support the policies of the United States of America Administration in extending those facilities. In our opinion they provide the opportunity for a balance of super power force in the Indian Ocean. Those who would cry for the need for a neutralisation of that area, which may be a worthwhile aspiration in due course, ought to recognise that before it can be achieved there ought to be that necessary prerequisite and balance there. For one power to opt out unilaterally would be only to play into the hands of another substantial power. It seemed to me that, consistent with the attitudes of the Administration, the majority of those senators who visited here, with the exception of one senator who had led a campaign in the Senate, were in favour of the extension of the facility. Even the one senator who dissented from the others was anxious to have it recorded that he was not opposed to the facility  per se  but recognised our point that if there were to be a neutralisation in due course there would need to be some prerequisite balance before that was achieved. Our views, of course, are well known on this matter. Charges that we have upset the relationships between littoral states of the Indian Ocean are fatuous. Our views have been well known and I suspect are supported by a great majority of people who support contemporary Western democracies. 
-The Government has followed with deep concern the situation in Guatemala and the tragedy that befell its people as a result of a great natural disaster. As will be known, the United Nations Disasters Relief Organisation has appealed for funds and is coordinating relief work in Guatemala. The Government will respond to that appeal with a cash donation of $A50,000 to assist in the work of relief and rehabilitation in Guatemala. 
-I have to say that at this juncture it is too early to determine whether the matters referred to- - 
-Every time I stand up you interject. I do not know what impels you to do so. I know that you had great difficulty persuading your colleagues to elect you to the front bench but you do not have to give tangible evidence day after day that you finally made it. More people have talked their way off that front bench - 
-As I said, it is too early at this juncture to determine whether the moves referred to by the honourable member would mean full participation in cricket in South Africa of blacks and whites. In-line with its general policy towards apartheid, the Australian Government firmly opposes racial discrimination in sport. The Government believes that the maintenance of sporting relations with South Africa should depend on that country's willingness and ability to move away from racial discrimination in sport. As the Prime Minister has indicated, Australia will apply the test of selection on a proper multiracial basis to determine whether South African sporting teams will be permitted to compete in Australia. Each case will be judged on its merits and evidence will be sought of progress towards equal opportunities for all in the sport concerned. 
Pursuant to section 30 of the Australian Development Assistance Agency Act 1974 I present the annual report of the Australian Development Assistance Agency for the year ended 30 June 1975. 
-The Government has not changed policy. The statement made by the Leader of the Opposition and quoted as coming from a Government source in November 1973 remains the policy of the Australian Government and no departure has been made from it. No consideration has been given to any proposal to acquire napalm-type weapons. The Leader of the Opposition has asked for elaboration of the report which appeared in the  Australian Financial Review  yesterday and which was misleading. The reality is that Australian experts are attending the second session of a conference of government experts on conventional weapons which, as the Leader of the Opposition has said, is being held at Lugano. The purpose of the conference is to investigate proposals for the restriction or prohibition of a range of conventional weapons including incendiary weapons. The Australian experts at the conference are participating in efforts to achieve realistic and practical proposals. There is no truth in the suggestion to the contrary made in the article to which I have already referred. 
The conference will not be taking any binding decisions. It is not a conference of representatives of governments. Its conclusions will be transmitted to governments for consideration by the diplomatic conference on humanitarian law in armed conflicts which next meets in Geneva in April. Governments will be represented at that conference. I reiterate what I said at the outsetthat the policy quoted by the Leader of the Opposition as standing in November 1973 remains the policy of the Australian Government and no departure has been made from it. 
-Not only will we do that, we have done that. What we have done stands in marked contrast to what was done by previous administrations. When we were the caretaker Government we sought to co-sponsor a resolution before the United Nations General Assembly. We ended up supporting a resolution which among other things called for the withdrawal of troops, a cessation of hostilities, an act of selfdetermination to be implemented and a resumption of humanitarian aid. Beyond voting for that resolution in the General Assembly, we also sought a voice in the Security Council and put again our views. We have restated them privately and publicly. That is the Government's policy. It will continue to be the Government's policy when there is the opportunity, for example, to raise the matter in the United Nations again. I would assume that when  Mr Winspeare's  report is tabled by the SecretaryGeneral there will be a further opportunity for Australia to seek a voice in the Security Council. The honourable member can be assured that that policy will be restated, in the light, of course, of whatever recommendations  Mr Winspeare  makes. 
-I will take the question. I can broadly confirm the figures given by the honourable member. Of course, in alleging that they are cuts, the honourable member refers solely to this financial year in which an endeavour was made to reduce expenditure. Many of the items, particularly those commitments we have made to multilateral agencies, will be paid in the forthcoming financial year and should have no effect on the operations of those institutions, many of which operate on a calendar year basis for thenfinancial year. Our accounting year being from 1 July to 30 June, this ought not affect them. The honourable member will also recall that in the Hayden Budget the percentage of aid in relation to the gross national product was reduced, as I recall and as I am advised, from approximately 0.56 per cent to 0.53 per cent. I understand these deferrals will bring about a reduction to 0.52 per cent. 
The Government applauds and supports the aim of moving to 0.7 per cent of the gross national product as an aid target. Indeed, I think an examination of the contributions made by previous Liberal-Country Party governments will give every indication of our earnest endeavours to increase Australia's aid contribution. It is interesting to note that if one looks at the performances of Australian governments in aid programs as a percentage of the gross national product, particularly on a calendar year basis- which is the normal international comparison that is used- one sees that the lowest figure that has been given by an Australian government in many years was in 1973 when the percentage was only 0.44 of the gross national product. So perhaps the honourable member who asked the question ought to have a discussion with a Treasurer in the previous Government, bear in mind the performance of his own Party in power and take note of our aim to work towards 0.7 per cent and to ensure that we hold to the principle of meeting needs. We will implement a policy on that basis. 
-In answer to the Leader of the Opposition's question, may I first say that what he referred to as private advice by the Department last week is incorrect. I reiterate what I said yesterday. The Government's policy has not changed since the November 1973 statement of the previous Government. That very statement as quoted by the Leader of the Opposition yesterday, was: 
Australia does not possess aerial or mechanised napalm type weapons and does not intend to acquire them. 
That statement still stands as Government policy. Mention has been made in today's Press, and now by the Leader of the Opposition, of an extract from a document issued before a governmental decision. That document was dated 29 January. It was not dated last week. It was a departmental document. Ministers and not departments determine policy, and Ministers accordingly determined that there was to be no change in the policy enunciated by the previous Government. That remains the position. As to the future, the very statement itself covers that position. It endorses the Leader of the Opposition's own statement of 1973 that: 
Australia does not possess aerial or mechanised napalm type weapons and does not intend to acquire them. 
That, succinctly stated, is Government policy, and is binding on departments and officials. 
You would know all about money, but I would keep quiet about it if I were you. 
As the honourable member has said, prior to August 1975 passports were forwarded to applicants by registered mail, if they so wished. The increase in postal charges from August 1975 meant, as I understand it, that the cost for dispatch by registered mail increased from $1.12 to $2.36. Funds were not made available to the Department of Foreign Affairs to meet that increase. Therefore it was decided, as I understand it, to discontinue the service, and from 1 8 August last year an applicant for a passport was given the option either to have the passport sent by first-class mail or to collect the passport at the issuing office. It was then decided earlier this month that passport officers should also be permitted to hand over passports to travel agents provided the latter produced written authorisations from their clients. 
The question of giving applicants another alternative, that is, to pay for dispatch by registered mail themselves, was examined. This study showed that the extra work load involved in handling payments of a sum such as $2.36 for each passport would have necessitated an increase in staff that was outside the Department's staffing ceiling. Finally, the number of passports reported as having gone astray in the mail from 18 August last year, when this change was made, until mid-February had totalled 34 out of approximately 60 000 that had been sent by mail during the period. Whilst numerically insignificant it is still a matter of inconvenience to those Australians involved and is therefore a matter of regret for the Government. 
-The Prime Minister yesterday gave the details of the contact of the Department of Foreign Affairs with  Mr Fischer.  As for all the other factors that are relatively unknown, or are known to some persons, I suggest that the honourable member ask his question of the Leader of the Opposition, who clearly has had more detailed dealings in recent times than we have had. 
-The report will be studied by both the Department and myself. I point out that the Government deplores the use of torture wherever it may occur, and the Government is not selective in so doing. The Australian Government has previously supported resolutions in the United Nations bodies condemning the use of torture in Chile. It will continue to support resolutions calling for improvement in the respect for and observance of human rights in that country. However, I should add that as a matter of principle we will deplore the use of torture wherever it may be practised. 
-The specific details of this matter are so important to the Leader of the Opposition and to the Parliament that on this occasion, if the Leader of the Opposition will bear with me, I will have investigations made into the report that was given to the Prime Minister and me last week so that I can be precise in answer to each question the Leader of the Opposition has posed today. 
-I will write to you today. 
-My recollection is that during the election campaign of 1974 I addressed a meeting of members of the Arab community in Sydney, as I addressed meetings of members of the Jewish community, explaining the Liberal Party's policy on the Middle East. 1 may be wrong in this regard, but as I recall from the introductions that were made that day, all- at least the majority- were Australians of Arab extraction who had indicated, it was put to me, some concern with the policy of the coalition parties on the Middle East. It would appear that the way in which I explained that policy did not abate their concern. Members of the Press were present. All of these factors make it rather a contrast to the breakfast, of course. I understand that the members of the Press who were present were mainly Australians. This meeting occurred during the election campaign of 1974 and not of 1975. 1 understand, though I was unable to read the dialect, that some of the articles were critical of the policy that I espoused that day when it was reported in the newspapers. It is interesting to note that, although it was an open meeting and although the Press was there- that is, the ethnic Press at least- I was not invited back in 1975 to explain that policy at all, though I was invited by members of the Jewish community to explain during the election campaign of 1975 our policy on the Middle East. 
In answer to the introductory remarks made by the honourable member for Lalor, I point out that this Government does not have a reduced priority in regard to overseas aid or development assistance. In fact, we are pressing forward in the long term with the same goal of 0.7 per cent of the gross national product for such aid. There will be fluctuations in that percentage from time to time, as there were fluctuations during the term of office of the previous Government. The major criterion to be met is always the needs of the people, and that will be the major factor taken into account. 
As regards the second part of the honourable member's question, I think the honourable member referred to an immediate overseas aid group. In fact, my Department and the aid agency are already giving consideration to this matter. I view his suggestion as a very valuable one. I think it has been raised on only one or two occasions. I can see the benefit in being able to inject into a given disaster area some immediate relief along the lines suggested by the honourable member. So as soon as I receive the report on this matter from the working group, I shall see that the honourable member and the House are informed of the results of it and the Government's decision upon it. 
-The matter which the honourable member has raised has happened and is of deep regret and concern to the Government. Australia's substantive interests in Angola are not great, but with other countries we believe that the people of Angola should have had the chance to work out their future without outside interference. In particular the presence of Cuban troops acting as agents for the Soviet Union, and also Soviet weaponry, made this impossible. The people of Angola have suffered greatly as a direct result, both in terms of the loss of life and damage to their economy. 
The Government deplores intervention by outside forces in the strongest terms and expresses the hope that even at this late stage it will be possible to achieve peaceful solutions to the problems that beset Angola. In these circumstances, and in common with most other governments of the region, the Government has not seen an urgent need to take a decision about recognising a government in Angola. At the same time we must assess the situation on the basis of present realities and against the background of our established criteria for recognition of other governments. We have noted the wide degree of recognition of the Popular Movement for the Liberation of Angola, known as MPLA by African states as well as by states in Europe. 
We therefore currently have the question of Australian recognition under serious and close consideration. 
-The honourable member ought to be aware of the craven silence of his own Party during the period when he was in the ministry. He knows only too well the circumstances surrounding Australia's policy towards Timor. 
In this my first statement to the House on foreign policy matters I shall restrict myself to several questions of current importance following on the recent visit to Malaysia, Singapore, and Indonesia. I wish to comment on recent developments concerning the Association of South-East Asian Nations and Australia's relations with it. I propose to deal only briefly with Timor at this time when the report by the Secretary-General's special representative is still awaited. I will make some observations on our approach to African issues including recent developments in Angola. I intend also to report to the House again on foreign policy matters after my return to Australia at the end of next month after attending a number of international conferences- the South Pacific Forum in New Zealand, the Law of the Sea Conference in New York and the ministerial meeting of the Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific in Bangkok- and having discussions, of course, with American and Thai Ministers and officials. At that time I shall give a more detailed report on the world scene. 
ASEAN is an association which encompasses our nearest Asian neighbours. The importance we place on our bilateral relations with these States- Indonesia, Malaysia, Singapore, the Philippines and Thailand- extends naturally to the Association itself. We consider the Association a model of regional co-operation in which member countries at their own initiative and relying essentially on their own resources have promoted common objectives. In doing so they have given rise to fresh aspirations in a region which has suffered a history of turmoil and instability due to both internal and external pressures. The ASEAN heads of government met together last week for their first summit since ASEAN 's inception in 1967. The main significance of the summit meeting was that it provided for the first time an opportunity for the leaders of five very significant South-East Asian nations to come together and discuss privately their concerns and their aspirations for the region. ASEAN does not declaim doctrine or dictate policy to individual members. The heads of government nevertheless were able to conclude a Treaty of Amity and Co-operation and a Declaration of ASEAN Concord in which the 5 leaders laid down the guidelines for further political and economic co-operation. 
At the time of its formation ASEAN 's concerns were cultural and economic. In recent times the Association has given increased attention to the development of closer political co-operation. There has been fresh impetus behind efforts to increase their individual and collective stability and strength, in accordance with their concept of 'national and regional resilience'. As a longer term aim, the ASEAN nations have adopted the concept of South-East Asia as a zone of peace, freedom and neutrality- ZOPFAN as it is often referred to. We regard the prospect of the development of ASEAN in this way as a positive contribution to discussion on the region's political options. The ASEAN proposal for a zone of peace, freedom and neutrality admits the legitimate interests of the major powers. It does not propose excluding them from the region. It aims rather at minimising their military and strategic rivalry and the tensions that ensue. This Government believes that major power presence in the region is likely to be a fact of life for some time yet. We acknowledge that ASEAN is not expecting ZOPFAN to be realised overnight. The immediate objective of the ASEAN countries is to reduce and balance, to induce a greater measure of restraint, rather than to exclude. These are objectives which the Australian Government strongly supports. 
ASEAN has extended the hand of friendship towards the other States of South-East Asia, including the new governments of Indo-China and we welcome this positive approach. Australia has had the closest bilateral relations with each of ASEAN 's members and we are now developing ties with the Association itself. These ties have been in the area of economic cooperation. It is the Government's objective to extend and broaden this practical collaboration. The ASEAN countries themselves have told us that they would welcome further co-operation with Australia. We do not, of course, seek to impose ourselves on ASEAN in any way. Rather we look forward to a relationship of mutual benefit and equality which will develop naturally and as opportunities occur. Nor are the relations we hope to develop with ASEAN countries to be regarded as exclusive. We shall be concerned to maintain and develop substantive communication with all the countries of the South-East Asian region- an approach which accords with the policies of the Asian countries themselves. 
Turning to East Timor, the situation in Timor has been a matter of deep concern to the Government. We have been active in trying to secure a peaceful settlement. It is a matter for regret that events have not moved more quickly towards that end. The Government came to office some time after events had come to a head in Timor. Despite this, and despite the previous Government's inaction, we have taken a number of initiatives and put ourselves very firmly on record in terms of what we believe should happen in Timor. We have made it clear that we cannot condone the Indonesian resort to force and we have carefully avoided favouring any of the parties in Timor or endorsing their claims. 
In short, the Government believes that there should be a cessation of hostilities, thus putting an end to the bloodshed; a resumption of international humanitarian aid, preferably through the return to East Timor of the International Committee of the Red Cross Society; a withdrawal of Indonesian forces; and a genuine act of self determination. I underlined the importance which the Government attaches to all these points during my talks with  Mr Malik  in Jakarta on 19 and 20 January. Furthermore, in line with this policy, the Government has supported resolutions adopted during December by the United Nations General Assembly and the Security Council. We have strongly supported sending a United Nations special representative to East Timor. We welcomed his visit to Darwin. We deeply regretted that his stay in Darwin did not lead to his being able to visit Fretilin held areas in Timor. The Government did what it could to assist, including the provision of Australian Telecommunications Commission facilities to supplement the radio facilities of the Portuguese corvettes. It is to be noted that  Mr Winspeare  was able to have discussions with Fretilin representatives in Darwin. The Secretary-General of the United Nations has told us that the mission can be reactivated in the event that Fretilin finds itself able to make secure arrangements for a further visit to Timor. 
The Government now looks forward to the resumed Security Council debate in which we shall again be seeking to participate. The Government is aware that there is a feeling in some quarters in Australia that we should take our opposition to Indonesian action in Timor to the length of a breach of the relationship which has developed between the 2 countries. In reply I say that the Government will continue to put its views on Timor most firmly to the Indonesian Government. The Government believes that the relations between the 2 countries are such as to allow a frank airing of views and the existence of quite serious differences, but we have no intention of allowing a breakdown in relations. This would not help the Timorese, and it would not help Australia. Indeed, I should say that I regret that Timor has become a matter almost of ideological dispute, generating some unreasonable demands and some unrealistic proposals rather than, as it should be, a matter demanding a constructive and humanitarian approach directed towards the problem of Timorese suffering. 
Turning to southern Africa, this is the first opportunity since the Government assumed office to review our relationships with southern Africa and to speak about how we see recent developments there. This Government intends to maintain and develop good relations with African countries, to our mutual benefit and understanding. We recognise and acknowledge the legitimate interests and aspirations of the governments and peoples of Africa and hope to continue to work with them for the attainment of shared objectives. While we will maintain a correct diplomatic relationship with South Africa, we are completely opposed to the system of apartheid. We will continue to support appropriate measures in the United Nations and elsewhere aimed at bringing an end to the practice of racial discrimination, not only in Africa but wherever it exists. We believe that some progress has been made in the past year. There has been some easing of discriminatory practices in South Africa. While this has not gone nearly far enough, it is a move in the right direction. We believe that the scope for exerting our influence with the South African Government to change policies which are internationally unacceptable is greater if we retain reasonable links with it. We believe that no purpose is served by refusing all relations with countries whose social or political systems do not meet our standards. Like other western countries, therefore, we will maintain diplomatic and economic relations with South Africa. We will also oppose moves to expel or suspend South Africa from the United Nations or other international bodies, since this would run counter to the principle of universality of membership and remove South Africa from exposure to the critical views of other United Nations members. 
The Government is also opposed to racial discrimination in sport. If our objective is not merely to express moral indignation but also to help end the discrimination, we have to consider how best this will be achieved. Is our objective better furthered by total boycott of sporting contact with South Africa or by permitting contacts subject to reasonable conditions which would encourage change? While we recognise that a case can be argued for a total boycott, this Government feels that the second approach will be more constructive. For this Government, the basic condition will be South Africa's willingness and ability to move away from racial discrimination in sport. As the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has indicated, we will apply the test of selection on a proper multi-racial basis. As to Australian teams going to South Africa legally we cannot impose restrictions on Australians if they should decide to compete in South Africa. Australians travelling abroad are not subject to such restrictions on their activities, and it would be contrary to our philosophy of liberal pluralism to attempt to alter this. At the same time, we would hope and expect that Australian sportsmen would note the Government's views on multi-racial competition and would take these fully into account in any plans they may have to compete in South Africa. The Government also looks to Australian sports bodies to adopt an approach consistent with these principles. 
I turn now to Angola. I cannot leave the question of Southern Africa without reference to recent events in Angola. While in principle the emergence of a new nation in Africa is to be welcomed, there are prospects of these events which are deeply disturbing in several respects. First, to a large and even decisive extent what has happened in Angola has not been the outcome of a struggle between the contending forces within the country. The decisive factor has been imported military personnel and equipment brought there not at the invitation of the Government, because there was no recognised or established Government, but one of the several claimants to the Government. Over 10 000 Cuban soldiers and Soviet tanks, aircraft and missiles have determined the fate of Angola. Secondly, this episode is significant because it casts doubt on the implementation and nature of  detente,  a word which I note President Ford has said he will no longer use in speaking of relations between the super powers. In the basic document of  detente,  'The Statement of Basic Principles of United States-Soviet Relations 1972', the Soviet Union together with the United States promised to 'attach major importance to preventing the development of situations capable of causing a dangerous exacerbation of their relations', and recognised that 'efforts to obtain unilateral advantage at the expense of the other, directly or indirectly' were inconsistent with the objectives of  detente.  While it is possible that the involvement of the Soviet Union and Cuba in deterrnining the outcome of the struggle in Angola grew with events and opportunity as much as or more than it was a deliberate attempt to steal a march on and humiliate the United States, it is difficult to see how the Soviet Union's unprecedented and significant military incursion into southern Africa can be squared with that basic statement of principle. It is difficult also to see how the image of the Soviet Union as a conservative,  status quo,  defensively-minded state- an image which has often been projected lately, not least when the Soviet presence in the Indian Ocean is under discussion- can be reconciled with this deliberate projection of its power. 
Finally, the implications of what has been happening in Angola may be far reaching for the future of southern Africa. We believe that all foreign forces should be withdrawn from Angola. They should never have been there. If those who are newly come to power follow the path of negotiation and political settlement, if they reject outside intervention and provocation, if they refrain from interference across their borders and from actions affecting the security of their neighbours, there is a hope of orderly change and transition. But the possibility of peaceful transition in southern Africa depends at least as much on a willingness to change and to compromise on the part of the minority groups who exercise power in a large part of that region. They must rapidly come to terms with such realities as the fact, now unmistakably clear, that the present situation in Southern Rhodesia cannot remain unchanged. 
In our view there is only one acceptable path in southern Africa, and that is the path of peaceful, negotiated transition without interference by outside powers. The alternatives of intemperate resort to force or of interference from outside risk terrible damage to the peoples of southern Africa. Such courses would inevitably exacerbate the issues of race and colonialism on which the international community has slowly been working towards a difficult consensus. They would put serious new strains on the existing precarious international order, already threatened by the forces of scarcity, inflation and over-population. The Australian Government will do whatever it can to encourage those primarily concerned to take the constructive course of negotiation and compromise. 
-I have had the matter investigated. I cannot speak these days for the previous High Commissioner to India, who is closer to the Leader of the Opposition than he is to those on this side of the House, but as a result of the investigation I made the Australian High Commission in Delhi has reported that it holds the Governor-General's Speech on file. So presumably the previous High Commissioner had it available to him had he sought the file. Furthermore, the High Commission handled arrangements, according to the advice tendered to me, for the distribution of the speech to the audience at the meeting of the Institute at which  Sir John  Kerr spoke. I also understand that the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet holds a copy of the speech on its files. I have been advised also that the program for the previous Australian High Commissioner in Delhi for 28 February 1975 includes attendance at the Governor-General's address. So he also heard it being delivered. Finally, and incidentally, I understand the National Library has copies of the speech on file, a photo copy of which from the journal of the Indian Law Institute is here. 
-I understand that the Minister for Primary Industry, while acting on my behalf gave an undertaking that we would be examining the matter. I reiterate that undertaking. Since the Acting Minister's reply to a question without notice from the Leader of the Opposition, a telegram was received from the Commonwealth Secretary-General indicating that he would be discussing with the Mozambique Government the question of international support for Mozambique following the imposition of sanctions against Rhodesia. The Secretary-General also recalled the decision of the Commonwealth Heads of Government at Kingston last year on aid to Mozambique. I understand that the Commonwealth SecretaryGeneral has now returned from that visit to Mozambique and has indicated that he will be discussing his findings with the United Nations Secretary-General on 25 March- tomorrow, our time- and will advise Commonwealth governments in more specific terms after that meeting. 
The Leader of the Opposition also referred to the resolution adopted unanimously by the United Nations Security Council. Apart from calling on all states to provide financial, technical and material assistance, as I recall it the resolution also requested the Secretary-General in collaboration with the specialised agencies of the United Nations to organise all forms of assistance to Mozambique. In accordance with this the Secretary-General has since announced that a mission led by  Sir Robert  Jackson will visit Mozambique without delay to begin discussions on a program of economic and technical assistance. The Government will consider carefully the outcome of the discussions by the Commonwealth Secretary-General and the United Nations mission with the Mozambique Government. 
-It is my recollection that after detailing the amount- the honourable member may recall better than I do- I said that I was looking also at other aspects. What I had in mind was the informal discussion that I had had with representatives of the Australian Council for Overseas Aid, during which they indicated to me that they would prefer the Government not to give a cash donation but in fact to work up a form of development assistance for Guatemala, which they felt would be more effective in the long run. Nevertheless, it was the considered judgment of the Government that the form of assistance that I indicated in the House was what was directly required at that time. I am still open to further suggestions, and I wish to take up with members of the Australian Development Assistance Agency, as it still is at this date, the prospect of development assistance for Guatemala. It will be appreciated that the attitude of the Government is that there are other areas in which aid programs must be worked out. The demands on the Government's aid programs are many and varied, but I will again take on board the specific suggestion made in the House by the honourable member in relation to long term development assistance rather than a further grant of cash. 
-The Iraqis? Well, we never got to the bottom of that. Is that an official request now- for the Iraqis? In answer to the Leader of the Opposition's question, let me say that it is correct that we are not taking up the invitation that was extended to Archbishop 
Makarios. It is not correct that I personally have refused to see members of the Greek Cypriot community. If departmental officers on my behalf, either in my absence from Australia or for any other reason, have refused to see them, I certainly will discuss the matter with those citizens, ' should they wish me to do so. To answer the last portion of the honourable member's question so far as I recall it, we are reviewing all the invitations extended throughout the extensive visits overseas by the former Prime Minister and his Ministers. In accordance with the constraints imposed on the Australian economy at present we will reach our conclusion in due course. I can assure the Leader of the Opposition that the thrust of the question regarding the concern of citizens as echoed by him is a matter I am prepared to discuss with them. 
I said in answer to the earlier question of the Leader of the Opposition that I was prepared to meet with members of the Greek Cypriot community. I stand by that. I recall the letter. I also recall writing to a  Mr Alfred  Kouris about this matter. It may be that that was on it. He is a member of the Liberal Party. He stood as a candidate at the last election. I see him from time to time. 
-I know what I said last time. The honourable member does not need to project himself as a rent-a-mouth in this House. 
There are many precedents that have been relied upon by honourable members opposite for forgetting about letters and documents which were signed. I put it to the House that my intent was a preparedness to see these people. I was not able to see them because of that visit. I regarded the tone of the letter that they had written as being one of very real concern for the visit to proceed. Therefore it would have been advantageous for officials in my Department to have discussed the matter. I reiterate now what I said before, that is, that I am prepared, particularly in the light of the thrust of the Leader of the Opposition's earlier question and his handy reminder here, to see those who are concerned about this matter. When I said that we had not taken up the invitation extended, I might have better phrased the language and have said we had not taken the invitation forward. 
I added in the answer that we were currently reviewing the extensive number of invitations which had been issued throughout the honourable gentleman's journey and other journeys around the world. It means, of course, that we have not excluded the possibility of Archbishop Makarios visiting Australia. It does mean that we do not foresee his visiting Australia in the very near future. I again reiterate that those letters, firstly, were received by me and, secondly, sent by me. I apologise if the dates and the nature of my recollection were not as forthcoming as they ought to have been. I cannot carry it all with me. 
-I am glad that the Leader of the Opposition accepts the apology. I am prepared to see those citizens who are concerned about the matter. 

 - Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
I claim to have been misrepresented by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam).  Implicit in the explanation just given by the Leader of the Opposition is that I have mislead the House. This is incorrect. I was asked the question: Had I investigated an allegation made by the Leader of the Opposition that copies of the Governor-General's speech were withheld from the Australian High Commissioner in Delhi and from departments and Ministers in Canberra. I replied that copies of that speech are on file in Delhi. They were therefore available at any time to the Australian High Commissioner,  Mr Bruce  Grant, or indeed to the Prime Minister or the Foreign Minister had he requested that speech to be forwarded. I am not aware of any request being made by the then Prime Minister for that speech. Unless a request had been made, it would be difficult for him to substantiate the allegation that copies were withheld. The speech is on file. The speech is clearly available. 
The speech is on file and I can rest the matter on that. Finally, I said at the end of my answer 'incidentally, the speech is available in the National Library'. So the fact that it was made available later in the year has nothing much to do with it. The fact is that the speech was prepared in the High Commission, distributed by the High Commission and held as a copy by the High Commission; ipso facto it was available to the Government. 
Did you ask him for it? 
-I do not have all the details with me at the present moment. It is correct that there is a lease still running. It may not necessarily have to be broken as such. It is a matter to which I am giving further attention at present as a consequence of some discussions I had in Los Angeles  en route  to New York and Washington. I shall provide the Leader of the Opposition with further information as soon as I can get it. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Following the Guatemala earthquake, neighbours in North and South America quickly organised physical assistance. 
The United States of America, whose assistance to date is valued in excess of US$3. 7m, supplied field hospitals (including staff), medical supplies, helicopters and ground transport, emergency water supply equipment, communications equipment, shelter and clothing, field kitchens and engineering support services. 
Other countries of the region, namely Argentina, Brazil, Colombia, Costa Rica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Haiti, Honduras, Mexico, Nicaragua, Panama and Venezuela, gave medical supplies, a field hospital, medical teams, rescue teams, foodstuffs, communications equipment and personnel and civil defence experts. The cash value of this assistance has not yet been stated by the Governments concerned. 
The nature and value of assistance, other than cash, supplied to date by other countries is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Since the Prime Minister was first elected to the Federal Parliament in 1955 he has visited Singapore on a number of occasions. The Department of Foreign Affairs does not maintain a register of overseas visits undertaken by Members of Parliament, nor has it ever been considered necessary or desirable that such a register shouldbe introduced. 
Australian Heads of Mission in Singapore since the Prime Minister's election to Federal Parliament have been the following: 
March 1954,April 1 956Sir Alan Watt, C.B.E. 
April 1956September 1957Mr R. L. Harry, C.B.E. 
-There is an appropriate time for an announcement to be made on such policies. Question time is not the appropriate time. Nevertheless, I remind the Leader of the Opposition of his own words. I refer to a speech by the Honourable E. G. Whitlam on 30 September 1974- the extraordinary speech to the General 
Assembly- as published in the  Australian Government Digest.  He said: 
There is no place in our thinking for 'economic nationalism' in its crudest sense . . . Australia recognises its duty to co-operate with such nations in obtaining fair and reasonable return for our products. And we are co-operating. Equally however we in Australia accept our responsibility to reassure countries which depend upon our resources that they shall have steady, secure access to those resources at fair prices. 
I thank the Leader of the Opposition for giving me the opportunity to remind him and the House of his words. 
-I am glad for the endorsement and I hope it will happen daily. 
-Thank you. I have not quite finalised the review of the outstanding invitations to which I referred last week. However I emphasise that there was no question of cancelling the invitation to the  President  of Cyprus. As I recall the situation, I emphasised last week our hope that it would prove possible to arrange a visit at a later date. I am pleased to say that should a time be found which is mutually convenient the Government would welcome a visit by Archbishop Makarios before the end of this calendar year; if not, early in the new year would certainly be satisfactory from our point of view. Accordingly I have instructed officials to contact the President's officials and advise him of the Government's attitude. I hope he might be able to visit Australia later this year. 
-Firstly, the Embassy was closed last Sunday, 28 March. Secondly, there was no lack of liaison either between myself and the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs or between my department and his department. 
-Why did he not know about it? That just reveals your understanding of the matter. As I recall, the question was asked earlier in the week. My recollection also advises me that in fact the cable from the  Charge  was received by me either on Thursday or Friday recommending that the Embassy be now closed. The decision was then taken on Friday subject to his latest assessment on the Sunday when he advised that it be closed on the Sunday, and we left the final decision to the  Charge  because he was the man on the ground. We do not believe in controlling all matters from Canberra. That decision was taken then and my colleague, the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, was advised. In regard to the fourth part of the question, I would advise that a general warning has been issued continuously to Australian citizens in the Lebanon since December last year. They are well aware of the dangers. To sum it up, the Embassy was temporarily closed on Sunday, 28 March, because of the fighting in Beirut. Members of the staff of the Embassy, as would be well known, had been facing very real personal danger for a long period of time and this obviously reached an unacceptable level last week when heavy artillery began bombarding the suburb in which our people lived and worked. I want to say how much I have appreciated the valuable work carried out by the staff of the Embassy under the most trying and demanding of circumstances. To seek to allege that there are differences between me and the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs would just not stand up. 
-Oh no, you are still living in 1975. The Government has changed, my friend, since then. We speak with one voice and we act with one voice. We were in close co-operation over this matter. I think that this answer adequately deals with the charge that there was no liaison. It certainly ought to be borne in mind that as this matter was under continuous review from the time when the Embassy was moved- my colleague the Minister referred to this last week- from its normal site to a hotel site we have been not only keeping it under review but also warning the general population. This one will not just run if honourable members opposite seek to pursue this. 
-My attention has been drawn to this matter. As I understand it, the changes did come into effect in February of this year. The Australian Government naturally would regret any move to inhibit the rights and freedoms of individuals anywhere in the world. However, the honourable member will appreciate that specific responsibility rests clearly within the domestic competence of the Polish Government. Having said that, I must say that I understand that news of these changes has led to a number of protests within Poland and that these concerns evidently have been expressed with a great deal of vehemence by members of the Polish community in Australia also. 
The particular sources of concern with the proposals, which I am advised did become law on 14 February of this year are, firstly, the description of Poland as a 'socialist state'; secondly, a reference to the Polish United Workers Partythat is, of course, the Communist Party- as the leading political force in the country; thirdly, a reference to Poland's alliance with the Soviet Union; and, fourthly, a clause that would have made citizens' rights contingent upon their fulfilling duties towards the state. I have no specific information that would confirm that Poland will no longer have an independent foreign policy. However, this was indeed the interpretation given by some observers to the original draft of the Constitution, which has, of course, undergone some amendments as a result of public pressure within Poland itself. 
Naturally the Government would deeply regret any loss of independence in foreign policy which would be a derogation from the fundamental principle of national sovereignty by any country anywhere. We hope that the adoption of the new Constitution in Poland will not, in fact, have that effect. Finally, referring to the last point of the specific changes that I mentioned, namely, the clause that would make citizens' rights contingent upon their fulfilling duties towards the state, I should say that I understand that in Poland there continues to be vocal opposition to the law as there does elsewhere in the world by Polish citizens. That is understandable. The Australian Government naturally would regret any move to inhibit the rights and freedoms of Polish citizens. 
-There is little more I can add to what I gave the Leader of the Opposition last week. The problem has been compounded because of  Sir Robert  Jackson's illness. He has had to be replaced as the Secretary-General's envoy to Mozambique. I understand that the SecretaryGeneral's nominee to replace  Sir Robert  Jackson will visit Mozambique next week. As a consequence, the sort of deadline that we would have been meeting is delayed further. The Leader of the Opposition can be assured that I have his interest at heart and as a consequence of this, have been following the progress. I was informed early in the piece that  Sir Robert  Jackson would have to be replaced. Immediately the report of the Secretary-General, together with the detailed proposals from the Commonwealth SecretaryGeneral have been received, I shall advise not only the Leader of the Opposition but the House of the Government's attitude. 
-Firstly, I saw the report. Secondly, it is reasonably accurate. Thirdly, I am not prepared to recommend a re-examination. The Australian Government decided that it would make an additional contribution of $696,000 to the second Nam Ngum development fund administered by the Asian Development Bank. I think it is wise to put this in context and not simply to talk about the communist world and ourselves. The fund was set up to finance reservoir storage and electricity generating capacity in Laos and it has been supported by all Australian governments since its inception in 1966. So, to headline it in the manner in which the newspaper did was slightly misleading, to put it mildly. 
The project is a positive and practical manifestation of co-operation between Laos and Thailand and ought to be supported on that ground alone. Not only will it provide water storage and electricity benefits for Laos and help increase its limited foreign exchange but also it will enable electricity to be provided to northeast Thailand. Other donors to the project include Canada, France, the Netherlands, Switzerland, West Germany, Japan and India. This project is covered by ESCAP, the Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific- a United Nations body which we strongly support and which we have consistently supported. It is administered by the Asian Development Bank, another institution which we strongly support. I see no need for its re-examination. 
-The short answer to the honourable member is no, the Government's attitude has not softened. We are aware that the defence ministry in Paris has announced that an underground nuclear test was held at the Mururoa test site in French Polynesia, I think on 2 April of this year. This was the third test in the current series of underground tests, the first having taken place in June of last year and the next in November of last year. The Australian Government's long-standing policy has been to support international efforts to achieve comprehensive nuclear test bans prohibiting all nuclear weapons testing in all environments. The present Government remains firmly committed to that goal, as a result of which we are concerned that all forms of nuclear weapons testing be stopped. At the same time the Australian Government has noted that the French Government is refraining from conducting nuclear weapons tests in the atmosphere in the Pacific region. Therefore the Australian Government hopes that the French Government will continue to refrain from further atmospheric nuclear tests which, in past years, have given rise . to considerable concern in Australia and other countries. 
Let me refer back to the words quoted by the honourable member about a softening of attitude. At the outset of my answer I said that there is no softening of attitude. There is a proper and realistic approach and a proper re-affirmation of our firm stand against nuclear testing. It ought to be remembered that we in government protested both through the South Pacific Forum and the United Nations. It was only when we were dismissed from Government for a short period that the Opposition from the then Government became somewhat more frenetic and, frankly, less effective. Honourable members will recall the way in which certain elements in the trade union movement were allowed make the running on the matter for a time. Then we had the extraordinary spectacle of the then Attorney-General at the International Court of Justice, not to mention the way in which the decision was leaked by the then Prime Minister prior to the Court handing down its decision. This Government will not conduct its international relations on that basis. This Government re-affirms its strong opposition to nuclear weapons testing, and does so through proper channels. 
-I think I would need about 6 hours to answer this question. I appreciate the feelings that the honourable member has in regard to the United Nations. We all on occasions, in respect of many resolutions which are put forward, feel the kind of frustration which he feels about this matter. Nobody was put on this earth to be able to live an easy life and no one was sent to a parliament to be able to sweep aside the world's problems. I would have thought that notwithstanding any disillusionment regarding particular resolutions one must cling to the hope that the United Nations remains. It is the only established international forum in which, it may be hoped, international disputes can be solved. We have constantly reasserted our support for the United Nations and its agencies. We will from time to time oppose or abstain on resolutions which do not meet with our approval, which do not in our opinion seek to solve the international problems before the world today. I cannot accept in the short term, on the basis of the frustration of any particular honourable member, that we ought seriously to consider resigning from the United Nations either on the question of what the honourable member puts forward in respect of the resolution he referred to or as a fund raising effort. There are many things I would like to add in regard to the United Nations itself. Calling forth aspirations of countries around the world is probably the easiest thing for a Foreign Minister, and you have to put your money where your mouth is. We will be seeking to play an active role in the United Nations in the hope that we can turn members' frustrations into the sort of aspirations and ideals that we may realistically achieve. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Recently announced reductions in overseas aid to the amount of $2 1 .5m will be made in the following areas: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Government has seen these press reports.  Mr Sydell  has repeated these claims in discussions with the Australian Embassy in Jakarta and with officials of the Department of Foreign Affairs in Canberra on 20 March. 
Claims of this nature are of course not new. The Minister for Foreign Affairs in the former government stated publicly on at least two occasions that he had no information which would confirm them. 
The Government has no evidence that arms have entered Timor from Australia. Until contacts with Timor were cut off in December, regular checks were made on aircraft and vessels departing for Timor. The Government is not aware of any unauthorised sea or air landing on Timor by Australiabased ships or aircraft since December. The Portuguese Government has denied any involvement by its corvettes in the shipment of arms. The Government has also noted statements issued by the Red Cross and by barge operators in Darwin to the effect that they had no evidence to support  Mr Sydell  's claims. 
The Government is nevertheless studying  Mr sydell  's claims.  Mr Sydell  has said that he intends in due course to produce evidence for his allegations. Pending such evidence it would be inappropriate for the Government to comment further on his specific allegations. 
The export of war material to Timor would, of course, be in contravention of Australian law. The Government would take a very serious view of any attempt to send war supplies to any of the parties in Timor, and would take the strongest action to prevent such activity and prosecute the persons involved. 
Wheat Sales in South America (Question No. 208) 
The tragedy in the Lebanon is revealed by the fact that in the past there has been more than one endeavour to reach a truce. On each occasion the truce has not held up for very long. While we hope that this truce will hold up, it is too early to judge. Therefore it is too early to permit the return to Lebanon of the staff of the Australian Embassy in Beirut who have been evacuated. A decision to send the staff back will be made as soon as the situation permits. I would want to be sure that any improvement in the situation is likely to be a permanent one, offering a real chance that the embassy could function both effectively and safely. My colleague the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs and I are in close touch on this matter. 
I stress that I am very conscious of the need to look after Australian interests in Lebanon and to ensure that we do not by returning lift the hopes of and perhaps mislead those in the Lebanon who would wish to get out. We will arrange for the return to be carried out as soon as it is feasible. The lives of Australian officials are also important. They have been placed at too much risk in the past. I would want to be sure that this would not happen again. In short, therefore, at this stage the truce seems to me somewhat uneasy, there is no guarantee that our officers could work effectively and there is no guarantee that they could work safely. Therefore I believe it is too early to permit their return. 
-I sought to take down the questions asked and I hope I will be able to reply to each one in turn. I may have missed the last portion of the honourable member's question, but I daresay that he will interject and advise me of it. It is true that I made a report to the Australian Journalists Association. It is true that there was no mention of any discussions that had been held between  Mr Martins  and representatives of the Government. It is true that there is widespread concern about this matter, as I have said publicly and privately, and we are pressing for the fullest investigation into it. I would welcome  Mr Martins'  visit to Australia. 
Having said that in a nutshell, let me also say that I have seen news reports of accounts of the deaths of the newsmen given by  Mr Martins. Mr Martins  in fact, as I indicated earlier in this answer, had been in contact with several Australian missions abroad in recent months, but during those contacts on each occasion he made certain statements and on every occasion requested that the information given to my officers be kept confidential. He was the man who was to break any agreement in that regard and it was entirely open to him at any stage to make the matters public as he has; but first of all he requested that the confidence be held and that we not make the matters public. 
I might say that during these talks  Mr Martins  was asked to produce evidence to support the matters he was putting to our officers, including material evidence that he said would support his claim. Regrettably, so far he has failed to do so. We had to weigh this up, recalling that  Mr Martins  originally, on 22 October last year, was a signatory to a document indicating that the bodies of several Europeans were found in a house which had caught fire during an exchange of shooting in the attack on Balibo. Then he further corroborated and adhered to that statement on 12 November in a private interview with the First Secretary of our mission in Indonesia who was then in Indonesian Timor. He again corroborated the report that he had signed on 22 October. The fact that he has now changed his approach is not to suggest that we are taking his present account with anything less than the utmost seriousness. 
As is implicit in the question asked by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, there have been suggestions that we should have made  Mr Martins'  statements public; but, in addition to the fact that he himself had sought confidentiality, the Government wanted first to establish through the evidence he claimed to have whether his statements were true. Before conveying them, for example, to the next of kin, we wanted to be assured that there was at least  prima facie  evidence in support of his statements. We have been concerned not to add unnecessarily to the distress of the immediate families of the newsmen. 
On that point, I might say that some of the next of kin have pressed the Government for more information. I have received representations also from relatives of others involved who have asked: 'Please, can we now let this matter rest?' We have felt duty bound, as a government, not only to keep them as fully informed as possible but also to press on with the investigation itself. 
With that in mind,  Mr Martins  was asked on a number of occasions to give the Government his changed views in writing to put beside the views in writing he had put earlier. He was also asked to supply the Government with this material evidence- evidence which would have been disquieting to the relatives had it been brought to their notice without the Government's having sighted it- which he said he had in his possession or which was on occasion in the possession of friends in Germany. Regrettably, as I said earlier, so far he has not produced that evidence. I hope he will. In renewing his allegations in public,  Mr Martins  has said that he would come to Australia to explain to the next of kin the circumstances of the deaths of the newsmen. The Government stands ready to facilitate his entry, in accordance with its view that it wishes to hear all available evidence and information about the deaths. Likewise, if he wishes, it is open to  Mr Martins  to produce the evidence to any Australian mission overseas. Either way, the Government will do what it can to investigate his allegations. 
Finally, may I say that I have been deeply concerned about this matter from the time when I took office. It will be recalled that the deaths occurred in October. The previous Government had met a degree of obstruction, to put it mildly, in ascertaining the facts of the matter. This Government has pressed publicly, privately, diplomatically, and on a government to government basis for Indonesian co-operation. One of the prime aims of my visit a fortnight ago was to extract from the Indonesian Government an undertaking for our officers to visit Timor. I returned last Friday week and indicated to the Press that I had received that undertaking and that I hoped it would be met. It has at last been met and a team from the Australian Embassy in Jakarta will be leaving tomorrow for Balibo in East Timor. The Government will evaluate all the evidence it has and I hope that the Australian Journalists Association will come before me and present any further evidence it has. I will discuss the findings of the mission- which will be reporting after its visit, which commences tomorrowin the frankest and fullest detail not only with the Parliament, not only with the journalists, but also with as many of the next of kin as wish to be fully informed. But honourable members must understand both the restraints imposed upon us by  Mr Martins  himself and the natural human instincts we felt bound to follow on the receipt of certain letters from some of the next of kin. 
-I have to say at the outset that I agree with those elements of the trade union movement which wish to send aid to Timor. This is the very thing for which the Government has been pressing for some time- to have the International Red Cross re-admitted into East Timor and to channel our funds through that organisation. During my recent visit to Indonesia, I received an undertaking that this would be done. No time has yet been given but we are continuing to press for a date so that we as a government can channel our aid to Timor through the International Red Cross. To that extent I agree with the trade union movement but I would, of course, prefer that it acted in concert with us and channelled the aid it is seeking to ship to East Timor through the International Red Cross in conjunction with us. On behalf of the Government I have to say to the honourable member that I do not believe the Government could relax its previous decision not to allow ships to sail for East Timor without some prior assurance as to the safety of the venture. It will be recalled that the representative of the Secretary-General of the United Nations could not get into East Timor. It will be recalled that there are areas where safety is uncertain. Unquestionably the union approach is somewhat uncertain, especially as regards the projected departure of a ship. 
I am not aware of where the vessel wishes to land. I am not aware of how the aid will be administered or distributed. It seems to me to be far more feasible for the unions to work in conjunction with the Government. So our position remains that without the agreement of the authorities in Dili and without some prior assurance as to the safety of such a venture the Government could not agree to give the necessary clearance for any vessel wishing to depart Australia for East Timor. I repeat that the Government believes that the most practical approach in regard to humanitarian aid is to continue to work for the re-entry of the International Red Cross into East Timor and that is precisely what we are doing. 
I have not seen reports in respect of this matter. Now that the matter has been relayed to me and the House, I will have it investigated and give it consideration- not my personal attention. 
-I thought I gave a detailed answer to this question yesterday. I do not believe that I can be accused of evasion on the question of East Timor. I do believe that there are people in this House- not on this side of the House- who could justifiably be accused of such evasion, but I rarely touch upon that matter. Honourable members will know from what I said yesterday that  Mr Martins  will have his entry into Australia facilitated. I thought I dealt at length yesterday with that question. It is correct that I did not deal in detail with the judicial inquiry. If the honourable member would impose on himself the honesty he seeks to impose on others he would recall that my very first words yesterday in answering the question were that I was not certain that I caught all of the question, that I would seek to answer it in as much detail as possible and that perhaps he would interject and advise me if I missed one point. Perhaps the time taken for him to reach the allegation made indicates more his lack of capacity to perceive the nature of my answer than his ability to engage in allegations of evasion. 
The honourable member now asks me about a judicial inquiry. I will answer that question and answer it in detail. As I said yesterday to the media, when asked this question, the Government does not have a closed mind on the question of a judicial inquiry. It may emerge eventually that some form of judicial or other public inquiry would be feasible and appropriate. But on the basis of the present situation, the Government does not believe that a judicial inquiry would be able to function effectively in the matter. Firstly, those who have first hand knowledge of the events in Balibo, and they would be the key witnesses, are not Australians and are not in Australia. They are in Timor and the Government has no way of compelling their attendance at any inquiry here. 
We have tried on this matter to an extent that nobody on the other side, with but few exceptions, can match. Secondly, the events did not take place in Australia; they took place on foreign soil, and the Government has no power physically to extend its inquiry to another territory- in this case a territory which is still in dispute- without the consent and co-operation of the authorities concerned. In such a situation, it is difficult to see that any inquiry in Australia involving witnesses who are in Australia or who can get here from third countries would produce evidence additional to that which is already available to the Government. Before it could lend support to the proposal the Government would need to be convinced- and I have said that it still has an open mind on the matter, bearing in mind the difficulties-that any such inquiry would serve a real and positive purpose, that it would have a clear and definable value; in short, that it would be likely to reveal the facts. I doubt that any purpose would be served by setting up an inquiry without such knowledge. 
Going back to the answer I gave yesterday, the honourable member will be aware that today we have a mission going into Timor. We have asked that arrangements be made for the team to visit places other than Balibo in order to make contact with anyone who may be able to throw light on the circumstances surrounding the death of the newsmen. I have already said that I will discuss the findings of these new rounds of inquiries not only with the next of kin but also with the Parliament and the Australian Journalists Association. Few governments have done more in circumstances such as these to get to the bottom of a matter and we are still applying pressure. I say to honourable members opposite: Do not treat it in the manner in which you are inclined to today. Approach it with at least the decency with which I think you approached it yesterday, making genuine inquiry and receiving a genuine answer. I have added at least further detail on the question of a judicial inquiry and there will be further opportunities for discussion of this matter. But bear in mind that if there has been any evasion it has not been on this side of the House. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 refer the Honourable member to the foreign policy statement which I delivered in Parliament on 4 March 1976. 
Despite serious misgivings about the part played by Cuban and Soviet intervention in Angola, the Australian Government recognises the fact that the MPLA is in effective control of that country and that consequently the Government should now have normal dealings with the Government of the People's Republic of Angola. The Australian Government has thus recognised the Government of Angola. 
The last visit seeming to fit that description was made by the then Minister for Transport (The Honourable P. J. Nixon, M.P.) and the Permanent Head of his Department in 
March 1972. However, a Heavy Engineering and Consultancy Services marketing mission did visit South Africa in October and November 1972 and was accompanied by an officer from the then Department of Trade and Industry. 
I do not see the possibility of making such a visit in the immediate future. I would add, however, that through its diplomatic missions in Africa the Australian Government does have access to the views of important African Governments and to information on developments in the area. 
The answer to the honourable member's question for the period 1 April 1974 to 1 April 1976 is as follows: 
Yes, it is a fact that that was the report that was given by the Indonesian Government and it is a fact that some elements of the journalists' property were found elsewhere. We inquired into that, as we have been continuing to inquire into the matter since then. So far as the request for a judicial inquiry is concerned, I answered that in detail yesterday. I said that the Government has an open mind on the matter. It is pressing for material, for evidence and for corroboration of differing accounts and will place before the House and the public all it can after the investigating team leaves Balibo. I have resisted the temptation on many occasions to contrast what we have done in this regard with what was done by the honourable member as a member of the former Government and of the Cabinet and therefore duty bound to support the action or non-activity of the previous Government. No moralistic hand-wringing now can explain away the lack of activity of his Party when in power. 
I have seen articles and other reports in international magazines and the Australian Press claiming that a great number of Cambodians have been killed or assassinated in a variety of ways, some of which were described by the honourable member in his question, since the present Government in Cambodia came to power a year ago. As I recall, the estimates of the number of people killed have varied from half a million to one and a half million. It does give some indication of the uncertainty surrounding the present internal situation in Cambodia that there can be such a discrepancy in the figures, in the accounts, being produced. The recent accounts of the number of deaths and executions are based on interviews with refugees. Whilst these reports appear to be consistent, I am not able to give an assessment as to their authenticity. After all, Australia has no diplomatic representation in Phnom Penh and little firsthand information is available on the events within Cambodia itself. 
As I indicated in my reply to a question without notice on 18 February- the honourable member refreshed my memory by saying that that was the date- if the reports are correct the Government would deplore the atrocities. We favour an early return to peaceful development and deplore breaches of human rights, terrorism and atrocities wherever they occur. However, I do not believe that it would assist the process of an early return to peaceful development in Cambodia if we were to withdraw our recognition of the Cambodian Government The reports from Cambodia are accounts of almost total deprivation of human rights and dignity. Worse than that, there have been reports of bloodshed, horror, terror and assassination on an almost indescribable basis. If those reports are true, no government could condone them, or let such events pass without comment. 
-Evidently time is diminishing the honourable gentleman's recollection of facts. He said 9 November. I understood that his letter was sent on 7 November. 
-I understand that you did write a letter on 7 November in connection with the then Government's inquiries relating to newsmen. You had at that stage met a fair degree of obstruction in the matter and you decided to take some action. It is interesting to note that, apart from your tacit approval in September 1974 regarding any impending invasion of Timor, I think this is the first action you actually took. The first occasion on which you raised aspects relating to Timor and Indonesia was in September 1974-and whether it was done tacitly or avowedly I do not know because I do not break conventions and go through the records of your Government in office. But my recollection is that it was well known amongst your Government, amongst your colleagues and amongst some who have worked for you and who are now writing for journals, that what I am saying is correct. So in the time frame of September 1974, when as I have said, either tacitly or avowedly you gave support to a degree of Indonesian expansionism, you then wrote on 7 November 1975 regarding the missing journalists. 
So far as cur action is concerned, our Ambassador in Jakarta was subsequently advised that President Suharto had been pleased to receive your letter but as I recall the advice tendered to me then, he now regarded the main subject of the letter, namely, the question of the fate of the Australian journalists, as being settled. We never accepted that. We never regarded the matter as being closed. So we have continued our probing. When I visited Jakarta- I think it was in January, following our visit to South-East Asia when we both went through Kuala Lumpur and Singapore - 
-No, not  2Vi  months later, because I had asked for the response of the Indonesian Government and I simply have indicated to you now that the response initially was that the Indonesian Government regarded the matter as being settled. Of course, our stance on Indonesia has been vastly different from yours. We have not been prepared to accept Indonesian assurances. We have taken a stance in principle on Timor which is the antithesis of what your Government did. We have called for a withdrawal of forces. We have called for a resumption of humanitarian aid. We have called for the implementation of an act of self-determination. We have done that not only at a government to government level and through the media here but also through the United Nations on 3 occasions in the short period we have been in office. What a stark contrast to what you have done! I do not believe that you can probe with any authenticity our record in government compared with yours. Yours was one of amoral nonactivity. Ours is one of probing on principle. We will get to the truth of the matter regarding the journalists and we will be seen to have been the only Western country, with the singular exception of Sweden, which has taken such a stand in principle and a stand in marked contrast to yours. 
-After months of silence the Leader has at last come out on an issue. The only thing to which you put your name before the demise of your own Government was a letter. You well know the dates to which I have referred. You are answerable to your own conscience from September 1974 onwards, and so too are those of your colleagues who remained silent on this issue. I have indicated to you that I made inquiries after coming into office during the caretaker period as to the response to your letter. I have indicated to you that I understood that the  President  was pleased to receive your letter but was not prepared to take any further action on the matter. Not only through our officers in Jakarta did I indicate that we were dissatisfied with that, but also we quite deliberately took action in the United Nations on the question of Timor. The number of occasions on which I have raised this matter directly with the  President  and with the Foreign Minister are two- in January and again this month. On both occasions I pressed the matter and as a result of pressing for this we have been able to get the team into Balibo to make the inquiries that are currently being undertaken. 
Our record on this matter is clear. We have been open not merely on the question of the journalists but also on the question of our policy on Timor. So the succinct answer is that I have not simply relied on the mails. I have raised the matter personally in Jakarta on each occasion, and not merely with the Foreign Minister but also with other leading government officials. 
That is why we have had some success in the representations we have been making. I wish that the Leader of the Opposition would be frank about the attitude of his own Government when in power on the question of Timor. I wish that he would come out and confirm or deny the allegations that have been made by people who worked in his own Department- or a person,  Mr Gregory  Clark, for example. Will he confirm or deny the reports made by  Mr Peter  Hastings in the  Sydney Morning Herald  in September 1974, when it was first alleged that some tacit approval had been given by the then Prime Minister, for Indonesia to take over East Timor? Will he deny the fact that the only group that showed concern about Indonesian expansion in Timor was the then Opposition in this Parliament when it raised a matter of public importance about an impending invasion of East Timor, which was dismissed out of hand by the then Government? Your record in foreign policy is abysmal. Your lack of credibility in your own activity and participation in this matter is worse than abysmal. 
-I think the events of Timor answer the honourable member's question. If there had been persistent pressure by the Aus.tralian Labor Party when in power it may never have happened. There was evidence of a likely invasion of East Timor as far back as late 1974. Throughout 1975 there was further evidence. We raised the matter in the Parliament here and it was dismissed out of hand. At no stage did you seek to raise the matter in the United Nations. You could have sought a voice in the Security Council. You could have taken action even earlier when the General Assembly was sitting in late 1974. Don Willesee was in fact troubled by this matter and you might well ask your leader why he took a different stance on the matter from that taken by Don Willesee. Perhaps, instead of asking me questions, at your next Caucus meeting you will ask him to state the truth and give an explanation of the duplicity of the Labor Party over Timor to those members of your party who are genuinely concerned about what you brought about. 
I am aware of the concern in the community over the cuts in Government aid programs for this financial year. It will be recalled that the cuts amounted to approximately $2 1.5 m. More than half of that amount- namely, $ 12m- in fact consists of temporary deferments of Australia's contributions to international organisations. The cuts will not impede the operations of those organisations as they operate on the basis of a different financial year. I have indicated that clearly in this House before. 
The Government's continuing commitment to aid should be clear. In particular, the aid program that we have negotiated with Papua New Guinea, which is at a minimum of $930m, is in real contrast to the breaking of the commitment to Papua New Guinea by the previous Government in the last financial year. It is well to recall that in the calendar year 1973, when the previous Government was in office, the aid program fell to 0.4 per cent of gross national product, which was the lowest percentage in many years. Because of the drastic economic situation with which the previous Government was faced, it cut its aid program in the last Budget, as I recall- the honourable member for Oxley can confirm thisfrom 0.56 per cent of gross national product to 0.52 per cent. The present Government has reduced that to 0.5 1 per cent. 
We have a clear commitment. We have stated it time and time again. At the recent Asian Development Bank meeting  Mr Chan,  the Papua New Guinea Minister for Finance, acknowledged with gratitude Australia's commitment in respect of its aid program to Papua New Guinea. He pointed out that the aid, being in the form of unconditional and untied grants, was an example 'which other developed countries would do well to ponder'. We have also announced that as a government we will be contributing to the replenishment of the soft loan funds of the Asian Development Bank. Australia's allocated amount of $4 1.6m has been announced by the Treasurer. We will support an increase in the Bank's capital. We have taken action to support the International Fund for Agricultural Development. 
These decisions should make it clear that the Government will do all possible, consistent with economic constraints, to meet its obligations to help developing countries. While it would be sanguine to expect to achieve 0.7 per cent of the gross national product by 1980, the Government still intends to work towards the achievement of that figure, difficult though it will be with the economic climate we have inherited. It must be obvious to all that the stronger the economy, the more aid we can give. The converse is, to some extent, the case, borne out also by the performance of the previous Government in cutting its aid programs. Critics of Australia's aid performance should note that its present level of 0.51 per cent is considerably higher than the developed country average of 0.33 per cent. 
-In regard to the first part of the question concerning Angola, I assume the Leader of the Opposition has read today's newspapers and that he would have seen that I answered a question on notice yesterday indicating that the Government had recognised the regime in Angola. 
-That very statement creates the official recognition. The honourable gentleman ought to know that. 
No. We are now taking steps to relay that information but, as the honourable gentleman would well know, a public statement is all that is required. So if he wants the date of recognition, the date of recognition was yesterday. 
In regard to Mozambique, I previously indicated to the honourable gentleman that the United Nations mission to Mozambique began discussions on a program of economic and technical assistance for that country. We are yet to receive the report and we are awaiting it. We have received a report from the meeting and inquiry made by the Commonwealth Secretary-General. When we receive the report from the SecretaryGeneral of the United Nations we will be able to announce in greater detail the form of aid. I have previously said to the Leader of the Opposition that the Government has a disposition to assist in this matter. I would like to be able to indicate to him, for example, the extent of our food aid. The Prime Minister and I have made a decision that we wish to send some form of food aid to Mozambique, and that will be done, but I will be unable to give the detail of that and to compare it with the request until I receive officially the report of the Secretary-General's mission to Mozambique. I think it is proper that I should await its receipt. But the Leader of the Opposition may be assured that immediately it is received it will get attention- the attention of a Government seised of the importance of the matter and desirous of giving assistance particularly in the field of food aid. Additionally we have received, for example, advice from the World Health Organisation that Mozambique desperately requires skim milk powder. I believe that we could respond to that request. The Prime Minister agrees with me here- I am very grateful because it will reduce my paper work- that we will be able to respond to the request by the World Health Organisation for skim milk powder for Mozambique. 
We have just listened to a tragic apology for ills, misdemeanours and non-disclosures by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  when he was Prime Minister. 
-Stop the humbug! The honourable member for Newcastle should have interjected throughout the speech by his Leader. 
-Are you talking about me? 
It is extraordinary. I have not even commenced what I have to say on the subject of the Lockheed Corporation, and honourable members opposite already have closed their minds. It shows how objective they are. Let me refer to the first part of the address made by the Leader of the Opposition. He described my references to his performance in Government concerning the matter of Timor as miserable and despicable. All I can say in that regard is that the proper designation for his performance on this issue while Prime Minister is not merely miserable and despicable but indefensible and unsustainable. 
There is no way in which you can justify your past actions. Recourse to alleged conventions about the non-disclosure of discussions will not do. You know that a refutation can be made by your own consent to the publication of documents, by your own reference to actions that you could have taken and should have taken when we raised matters in this Parliament. It is not merely a matter of discussions between President Suharto and yourself to which I am referring. It is the lack of action by your Government in the international forum, on a government to government basis and in this Parliament itself. You stand condemned by the lack of activity during your own period in government.  Hansard  will reveal the infrequent references to Timor.  Hansard  will reveal the way in which you ducked and skirted around issues when asked questions by members of your own Party.  Hansard  will reveal the way in which you moved away from facing the allegations that we put to you in the Parliament itself. You are on very thin ice in hanging on to the alleged confidentiality of documents that record conversations between the  President  and yourself. 
Published documents here, together with media accounts, condemn you. Your lack of justification of your actions today further condemns you. I think the overwhelming majority of Australians will be of the same view when they compare your record with our record, which indicates a publication of views by me from the time an allegation was made against you of tacit support of Indonesian expansion, which I issued in September 1974 and in which I said that we would never condone any qualification of the international principle of self-determination for the Timorese. That was accompanied by a matter raised in this Parliament and was accompanied further in August and September by 2 statements that were issued, condemning your Government. 
All these are on record. You have no record to rely on other than one which alleges that the documents are confidential and cannot be disclosed for 2 decades. Your arguments simply will not stand up and you are condemned, not only by your own words - 
-The Leader of the Opposition is condemned not only by his own words but also by those who work within the Department for which he was responsible. I would not know whether  Mr Clark  was an insider or an outsider. I do know that he worked in the Department of the Prime Minister. I do know that he did have access to some documents. It is clear from what the Leader of the Opposition says that he did not have access to all documents. But it is interesting to note that  Mr Clark's  account does corroborate the account of journalists in September 1974. The Leader of the Opposition can decide whether he chooses to make those documents available, but I would refer him to other opportunities he had to explain his Government's attitude to Indonesia and from which he withdrew. 
I now refer to the second matter that the Leader of the Opposition has raised. I received a letter from the Leader of the Opposition dated 3 1 March. The letter asked that the Government transmit through the United States Department of State to the sub-committee on multi-national corporations of the United States Senate Committee on Foreign Relations a request for files relevant to the sale of Lockheed Electra aircraft to Australia. I regret that I have not been able to reply in writing to the Leader of the Opposition yet. He has at least said that I am normally expeditious, or words to that effect, in the replies that I issue, but I believe the Government would be unwise to accept the statements of the Leader of the Opposition at face value without any investigation whatsoever. Accordingly, I directed the Australian Ambassador in Washington to make certain preliminary inquiries on the basis of which the Government could decide whether the proper course of action would be to accede to this request. These inquiries have been complicated, which is why I have not yet replied to the Leader of the Opposition. 
The Australian Ambassador in Washington has reported to date that contacts between his Embassy and the United States Justice Department had revealed no evidence so far about payments in Australia in respect of the sale of Lockheed aircraft. I would add that the Justice Department has said that its own investigations into the question of overseas payments in general were at a very early stage and would take many months to complete. It is also said, quite rightly in my view, that in the absence of any suggestion that such payments have in fact been made, it is not prepared to search through masses of invoices and other raw documents for signs of such payments. In other words, I think it is fair that the Leader of the Opposition take the matter beyond what was contained in his letter and give us further details. This Government has nothing to hide. This Government will probe his allegations, but he should make them in more detail than they have been made to date. 
I would also note that the Ambassador in Washington has reported that a high official of the Lockheed Aircraft Corporation gave himthat is, the Ambassador- complete reassurance that Lockheed had not at any stage in the postwar period paid sums of money to third parties involved in any Lockheed sales in Australia. Some may say; 'Well, they may be involved; so what for that.' But I can say on the basis of reports from the Embassy to date, following the cable I sent on the receipt of the Leader's letter dated 3 1 March, that we have been in touch with the United States authorities on this matter for some weeks and so far no indication of questionable payments by Lockheed in Australia has been revealed. As I understand it, the allegation of the Leader of the Opposition does not  prima facie  involve Lockheed itself as distinct from its agents in Australia. If he holds any substantive information that does suggest any third party payments by Lockheed I would be prepared to make the formal request to the United States Government that he seeks, and if necessary to seek a bilateral agreement on the release of United States information if any exists. I believe at this stage it is for the Leader of the Opposition to substantiate his claims. 
As I have said, the Government will not hold back and for all the argument over policy matters I think he would agree that if he puts material to me I will execute it faithfully and I will not hold back on anything. It relates to matters well before my time in this Parliament, but it does relate to men who may have to date an unimpeachable reputation. In fairness to whoever these men are or whoever this person is, I think the Leader of the Opposition ought to substantiate his claims to me. The Government has acted quite properly to date in making informal and preliminary inquiries on the basis of the material contained in the letters of the Leader of the Opposition. These have not so far thrown up any information to justify what he has said. Until there is such justification the Government is not prepared to make a formal approach to the United States Government. But on the receipt of more information from the Leader of the Opposition we will decide whether to proceed further. I bear in mind that he may have gone beyond the letter today in his speech. I will study the speech carefully to ensure that I have not missed anything and to see whether there is additional information contained in it that could be used. But I assume from my recollection of the speech that I will need further substantiation from the Leader of the Opposition before I can take the matter further, but it will be taken further. I could never condone such action and I will investigate the matter further provided the Leader of the Opposition does the proper thing and substantiates his claims. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
United Nations bodies such as UNICEF and the UNDP usually hold pledging conferences late each year at which member countries may pledge their voluntary contributions. There is no obligation on them to do so. 
Australia has not yet made pledges for 1976. 
Pledges were not made at the conferences held on the fourth and sixth of November because the Appropriation Bills had not been passed at that time. Pledges have not been made subsequently because of the Government's review of expenditure involving forward commitments. 
At the pledging conferences, pledges for 1976 were announced by Canada, the Netherlands and Sweden which, in Australian dollars at current exchange rates rounded to the nearest million, are as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Australian Development Assistance Agency, together with Australian missions overseas, is currently investigating the aid requirements of developing countries for nutritional non-grain foods such as skim milk powder, particularly for special feeding programs. 

In 1974-75 Australia shipped 2341 tonnes of skim milk powder as food aid.  An  additional 123 tonnes of full cream milk powder were also provided. 
Up to 1 March 1975-76 1350 tonnes of skim milk powder were shipped as food aid. 
No. 
The answers to the honourable member's questions are as follows: 
The commitments made by Australia at the World Food Conference were to support the target of 10 million tonnes of food aid per annum, and to provide additional aid, in proportion to the Canadian pledge of 50 million dollars, to make an effective impact on the critical food supply situation existing at the time. With regard to the first commitment, no attempt was made at the Conference to allocate this target between countries. With regard to the second commitment, the allocation of additional aid should have taken place in the first budget period following the Conference if it was to have the intended impact on the immediate situation. The Government of the time did not make any special provision to cover this undertaking in the 1975-76 Budget. 

The Government has the administrative capacity to respond speedily and generously to natural disasters. 
Aid is inevitably part of the overall relationship between Australia and foreign countries. It is therefore closely bound up with our foreign policy and has to be administered accordingly. This is not a new situation, nor one which requires any assurances to be given to the House as suggested by the Honourable Member. 
The Government is committed to strive towards the internationally accepted target of 0.7 per cent of GNP for development assistance. The Government will make progress towards that target as rapidly as possible. Given the economic circumstances which the Government has inherited, however, I am unable to give any assurances about the 1976-77 aid allocation in advance of the Budget for that year. 
The answer to the Honourable Member's question is as follows: 
The composition of Australian aid programs to recipient countries is determined after consultation and by agreement with those countries. Australia is not in diplomatic relations with the Government of Cambodia, the Australian aid program for Cambodia was suspended when Australian representation was withdrawn in 197S, and there has so far been no discussion of its resumption. In these circumstances it would be inappropriate to initiate discussions with the Australian Dairy Corporation regarding the milk recombining plant in Phnom Penh in which it has a 20 per cent equity interest. Indeed, any such discussions would presuppose knowledge of the state of that plant- such information as would be needed is not, however, currently available. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The amount of foreign aid to be given by the Australian Government in 1975-76 will be approximately $357 million. The countries assisted bilaterally in 1974-75 and the actual expenditures are as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) An Office of the Australian Development Assistance Agency was established within the Department of Foreign Affairs on 1 December 1973 by bringing together the Canberra-based staff of the Department of Foreign Affairs, who had been engaged on aid functions, and the staff from the former Department of External Territories who were still required to carry out ongoing aid functions in respect of Papua New Guinea as well as to service the needs of the Agency. Subsequently, Foreign Affairs staff overseas and in the States who spent more than SO per cent of their time working on aid functions, plus staff from the Departments of Education and Labor and Immigration who were similarly occupied, were progressively taken over. 
The Agency as such was formally established as a statutory authority on 10 December 1974. 
The staff taken over by the Agency from other Departments totalled554, made up as follows: 
-As I have indicated in the past, our view on this matter has been in marked contrast to the Opposition's when it was in government. At all times, and indeed while we were in opposition, we called for an act of selfdetermination to enable the Timorese to determine their own future, uncoerced by any outside powers. We hold to that. In our view the position remains that the process of self-determination should be conducted to allow the people of the territory to choose their own political future. The Government has therefore supported 3 United Nations resolutions on Timor adopted since December 1975. All have referred to the Timorese people's right to self-determination. Pending a satisfactory process of selfdetermination the Government has recognised neither the so-called Democratic Republic of East Timor nor the so-called Provisional Government of East Timor. Both the Indonesian Government and the provisional authorities in Dili are publicly committed, as I understand from their statements, to an act of self-determination in East Timor. It appears that arrangements for such a process are now in hand. 
From our point of view, we do not presume to lay down the guidelines or the methods for the process of self-determination. As the honourable member will be aware, the whole history of either non self-governing territories or those administered in the manner in which Papua New Guinea was, have determined various means of conducting self-determination programs. There has been no solitary means universally adopted, but clearly, in our view, if the process is to have validity it would seem necessary for a course to be chosen in the full knowledge of all possible alternatives. The Government also believes, and has said so in the United Nations, that some form of United Nations participation would be appropriate and in the best interests of the Timorese people. It remains to be seen whether the process foreshadowed by the provisional authorities meets United Nations and general international acceptance. 
On the last point, as the  Deputy  Leader will be aware I have only just returned to Australia. I understand that we may receive an invitation to witness some form of self-determination, the nature of which I have not yet been able to examine in any detail. I am giving consideration to the manner of our response should that invitation have been conveyed to us during my absence. If, after question time, I ascertain that the invitation has been conveyed I shall advise the honourable member. 
-The Treasurer will be dealing with matters relating to expenditure tonight. Amongst the matters with which he will be dealing will be the Australian development assistance program. I am not prepared to comment prior to that statement being made tonight, but after the statement is made I will be prepared to issue any statement which will further elaborate on the matters that the honourable member touches upon. 

 - Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to amend the Papua New Guinea (Stalling Assistance) Act 1 973- 1 975 to wind up the Australian Staffing Assistance Group arrangements in Papua New Guinea on 30 June 1976. The Australian Staffing Assistance Group was established under the Papua New Guinea (Staffing Assistance) Act 1973 and came into being on 1 December 1973, the date on which responsibility for the Papua New Guinea Public Service was transferred to the Papua New Guinea Government. At that time there were some 4500 overseas officers of the Papua New Guinea Public Service and the Papua New Guinea Police Force who had been appointed as permanent officers or engaged as contract officers by former Ministers for External Territories under the former Papua New Guinea Act. 
Under the Papua New Guinea (Staffing Assistance) Act 1973 these officers, together with a small number of temporary employees of the Papua New Guinea Public Service and staff of the Electricity Commission who were contributors to the Papua New Guinea Superannuation Fund, were separated from their respective Papua New Guinea services and became the Australian Staffing Assistance Group, or ASAG, as it has become known. The purpose of the Group was to make personnel available to occupy and carry out the duties of established positions in the Papua New Guinea Public Service and other areas of public employment until Papua New Guineans became available to fill these positions, and the services of the ASAG personnel were no longer required. The salaries, conditions of employment, superannuation, and retirement and other termination benefits of the personnel employed in ASAG have been prescribed or determined under the Act, and the Australian Government has accepted full and direct responsibility for them. The only personnel who have been added to the Australian Staffing Assistance Group since its establishment in 1 973 have been those officers of the Australian and State governments who have been seconded to ASAG for service in Papua New Guinea. 
In June last year the former Australian Prime Minister and the then Chief Minister- now Prime Minister-of Papua New Guinea announced jointly that, following a review of staffing assistance arrangements, it had been agreed between the 2 Governments that the direct employment by Australia of the 2900 or so personnel who were then in ASAG- many occupying senior and influential positions in the Papua New Guinea Public Service- was not in the immediate or long term interests of either 
Government, and should be discontinued. Accordingly, it was decided that further recruitment to the Group would cease on 30 June 1975, and that the Australian Staffing Assistance Group arrangements themselves should be wound up on 30 June 1976. In the meantime, new arrangements would be introduced to encourage those personnel in the Group whose services were still required, to transfer to direct contract employment with the Papua New Guinea Government. 
On Australia's part, the arrangements took the form of special conditions under which personnel could voluntarily terminate their employment in the Australian Staffing Assistance Group in order to accept contract employment with the Papua New Guinea Government. These conditions were settled after full consultation with the staff association representing ASAG employees, and included leave pay concessions, deferment or preservation of certain existing entitlements, accelerated payment of compensation instalments according to the period of contract service with Papua New Guinea, and certain superannuation and retirement benefits concessions. The Papua New Guinea (Staffing Assistance) Act 1973 was amended in September 1975 to facilitate the introduction of these special conditions, the detailed provision of which will be made by regulations under the Act. On Papua New Guinea's part, the new arrangements involved negotiation with the staff association of terms and conditions of contract employment broadly equivalent to those which applied to personnel of the Australian Staffing Assistance Group. 
The Papua New Guinea (Staffing Assistance) Termination Bill 1976, which is now before the House, consists of 34 clauses, most of which are of a machinery or 'savings' nature to preserve the residual entitlements of personnel when the Australian Staffing Assistance Group is wound up on 30 June 1 976. To this end, the Bill provides that personnel of the Group who have not voluntarily terminated their employment by 30 June 1976, either to accept contract employment with the Papua New Guinea Government or to return to Australia, will have their employment terminated on that date. The Bill includes provision that the regulations and determinations made under the Act will continue in force after 30 June 1976, so that former personnel of the Australian Staffing Assistance Group will not be disadvantaged as a consequence of the wind up of the Group and will receive their full entitlements. ' 
The winding up of the Australian Staffing Assistance Group arrangements has also meant that personnel are becoming entitled to benefits from the superannuation schemes to which they have been contributing much earlier than anticipated by the Boards which were responsible for investing the two funds involved. In earlier years, the Boards could not have foreseen the need for substantial amounts of cash at this time and until recent years have invested the funds in medium and long term securities. This is resulting in serious liquidity problems for both the Papua New Guinea Superannuation Fund and the Contract Officers' Benefits Fund. In the case of the Superannuation Fund, these problems have been overcome temporarily by loans under the present legislation, but a permanent solution is necessary. 
The Bill therefore provides for the Commonwealth to take over the assets and liabilities of both funds and, thereafter, to be responsible for the payment of all benefits that become payable under the 2 schemes. This will avoid the funds having to sell securities at a loss in order to pay benefits becoming due over the next few months, and will ensure that the members of the 2 schemes will receive the full amount of the employee-financed share of benefits as they become payable. I should mention that, to avoid drafting complications and possible legal problems, the changeover will now take place on the date on which the Bill receives the royal assent, instead of 31 March 1976 as announced earlier by the Minister Assisting the Treasurer. 
The Bill provides for the operation and administration of the Papua New Guinea schemes and two pre-war schemes- the Papua Superannuation Fund account and the New Guinea Superannuation Fund- to become, from 1 July 1976, the responsibility of the Commissioner for Superannuation, a position that will come into being under the Superannuation Act 1976 on that date. It also provides for applications to be made to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal for review of any decision confirmed or varied by the Commissioner. Regulations are being prepared to enable those contributors to the Papua New Guinea superannuation scheme, who so elect, to continue to contribute until the expiration of their first contract with the Papua New Guinea Government or until 30 June 1978, whichever occurs first. The regulations will also provide for variation of the method of updating pensions payable under that scheme and the two pre-war schemes, so as to place them on the same updating basis as will apply to pensions payable under the Superannuation Act 1922-1976, that is, the whole pension will be increased annually in accordance with the formula 1 times the percentage change in the consumer price index, March quarter to March quarter. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, it may seem unusual that the Australian Staffing Assistance Group is to be terminated not many years after its inception. This, however, is a consequence of the speed with which events have moved in Papua New Guinea 's attainment of independence. The Australian Staffing Assistance Group was devised as a mechanism to provide the Papua New Guinea Government with the professional, technical and high level administrative expertise which it needed, particularly in the period between selfgovernment and independence. I believe that it has been an effective arrangement for that purpose. The new arrangements under which personnel of the Australian Staffing Assistance Group are encouraged to transfer to direct contract employment with the Papua New Guinea Government will, however, enable Papua New Guinea to retain most of that expertise. Already over 1200 personnel have taken up contracts and at least a further 300 are expected to do so before 30 June 1976. 1 commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Scholes)  adjourned. 
-I will supply the honourable gentleman with the precise details as to numbers. The Government continues previous government policies of endorsing peacekeeping efforts through the United Nations. I think it is fair to say that this is one of those bipartisan issues. We have frequently commended the contribution that the Australian police have made toward that peacekeeping effort. This Government applauds their role. The previous Government gave its support. As I said at the outset of the answer, I shall supply the honourable member with the precise numbers in Cyprus at present. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Overseas missions are not required to maintain a register of official or important visitors from Australia. For local administrative purposes, however, some missions do maintain a record of visits. It follows that such a record would show only visits to the country in which the mission is located and would not necessarily show the overall purpose of the visit, the ultimate destination, or previous or subsequent ports of call. 
No mission has had responsibility for maintaining a register or record of Australian visitors to or from Southern Rhodesia. 
, (4) and ( 5 ) See answers to ( 1 ) and (2). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
My wife and I visited Bali from 24-28 September 1975. 
The only officials or advisers of the Indonesian Government with whom I had any contact during the visit were  Mr Lim  Bian Kie and  Mr Harry  Tjan who were at the airport when he arrived.  Mr Lim  Bian Kie is private secretary to General Ali Murtopo,  Chairman  of the Centre forStrategic and International Studies, and  Mr Tjan  is a member of the staff of the Centre for Strategic and International Studies. We also saw them again later the same day. No other discussions were held during the remaining portion of_ our visit.  
-Yes, I recall giving the answer; I think it was on 29 April. Taking a leaf out of the former Prime Minister's book, I can generally recall the dates on which he has asked me questions and I can generally recall the content of them, so much so that I can recall that I also referred to awaiting not merely the report of the Secretary-General of the Commonwealth but also that of the Secretary-General of the United Nations. I cannot recall the precise date on which the report from the Commonwealth SecretaryGeneral was received. I can indicate that it was received some time in advance of the receipt of the report from the Secretary-General of the United Nations which came to my Department last week and which is under examination. 
On 29 April I said to the Leader of the Opposition that the Government had decided that Australia would give some form of food aid to Mozambique but that the details would be studied, particularly after we had received and studied the report of the United Nations special mission to Mozambique. I noted that according to the World Health Organisation advice that we had received, Mozambique desperately required skim milk powder and that Australia would be able to respond to a request for that commodity. As I have said, copies of the report of the United Nations mission were received only in the latter part of last week. Its recommendations are under study. I am able to confirm, however, that the UN mission also sees an urgent requirement for food aid, including skim milk powder. Consideration is also being given to an appeal by the Commonwealth Secretary-General- an appeal which was not only made in writing following the report of his mission but was also made in person to the Prime Minister and me the day before yesterday. I shall be able to advise - 
It is a request for a contribution to a Commonwealth fund for technical cooperation. 
-It is a Commonwealth fund. It is not asking for bilateral assistance at the instigation of the Commonwealth and the fund, as I understand it, is to be called the Commonwealth Fund for Technical Co-operation and it will provide technical assistance to Mozambique. I believe that the United Kingdom already indicated that it is prepared to provide a sum of money, as has Canada, and that other members of the Commonwealth have indicated their willingness to contribute a particular amount or are giving consideration to it, but through a Commonwealth multi-lateral body. We are giving consideration to this. I should be able to advise the House in the very near future of our response to that request. 
-I am aware of a report that not only indicates this but also drew the same conclusions as the honourable member has drawn and are implicit in his question. That was in the  Canberra Times  of today's date. At this stage the Government has no information to confirm the report contained in that newspaper to the effect that the head of the Provisional Government of East Timor has been replaced and that UDT personalities have been arrested. Let us wait for confirmation of the information. Then I will give consideration to the matters justifiably raised by the Deputy Leader of the Opposition. 
-I am not prepared to commit positively to action to take this matter to the United Nations as a threat to the peace, but I am prepared to accept the major thrust contained within the question of the honourable member. It is time that international bodies got the whole question of threats to peace in perspective. It is time for a little more frankness and honest discussion in the international forum rather than the regurgitation of set lines. If international organisations are to solve international problems there has to be a movement of good will on all sides and a preparedness to compromise from their own predispositions and well worn slogans that are constantly regurgitated. I am not satisfied that text-books in Israel are a threat to the peace. It would take a great deal of persuasion to get me even to entertain such a contention. I believe that what is contained in the thrust of the question of the honourable member is better than anything I can say in answer. I believe that the events in the Middle East will be solved only by some form of compromise on both sides. But unless the right of Israel to exist is seen as the paramount consideration, and unless that state is not to be kept continually under siege then countries cannot enter into worthwhile negotiations. With regard to the remarks made by the honourable member concerning Lebanon, I compliment him for the sentiments behind them. 
-The short answer is that legally Portugal is still allegedly the administering authority but, after all, it opted out of that role and there have been too few prepared to remind the world community of Portugal's own delinquency in this regard. Portugal has a great deal to answer for in not bringing East Timor through steps to self-determination and taking other measures of humanitarian assistance and development. There is no doubt that Portugal with respect to its record as a colonial power in this part of the world particularly, if not elsewhere, has much to answer for. I think, however, that it ought also be borne in mind that when events changed in Portugal and the former regime was overthrown the former Australian Government could well have taken account of the pretty well accepted maxim that events that can occur in one part of the world can have a fairly immediate and direct effect far in excess of its normal sphere of influence. I would have thought therefore that the previous Government should have been taking steps- for example, during the former Prime Minister's lengthy tours overseas there was no visit to Portugal- to discuss events relating to East Timor. 
-Of course the reality is that we have been dealing with both the United Nations and the Indonesian Government since the latter intervened in the dispute and that is in marked contrast to what was done by the previous Australian Government which washed its hands and dealt with virtually nobody. 
-The Government's record is well known. Since this Government was elected -again in marked contrast to our predecessorswe have been protesting, and not merely protesting verbally but making representations both to the Indonesian Government and earlier to Portuguese authorities. We have also long held and have constantly stated, both here and in the United Nations since we came into office, our policy on Timor relating to self determination, the withdrawal of forces and the resumption of humanitarian aid. We have also said, and again in the United Nations, that observation of the process of self determination in East Timor should best be carried out by the United Nations. In the event, regrettably no indication was forthcoming from the United Nations that it would be involved in yesterday's meeting in East Timor. We accordingly decided that it would be appropriate for us not to attend. Some form of United Nations participation and observation, I believe, is essential and we would welcome this development, in accordance with the line we have taken since being elected to Government. In particular, we are hopeful that the United Nations special representative will soon be able to visit East Timor, again in accordance with his mandate, to reassess the situation in the territory. We hope he will be able to undertake this assessment not only in the light of the outcome of yesterday's meeting in Dili but also with a view to assessing all shades of opinion in the territory. But without that United Nations participation, this Government did not believe it could lend its presence to what took place as a further act in this tragic affair. 
I have no information which would lead me to conclude that Indonesia will obstruct the return of the United Nations representative to East Timor. I do have some information which indicates that  Mr Winspeare  Guicciardi still desires to return to the territory. Of course, had the questioner listened to the answer I gave in reply to the question asked by the honourable member for Lalor he would have heard me say that we have hopes for some form of United Nations presence to return to East Timor and specifically that  Mr Winspeare  Guicciardi will resume his visit to reassess the wishes of a greater number and more representative number of people within East Timor than he was able to do before. We would do all we could to assist his transport into the territory, if that were possible. It is quite clear that it would require now the co-operation of the Indonesian Government. The short answer to the latter part of the question is as I stated, that we have no indication that Indonesia seeks to obstruct, but we would wish the United Nations representative to act with some expedition in getting to Timor. 
-The Government has, in fact, applauded the decision by the Japanese Diet to ratify the Nuclear Non-proliferation Treaty under the terms of which non-nuclear weapon states undertake not to receive, manufacture or acquire by any means nuclear weapons or other nuclear explosive devices and agree to place all civil nuclear facilities under international atomic energy agency safeguards. As I recall, this brings the number of countries which have ratified the Treaty to ninety-eight and Japan's inclusion in this number is a most significant step. The Japanese Government, like the Australian Government, has been actively participating in international efforts to bring nuclear proliferation under effective control. We believe that the decision by Japan to ratify the Treaty will in itself help to strengthen the international non-proliferation regime. We strongly urge all countries not yet parties to the Treaty to follow Japan's example. As I said at the outset of the answer, we warmly applaud the decision taken by the Diet. 
The speech to which we have just listened can stand as a definitive summary of all that is wrong in the approach of the 
Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  to foreign policy. Without becoming too personal and with a tinge of regret may I say that it was as sick in its content as it was in its delivery. Instead of rising to what is a serious occasion he failedand, in terms of his own pretentiousness in this area failed pathetically- to come to terms with the central issues. How ironic it is that he accuses the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and this Government of setting the clock back. What we heard from him was an essentially backward looking speech of self-justification and selfcongratulation. In this as in so many other areas today he is obsessed with the past and cannot come to terms with the present or the future. 
The Prime Minister's speech was denigrated as being one of kicking the communist can. It seems that if one mentions communism one cannot equate it with Soviet power. It seems that the Leader of the Opposition is set on making communism undiscussable. The Leader of the Opposition concluded on the note that this Government was 'undoing years of patient and constructive effort' in foreign policy. What was constructive about resources diplomacy? What was constructive about Soviet sovereignty over the Baltic states? What was constructive about slashing aid and relations with Papua New Guinea? What was constructive about tacit or avowed support for Indonesian expansion in Timor? What was constructive about supplementing, putting down, covering up or ignoring security as a basic element in foreign policy? It may well be that the Opposition's overt support of our near neighbour in her endeavours was constructive but it was basically dishonest. The policies referred to in all those questions I have posed have been over-turned by this Government. 
The Leader of the Opposition should not come before the House and preen himself with a speech of constructive themes flowing throughout because his foreign policy was one of veneer which was essentially geared to impress but which lacked any substance. He criticised this Government for being backward looking, for being obsessed about threats, for kicking the communist can- in a cacophony of cliches put together this afternoon by a desperate and futile leader and ironically written before the Prime Minister's speech was read or delivered. The speech of the Leader of the Opposition had to be amended after he read the Prime Minister's speech because its constant theme of enlightenment and realism overrode the cliches with which the Leader of the Opposition's speech was riddled. So much for his acute analysis. 
The Leader of the Opposition prides himself on his memory and is fond of quoting other people's past statements, but it is a very selective memory. Does he remember his own past speeches calling on Australia to provide an asylum for Vietnam refugees? Of course he does not. Does he remember that in the middle of his Government's extravagant and irresponsible spending he found it necessary to cut aid to our closest neighbour Papua New Guinea? Of course he does not. Does he remember that despite his own fine words about contributing to peace keeping he failed to respond to a request to supply replacement United Nations peace- keeping forces in the Middle East? Of course he does not. If he did he would have to acknowledge that the record of this Government, which he characterises as insensitive, reactionary and unfeeling is in fact infinitely better than his own in each of these respects. 
The Prime Minister's speech dealt with the central issues of foreign policy today. I have mentioned that consistently throughout the speech was the theme of 'enlightened realism'. It also dealt with central issues of power, national interest and security. The only response to this by the Leader of the Opposition is to dismiss it as being obsessed with threat. This is utterly irresponsible and degrades discussion on foreign policy. He does not deal with substance but merely with appearance. He is blind to all the warning signals and encourages others to share his blindness. Unless the central role of power is acknowledged and its implications accepted, no sense can be made of the complexity of world affairs, and it is here more than anywhere else that the Leader of the Opposition fails as he did in his own conduct of foreign policy. In his speech here tonight and in the one other speech released on foreign policy this year in Townsville a month or so ago the treatment of the 2 super powers is completely inadequate. His treatment of the Soviet Union is totally superficial. In its most recent survey the International Institute for Strategic Studies notes that in the last year 'the overall perception of the Soviet Union in the West was perhaps the most anxious for many years'. Yet the Leader of the Opposition shares none of this anxiety. For him, to take note of what the Soviet Union is doing and to consider its implications is to 'insult' the Soviet Union. We should apparently restrict ourselves to silence or favourable references. This is not the Government's view, nor, I might add, would it be the Soviet Union's view when it feels its interests are involved. 
The Prime Minister's speech and our foreign policy statement issued last year described our policy as 'enlightened realism'. We do not equate realism with selfishness or narrowness of vision. On the contrary, we recognise that generosity and realism often go hand in hand, and this recognition is reflected in the way in which both defence and aid have been essentially exempt from the cuts we have been forced to make in almost every other area. In this context I mention my recent visit to Nairobi for the opening week of the fourth United Nations Conference on Trade and Development- UNCTAD IV. I was struck there by the growing anxiety of developing countries that greater progress be made towards the realisation of a new international economic order endorsed again tonight in the Prime Minister's speech. We cannot allow the frustrations and the polarisations between the developing and the developed world to occur- this is recognised in the Government's outline tonight- neither on the grounds of humanitarian interest nor indeed on the grounds of self-interest. We are able to reconcile these. 
Later this month the Prime Minister and I shall be visiting Japan and China. As the Prime Minister has stressed, each of these countries, in its different way, plays a major role in our foreign policy. In the case of Japan, the task we face is to strengthen and deepen the relationship we already have, to develop political and cultural understanding commensurate with the economic interdependence which already exists. Japan's key role in Asian and Pacific affairs is a reminder, if one is needed, that when we speak of power we are speaking not only of military strength but also of industrial vitality, social energy and commercial enterprise. Japan is not only our major trading partner, but it is also the major trading partner of the countries of South East Asia. It has an interest in the stability and development of the region, as have the countries of the region and as we ourselves have. It is this and not merely our bilateral economic relations which provides the basis for an expanding relationship. 
So far as China is concerned, we are in no way defensive about the fact that we are now approaching that country in different terms from those which prevailed a few years ago. We would be remiss if we were not. The international situation has changed. China's position has changed in important respects. Our position has changed. Why was the Leader of the Opposition denigrated in performance by the Chinese leadership? Why was it? What went wrong? After the initial euphoria things cooled off very rapidly. In the last year of his Government, 
China was hardly mentioned. I venture to say that what happened was that the Chinese discovered that they were not dealing with a serious man. Again, it comes back to a recognition of the centrality of power. While they were keeping their eyes steadily fixed on the power realities of the region, concerned about the imperative need to maintain a balance, he was concerned with other things- with ushering the Americans out, with denying the relevance of military and political factors, with posture and reputation. That is why they lost interest in him. It is only in recent months that Chinese interest in Australia has been renewed, and it has been reciprocated. 
I have already spoken at length in this House this year and outside the House about the Association of South East Asian Nations, South East Asia and Timor and I will not be reiterating that tonight. 
-I want to turn to the tensions and conflicts which have troubled the Indian sub-continent. 
-You ought to say 'good' because each time I mention what has transpired in Timor it is a constant reminder of the hypocrisy, the deceit and the avowed evasion of truth of your Government in power. Well may you say 'good', but I ignore it tonight because you know that had you occupied a position that you sought in the Cabinet you would be cowering as so many previous Ministers of your Government are under the hypocrisy - 

 -Mr Speaker, I was merely referring with relevance to an interjection which came in and somewhat rebounded on the man who interjected, but I take your point. I was turning to the tensions and conflicts which have troubled the Indian sub-continent since independence and which have come to absorb so much of its energies and to cause it to assume a rather self-absorbed, closed character. I do not want to overstate it, but it has been a great loss to the international community. We now strongly welcome the indications of a positive movement in the Indian sub-continent towards the improvement of relations among the countries of South Asia. In particular, we regard the recent rapprochement between India and Pakistan as not only a major achievement in itself but also as a sign of a new phase in the affairs of the subcontinent. The India-Pakistan agreement followed the earlier rapprochement between Pakistan and Bangladesh and has itself been followed by an announcement that the  President  of Afghanistan and the Prime Minister of Pakistan intend to hold summit talks to attempt to resolve the border tensions which have strained relations between the 2 countries. 
It was my intention tonight to deal in some detail with our attitude to southern Africa. There will be other occasions to do so. May I say succinctly that our policy towards southern Africa involves, first, supporting both the ending of white minority rule and the protection of white minority rights. Secondly, Australia is concerned that the conflicts in the region shall be resolved by political compromise without the resort to force and the shedding of blood. Thirdly, we are concerned that the process by which a settlement is advanced should not involve the installation of a major power as a dominating influence in the region. So long as Southern Africa is seen in terms of a rigid and simple polarisation between black and white it is difficult to see how such goals as I aspire to can be achieved. Yet we have heard nothing on this from the Leader of the Opposition tonight- nothing at all of the problems facing the world today. It is almost as though he is encompassed by an illiteracy which prevents him analysing with accuracy what has transpired in the world. We expect an analysis of the Government's program as it is. 
We expect a dissection of a program put forward by the Prime Minister as propounded by him tonight and not on the basis of what was thought to be propounded through newspaper reports. On each count the Leader of the Opposition failed. Neither is he viewing the world as it is; neither was he analysing the speech as it was delivered. As I said, that cacophony of cliches which was delivered by the Leader of the Opposition did him no justice. It further emphasised the pitiable performance of his party in power. It further emphasised the broken man in leading a broken party and not recognising the realities of the world today. 
The Australian people will respond positively to the speech of the Prime Minister. Not only was it accurate in its assessment, but in the aspirations it called forth it was not merely realistic but forward looking. The Opposition has come up with nothing in comparison tonight. The affairs of the Middle East, Southern Africa, the Indian Ocean or our own affairs in regions closer to us were not touched upon by the Leader of the Opposition. A poor substitute to a program - 
-I think the latter part of the question relates more to allegations that were made against the Indonesian Embassy in writing to students soliciting information about the campaign for an independent East Timor. I have said previously in answer to questions asked outside the House that there is probably a fine line between the right of embassies to write to their own citizens in a given country and the area in which they could be accused of spying. I could not condone the latter. In regard to the earlier part of the question, I have seen some reports that the Singapore Government has detained a number of people since early this year on charges relating to subversion and terrorism. One Press report I have seen stated that the Singapore Government may wish to have sent back to Singapore 3 persons who are alleged to have been deeply implicated in a number of activities. There was some publicity about an Australian trained Singapore ballet dancer. The Government has not been approached by the Singapore Government about this matter and we are not contemplating any action in this regard. 
I saw reports regarding this matter some weeks ago, and the Government has received information that the offices of foreign news agencies and international humanitarian agencies in Saigon will be closed. We have no confirmation that this has yet taken place. We have had reports also that most consulates have not been resumed in Saigon since they were closed at the time of the North Vietnamese success in the Indo-China war last year. The expulsion of foreigners from Saigon, however, cannot be said to be complete, because at least a French consulate remains. In part, I suppose, the moves could be interpreted as being consistent with the Vietnamese authorities' decision to make Hanoi the capital of a unified Vietnam. Vietnam would then be no different from other communist countries, in that foreign establishments are generally allowed only in the capital of the country. It would be impossible to answer this question without expressing at least regret at the move which will have the effect, to a great extent, of concealing from the eyes of the world the processes of communising South Vietnam. To put it mildly, it would have been to the credit of the Vietnamese authorities had they allowed international scrutiny of their actions to continue. 
by leave- I wish to inform honourable members of the stage the Government has reached in its further inquiries into the deaths of the 5 television newsmen at Balibo in East Timor on 16 October 1975. Previously I have said in the House, in looking forward to the visit to Timor of a team from the Embassy in Jakarta, that I would be prepared to discuss the findings of this inquiry with the next of kin of the 5 newsmen, with the Parliament and with the Australian Journalists' Association. I have since received reports from this team and from the departmental officer who interviewed  Mr Jose  Martins in Melbourne.  Mr Martins  of course was formerly identified with the pro-Indonesian group in East Timor. My Department is communicating both reports to the next of kin and, at my direction, the reports are being closely studied with a view to establishing what light they shed on the deaths and what further action may be necessary. I shall make both reports available in the Parliamentary Library after the next of kin have been appropriately informed. 
Meanwhile, I have received a submission from the Victorian branch of the AJA. The Association contends that the Government should seek financial compensation for the next &lt;of kin. Honourable members will recognise that this submission raises complicated questions not only of international law but also as to whether many of the claims made can be verified as facts. I have directed my Department to also put this full submission to careful study. 
In its approach to all these questions, the Government has been guided and will continue to be guided by 2 prime considerations: the first is to establish the facts, as far as it is possible to do so; the second is to cause as little distress as possible to the next of kin, who have already suffered more than enough. 
These considerations dictate that we should proceed with determination, but also with care and caution. There has already been enough saddening and inconclusive publicity, without the Government contributing unnecessarily to it. The parents of two of the newsmen have already made known their distress at the continuing public canvassing of the fate of their sons. 
Formidable obstacles have stood in the way of decisive government action in establishing the truth. The deaths occurred in foreign territory, during a period of undeclared hostilities. They occurred during the term of office of the previous Government. They occurred some time agomore than 7 months- yet it was only last month that we were able to get an Australian investigating team into the area. This fact must be stated clearly and its consequences faced clearly. It means that the trail has grown, if not cold, then at least cool. It means that the task of establishing the facts is even more difficult. 

 Mr Martins has given us an account of the events at Balibo. But he has also made it clear that he did not witness the deaths; he was not at Balibo when the men died.  His  account is based on what he was told by others. He said that his principal source of information was Tomas Goncalves the commander of the Apodeti forces at Balibo. In the event the Australian investigating team which visited Balibo conducted a detailed interview with  Mr Goncalves  and, as will be seen from the report,  Mr Goncalves  account did not bear out  Mr Martins  ' statements. I wish to stress that this is not to assert that  Mr Martins  is wrong. But clearly there is already an unresolved difficulty in regard to the authenticity of these 2 rival accounts. The situation becomes even more clouded when other accounts are considered. I am having a summary of these other accounts prepared and I shall also make these available in the Parliamentary Library. It is to be borne in mind, however, that in all cases we are dealing with somewhat circumstantial and often uncorroborated evidence. I regret that it is still not possible to come to firm and final conclusions as to the circumstances and manner of the deaths of the newsmen. 

 Mr Martins, however, has opened up some possible channels for progress. He has mentioned the names of certain Indonesian officers and an Indonesian official as having been in the area at the time. He has alleged that the S men were killed by Indonesian troops in Balibo. We are examing these claims in the context of the report of the mission from the Embassy. If this examination identifies a real prospect of moving forward, the House may be assured that the Government will pursue that prospect without hesitation and to the limits of its ability. One possibility is that there may be value in placing  Mr Martins'  material before the Indonesian authorities and their allies in Timor and seeking their reactions to the pertinent questions that it raises. 
I have instructed my Department to complete its immediate investigations as soon as possible. I want to be able to reach conclusions about this matter at an early date. I have set out the reasons why this regrettably has not yet been possible. 
-What an extraordinary question. 
-The honourable member need not add weight to it. The South Pacific Forum is going to be held later this year; as I recall, on approximately 26, 27 and 28 July. It so happens that at the present moment I plan to be with the Prime Minister in the United States at that period. It is quite clear that whoever framed the question for the honourable member totally ignored the fact that both the Prime Minister and I attended the South Pacific Forum meeting in Rotorua earlier this year. So we have already associated this Government directly and, through the Prime Minister, at the highest level with the aspirations of the countries that comprise the South Pacific Forum, it was at that meeting, of course, that the members of the South Pacific Forum accepted a change to a nuclear-free zone in the Pacific that had been advocated by some members before. It was a very realistic approach. 
With regard to the forthcoming South Pacific Forum, it will be a matter for the Prime Minister to decide who leads the Australian delegation at ministerial level. It is not for me to interfere with his decision-making there. But quite clearly Australia will play an active part in this Forum. We are highly regarded as a major contributor to the programs of the South Pacific. As for the gratuitous remarks passed about other people's expressions, all I would say to the honourable member is that before he asks questions in this sort of area he should check his background. Our standing is not only supremely high, it is endorsed by the attendance of the Prime Minister at the Forum earlier this year. I am sure that our contribution in July will indicate the underlying importance that Australia attaches to the Forum. I leave aside the gratuitous remarks passed about the New Zealand Prime Minister. 
For the information of honourable members I present the annual report of the Department of Foreign Affairs for 1975. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Please see the answer by the Treasurer to Question No. 526. 
-The meeting is to be held, as I understand it, on the dates mentioned by the honourable member in his question. I recall receiving information from overseas and local bodies of Amnesty International relating to this matter, and being asked whether Australia would raise the question of East Timor at the meeting of IGGI- the Inter-Governmental Group on Indonesia. I do not believe that is the appropriate forum. We have made our stand in the appropriate forum, the very one that was mentioned in passing by the honourable member in his question, namely, the United Nations. That is where the action must commence and where it should be seen through to conclusion in relation to Timor. But IGGI, essentially an economic group - 
-There are other forums. There are plenty of forums. I remind the honourable member that there was a very real forum in which this matter could have been raised when he was in government, not just at the United Nations General Assembly but at the Committee of Twenty-Four, which is the committee on decolonisation, when it met in July of 1975. The honourable gentleman said that there are other forums. That is the most appropriate forum of all, and it was one the previous Government did not utilise at all. We do not believe that IGGI is the appropriate forum. So far as the aid programs to Indonesia are concerned, we have indicated our approach- I have said it time and again- in relation to keeping our relationship in perspective while taking a stand on Timor on principle. That remains the Governments policy. 
-I do not believe it serves any purpose to exclude Papua New Guinea from aid programs. If the honourable member is not aware of it, Papua New Guinea is an independent country, and it is quite legitimate- it always has been- for Australian governments to include aid to Papua New Guinea, unless you are a colonialist, in their aid programs. 
The amount represents a 14 per cent increase in money terms on expenditure this year compared with the estimates for the forthcoming financial year. That is what is relevant. I find great difficulty comprehending why the honourable gentleman excluded the figures for Papua New Guinea, unless it was to make a point. We must recognise that the previous Government was the first government to reduce aid to Papua New Guinea. It did so at a most sensitive period for the Papua New Guinea 
Government and for relations between the 2 countries. The arrangements we worked out for Papua New Guinea, which we have always maintained we must have - 
For the information of honourable members I present the report of the Australian delegation to the fourth session of the Third United Nations Conference on the Law of the Sea held in New York from 15 March 1976 to 7 May 1976. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Yugoslav Government has made no appeal for assistance from other countries. However, I understand that the Italian Government has provided some assistance, and the United States has offered aid if it is required. 
The answer to the honourable member's question upon notice is as follows: 
1 ) Six persons are engaged full-time on the recruitment of staff for the Department of Foreign Affairs, including the Australian Development Assistance Agency. Their total salaries per annum are $68,5 19. 
Nil. 
Nil. 
Nil. 
Department of the Capital Territory: Staff Recruitment (Question No. 608) 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Assistance to Italy following the earthquake on 7 May 1976 has taken the form of material assistance in the form of equipment, foodstuffs, drugs and personnel and financial assistance. 
The Italian Government has advised that as of 18 May the following assistance had been offered by foreign governments: 
Australia: $250,000 from the Federal Government and $45,000 from State Governments. 
Austria: $87,000, 1625 tents, 2000 mattresses, 2000 pillows, 10 000 sheets, kitchens for 2000 people, 12 water purifiers, 12 watertankers, 5 heavy logistic support vehicles. 
Belgium: 35 electric generators, 25 000 meal units, medical material. 
Canada: $824,000, a military corps specialised in clearing operations and medical assistance as well as 300 men with various equipment, ambulances, helicopters, etc. 
European Community: $57,000, 150 000 tonnes of powdered milk. 
Denmark: Tents and beds for 400 people. 
France: Two teams of 'securite civile' with appropriate equipment, one team of firemen specialised in salvaging and clearing operations, one mobile medical unit, one team of 'corps mondiale de secours' with 500 kilos of medicine and 100 blankets. 
Britain: $143,500, 90 tents, 360 campbeds, 1000 blankets, unspecified quantities of anti-biotics and water purifiers. 
Japan: $10,700. 
Greece: 1 30 tents, two tonnes of raisins. Israel: 16 tents, 160 beds, 320 blankets. Yugoslavia: $133,000. 
Norway: 250 prefabricated houses of 25 square metres each. 
Netherlands: 154 tents, 1900 camp beds. 
Pakistan: 200 tents, $16,000 worth of medicine, two tons of rice. 
Federal Republic of Germany: $936,000, 1765 tents, 1500 mattresses, 5250 blankets, a battalion of sappers with 1 1 vehicles, one military group, with water purifying plants. 
German Democratic Republic: 50 10 blankets. 
San Marino: $19,000. 
United States: $20,292,000 for reconstruction, 1500 tents, 6 helicopters, $40,600 worth of field rations, $5,700 worth of stretcher material. 
Sweden: $18 1,600. 
Switzerland: 260 tents, a water purifier, eighteen tons of powdered milk, 485 sets of kitchen utensils. 
U.N.D.R.O.: 300 tents to a value of $20,300. 
Further assistance has been provided by a number of national branches of the Red Cross and by other voluntary organisations. 
South Pacific Nuclear-free Zone (Question No. 700) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The question of a South Pacific Nuclear Free Zone was considered at length by the Prime Minister and the Heads of 
Governments of other South Pacific nations at the recent meeting of the South Pacific Forum held in Rotorua on 8-9 March. The Record of the Meeting reported the discussion in the following terms: 'The members of the Forum agreed that in carrying forward their consultations under the resolution adopted by the General Assembly of the United Nations on 1 1 December 1975, endorsing the idea of a nuclearweaponfree zone in the South Pacific, their objectives would be to advance the cause of general disarmament and to seek the cessation of nuclear weapons testing in the South Pacific. In taking such action they would respect the principle of the freedom of navigation of the high seas. They agreed that in developing the concept embodied in the General Assembly resolution along these lines there would be no incompatibility with existing security arrangements. ' 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Detailed information about travel to and from Southern Rhodesia, including which routes travellers ordinarily use, is no doubt available within Southern Rhodesia itself but is not available to the Australian Government. Travellers may enter Southern Rhodesia by land from a number of countries. Available information on regular air services indicates, however, that there are only a few points of departure for air travellers to Southern Rhodesia including principally from South Africa. Australia has a diplomatic mission in South Africa. 
and (3) See sections (2) and (3) of my reply to the honourable member's question No. 416. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The telegram to which the honourable member refers was received in my office on 1 1 December 1973. As the honourable member is already aware from the response to an identical telegram sent to the Secretary of my Department, no telexes, files, papers or documents relevant to question No. 338 1 were or are held in the Department of Foreign Affairs. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
If a Minister of State on an official visit to Singapore wishes to call on the Head of State of Singapore, my Department, through the High Commission in Singapore, would endeavour to arrange such a visit. The purpose of the file is to record the request to the Singapore Government for an appointment, and the actual timing of the appointment, if granted. 
Representation in Singapore: Prime Minister's Visits  (Question No. 791) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
and (3) The information on which the reply to question No. 36 was based did not come from Foreign Affairs records. 
Water Hyacinth in Murray River (Question No. 793) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1) In 1974, 143 745 tonnes of wheat was shipped as aid to Bangladesh and for 1975 the figures are 69 764 tonnes of wheat and 500 tonnes of rice. During the period 1 January to 31 May 1976 there were no shipments of wheat or other grains to Bangladesh as bilateral aid. However, an Australian gift of 8000 tonnes of wheat to the World Food Programme was shipped to Bangladesh. There were no requests for wheat or other grains as aid to Bangladesh during the period 1 January to 3 1 May 1976. 
The Australian High Commission in Dacca keeps in close touch with the Bangladesh authorities to ensure proper and efficient receipt, storage and utilization of food aid. Australian wheat is inspected after its arrival in Bangladesh and before it is distributed locally. Sometimes it is stored in a single facility with shipments from other countries. The Food Ministry of the Government of Bangladesh has informed the High Commission that there has been no significant deterioration of stored foodgrain over the past two years. The problem of wastage of foodgrain because of inadequate storage facilities is regarded as more potential than actual, and various measures have been taken by the Government of Bangladesh and by aid donors to meet this problem. 
In response to a request from the Government of Bangladesh, Australia has undertaken to provide assistance to Bangladesh in the development of grain storage facilities. These are to be 500 tonne multi-purpose warehouses in rural areas, mainly in the north-eastern region where sites are being selected. They will be suitable as centres for the storage of ration food items, agricultural inputs and locally produced grains. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In a circular letter of 4 March 1976, the Commonwealth Secretary-General transmitted to Commonwealth Heads of Government the statement issued at the conclusion of the Sanctions Committee meeting the same day. In brief, the Sanctions Committee, through the Secretary-General, recommended to Governments to react to the needs of Mozambique in accord with the agreement reached at the Commonwealth Heads of Government meeting in Kingston in May 1975. 
Before leaving on his investigatory visit to Mozambique the Secretary-General sent a telegram on 14 March 1976 to all Commonwealth Heads of Government requesting them to consider how to translate their Kingston agreement into effective measures. 
A further appeal was made in a circular letter of 21 April 1976, when the Commonwealth Secretary-General notified Governments that the Board of Representatives of the Commonwealth Fund for Technical Co-operation (CFTC) approved in principle the establishment of a special technical assistance programme for Mozambique through CFTC. 
The Government decided to await the report of the Commonwealth Secretary-General and the report of the UN investigatory mission before deciding on Australia's contribution. 
Apart from interim replies to the above appeals, Australia's official and positive response was announced on 3 June 1976. 
The assistance to Mozambique given by Australia will consist of! 
Food aid, including cost of freight, to the value of $A1m; 
$US 100,000 to a special fund established under the Commonwealth Fund for Technical Co-operation for technical assistance to Mozambique. 
Most Commonwealth countries have pledged support for Mozambique, but not all have identified what form this support will take. Canada will give $C3m of food aid, the United Kingdom is committed to a 1 5m bilateral program, New Zealand will provide $NZ 120,000 of skim milk powder, and other countries have indicated they will be mounting bilateral programmes of assistance. 
Pledges to the Commonwealth Technical Assistance Fund for Mozambique as at 25 June 1 976 were as follows: 
Yesterday the Prime Minister sent a message in the following terms to the  President  of the Philippines: 
On behalf of the people and the Government of Australia I wish to express our deepest sympathies and sorrow for the tragic loss of life and injuries that have been caused by the earthquake in the southern Philippines. Australia stands ready to afford whatever assistance it can within its resources and I should be grateful if you would advise me through the Australian Embassy of your most urgent needs. 
We are therefore asking the Philippines Government to indicate to us its priorities in this matter. 
Tragically several thousand people have lost their lives and many others are homeless because of tidal waves which followed the earthquake. The earthquake affected an area where Australia is engaged in large road construction, irrigation and agricultural development projects. As I recall, it is the second largest aid project that we have in South East Asia. This has meant that Australian aid teams have been on the spot and have been able to render ready and immediate assistance. 
There has been significant loss of life and damage near the project site itself. The Australian team began work immediately after the earthquake. All project work ceased and the team, as I understand it and am advised, is now using heavy equipment to clear the worst hit areas. The leader of the team has bought food which is being prepared for refugees by project personnel. The equipment naturally is being used to clear roads. 
I take the opportunity, in waiting for the response from the Philippines, to point out the immediate assistance that is being rendered and also at this stage to commend the humanitarian efforts of the project personnel and their families. I think this is a significant example of Australian assistance to people who have suffered severe deprivation. 
I am aware that the honourable member spoke in this House last Tuesday night on this very matter. I took note of his address and, of course, of the remarks that were passed during the debate on the matter of public importance which took place in this House last Thursday morning. The Government has consistently deplored denials of civil liberties and violations of human rights wherever they have occurred, and it will continue to do so. I have noted with deep distress and grave concern the news reports coming out almost daily from Uganda. If even a number of those reports are true it is clear that the intrusions into civil liberties and the assaults upon human dignity and physical wellbeing are occurring regularly on a fairly large scale. These developments have provoked a number of countries, including both Western and African countries, to express thendisquiet about the situation. It is our earnest hope as a government that in the interests of peace, stability and, indeed, economic and social development in that country as well as in neighbouring countries this apparent campaign of brutality and repression will be checked and that the exercise of all basic human rights will be restored swiftly to all Ugandans. 
I might add that it is incontestable that the impact of these occurrences falls heaviest on the people of Uganda, but they have also affected some Western perceptions of developments in other parts of Africa. Emotive and ill founded arguments based on the situation in Uganda have on occasions been applied indiscriminately to other countries in Africa to the detriment, I believe, of reasoned discussion and assessment of particular and different situations. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am advised that the study referred to has not been completed. 
Federal-State Ministerial Councils and their Advisory Committees (Question Na 483) 
I would say at the outset that repeatedly the Government has expressed its regret about the loss of life and human suffering which resulted from the fighting in East Timor. This Government has been in the forefront of governments from most countries offering humanitarian help and assistance. We have consistently supported the activities of the International Committee of the Red Cross. We have expressed our disappointment that the ICRC activities came to an end. They came to an end when about three-quarters of the original Australian pledge of $250,000 had been spent. We have since indicated to the ICRC that we would be prepared to provide a further $250,000 if its activities in the area were renewed. However, it seems unlikely that in the near future the ICRC will be able to resume its activities in Timor. Nevertheless, the Government continues to be concerned to find ways of extending humanitarian aid to Timor. To that end, the Government has been in contact with the Indonesian Red Cross, which is conducting relief programs in East Timor, to explore the possibility of Australia making a contribution to such programs. The Indonesian Red Cross has indicated that it is prepared to assist with the channelling of such aid into East Timor. It is hoped that it will be possible to make an announcement on the details of any such arrangements in the near future. 
For the information of honourable members I present the report of the Australian delegation to the 30th session of the United Nations General Assembly held in New York during the period 16 September 1975 to 17 December 1975. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The texts of treaties to which Australia became a party between 5 June 1975 and 3 March were incorporated in  Hansard  on 3 March 1976, page 523. 
The texts of the treaties to which Australia has become a party since 3 March 1976 will be tabled in Parliament shortly. 
I draw the honourable member's attention to my Department's publication,  Hie Australian Foreign Affairs Record,  in which a summary of treaty action appears each quarter. The last issue to contain such a summary was that of June 1976. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
On 31 December 1971, the British Government expressed interest in having one of its nuclear-powered submarines visit Australian ports. 
On 1 1 January 1972, the then Prime Minister the Rt Hon. William McMahon informed the British Prime Minister, the Rt Hon. Edward Heath, that the Australian Government was reviewing the control arrangements and conditions relating to the entry of nuclear-powered ships to Australian ports, and that the British Government would be advised when the review was complete. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer ot the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
1 have just learnt that South African Airways has available, on request, brochures advertising tours of South Africa, on a package basis, for members of the various police forces in Australia and their families. 
The approval of the Australian Government for this exercise has neither been sought nor given. Needless to say it would be a matter of serious concern to the Australian Government if such visits assumed any official character, and the Government would consider then what action it might be appropriate for it to take. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Government of Mozambique has been offered skim milk powder to the value of $1 million (including freight). This would pay for the purchase and freight of around 2200 tonnes of skim milk powder. This offer has not yet been taken up pending examination of Australian samples of skim milk powder by the Government of Mozambique. Action is being taken to supply samples. 
(a) The Government has approved expenditure of $2 million to cover the costs of purchase of skim milk powder and freight thereon to be given to developing countries (including Mozambique) for use mainly in specialised nutrition programs. This amount will pay for the purchase and freight of around 4200 tonnes of skim milk powder. Offers have now been made to several countries. 
During 1973-76 Australia provided 1330 tonnes of skim milk powder worth $646,630 to Vietnam and 103 tonnes of skim milk powder worth $30,000 (including freight) to Lebanon. 
(a) During 1973-76 Australia gave 320 tonnes of milk fat worth $306,740 and 3 tonnes of lactose worth $3,140 to Vietnam. Australia has given 9 tonnes of milk biscuits worth $20,000 (including freight) to the Philippines and 6 tonnes of milk biscuits worth $13,000 (including freight) to Indonesia during this financial year for use in natural disaster situations. 
During 1973-76 Australia gave 158 tonnes of dried fruit worth $93,800 and 120 tonnes of canned fruit worth $70,000 to the World Food Program. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 )  Dr Helen  Hughes was commissioned by the Australian Development Assistance Agency (ADAA) to examine the general field of development studies in Australia and to recommend ways in which the Government and the Agency might further promote this field through several alternatives, including the possible establishment of an Institute of Development Studies. The report prepared on their own initiative by  Sir John  Crawford's study committee was addressed to the specific issue of Australian assistance to strengthen research for development in developing countries. 
) I am advised that no other persons were commissioned to prepare a report on these issues at the same time. 

 Sir John Crawford and  Dr Helen  Hughes prepared separate reports. 
Preparation of the report by  Dr Hughes  cost approximately $7,000. The work involved in  Sir John  Crawford 's report was at no cost to ADAA. 

 Dr Hughes presented her report to the Agency on 31 December 1975, the date of termination of her consultancy.  Sir John  Crawford submitted a copy of the report of his study committee to me on 20 February 1 976. 

 Dr Hughes' report has been available to interested persons on request since 30 July 1976. It is currently being printed and is shortly to be released to all Australian Universities and interested people interviewed by  Dr Hughes  during her consultancy. 
No decisions have been taken. Further consideration of the Government's approach to development studies in Australia is being given taking account of prevailing financial constraints. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The recognition of a new government or State can be accomplished either expressly or by implication. Because of the differing practices used by States in recognising new governments or States it is not easy to say with any accuracy which States have recognised the present governments of former Portuguese possessions or the dates on which recognition took effect in each case. However, it is generally acknowledged that States which vote in favour of admission of States seeking membership of the United Nations recognise those States by implication of their vote. The voting record on applications by former Portuguese possessions to join the United Nations is provided in the second part of this answer. 
On 12 August 1974 the United Nations Security Council unanimously adopted Resolution 356(1974) recommending the admission of the Republic of Guinea-Bissau to membership of the United Nations and on 18 August 1975 it adopted similar resolutions, also unanimously, in respect of the Republic of Cape Verde (372 (1975)), the Democratic Republic of Sao Tome and Principe (373 (1975)), and the People's Republic of Mozambique (374 (1975)). 
On 17 September 1974 at its twenty-ninth Session the United Nations General Assembly adopted by acclamation Resolution 3205 (XXIX) admitting Guinea-Bissau to United Nations membership and, on 16 September 1975 at its thirtieth Session, adopted by acclamation Resolutions 3363 (XXX), 3364 (XXX) and 3365 (XXX) admitting Cape Verde, Sao Tome and Principe and Mozambique respectively to United Nations membership. 
On 23 June 1976 the Security Council considered a draft resolution recommending the admission of the People's Republic of Angola to membership of the United Nations. The voting was as follows: 
In favour (13): Benin, France, Guyana, Italy, Japan, the Libyan Arab Republic, Pakistan, Panama, Romania, Sweden, the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the United Republic of Tanzania. 
The answer to the honourable member's question (based on all available information which may, however, not be complete), is as follows: 
Albania-(late 1973)*; Australia-(September 1973); Britain-(December 1975); Bulgaria-(September 1973)*; Cambodia- (January 1974)t; Colombia- (May 1974); Cuba- (September 1973)t; Czechoslovakia- (September 1973)*; Democratic Peoples Republic of Korea- (September 1973)t; Democratic Peoples Republic of VietNam (October 1973)*; German Democratic Republic(September 1973)*; Hungary-(September 1973)*; India(October 1974); Italy-(September 1973); Mexico(November 1974)*; Peoples Republic of the Congo-(late 1973)*; Poland-(October 1973)*; Portugal-(April 1975); Provisional Revolutionary Government of Viet-Nam- (October 1973)*; Sweden-(December 1973)*; U.S.S.R.(September 1973)*; Yugoslavia-(September 1973); ZambiaOctober 1973)*. 
Note: * Countries which severed diplomatic relations with Chile t Countries with which Chile severed diplomatic relations  t  Ambassador delared persona non grata 
Australia; India; Colombia. 
March 1975 Colombia; July 1976 India; August 1976 Australia. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is: 
The Australian Government recognised the present Government of Chile on 11 October 1973 through acknowledgement by the Australian Embassy in Santiago on that date of a Note from the Chilean Government. The Australian Government continues to recognise the Government of Chile and has seen no reason to alter the practice of the previous Government in this respect. 
Gifts of Money to the Government of Indonesia  (Question No.  886)  Mr Clyde  Cameron asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice: 
What were the dates, details and purposes of all gifts of money made by the Australian Government to the Government of Indonesia during the last ten years. 
Did Cabinet approve these gifts; if not, why not. 
Was Treasury consulted before it was decided to make these gifts; if not, why not. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  1. (a) On 21 April 1970 the Department of External Affairs announced the gift of $5,000 towards the repair and rehabilitation costs of the Bogor Botanic Gardens in West 
Java which had been devastated by a freak hurricane earlier in the year. 
On 20 February 1975 the then Minister for Foreign Affairs,  Senator Willesee,  announced a gift of $10,000 to assist in housing the large number of people left homeless following a series of earth tremors in the Sukabumi area of West Java on 9 February 1 975. 
On 16 July 1976, 1 announced a cash contribution of $35,000 for the relief of the victims of the recent earthquakes in Irian Java and Bali. 
No. Cabinet decisions were not required. 
With respect to gifts described in paragraphs 1 (a) and 1 (b)- No. Treasury authorisation for minor aid expenditure within the budget allocation was not required. 
With respect to 1 (c)- Yes. Because of the size of this gift, the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet and the Treasury were consulted before I made the announcement. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Government deplores the violence and killing which has accompanied the suppression of civil disturbances in South Africa. It regards the present troubles in South Africa as the inevitable result of policies based on the inequality embodied in apartheid. But it does not regard the maintenance of diplomatic relations with other countries as dependent on approval of their political or social systems. 
In the case of South Africa the Government does not believe that by unilaterally banning trade with South Africa, breaking off diplomatic relations or seeking to impose a total boycott on sporting ties, any useful purpose would be served or that such measures would in isolation either effect the situation in South Africa or persuade the Government of South Africa to change its policies. On sporting contacts, Australia considers its main objective to be to promote change in South Africa's policy in this area. The Government believes this objective can best be achieved through limited contact subject to practical conditions, including especially the test of multi-racial selection for team sports. 
-Drug trafficking is a matter of major concern to many governments today, not the least our own Government. In fact, to the best of my recollection some 10S Australians are known to my Department to have been arrested for drug offences in other countries during the course of this year alone. The sentences range from several days imprisonment up to 10 years imprisonment. In some countries penalties now include, as I understand it, the death sentence for the most serious offences. The Government, of course, is deeply concerned about the increasing numbers of Australians travelling overseas who are involved with drugs. They are being arrested broadly for either possession of various drugs or trafficking in them. I suppose I should take this opportunity to warn Australians travelling overseas of the serious consequences that can result from being in possession of drugs. As I have stated, the penalties are often severe, with lengthy periods of detention. It has to be realised that there is little the Australian Government can do, other than to check on the welfare of these people and their well-being within the prisons or wherever they may be incarcerated, when Australian citizens are apprehended overseas on drug charges; just as there is little that foreign governments can do within Australia if any of their nationals are arrested in Australia on similar charges. The number of approximately 105 people arrested in this year alone should indicate the concern of the Government. 
-I will take the Leader of the Opposition's question not  seriatim  but in the reverse order. It is my intention to join the Prime Minister in Indonesia- not to accompany the Prime Minister to Indonesia, because I will be firstly at the United Nations and then in Brussels for talks with the European Economic Community. I intend to leave those talks to join the Prime Minister at approximately the same time as he arrives in Indonesia, or perhaps the next morning. So I will join the Prime Minister in his visit. In regard to the framework of any discussions, it is of course public knowledge, as announced by the Prime Minister yesterday, that he will be visiting Indonesia and discussing a wide range of matters. The content of those talks is not for public discussion. I can recall only too well the present Leader of the Opposition refusing to disclose details of discussions. We would have been interested in the detailed discussions which occurred between  President  Suharto and him, particularly in regard to Timor. He resolutely refused to give those details or to make them public. We have our own versions and our own views of them, and I think the public has drawn its own conclusions. So far as our policy on Timor itself is concerned, we, in contrast with the previous Government, have made our views known. They have been stated constantly. There is no need for them to be reiterated today. 
-I would certainly not wish to visit the sins of the father on the son. To draw such a conclusion from the question itself is incorrect. As I understand it, a question was answered yesterday by the Minister for Primary Industry on my behalf because of my absence and he indicated then that the prime reason for redirecting the aid program through the Indonesian Red Cross was that we were unable to direct funds to the people of Timor through International Red Cross at this juncture. In view of that and with the concern not only that the remaining amount of money- approximately $100,000 of the quarter of a million dollars that was made available to the International Red Cross- should be expended, but also that an increased allocation over and above that could be put to use, we felt we should be meeting the needs of those people as soon as possible and, therefore, we ought to be doing it through the Indonesian Red  Cross.  I am not here to delineate the relationship between the Indonesian Red Cross and the Indonesian Government, but it requires far more than that for a  de jure  recognition, and that is not to be canvassed. The premise of the Government is that there is a humanitarian problem, as we have long indicated. We are seeking to meet it and the action we are taking will be a major contributing factor in meeting that humanitarian problem. 
-It will be recalled by the honourable member that the Prime Ministers of both countries- Prime Minister Fraser and Prime Minister Somare- in a joint communique earlier this year indicated that there would be negotiations between the 2 governments to ensure that we could reach an equitable solution to this problem. The reality is that the negotiations are of course still taking place. They involve more than simply a seabed delineation or delimitation line. There are matters relating to fisheries, which come within the portfolio of my colleague the Minister for Primary Industry, and matters relating to quarantine and the like all to be discussed so far as the Torres Strait area is concerned. All I am prepared to say at this juncture is that I have met with  Sir Maori  KM on 3 occasions and that officials of my Department and his have met on at least that number of occasions. I am not prepared to enter into public discussion relating to those negotiations other than to say that the constitutional position regarding the specific question of islands is well known. It does not require restatement here. 
Papua New Guinea's own international support is a matter for Papua New Guinea to judge for herself. We have given a commitment to enter into discussions for an equitable arrangement to be reached.  Sir Maori  Kiki has made some comments on the matter. It is, of course, primarily his duty to look after what he assesses to be Papua New Guinea's own interests. While seeking an equitable settlement, I have a duty not merely in relation to Australia geographically or the border between the 2 countries but also to look after, protect and preserve the rights and the traditional way of life and livelihood of the Torres Strait Islanders to the greatest extent possible. 
Under the Constitution there can be no change in the boundary of a State without either the consent of the State Parliament or the people of that State. What we require are discussions between the Papua New Guinea Government and our own Government. We are keeping the Queensland Government and the people of the Torres Strait Islands informed. But I have a duty beyond simply this Parliament itself; I have a duty to the Queensland Parliament and to the Torres Strait Islanders. Beyond answering in those general terms and beyond a reference again to the constitutional position of the Islands mentioned by the honourable member, all I can say is that at this juncture the negotiations are proceeding well. I am not prepared to provide details at this stage. 
The allocation that was announced in the Treasurer's Budget statement is an increase over the expenditure of the previous financial year. I have previously canvassed these matters in the House and have not only given explanations of the percentage increases in regard to the aid allocation this year compared with the aid allocation last year but also reminded the House that, whilst we strive for the goal of 0.7 per cent of the gross national product, this goal will not be achieved in the next year or two, nor would it have been achieved under the previous Administration. Indeed, I recall that when the so-called Hayden Budget was brought down during the period of the previous Administration the amount was reduced from 0.56 per cent of the gross national product to 0.52 per cent. The necessary constraints that have been imposed in relation to the economy, which were caused by the Labor Government's mismanagement, mean that we will not be able to allocate more in aid programs until we re-direct the growth in the economy. The stronger the economy the greater the aid program. That ought to be recognisable by anyone. 
-The shadow Treasurer asks what is our percentage. At the moment it would be impossible to give a definitive answer as to the percentage of the gross national product this year. Nevertheless, I estimate it to be approximately 0.5 per cent at the moment. The Government is constantly reviewing its aid programs. Honourable members opposite will be aware that occasions arise when there is a need to increase them, but at the moment the 14 per cent increase over the expenditure for the last financial year compares more than favourably with the approaches taken by the previous Government when it reduced the aid allocation. 
-I will reply to that interjection. Honourable members will know that the average amount spent by member countries of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, which are supposedly working towards a figure of 0.7 per cent of the gross national product, is approximately 0.36 per cent. The lowest figure reached by Australia to date was reached during the period of office of the Labor Government- in the calendar year 1973- when the figure fell to 0.44 per cent. 
-I would be delighted to check with the Minister for Administrative Services who has control of the Overseas Property Bureau. It, not my Department, administers this matter. 
-Frankly, I would not mind having my hands on it but it is administered by the Minister for Administrative Services and I will certainly convey the question to him. 
I said yesterday in a statement in regard to this advertisement that nonalignment is not an option for Australia and that this Government firmly supports the ANZUS Treaty. Quite frankly, the advertisement to which  Mr Hawke  appended his name is totally devoid of reality, and the advertisement, as well as the statements made by the  President  of the Australian Labor Party, should be disowned by the present Leader of the Opposition. From what  Mr Hawke  said, I doubt whether he has even read the ANZUS Treaty. To say that he supports ANZUS but rejects its military emphasis is to ignore that it is essentially a security pact concerned to co-ordinate the efforts of the 3 parties for collective defence. To say that one is for the Treaty but against its military or defence aspect is probably as sensible as saying that one is for whisky but against alcohol. The role of the Leader of the Opposition is interesting. It has now been 2 days since the advertisement was run, and if the Leader of the Opposition will not speak for himself perhaps I can speak for him for a moment. On 24 May 1973 the Leader of the Opposition, as the then Prime Minister, made a statement on international affairs in this House. At page 2648 of  Hansard he  said: 
The maintenance of our alliance with the United States under ANZUS remains most important for our security . . . 
-The former Prime Minister, the present Leader of the Opposition, from whose mouth there has been silence. The statement went on: 
The ANZUS Treaty reflects a natural relationship between these countries of the Pacific Its continuation is not questioned by any of its partners. 
The only conclusions that can be drawn from the advertisement and the appending by  Mr Hawke  of his name, thereby lending the support of himself and his Party, are threefold at least: Firstly,  Mr Hawke  does not support ANZUS; secondly,  Mr Hawke  is ingratiating himself with the Left; and thirdly, the Leader of the Opposition is condemned by his own silence. 
-I indicated the view of the Australian Government to the Secretary of State while I was in the United States, and that was that we favoured the involvement of the Indochina states in the international community. From that it can be drawn that we believe that Vietnam should participate in the United Nations. It may not come before us; it may be vetoed by the Security Council, or any member of it, before it comes to the General Assembly, as the Leader of the Opposition will be aware. So that is the nub of the answer. May I simply say in passing that at least we smoked him out, for within the question was the reference to 'our ally, the United States'. I take it from that that not just tacitly but now avowedly the Leader of the Opposition dissociates himself from the non-aligned view expressed by  Mr Hawke. 
It may surprise the honourable member, but I was verbally invited to this conference last week. I was asked if I would send representatives of the Department of Foreign Affairs along. I said in the politest terms that it was totally the antithesis of the attitude of this Government and that I hardly felt we would on this occasion derive great benefit from it and I saw little purpose in either myself attending or any representatives of my Department attending. It appears to me from the collection of names and signatures to the advertisement, as I indicated in a statement yesterday, that they are just the old familiar names, with the addition of the  President  of the Australian Labor Party. On a quick run through the names, we see there are some from the Left. I do not usually inject this term but it is reasonable here because they are card carrying members. There are also members of the Australian Labor Party and the Communist Party. Look at them: Carmichael and Crawford, Gietzelt and Goldbloom, Anderson and Aarons, Brown and Bull, Hartley and Halfpenny. And so they go on through the alphabet in the most predictable way. All are calling for independence and for non-alignment. It is as if independence and non-alignment cannot be run together as if they were the same thing. Not only can a country maintain its independence within an alliance, but an alliance often provides the best guarantee of its continued independence. If that sort of trash is the substitute for foreign policy, no wonder no impact is being made in this chamber by the Opposition. 
The answer to the honourable members question is as follows: 
As the Honourable the Leader of the Opposition will be aware, there are three United Nations resolutions on the Cyprus dispute which contain specific references to the withdrawal of foreign armed forces: General Assembly resolution no. 3212 (XXIX) of 1 November 1974, Security Council resolution 353 of 20 July 1974 and General Assembly resolution no. 3395 (XXX) of 20 November 1975. These resolutions, the texts of which are available in the Parliamentary Library, respectively urge, request and demand the speedy withdrawal of foreign troops from the island, in the context of interrelated measures designed to achieve a peaceful overall settlement of the dispute. 
The answer to the question by the Honourable the Leader of the Opposition cannot be exact, as exact information on the relative troop strengths is not freely available. As far as we have been able to ascertain, reasonable estimates of the numbers involved are: 
(a) 35 000-40 000 Turkish armed forces personnel, (b) 1000 Greek armed forces personnel. 
(a) 28 000-30 000 Turkish armed forces personnel. ( b ) 1 000 Greek armed forces personnel. (l)(b) and (2)(b) include a number of advisers and senior officers of the Cypriot National Guard who are on secondment from the Greek regular army. 
Intergovernmental Committee on European Migration (Question No.  883) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The International Fund for Agricultural Development is being established with two main categories of donors: Category 1 (member countries of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development) and Category 2 (member countries of the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries). Category 1 initial pledges currently total about US$528m and Category 2 US$400m. The IFAD is unusual in that it is the first international development finance institution to be jointly financed by contributions from the traditional Western aid donors as well as by substantial contributions from the OPEC countries. 
Australia's initial pledge of A$8m is 1.9 per cent of the Category 1 total of US$528m. This is similar to Australia's percentage contribution to some other comparable international development finance institutions, such as the International Development Association, where Australia's percentage share of the total of Western donor countries' contributions is 2 per cent. 
The following table shows the contributions to IFAD of Category 1 donor countries, as a percentage of the current Category 1 total of US$528m: 
The information which the honourable member seeks is in lengthy tabular form and because of this has been made available at the Parliamentary Library. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) It has been the long standing practice of successive Australian Governments not to give reasons for decisions relating to visa applications. 
and (3) It has also been the long standing practice of successive Governments not to disclose matters relating to security intelligence. 
The answer to the honourable  member's  question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) I am unable to provide the honourable member with precise numbers of valid diplomatic passports which are currently on issue. Some diplomatic passports are issued for a very limited period and some for a period of years. The period of validity depends on the purpose of the holder's official travel abroad and the time he or she is likely to spend away from Australia for this purpose. A passport issued for a limited period is returned by the holder at the end of that time but is not cancelled. Although the passport is no longer valid, it is held by the Department of Foreign Affairs. The categories of persons who are entitled to be issued with diplomatic passports when travelling abroad was a matter of examination and review by the previous Government and the question has been examined again by the present Government 
and (4) The practice regarding the issue of diplomatic passports varies from country to country. In Australia the  President  of the Senate, the  Speaker  of the House of Representatives, Australian Government Ministers and the Leader and  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition are entitled to diplomatic passports when travelling abroad on official business. Members of the Australian Parliament, other than the office holders listed in the preceding sentence, have never been included in categories of persons entitled to a diplomatic passport. Members of Parliament are issued with official passports when travelling officially. 
-I did visit Brussels 2 weeks ago, primarily to hold talks with the European communities. The economic relationship Australia has with the European Economic Community is, of course, of great importance. We do have divergent views on many issues and these views have not altered. However, the Government decided that it should broaden its relationship with the Community, not merely because of the strategic importance of Europe, but because the Community is acquiring a significant international personality in its own right, distinct from its individual members. For example, as a community it is increasingly represented in international forums. Therefore my talks there were aimed at broadening the relationship. As a result, there will be a round of official talks in Canberra early next year. 
Whilst I was there, I took the opportunity of talking with Ministers and officials of the Belgian Government as well as with those people the honourable member suggested in his questionthe North Atlantic Treaty Organisation Supreme Commander, General Haig, and SecretaryGeneral Luns. There was no intention beforehand, nor as a consequence of those talks is there any intention of Australia's seeking any formal ties with NATO. But the visit provided me with an opportunity to exchange views on a broad range of matters. After all, the strategic importance of Europe remains undiminished. It is still the most vital and sensitive area in the global balance. Indeed, western Europe is one of 2 pillars of the Atlantic alliance and its performance in that respect is important, not only in itself but in its effect on the performance of its partner, the United States of America. I value the discussions I had with General Haig and Secretary-General Luns. But I repeat: There is no intention on our part to seek any formal ties with NATO. 
-The short answer to the first part of the honourable member's question is yes. There were, of course, basically 2 purposes for my being in Suva last week. The first was to attend the formal opening of the headquarters of the South Pacific Bureau for Economic Cooperation The second was to attend a meeting which continued over 3 days discussing matters relating to the Law of the Sea Convention. All Forum countries agreed to the concept of a 200-mile exclusive economic zone. All countries, including Australia, also agreed not to act on this until after the sixth session of the Law of the Sea Conference is convened in May of next year. I regard this consensus as a very important development as progress at the last Law of the Sea Conference was, to put it mildly, disappointingly slow. It is therefore of the utmost importance to those who are interested in seeing a convention adopted that the negotiating momentum be not lost during the period between now and May of next year, for there is a distinct need for states to bring about the development of a political will and to influence others if there is to be a successful negotiation of the Law of the Sea Convention: 
The Government therefore believes that a multilateral convention providing for, among other things, a 200-mile exclusive economic zone is preferable to a unilateral declaration at this time. However, I should state that should the session in May of next year not succeed the Government will feel bound to consider acting unilaterally in regard to a 200-mile exclusive economic zone. I repeat, however, our earnest desire for a widely supported multilateral convention and say that a series of unilateral declarations before the conference could pre-empt the possibility of a successful outcome of the sixth session of the Law of the Sea Conference. 
-The announcement I made to the South Pacific Forum last week provided for $60m to be allocated in bilateral aid over the 3-year period 1 976 to 1 979. That is in fact a fourfold increase over the previous 3-year period. It reflects the importance that we attach to the Pacific Island entities and flows from a comprehensive review undertaken by the Government of the aid requirements of those South Pacific countries. The 3-year rolling program will therefore permit planning by recipient countries beyond a single budgetary year. The funds being made available, in the stages of $ 15m in this financial year, $20m in the next financial year and $25m in the following financial year, are being allocated in accordance with the relative populations and needs of the South Pacific countries. 
The program forges new initiatives as far as our aid programs outside Papua New Guinea are concerned. For example, firstly, the continuous forward programming already referred to will allow recipient countries to allocate their resources and budget beyond one particular financial year. Secondly, the decision to meet, where appropriate, a significant portion of local costs is a new venture so far as aid is concerned. Thirdly, the Government has indicated a willingness to provide grants to island governments to strengthen developments banks and related financial institutions which should assist small entrepreneurs, farmers, fishermen and the like. There is, furthermore, a willingness to consider making grants to island governments to assist them financially and to share in joint ventures with Australian companies. It is well known that in many instances a particular country may be interested in a joint venture with an industry but does not have sufficient funds to meet the 50 per cent, 5 1 per cent, or whatever other shareholding they may desire. Where appropriate the Government will take steps to see that funds are made available if there is a project that we feel could be supported. 
Finally, as a further initiative, a special provision within the $60m has been made for nongovernment organisations within the cost of the development program over and above what is being allocated. 
-The honourable member has asked a series of questions. I confirm that, as I have read in the newspapers, students are demonstrating against the Prime Minister of Singapore. After all, this is a relatively open society and there is nothing I would do to prevent such demonstrations. As far as I am concerned,  Mr Lee  Kuan Yew has adequately dealt with matters such as this, and it is within his purview to say whatever he wishes in regard to those demonstrations. They are not supported by the Australian Government. I would have to say to the honourable member that I am not even aware of the identity of the students. Therefore I would not know whether they are recipients of Australian Government funds. It would certainly not be my view, despite the strong implication contained within the question, that students should be sent home merely for demonstrating. It seems to me that Prime Minister Lee Kuan Yew can adequately handle any differing viewpoints that are put to him, either in sessions such as  Monday Conference  or within his own jurisdiction in Singapore, without any needless interference by me. 

 - Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 

 -Mr Speaker, with your indulgence and the indulgence of the Opposition I should like to take a little more time than is normally taken on a question such as this. The precise form of resolutions to the United Nations is not yet known. What is involved in our stance will be the policy of the Government reflected in resolutions, hopefully, that we would be working to. If that sounds a vague statement, it is couched cautiously for obvious reasons. There is a variety of resolutions being discussed within the outer councils of the United Nations at this moment and it might therefore be more helpful to the House if I indicated the Government's view which is at present reflected in United Nations resolutions already standing which we supported at the last General Assembly and to which we spoke in the Security Council. The resolution in the Security Council, of course, was adopted unanimously. The bases of this Government's policies are our rejection of the use of force as a proper means of solving international problems; our belief in the democratic process and the rights of people to determine their own institutions; and our deep concern for the welfare of the underprivileged anywhere in the world. These are fundamental to our views and policies, past, present and future, and the policy once we came to power gained international reflection in the resolutions of the United Nations that I have referred to- the resolutions in the General Assembly and in the Security Council. These resolutions continue to reflect the substance of our position. 
I also defined our policy in a statement to this House on 4 March. This is a policy born of a desire for an orderly and peaceful settlement in Timor and it is a policy of which we are not ashamed. As I stated in a speech which was widely distributed in May this year to the United Nations Association, Victorian Division, we have said that we must face the fact that neither Australia nor any other member state of the United Nations, nor the United Nations itself, has been able to have that policy fully implemented. Of course, there are obvious limits to what Australia alone can and indeed should attempt to do, limits that are set by the need for a careful balancing of our interests and responsibility. Our country's foreign policy, if it is to be viable, must take into account the regional environment in which it is to function and although preserving our position on principle it has not and does not serve Australia 's interests to place itself on a massive collision course with its largest regional neighbour. Some people clearly baulk at that viewpoint but it is a political reality and one we would do well to acknowledge. It means that we must take into account Indonesia 's view that East Timor is now part of Indonesia and that this situation is not likely to change. That is Indonesia 's view. 
The fact that we have adopted such a stance as I have outlined, while seeking to keep it in perspective, should indicate that while differing with Indonesia over its policy toward Timor we have nevertheless sustained the relationship between the 2 countries; a relationship that has been viewed by successive governments, and rightly so, as of great importance. On that point about Indonesia's incorporation of East Timor, there has been a lot of talk about this Government recognising  de facto  or  de jure  that incorporation. Let me say, if the Opposition will permit me, that so far as  de facto  recognition is concerned any ambiguity which exists is implicit in that term and not in the Government's policy. Non-recognition does not necessarily signify non-intercourse. There must be a will on the part of the recognising body. There are numerous examples at public international law for this. As will be well known there are essentially 3 stages: Firstly, informal relations on a non-recognition basis, distinct from  de facto  recognition; secondly,  de facto  recognition, and thirdly,  de jure  recognition. 
This Government has not recognised Indonesia's incorporation of East Timor. On the other hand, for quite practical reasons such as the provision of humanitarian aid and the reuniting of families, we have to accept certain realities. The alternative to doing so is to remain inactive in the face of pressing human problems, and this we are not prepared to do. I hope that in answering that general question with the problem of not knowing the nature of the resolutions at this stage, honourable members can see the background to our thinking on this matter. In my view Australia would have been remiss in our responsibility to promote a mutually beneficial relationship with our largest regional neighbour if we had taken any other course of action. 
-I thought when I detailed the Government's approach yesterday that Opposition members were becoming restive at the length of the answer I gave. I talked about the regional responsibilities. I also re-expressed the bases of our policies. All I do in following the line of the Prime Minister today is to refer the honourable member to the answer I gave yesterday and indeed - 
Well, your conscience must be stirring if that is the case. The first statement that was ever made on Timor by any Australian politician was made by me on 9 September 1974, not 1975. 
As soon as we got into power we took action in the United Nations. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to authorise an agreement with the Asian Development Bank (ADB) to provide for the transfer to the Bank's Asian Development Fund of moneys previously contributed by Australia to the Bank's Multipurpose Special Fund. The Asian Development Bank (Special Funds Contributions) Act of 1970, which this Bill is designed to amend, authorised,  inter alia,  a contribution of US$9.75m to the Multi-Purpose Special Fund (MPSF) of the ADB. This Fund at the time served as the principal vehicle for the Bank's concessional lending operations; contributions were made on a voluntary  ad hoc  basis by individual contributors and were frequently tied. Our contribution was tied to procurement from Australia and was made in the form of promissory notes encashable on demand. 
The Asian Development Fund (ADF) was established in 1973 following a comprehensive review of the Bank's concessional lending operations. Funds for the ADF, which is now the principal vehicle for concessional lending operations, are mobilised on an organised basis with uniform terms and conditions for all contributors. One condition is that funds must not be tied to procurement from the donor country. Honourable members will recall that Australia supported the establishment of the ADF and has contributed to it. One of the objectives in setting up the ADF was to simplify the Bank's administrative procedures. This involves,  inter alia,  the closing down of the old Multi-Purpose Special Fund and the transfer of contributed resources in that Fund to the ADF. Where such contributions are tied or other special conditions not consistent with the ADF are attached to them, donors must agree to waive these conditions before such contributions may be transferred to the ADF. All other countries have transferred or agreed to transfer their MPSF contributions to the Asian Development Fund in this way. 
Last August the Government decided to untie the outstanding balance of our MPSF contribution in order to facilitate its transfer to the ADF. However, following substantial encashments of notes over the last few months, all outstanding notes have now been fully encashed and the whole of our MPSF contribution will in fact be used to finance Australian procurement. Accordingly, the main purpose of the legislation is now to authorise a transfer to the Asian Development Fund, in order to simplify the administration of loans granted from Australia's contribution to the MPSF. Co-operation with the Bank in the manner proposed would be consistent with the strong support Australia has always accorded to the Bank in the past. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Willis)  adjourned. 
Sitting suspended from  1  to  2.15  p.m. 
The answers to the honourable member's questions are as follows: 
1970, 6; 1971, 4; 1972, 9; 1973, 6; 1974, 9; 1975, 9; 1976, 5. 
Of the 48 persons refused passports, 8 were issued with Documents of Identity. 
It has been the practice of successive Ministers in successive Governments not to disclose the reason for refusal of individual passport applications. Three of the persons refused passports resided within the Electoral Division of St George. 
Australia, 23; Yugoslavia, 18; Hungary, 3; Greece, 1; Netherlands, 1; Stateless, 2. 
By satisfaction of the statutory requirements for the grant of Australian citizenship contained in the Australian Citizenship Act 1948. 
It has been the policy of successive governments not to grant passports or to withdraw passports from persons who are: 
attempting to escape justice 
b ) the subject of Court Orders restraining departure 
of unsound mind 
under the age of 1 7 years and unable to produce parental consent or the subject of custody or access orders of Australian Courts; and 
those for whom the Minister could not, in the context of Australia's international relations request other countries to provide free passage, protection and assistance. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
full members: 
-As I have indicated previously, both here and in public, the matter is under consideration. We are well aware of the growing concern. 
You have proposed the most simplistic answers, none of which would work out in practice, as you well know from when you have been able to discuss them with a man of some discernment, namely - 
-I require the debate to be extended. I wish to compliment the honourable member for Phillip  (Mr Birney)  on the matters he has just put before the House. The Government regards as totally abhorrent the fiction that Zionism can be equated with racism. I am cheered by the remarks that the honourable member made tonight. He is to be complimented for them. They are in fact an endorsement of the 
Government's own attitude. I also listened with interest to what the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  said this evening regarding aspects of Australia's development assistance programs and wish to inform him that some weeks ago I instructed the Australian Development Assistance Agency to re-examine some of the matters raised in the speech by the honourable member particularly in regard to the wishes of some developing countries. I would like him and the House to know that I am prepared to closely examine further the matters that he has raised this evening. 
House adjourned at 11.1 p.m. 
-Of course I am aware that the debate commenced this week, not in the plenary of the General Assembly, but in the fourth committee. Speeches and statements are being made by members of the fourth committee at this stage. According to the advice put to me there was no draft resolution as of 2 hours ago before the fourth committee. I would assume that there would be a resolution put down before the committee either later this week or indeed early next week. Australia's views on that resolution will be made known in the appropriate forum, as it is now being discussed in the fourth committee. 
Our policy has been stated time and again. I reiterated it in this House on 20 October. I trust that the resolution that comes before us will in fact be forward looking in the interests of the people of Timor, as the policy of the Australian Government reflects a forward looking approach. 
-On the question of consultation, we have been consulting with a wide range of countries in the fourth committee. I do not want to become partisan on this matter, but we have not ducked for cover in the United Nations on the question of Timor as did our predecessors. 
-The Government has been paying close attention to the policies enunciated by the President-elect. It has made contact with most, if not all, of his key foreign policy advisers and, of course, through the Prime Minister and myself, with the President-elect. It is clear, to the extent that one would wish to discuss these matters at this stage, that  Mr Carter's  attitudes reflect a commitment to a co-ordinated and integrated foreign policy, as distinct from, to use his terms, case by case analysis. Undoubtedly he believes in an international system geared to coping with a new agenda which he thinks is necessary. 
-So do we. Indeed so far as terminology is concerned, this is the great difficulty in being able to discern the advances made in Australia's foreign policy under the Leader of the Opposition when he was Prime Minister- the attachment of so much stress to the rhetoric rather than the performance. Before being interrupted by the Leader of the Opposition I was referring to the new agenda, as I discern it and as the Government discerns it, that 

 Mr Carter feels ought to be faced by the international community. I think that the key global elements of that agenda, using the terminology of the Carter team- do not ask me to spell it all out extensively in the time available for questions without notice, or in any order of priorityare, firstly, a cooler hard-headed approach to the Soviet Union; secondly, a stress on reducing the proliferation of nuclear weapons; thirdly, the building up of core alliances with democratic countries, which  Mr Carter  describes as a democratic concert and in which he includes quite specifically, Australia; fourthly, greater stress, to use his terminology, on global issues, and in particular the north-south dialogue; and finally, and this is by no means unimportant, the belief that there is a need to get a firm domestic base for his foreign policies by making these policies reflect, as he puts it, the moral values of the American people. 
So far as Australia is concerned, both the stress on the democratic concert and the stress on the global problems are important and are likely to give us salients in our discussions with the United States. We are well placed to develop a tangible dialogue and discussion. It would be unfair to  Mr Carter  to go into matters in greater detail at this stage. I would like to end by saying that the Prime Minister and I believe that Australia probably has provided more analysis of Carter foreign policy priorities than perhaps any other country. I believe we are uniquely placed to enter into a dialogue with the new Administration next year. 
-Last month I announced that we had made $83,000 available to the Indonesian Red Cross for use in humanitarian work in East Timor and that a further $250,000 would be made available as required. The Government has been informed by the Indonesian Red Cross that the contribution of $83,000 has been spent on medicine, medical supplies, relief goods and the administrative costs of distributing these items. 
-So the Red Cross is covering the purpose for which the money was intended. The Red Cross has also told us that the $250,000 will be spent on medical facilities. Because of changing needs, the Indonesian Red Cross has indicated that it wishes to shift the emphasis from immediate emergency relief supplies to the provision of basic medical care facilities in both rural and urban areas. That answers the interjection as to where this money is being spent. It is expected, therefore, that the expenditure will concentrate on the refurbishing or provision of clinics and hospital facilities. In particular, as I understand it, the Indonesian Red Cross proposed to establish health centres with a doctor or paramedical worker in attendance, to provide ambulances and to make available medical equipment for hospitals. So it is apparent to the Government that its decision to channel aid through the Indonesian Red Cross will have a direct and tangible impact in helping to alleviate the suffering which has resulted from the fighting in East Timor. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) 12 August 1976; (b) 13 August 1976; (c) 26 August 1976. 
The draft report of the Australian delegation to the 1975 session of the United Nations General Assembly was received in the Department of Foreign Affairs, from our Mission to the United Nations in New York, on 2 February this year. The draft report was edited in my Department and was held over for tabling in the Budget session of Parliament, and to enable Members to consider it prior to the opening of the 3 1st session of the United Nations General Assembly on 2 1 September this year. 
The closing dates of the last five  sessions  of the General Assembly were as follows: 17 December 1975, 18 December 1974, 18 December 1973, 19 December 1972, 22 December 1971. 
-I was not aware of the facts enunciated by the honourable member. In those circumstances I think he would understand that it would be advisable for me not to pass judgment until I obtain the facts. Having obtained information from him and having checked elsewhere, I shall not only advise him but also if necessary, advise the House. I could not favour breaches of immunity, set out in the legislation here and as it is normally granted internationally. But I would not wish to judge the matter until I am able to establish the facts. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 8 December 1972. 
23 March 1976. 
Canada acceded to the Covenant on 19 May 1976. 
Most of the standards in the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights concern state laws and practices as well as federal and territorial laws and practices. The question of whether Australia should ratify the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights raises not only legal issues but also fundamental political issues in so far as the Australian States will need to co-operate with the Commonwealth Government to make it possible for Australia to ratify that Covenant and enable it to meet its international obligations under the Covenant. The Government is seeking to resolve these issues. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
) and (2) Discussions on the provision of humanitarian aid for use in East Timor took place in Jakarta on 25 August between officials of the Australian Embassy and representatives of both the Indonesian Government and the Indonesian Red Cross. A cheque in the amount of $83,193 was handed to the Indonesian Red Cross on 6 October for use in East Timor and a further $250,000 will be made available as required. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Actual expenditure on overseas aid in 1975-76 was $346.9m representing 0.50 per cent of GNP. If the reductions and deferments amounting to $2 1 . 54m announced on 4 February 1976 had been expended the figure would have been 0.53 percent. 
0.49. 
Loss of Productivity as a Result of Strikes  (Question No. 1207) 
-The Leader of the Opposition reveals his own ignorance. In fact, our attitude is stronger in certain areas than as recommended in the Fox committee report. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
and (3) See the answer to Question No. 934, part 2. The Department learned of the contents through a telephone call made by the honourable Member to the office of the Secretary on 1 1 December 1975. 
Representation in Singapore: Prime Minister's Visits  (Question No. 936) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to question No. 791, parts (2) and (3), refers to part ( 1 ) only of the answer to question No. 36. That statement applies equally to the responses to questions Nos 292 and 293. The information in part ( 1 ) of the answer to question No. 36, to the effect that the Prime Minister has visited Singapore on a number of occasions, was based on biographical notes supplied by the Prime Minister's Office. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
It is normal practice for the senior officer of the Department responsible for the administration of a missionnormally my Department- to be placed in charge of the mission in the absence of the Head of Mission. This practice is administratively convenient, and reflects the fact that the direction of Australia's predominant interest in any one country is not necessarily constant. 
It also reflects the consideration, in no way derogatory of the capacities and flexibility of attached officers, that my Department is responsible for the totality of the relationship with the country in question; and that supervision of the activities of the mission as a whole, even on a temporary basis, would divert the senior attached officer in question from the more specialised function which he was appointed to perform into areas in which his Department would have little interest or experience. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
It is not possible to give an estimate of savings made within individual categories of expenditure as a result of cutbacks in expenditure announced by the Government. While the expenditure of the Department of Foreign Affairs has increased overall, the rate of increase is less than it would have been had the Government not embarked on a policy of stringent economies. Earlier this year, the Government reduced by 25 per cent entertainment allowance for Ambassadors and other officers with representational duties. Because of a number of variables, it is not possible to give a precise indication of the amount of money saved through this measure. It would be of the order of $200,000 for a full financial year. 
There is no obligation for Australian missions abroad to keep records of Members of Parliament, officers of my department or other officers of other Australian Government departments who are met at the local airport by an officer of the mission. Some missions prepare advance schedules for duty officers, and I understand that a few may keep such schedules for statistical purposes. 
My present instructions to overseas missions are that Members of Federal Parliament should be met at airports by an official car of the local mission, or if one is unavailable by a hire car, where the Member's itinerary provides for a stop-over but does not include the conduct of official business locally. Where the conduct of official business is included in the program, the Member is met by an officer of the mission. 
Permanent Heads of Federal Departments receive the same courtesies. 
Other officials, whether of the Department of Foreign Affairs or other departments, are not required to be met, but missions are expected to make contact with them through a message at the airport or hotel, in cases where they are travelling on official business. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There is no general practice with regard to determining the relative seniority at an Australian overseas mission of officers from different Government Departments. However, in addition to one female Australian Ambassador, there are currently five other female officers of my Department serving as  Deputy  Head of Mission; they would normally take charge of the mission in the absence of the Head of Mission. In overall terms there are, in addition to the female officer serving as Ambassador to Denmark, two female officers of the Department of Foreign Affairs currently serving as Counsellors, five as First Secretaries, three as Attaches and two as Vice-Consuls. 
Other Government Departments, according to records held in my Department, currently have overseas a total of eleven female officers with the designation of First Secretary, Second Secretary, Attache or Vice-Consul. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Two Head of Mission positions are currently vacant. These are in Beirut and Phnom Penh, where the Australian missions have suspended operations. 
The inquiry about First Secretary positions is not susceptible to a simple answer. Staffing practice varies between Consular and Administrative officers of my Department and diplomatic officers (Foreign Affairs officers). The former are posted to established positions at specific posts, but the latter are posted using a pool system which enables the Department to take changing workloads and priorities into account when deciding at what level to staff any particular post. Thus, while I can say accurately and precisely that no Clerk Class 8 or 9 (First Secretary) position overseas is vacant, it is somewhat misleading to say that there is or is not an unfilled Foreign Affairs Officer Class 3 (First Secretary) position at a particular post. However, Departmental records show that as at 10 September 1976 there were a total of seven such positions on my Department's overseas establishment no actually occupied by First Secretaries. These vacancies will be filled, some of them in the next month or two, when officers currently serving in Australia begin overseas postings. 
A number of other Government Departments maintain officers  overseas  and some of these officers also ha ve the rank of First Secretary. My Department's records indicate that none of these positions is currently vacant. 
Proficiency in Indigenous Languages of Heads of Mission (Question No. 1348) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There are five internationally accepted levels of proficiency used by the Language Training Agency in my department to rate facility in speaking and reading a foreign language. These levels range from 'Elementary' or survival (S1/R1) to 'Native or Bilingual' (S5/R5) proficiency. For the purposes of this question, Heads of Mission who, according to my department's records, have a proficiency of less than S3/R3 (that is, able to speak the language with sufficient structural accuracy and vocabulary to participate effectively in most formal and informal conversations on practical, social and professional topics, and able to read standard newspaper items addressed to the general reader or material in his special field, with moderate use of a dictionary) are counted as not speaking the indigenous language. 
Secondly, it is necessary to point out that in a number of countries English is used to varying degrees in official and commercial circles even though there is a major indigenous language; and in a number of others several indigenous languages occur but none predominates and English is the lingua franca. Countries in the latter category and those where English may be regarded as the 'indigenous' language, such as the United States or New Zealand, have been excluded from the survey. The question is therefore applicable to 6 1 posts. At 40 of these the Head of Mission does not speak the indigenous language with the degree of proficiency described above, even though a number of them have some proficiency in the relevant language. 
The 40 posts are: 
Ankara, Athens, Baghdad, Bangkok, Belgrade, Bonn, Buenos Aires, Cairo, 'Colombo, Copenhagen, *Dacca, Dar Es Salaam, Hanoi, *Hong Kong, "Honiara, Islamabad, Jakarta, Jeddah, 'Kuala Lumpur, "Lae, Lisbon, Madrid, Malta, Manila, Moscow, "Nairobi, Nauru, *New Delhi, Nicosia, "Port Moresby, "Rangoon, Santiago, Seoul, "Singapore, Stockholm, "Suva, Tehran, "Tei Aviv, The Hague, Tokyo. 
At those posts marked with an asterisk, English is sufficiently widely used to permit a satisfactory level of communication without S3/R3 proficiency in the indigenous language. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is set out in the table below. The figures quoted are as at 30 June of each year: 
I read with some interest the editorial referred to. I recall that same newspaper in an editorial commenting favourably on a lengthy statement I made on Australian-Soviet relations some months ago. It would appear that the newspaper does not always rely on its own research material or the published facts on government policy before writing its editorials. The editorial did accuse the Government of joining the Chinese side in the Sino-Soviet conflict. This certainly is not so. We have sought to improve Australian-Chinese relations not merely for bilateral contact but because we believe strongly in the desirability of China being better integrated into the international system of diplomatic communications and discussions than it has been to date. Any other course would be totally unnatural and potentially dangerous. It seems to me that it is totally wrong for people to assume a one-to-one relationship between our policy towards the Soviet Union and our policy towards China. Our policy towards one is not a function of our policy towards the other. We do not accept that there is for us a necessity to choose between them or to take sides. Our policy towards each country will be shaped by our perception of the relationship between our needs and interests on the one hand and its policies on the other. Any other view ignores the facts and frequent Government statements. 
We of course recognise China's links with insurgency movements. We do not approve of them and we have said so. We hope, for the sake of stability in the region, that these links will be broken, albeit that we recognise that it would be unrealistic to expect that to happen overnight. As far as alleged anti-Sovietism is concerned, I have stated publicly before on more than one occasion that it is our desire to have friendly and extensive relationships. During our period in government we have had ministerial exchanges, participation in trade exhibitions, further sales of beef, the signing of a cultural agreement and new programs of co-operation in science and technological areas. Nevertheless, as we have indicated, we believe there is ground for reasonable concern about some of the Soviet Union 's policies, in particular the magnitude of the Soviet arms buildup. What I have said today is a mere summation of detailed statements which have been made publicly, which are on the record and which have been variously reported in the past. One would presume that there is a duty on an editorial writer to check the stated policies of the Government before setting up his own straw man only to knock it down. In other words, the criticism fails because the interpretation is false. The editorial is attacking its own creation and not the policy of the Government. 
I am very happy to answer the question. It is primarily a matter for the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. But if the honourable member is so anxious to hear me on the matter I shall answer, but I point out that I will not be able to give the detail which would be within the purview of the portfolio of the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. As I understand the matter, attention was drawn to the fact that the receipt of messages from overseas by Telecom Australia was outside its charter. It has been requested that the practice of passing on messages received from the Darwin outpost radio which purport to emanate from a Fretilin transmitter in East Timor should cease. The Minister for Post and Telecommunications can go into the detail of that and the reasons behind the decision. The matter is not linked to any action taken in the United Nations. When the resolution stops coming in and out, as it has done over the last week or so, our attitude in the 
United Nations-as I have indicated in the Parliament- will be given on the vote in the United Nations Fourth Committee. As the honourable member will recall, a resolution tabled by a number of countries came into the Fourth Committee a week or so ago and it was withdrawn. Another resolution was cosponsored by the following countries: Algeria, Benin, Congo, Cuba, Cambodia, Guinea, Guinea Bissau, Mali, Mozambique and Tanzania. That resolution is now on the table. I assume that a vote on the resolution will be taken on 17 November. There is no connection between these 2 matters. 
-The Government would deplore Israel being kept out of the group of its choice in the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation. It will be recalled that the UNESCO General Conference meeting in Nairobi from 26 October through to the end of this month, has under consideration an application by Israel for membership of the European Group. Australia strongly supports acceptance of all applications for membership of UNESCO's regional groups for program purposes. We consider that countries should be free to join in appropriate groupings and that the composition of the grouping should be left to the members of the group concerned. When the list of members of regional groups for program purposes was considered at the last conference in 1974, a proposal to include Israel in the European Group was not adopted. 
It might be wise to recall that on that occasion Australia was not then, as it is now, a member of the Asian Group but was a member of the European Group. The vote on the question of Israel's admission into the European Group was deadlocked 30 in favour and 30 against. The Australian Labor Government of that time abstained from that vote. As a consequence Israel was subsequently not admitted to the European Group when the vote was taken because the Group had not made a recommendation in favour of Israel's admission. Australia is not now a member of the European Group. It is in the 
Asian Group. But we strongly support Israel's right to participate in bodies such as this and we hope that the European Group will signify its acceptance of Israel's application to join its region. Australia, as I say, although a member of the Asian group in this context, would strongly support such an outcome, in contrast to what occurred in 1974. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Government is aware of reports that there continues to be some fighting in East Timor. Such fighting appears, however, to be limited to sporadic skirmishing outside the main population centres. 
The Indonesian Government now regards East Timor as pan of Indonesia. An Indonesian military presence thus remains. 
1 refer the honourable member to statements I made on this matter on 20 July and 20 October. 
Price of Beer in Victoria (Question No. 1159) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) The Royal Commission commented along the lines set out by the honourable member, but made no formal recommendation in the sense he suggests. The Royal Commission's comments and proposals are being considered by, inter alia, the committee of Permanent Heads set up to advise the Government on the implementation of the Royal Commission's report. 
-My attention has been drawn to that speculation. As the honourable member stated that his question was supplementary to that asked by the Leader of the Opposition, I shall refer to a matter raised by the Leader of the Opposition. I simply say with the support of the Prime Minister and, I am sure, with the support of the Minister for Post and Telecommunications that if any officials want to put a recommendation to us that Radio Australia be abolished, then that recommendation will fall on deaf ears. Radio Australia will remain strong and independent. 
That leads me to the question raised by the honourable member. I said previously in an interview on radio with the Australian Broadcasting Commission that I considered the reputation of Radio Australia to be excellent, and much of that reputation was derived from its very independence. I consider it extremely desirable for Australia to have a clear and strong overseas voice, capable of bringing reliable, unbiased information to neighbouring areas of particular significance to this country. Radio Australia has an excellent reputation in that regard, especially in Asia and the Pacific. The service by Radio Australia is a most important part of Australia's equipment in the representation of Australia internationally and also for people to be able to assess for themselves in an unbiased way the viewpoints broadcast by the network through Radio Australia. The Government does not accept the view that Radio Australia should be under the control of my Department. As I said before, Radio Australia will remain strong. It will remain independent and will not come under the control of the Department of Foreign Affairs. 
The answer to the honourable member's questions is as follows: 
The purchase of livestock for Australian foreign aid projects is carried out under normal Government purchasing procedures in accordance with Treasury Regulations and Directions. Public tenders for the supply of animals to specifications provided are called, or agreed to, by the recipient government Tenders received are evaluated by suitably qualified livestock officers of government instrumentalities appointed by the Australian Development Assistance Agency for the purpose. Tenderers offering stock which meet the specifications are visited by the livestock officers where the nominated stock is inspected. 
Recommendations for purchase, based on the conformity of the stock to the specifications and on relative price, are then considered by a tender board which selects the most appropriate tender. Contracts are issued accordingly. 
Tender specifications, as agreed with the recipient government, state the breed, type, quality, pedigree, age and condition of the stock required. Pedigrees are established through records held by the appropriate breed societies and all stock purchased are physically examined before acceptance for shipment 
See answers ( 1 ) and (2) above. 
No. See answer ( 1 ) above. 
Discussions are being held with the breed societies to agree upon a basis for their more active participation in the selection and examination of breeding stock. 
The Hissar Cattle Project in India was developed for two reasons: 
to develop a herd of cattle from which progeny tested bulls could be bred for distribution to selected State farms throughout India; and 
to use proven semen from Australia to maintain the breeding strength of the foundation herd supplied from Australia. 
At the Hissar Project, there exists the largest herd of exotic cattle (Jersey and friesian) in India. To maintain the standard of the breeding herd it is intended to use a balance between natural service and artificial insemination using semen from top progeny tested bulls in Australia. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
When a request is received for a replacement part or for new or additional machinery for an Australian aid project overseas which is managed directly by the Australian Development Assistance Agency (ADAA), the request is processed and the item procured and dispatched by the Agency. In cases where another Government Department or instrumentality is acting on behalf of ADAA in the management of an aid project then that Department or instrumentality is empowered by ADAA to procure and dispatch the required item(s). 
2 ) Yes, from time to time there is criticism of delays in the fulfilment of requests. Delays have most commonly been the result of: 
inadequate specifications on the part of the recipient government agency or project authority; 
the inability of Australian manufacturers or suppliers to meet contracted delivery times; 
the infrequency of sailings of vessels from Australia to certain overseas ports; 
the time-consuming customs clearance procedures of some recipient countries. 
As with other Australian Government purchasing authorities ADAA's purchasing procedures must meet the requirements of the Audit Act and Treasury Regulations and Directions. Delays in providing replacement parts are more often due to the reasons given in (2 ) above. 
The Australian aid program is essentially a grant program under which Australian-produced equipment is normally made available to developing countries at no cost to them. Such gifts include spare parts where necessary. Minor items of equipment may be purchased by aid teams within the recipient country. In special circumstances major equipment may be purchased from non-Australian sources including those in recipient countries. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Australia signed the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights on 18 December 1972 and ratified it on 10 December 1975: the delay in ratifying the Covenant thus took place under the previous Government. I am informed that the Covenant was not ratified earlier because it had been suggested that both the Interantional Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights and the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights should be ratified at the same time. I am further informed that when it was decided not to pursue the original proposal to implement the terms of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights in legislation, it was thought desirable to ratify the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights at that stage and examine, separately, what domestic problems were required to be overcome to make it possible for Australia to ratify the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights. 
The answer to the honourable member's questions are as follows: 
In compliance with Australia's obligation under the United Nations Security Council resolutions, successive Australian Governments have adhered to a policy of refraining from all official dealings with the Rhodesian regime. It would, therefore, not seem to be in keeping with such a policy for Ministers or members of the Commonwealth Public Service to visit Southern Rhodesia in any official capacity. This does not mean, however, that backbench members of any party in the Parliament, acting in their personal capacity, should not visit Southern Rhodesia to gain information on the situation there; 
9September1976; 
14 September- 15 September 1976; 

 Mr Connolly advised my office in person on 6 September 1976; 
5 ) Ordinary Australian passport. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Australia does not have resident diplomatic presence in the member States of the United Nations listed in the lefthand column of the following table. It is, however, represented by the dual accreditation of Heads of Mission resident in the countries indicated in the right-hand column. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Any application for entry to Australia made by any member of the party known as Fretilin, will be considered when it is lodged. Any questions concerning Telecom's responsibility for handling messages received by it are the responsibility of the Minister for Post and Telecommunications. 
) In the light of my answer to part ( 1 ) of this question, (2) is not relevant 
No. 
The answers to the honourable member's questions are as follows: 
Yes. 
Articles in the Western Press have reported the construction of a new barrier on the border between the German Democratic Republic (GDR) and the Federal Republic of Germany (FRG). This construction is said to be the fourth barrier to be raised along the border since World War II. It is understood that work on this barrier began in April 1976 and is now about two-thirds completed. 
The new barrier extends over approximately 1346 km of the GDR's total borders which is about 60 per cent of the total GDR frontier with other countries. 
The barrier currently being erected stands on the border between the GDR and the FRG. There is also a barrier separating West Berlin from the territory of the GDR. 
Figures on the number of people who have left the GDR illegally since 1945 vary from source to source. One source claims that over 3 million GDR citizens have left the country illegally since 1949, and that 173 people have lost their lives attempting to leave the GDR for West Germany or West Berlin since the construction of the Berlin Wall in 1961. Other sources put the figure of deaths at between 200 and 500 people. No cases are known of people losing their lives attempting to enter the GDR illegally, although many arrests of ' illegal immigrants' have been made by the GDR authorities. A recent case involved the arrest of a West Berliner who ran across the border waving a black flag in protest at the action of GDR border guards m shooting down a would-be defector at the Berlin Wall. 
The official GDR explanation for the barrier between the GDR and the FRG is that it is a normal border installation on the border between sovereign States, and that the controls exercised at the border are normal controls exercised by any sovereign State on its frontiers. The GDR claims that the barriers have been erected to protect its territorial integrity and to prevent incursion into the GDR by militaristic and revanchist elements' from the West and to prevent the luring of GDR citizens to the West with 'propaganda ' and ' false promises '. 
The barriers between the GDR and the FRG were established after the illegal departure of almost 2.5 million people from the GDR for the FRG. After the border with the FRG had been effectively sealed, the main departure point became West Berlin and in August 1961 construction began on a wall to seal off West Berlin from the territory of the GDR. This reduced the flow of illegal departures substantially. As the total population has declined since the creation of the GDR, the authorities there obviously feel it necessary to maintain an effective control over emigration from the country. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
This matter was first considered by the Government in August 1976 when it decided to accept the commitment implied in a statement by the then Treasurer of the previous Government in an address to the Bank 's Board of Governors in April 1975. The reference in the Asian Development Bank's Annual Report 1975 to Australia's decision to untie its contribution was based on the statement by the previous Treasurer. 
Motor Vehicles at Overseas Missions  (Question No. 1313) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) See table which follows (2 ). 
The intended purport of 'extra transport costs' is not precisely clear. From time to time when needs arise that cannot be met by official vehicles, missions hire cars. It is not possible, however, to identify expenditure for this purpose. It is charged to the mission's travel vote together with such other costs as leave fares, meal and travel allowances for Australia-based and locally-engaged staff, and travel of Australia-based officers of the Department of Foreign Affairs within the country of posting. 
As I have indicated previously in answering questions on this matter, both sides have views that must be considered. Involved in this matter are intricacies of public international law which is not an area of law with the same pristine purity and clarity as domestic law has. As a consequence, propositions that we have been putting,  seriatim,  not simply in regard to a line through a protected zone but covering the whole area from the Arafura Sea to the Coral Sea, require extensive research and analysis as each side proceeding through the negotiations weighs up the view of the other side. It would be grossly unfair on my part to give an indication of the view of Papua New Guinea on this specific question when it has asked at this stage to examine the matter further and to look into the implications of it. That is a perfectly acceptable situation from our point of view. There is no rejection of the proposition. Papua New Guinea wants to study the implications of it. 
The honourable member will be aware that  Sir Maori  Kiki and I have already reached agreement on a wide number of issues. Those matters were contained within a joint statement that we issued. I think it is fair to say that Papua New Guinea has been extremely co-operative in this matter. The whole concept of a protected zone is unique in public international law. We are grateful that time is being spent in examination of not merely the location of the line but also the nature of the line and of the zone itself. Discussions are going ahead well. There is a great deal of work to be done on each side as each point is reached  seriatim.  I expect to be meeting again with  Sir Maori  Kiki some time early next year. 
The answer to the honourable member 's question is as follows: 
The Government has noted a statement by a spokesman for the Indonesian Government on 18 September 1976 that East Timor is closed to all visitors. 
and (3) There is no Australian representation in East Timor the Government is therefore not in a position to investigate the allegations referred to. 
In my statement of 20 October 1976 I made clear the Government's position on the question of the recognition of the integration of East Timor into Indonesia. 
Personal Staff at Posts (Question No. 1305) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Staff employed in these categories are the personal employees of Heads of Mission and those Australia-based officers of Australian Government Departments who are in receipt of local allowances. Within these there is a component, fixed by the Public Service Board, to cover such employment, based inter alia on the Board's assessment of the needs of officers at each level at each post, in the light of conditions and community practice. 
It would not be practicable, in terms of the manpower and time required, to provide the totals requested for numbers and costs of domestic staff employed in Australia-based officers at each post. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The normal practice is that officers who are assigned to positions in Australian diplomatic missions overseas and whose names are included in the Diplomatic List of the country to which they are posted are issued with a diplomatic passport. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
One member of the personal staff of the  President  of the Senate, the  Speaker  of the House of Representatives, Australian Government Ministers and the Leader and  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, when accompanying these persons overseas on official business, may be issued with a diplomatic passport. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
See the answer to Question No. 1037. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
As at 1 November, 472 diplomatic passports with a limited period of validity were being held by my Department, having been returned by their holders. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am informed that Ministers of the previous Government reviewed the policy on issue of diplomatic passports in September 1974 and July 1975. The present Government reviewed this matter on 6 July 1 976. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Officers of the public service who qualify for diplomatic passports while representing Australia overseas are as follows: Permanent Heads of Commonwealth Departments; the Head of an Australian consular mission overseas; an officer of the Australian Public Service who is leader of an official delegation or is its sole representative at an international conference; a member of Her Majesty's Australian Diplomatic Service (other than a member of the Administrative and Technical Staff); a member of the staff of any Australian Government department or instrumentality assigned to a diplomatic Mission overseas and accorded diplomatic status; and a Permanent Head of a State Premier's Department accompanying his Premier overseas on an official visit. 
A meaningful answer cannot be given to the first part of this question. Nor is information retained by my Department which distinguishes for records purposes between the sexes. 
We have almost completed that review. It has taken a little longer than expected. However, with the cease fire in Beirut we have been able to get a task force into Beirut to make an assessment on the ground both as to the security for any proposed reopening of the Beirut embassy and on less important matters such as the condition of our buildings. We should be able to make an announcement in the course of the next couple of weeks. So far as aid is concerned, I previously announced what we have done in regard to direct assistance through Caritas and Red Cross. I am considering a further proposal which has been put to me in regard to wheat. I should be able to announce a decision on that in the course of the next few days. I refer now to the opening of the post in Damascus, which is the thrust of the question so far as immigration is concerned. Should a decision be taken to reopen that post, following the report that I receive from  Mr Starey,  the officer who was left in charge of Beirut, we will of course expedite the entry of Australian immigration personnel, and the diplomatic officials would follow later on. 
-I have taken note of the series of questions which the honourable member for Mackellar has asked. We do not have detailed information on all the matters which he has put to me. I take the point made at the end of his question about selective commentaries which are made not only in the media but also by those who take an interest in international relations about the restrictions on human rights and a prejudice even to the right to life in certain countries. It is quite apparent that many countries are selected and commented upon because of the nature of their regime. Others are left aside for that very same reason. The reality, from our point of view, is that we have difficulty in getting accurate confirmation of the charges- some evidently well founded- as to what has been transpiring in Cambodia. It is a fact that the previous Australian Government recognised the present Government of Cambodia, I think on 17 April 1975. It has been the view of this Government that it would not be in the interest of the peaceful development of Cambodia and of the South East Asian region to withdraw that recognition. 
I have already indicated in the House that Australia is not represented in Phnom Penh and that formal diplomatic relations have not been established with Cambodia. I have, of course, previously given to the House details regarding this matter and there is probably little to add to the comments I made about it back in April. I pointed out then, as I have today, that Australia had no direct diplomatic representation in the country but that we had received various reports, some of them apparently well sourced. I have said that if the reports were true- in certain instances we believe them to be true- no government, no matter what its political complexion, could condone them. I repeat that we deplore atrocities and breaches of human rights wherever they occur but particularly in regard to the charges which are made about Cambodia. While recognising that there has, in fact, been some decline in reports of atrocities in recent months, nevertheless I shall see whether I can check the matters about exit and entry from Thailand to which the honourable member referred and provide authoritative opinion to honourable members. I repeat that if the reports are true no government could condone the actions. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2). The information requested in this question is not held in my Department. To attempt to collect and collate the considerable detail involved, given existing staffing and financial restraints, would not be practicable. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The question of whether Australia should ratify the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights is presently under consideration. There have been no consultations with the State Governments as yet, but before a decision is taken whether to ratify the Covenant, the Government will discuss with them implementation of the obligations in the Covenant The subject matter of many of these obligations comes within the jurisdiction of the States. 
The following States have ratified or acceded to the Covenant: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: ( 1 ), (2 ) and (4). A group  of  officials led by a senior officer of the Department of Foreign Affairs departed on 22 November for informal discussions on nuclear safeguards matters with government officials and with international organisations in the United Kingdom, Belgium, Austria, the Federal Republic of Germany, Canada, the United States and Japan. The discussions will be concerned with international measures which are applied to nuclear material supplied for peaceful purposes to verify its non-diversion to nonpeaceful or explosive uses. The matters to be discussed will encompass the preliminary thinking of the government in this area as outlined to the Ranger Uranium Environmental Inquiry, the measures proposed in the first report of that inquiry and recent international developments both in this field and in relation to other initiatives for the strengthening of the international non-proliferation regime. 
The mission comprises officers from the Department of Foreign Affairs, the Department of National Resources and the AAEC. The leader is an Acting First Assistant Secretary, the other departmental officers are of Class 1 1 and Class 9 level and the AAEC officer is Director of the Australian Safeguards Office (Senior Principal Research Scientist). 
) The mission is expected to return on 22 December. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In formal terms, the letters signed by the Queen accrediting an individual as Australian Ambassador to a foreign country ask that the Head of State of the receiving country give credence to all that the Ambassador shall say in the Queen's name. Australian Ambassadors therefore formally represent the Queen of Australia. The same is true of Australian High Commissioners, except in the case of High Commissioners in countries whose Head of State is the Queen. In such cases, because it would be inappropriate for the Queen to address a letter to herself, letters of introduction are signed by the Australian Prime Minister of the day and addressed to the Prime Minister of the receiving country. These letters ask that credence be given to all that the High Commissioner may communicate in the name of the Australian Government. 
In practice, of course, all Australian Ambassadors and High Commissioners direct their advice to and act on instructions from the Australian Government of the day. Australian Ambassadors and High Commissioners are regarded by the countries to which they are accredited as representing and acting on behalf of the Australian Government ofthe day. 
Students from Thailand (Question No. 1330) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
and (3) The Treasurer on page 14 of his Budget Speech on 17 August 1976 announced that the outlays from the Budget on overseas aid, excluding defence co-operation, would increase to $400 million in 1976-77 and that this would be an increase of 14.6 per cent over 1 975-76 expenditure. On 12 October 1976, in a statement on the Australian South Pacific Aid Program made to the South Pacific Forum in Suva I announced that the Government had 'decided to commit a total amount of $A60 million in bilateral aid to the countries of the South Pacific over the three-year period 1 976- 1 979. This represents a four-fold increase in Australian aid as compared with the preceding three years.' The Queensland Premier may have been referring to this commitment. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
No. 
This is a matter for judgment bearing in ming the nutritional value and cost of canned meat as compared with other foodstuffs and the expressed needs of recipient countries. Australia has recently given a total of $450,000 worth of canned meat to Lebanon and Cyprus to help these countries meet emergency food needs. The Australian Development Assistance Agency will continue to seek appropriate opportunities to use processed meat in nutritional and developmental programs in developing countries. 
Australia includes canned meat in the list of commodities which it is willing to supply to the World Food Program as part of our commodities pledge. Moreover Australian representatives in Rome have stressed to the World Food Program that we are anxious to see the use of Australian canned meat increased. However, the World Food Program has pointed out that there are serious difficulties in the way of using more canned meat in its nutritional programs, including its high cost and the fact that it is not a typical food commodity in developing countries which gives rise to problems of acceptability. 
The answer to the honourable member's questions is: 
1 ) Yes. 2600 professional and senior posts in the United Nations Secretariat are filled, as far as is possible, on the basis of national quotas which are framed in terms of 'desirable ranges'. The 'desirable range' for each member state is based on: 
a minimum number of posts (2-6) which is granted automatically with membership; 
the level of annual contributions of each member state; 
to a limited degree, population. 
A number of member states have not filled their national quotas. Other member states are over-represented. 
Australia's current 'desirable range' is 28-33 professional and senior posts. As of 30 June 1976 there were in fact 34 Australians holding these positions. 
Ofthe 34, 9 were women. 
The answers to the two parts of the honourable member's question are as follows: 
The following countries have offered the exhibitions indicated: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Governments of Nauru, the Federal Republic of Germany, Japan, the Republic of Korea and Lesotho gave financial assistance for Darwin after Cyclone Tracy. The Governments of Burma, Sri Lanka, Indonesia and India gave assistance in goods or medical supplies. The Governments of the United States of America, New Zealand and Indonesia gave logistic support by way of aircraft to bring in supplies and to assist in the civilian evacuation. The financial contributions were paid into the Darwin Cyclone Tracy Trust Fund. The report of the Trust Fund for 1975-76 recorded that the Trust had approved payment of donations received from foreign Governments to the Mayor of Darwin as a foundation grant towards construction of a Tracy Memorial Culture Centre. 
(a) All the Governments which gave financial or material assistance received formal messages of appreciation for their contributions which would be devoted to the reconstruction of Darwin or to replenish supplies lost in the cyclone. 
None of the Governments concerned has requested information about the uses to which its assistance was put. 
Mergers under Trade Practices Act (Question No. 1674) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
While we are aware of reports that the Mozambique Government had made available an area on Bazarut Island, off the East African coast, for the installation of Soviet naval and air support facilities, we have no information which would establish whether or not the reports are correct. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
State Government Ministers and Chief Justices of State Supreme Courts will now be entitled to a diplomatic passport in respect of official travel overseas. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) During this Government's period in office, there have been no discussions with Indonesian Ministers or officials nor with any other countries on the future of Christmas Island. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Indonesian Government has made no such indication through diplomatic channels to the Australian Government. 
Not applicable. 
The answers to the honourable member's questions are as follows: 
1 ) In the period leading up to the overthrow of Parliamentary rule in Thailand the Government received a number of reports on political developments in Thailand which included assessments on the likelihood of military intervention in the political processes. 
No. 
Yes. 
In the months preceding the overthrow of parliamentary democracy in Thailand, the Australian Government exchanged information on political developments in Thailand including the possibility of military intervention in the political processes, with friendly countries including the United States. Such exchanges are a normal part of diplomatic activity and are of particular value in tunes of rapid political change such as those seen recently in Thailand. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2)1 refer the honourable member to my reply to Question No. 784 on 17 August 1976  (Hansard,  pages 247-248). Since Mozambique gained independence on 25 June 1975, Australia has contributed an amount of $US 100,000 to a special fund established under the Commonwealth Fund for Technical Co-operation for technical assistance to Mozambique. 
Australia has also offered Mozambique food aid to the value of $lm (including freight). Details are still in the process of negotiation. No aid has been given to Angola since it became independent on 1 1 November 1975. 
The answer to the honourable gentleman's question is as follows: 
My Department's records show that there was a total of 1 8 Australian officials stationed in Peking in November 1973. The corresponding figure for June 1976, the date of the Prime Minister's visit, was 23. Neither of these figures includes locally engaged staff. 
-If I took down the questions accurately, the brief replies would be: Yes, no, yes, yes. In other words, last week I indicated that the Government made representations to the Ugandan authorities about the Archbishop's safety and welfare, shortly after his arrest. Four days after the tragic death of Archbishop Luwum and 2 Ugandan cabinet ministers the Ugandan authorities still have not been able to offer any convincing explanation of the facts surrounding the incident. On the contrary, from reports coming out of Uganda, it is difficult to escape the conclusion that the Archbishop's death and that of the 2 cabinet ministers was deliberate murder. The Uganda regime, whose suppression of the exercise of basic human rights and civil liberties is well documented, cannot avoid responsibility for that. 
We must remember, of course, that the Archbishop and the ministers are only a few of evidently a great many Ugandans who have lost their lives in recent years. Indeed the situation in Uganda has gained prominence in Australia and in other countries by the Archbishop's tragic death. I believe our sympathy must extend equally to all Ugandans and their families, from whatever walk of life and whatever religion or faith, who have suffered unjust and arbitrary punishment. Tragic events of this kind, as I said last week, are all too common around the world today. They result inevitably from situations in which people are denied the exercise of basic human rights and freedom of expression. In Uganda, as in other places where violations occur, the Government urges the speediest possible restoration of these basic rights. Obviously, the main sufferers in the tragic course of events in Uganda are the Ugandan people. To the extent that these events- I would like to add thisinfluence perceptions of developments elsewhere in Africa by obscuring the advances that many African states are making in economic and in social areas all of Africa stands to lose and objective discussion and assessment of other situations become more difficult. 
In response to the final question asked by the honourable member for Hotham, the Government will make known direct to the Ugandan Government the depth of concern being expressed in Australia about this incident and about persistent reports of the killing of Ugandan citizens since the present Government there came to power. 
-Both last week and this afternoon in an earlier answer I expressed concern and outlined the action we are taking. I indicated just what the Government both felt and would do about the atrocities allegedly committed by the regime of  President  Amin. The honourable member's first question concerned an application to the United Nations Human Rights Commission. We are of course not a member of that Commission, but it is open to us to put forward views to the Commission and I will consider that, bearing in mind however that we have expressed and will be expressing to the Government of Uganda itself our disapproval of what we understand to have transpired. We would be prepared to express such views elsewhere. The second question concerned membership of the British Commonwealth. I think the honourable member asked whether Uganda was a member of the Commonwealth in good standing. It is certainly a member of the Commonwealth. Its standing must be obvious from the number of expressions of international concern which have been forthcoming. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The introduction to the article in the  Age  of 17 January 1977 was written by  Dr Jocelyn  Chey. 
The substance of the remainder of the article was derived from' material supplied by  The Sunday Times  (London). 

 Dr Jocelyn Chey has fulfilled the functions of Cultural Counsellor at the Australian Embassy, Peking, with distinction. She has the confidence of my Department. 
Reciprocal Agreements on Social Security  (Question No. 1932) 
-The honourable member well knows that these matters are checked. He well knows that I am not prepared, nor has any previous Foreign Minister or Attorney-General een prepared, to give a break-down of the methods that are utilised. 
-This is a question that really should be directed to the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. 
-There is an Acting Minister here; but in the stead of the Acting Minister I will give what I understand to be the position in the case of the person now alluded to. In regard to the first 2 questions asked, I would say - 
-I have responsibility for passports but not for visas. 
-You like sometimes to project a filing cabinet mentality. If you cannot recall the difference between issuing a passport to an Australian citizen and issuing a visa to an alien, then I am sorry; I will take you outside. 
-I confirm - 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 have seen reports referring to a document known as Charter 77'. This document, which was signed by several hundred Czechoslovak citizens, was published widely in the Western press on 6-7 January 1977 and deals with the question of human rights and civil liberties in Czechoslovakia. 
Sections of the Final Act of the Helsinki Conference on Security and Co-operation in Europe dealing with the protection of Human rights and with the principle of noninterference in other countries' affairs are set out below. I might add that although, as a non-European country, Australia did not attend the Helsinki Conference, the Government fully supports the principles of the Final Act of that Conference and sets particular store by Article No. VII on Respect for Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, which clearly places an obligation on all signatories to promote and respect human rights and civil liberties in their respective countries. 
Final Act of CSCE: 
Article I. Sovereign equality, respect for the rights inherent in sovereignty 
The participating States will respect each other's sovereign equality and individuality as well as all the  rights  inherent in and encompassed by its sovereignty, including in particular the right of every State to juridical equality, to territorial integrity and to freedom and political independence. They will also respect each other's right freely to choose and develop its political, social, economic and cultural systems as well as its right to determine its laws and regulations. 
Within the framework of international law, all the participating States have equal rights and duties. They will respect each other's right to define and conduct as it wishes its relations with other States in accordance with international law and in the spirit of the present Declaration. They consider that their frontiers can be changed, in accordance with international law, by peaceful means and by agreement. They also have the right to belong or not to belong to international organisations, to be or not to be a  party to  bilateral or multilateral treaties including the right to be or not to be a party to treaties of alliance; they also have the right to neutrality. 
Final Act of CSCE: 
Article VI Non-intervention in internal affairs 
The participating States will refrain from any intervention, direct or indirect, individual or collective, in the internal or external affairs falling within the domestic jurisdiction of another participating State, regardless of their mutual relations. 
They will accordingly refrain from any form of armed intervention or threat of such intervention against another participating State. 
They will likewise in all circumstances refrain from any other act of military, or of political, economic or other coercion designed to subordinate to their own interest the exercise by another participating State of the rights inherent in its sovereignty ana thus to secure advantages of any kind. 
Accordingly, they will, inter alia, refrain from direct or indirect assistance to terrorist activities, or to subversive or other activities directed towards the violent overthrow of the regime of another participating State. 
Final Act of CSCE: 
Article VII. Respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, including the freedom of thought, conscience, religion or belief 
The participating States will respect human rights and fundamental freedoms, including the freedom of thought, conscience, religion or belief, for all without distinction as to race, sex, language or religion. 
They will promote and encourage the effective exercise of civil, political, economic, social, cultural and other rights and freedoms all of which derive from the inherent dignity of the human person and are essential for his free and full development. 
Within this framework the participating States will recognise and respect the freedom of the individual to profess and practise, alone or in community with others, religion or belief acting in accordance with the dictates of his own conscience. 
The participating States on whose territory national minorities exist will respect the right of persons belonging to such minorities to equality before the law, will afford them the full opportunity for the actual enjoyment of human rights and fundamental freedoms and will, in this manner, protect their legitimate interests in this sphere. 
The participating States recognise the universal significance of human rights and fundamental freedoms, respect for which is an essential factor for the peace, justice and well-being necessary to ensure the development of friendly relations and co-operation among themselves as among all States. 
They will constantly respect these rights and freedoms in their mutual relations and will endeavour jointly and separately, including in co-operation with the United Nations, to promote universal and effective respect for them. 
They confirm the right of the individual to know and act upon his rights and duties in this field. 
In the field of human rights and fundamental freedoms, the participating States will act in conformity with the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United Nations and with the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. They will also fulfil their obligations as set forth in the international declarations and agreements in this field, including inter alia the International Covenants on Human Rights, by which they may be bound. 
The answer to part (a) of the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Australia regards itself as having extradition arrangements in force with the following countries: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Australia does not have any such agreements in force. It has not commenced negotiations for agreements with other countries for the reciprocal provision of medical and hospital care but the matter is under consideration. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
International Convention on Tonnage Measurement of Ships, 1969 
For the information of honourable members I present the report of the Australian delegation to the fifth session of the Third United Nations Conference on the Law of the Sea held in New York from 2 August to 1 7 September 1976. 
-The Leader of the Opposition refers to the extensive aid program that I announced last year in Suva, which was a program of $60m running over 3 financial years. That amount is an increase of 300 per cent over the 3-year program approved by his Party when in government. It is the most significant increase in any of our aid programs since the Liberal and 
National Country Parties came to government. In regard to the assistance being rendered to the voluntary agencies, I have taken a decision that the same amount of money will flow to them as announced but because the majority of those agencies operate on a calendar year basis and not on a financial year basis I am allocating $300,000 of the $500,000 from July of this year through until June of next year, to be divided into $150,000 between July and the end of this calendar year and a further $150,000 between January and the end of June next calendar year. The remaining $200,000 of the $500,000 referred to by the Leader of the Opposition will be allocated for the first part of the succeeding calendar year- in other words, the latter part of the next financial year. So the amount stands. The first half of the $300,000 allocation will be paid this calendar year from July to December, the second half will be paid from January to June next year, and the remaining $200,000 of the $500,000 will be allocated in the latter part of the financial year 1978-79, namely, the first part of the calendar year 1979. That may sound very complicated but it is simple. It is being related to the calendar year rather than to the financial year. 
-The government allocations will be proceeding as planned. There is no need to notify the recipient governments of the amounts. They have been phased over a period. The greater allocations will be in the second and third years of the 3-year program. 
-There should still be $15m, with one substantial caveat: As the honourable member is aware, because of their own difficulties many recipient countries are sometimes unable to take up what is offered to them. If there is frequently one area of short fall in government expenditure it is in regard to aid programs because although we can offer it, it cannot always be taken up either for lack of manpower or for lack of expertise in particular areas. But it is the Government's intention that the funding for grants be carried through. The funding through the voluntary agencies will be phased in the manner to which I have referred. 
-That can be taken for granted. This Government ensures that Australian citizens are protected where it is within the Government's capacity so to protect and that citizens have the right of comment in this country on any matters within the law. These reports have arisen from both off-the-cuff remarks and a call that the Ambassador received to see senior members of the Foreign Office in Jakarta. Both these matters have been the subject of widespread news coverage in Australia. In regard particularly to the call to Ambassador Woolcott, may I say that it is not my usual practice to discuss in this House the substance of diplomatic exchanges such as these which I regard as confidential between the governments concerned. In this case, however, I can confirm that the Ambassador has been called to the Indonesian Foreign Ministry where a senior official expressed the Indonesian Government's grave concern, in its view, about  Mr Dunn's  involvement in activities that it believes were hostile to Indonesia. 
Obviously this is a delicate question affecting as it does a bilateral relationship of high importance to Indonesia and Australia. The Government is bound to take the representations seriously. But by reacting incautiously- there has been a fair degree not only in Australia but outside it of incautious reaction sometimes to reports on this matter- I would not want to give the whole question a potential for creating misunderstanding between the 2 countries, a potential that it should not have. I have noted concern in some areas of the Parliament about  Mr Dunn  's role in relation to Indonesia and Timor. This has already been the subject of questions in the Senate. It seems to be assumed that because  Mr Dunn  is an Australian public servant his report and his allegations in it have in some strange way official Australian sanction. This is not so.  Mr Dunn  in this matter is, as implied in the question asked by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, acting in a purely private and unofficial capacity. Neither he nor his report has any official status. 
-The honourable member for Lalor will be aware that judgment, as I think he implied in his question, on the Banaban litigation was handed down some weeks ago in London. As I recall, the Banabans were unsuccessful in the royalty case against the British Crown but were rewarded unspecified damages in the replanting case against the British Phosphate Commission. The judge directed that counsel for the Banabans and the BPC were to negotiate a settlement that would not be nominal or minimal, in the terms of the judge, and that on the other hand would not be 'very large'. Counsel for the 2 parties, I understand, are still negotiating. It is not known when agreement, if any, will be reached. I would need to add, in answer to a question such as this, that the judge criticised the British Government for the manner in which it negotiated royalty payments with the Banabans. The British Government has now stated that its main concern is to reach a settlement that is fanto all concerned, including the Banabans and the Gilbertese. A British Government special emissary,  Mr Richard  Posnett has been visiting the South Pacific to explore means of achieving such a settlement and to put forward recommendations. I met  Mr Posnett  the week before last. He told me that his main task at this stage is to gather information on which he could base recommendations to the British Government. He made no specific proposals nor did he seek any commitment from the Australian Government. We did have a useful exchange during which I said that while Australia was not a direct party to the court actions the Government was anxious that a solution equitable to all parties be achieved. A factor inherent in such a solution would be that of assisting in ensuring the economic future of the Banabans who now reside on Rambi Island in Fiji. At the same time Australian officials are giving attention, and urgent attention as I have requested it, to any British proposals made to us. There were some proposals made earlier before Posnett 's visit to both Australia and New Zealand. I think this was on 14 February. These proposals concern the size and nature of a joint financial contribution by the 3 governments which would ensure the Banabans' economic future. 
In summary I have had discussions with  Mr Posnett.  I believe that these discussions will assist in achieving a satisfactory solution that will be fair to both the Banabans and Gilbertese and it will ensure that the Banaban community can develop without being a burden on the Fijian community. 
-My answer will not take another hour and a quarter. There is in fact no question of any substantive shift in Australian policy as would be evident by a detailed reading of that part of my statement which dealt with the Middle East. My objective is to explain the current situation in regard to the Middle East and to indicate some of the changes that have taken place in recent years. Let me stress that Australia's position hinges upon the need for negotiations between the parties leading to an effective agreement acceptable to all. Such an agreement must be based upon what I called yesterday the absolute recognition of the right of Israel to survive as a nation. The Arab governments have proposed that a Palestinian state be set up in territories on the western bank of the Jordan and in Gaza from which Israel would withdraw. Such a new state might be independent. Alternatively it might be part of a confederation with Jordan. Whether this happens- and this is the important point- is a matter for the parties directly concerned, including, of course, Israel. 
If and when following negotiations there is agreement on the creation of such a homeland, this would of course have our support. I am sure it would also have the support of the overwhelming majority of states in the world. However, the question whether such negotiations are possible will depend upon a number of factors, one of the most important of which will be the recognition by the Palestine Liberation Organisation of Israel's right to exist. This must be in our view publicly and clearly recognised by the Palestinians and not denied as it is now by the Palestinian covenant. 
-I can in fact give only a general answer, not a specific answer, on this matter at this stage. To the best of my knowledge the safeguards applying to nuclear material supplied by one country to another depend primarily on the international obligation of the countries concerned in relation to safeguards, including any special arrangements agreed to between them. At a minimum, where an importing country is a signatory to the non-proliferation treaty, then the safeguards which are applied are those under an agreement between that country and the International Atomic Energy Agency. Under such safeguard arrangements for shipment and receipt of the material, arrangements are required to be reported to the International Atomic Energy Agency, which has introduced more intensive measures of reporting and inspection of the materials when it becomes suitable for nuclear fuel and enrichment. Again, to the best of my knowledge, where an importing country is not a party to the non proliferation treaty arrangements, arrangements can nevertheless be made for the application of the International Atomic Energy Agency safeguards. I believe this is done on the basis of a different type of agreement. In addition to these measures, of course, appropriate arrangements are made for the physical safeguard of other shipments. I will take into consideration what is implicit in the honourable member's question regarding other countries and reply to him in due course. 
Yes, it is long overdue. I referred in the statement I made on Tuesday to the fact that governments of both persuasions had taken too long to move in the Pacific area and that is why we increased our aid significantlyin fact, a fourfold increase. 
Honourable members will recall that last year legislation was passed giving effect to Australia's contribution of $30.73m to the first replenishment of the Asian Development Fund. Australia will be taking up an additional subscription of $3 1 8.6m to the capital of the Asian Development Bank. Only 10 per cent or $3 1.9m will be paid into the Bank but the remaining 90 per cent will be on call as backing for the borrowing operations of the Bank. Legislation to authorise this contribution will be introduced this session. As well, legislation will be introduced to authorise a substantial contribution by Australia to the fifth replenishment of the International Development Association. 
The Government is also actively encouraging the involvement of the private sector in the aid program in order to make its wealth of expertise available to developing countries. Increasing use is being made of private bodies. The Bureau expects to delegate to them wider responsibility for the administration of aid projects. My Government believes that Australia has a strong responsibility to assist the economic and social advancement of Third World countries particularly through our overseas aid program. We are determined to continue and extend that program. The reintegration of the Australian Development Assistance Agency as the Australian Development Assistance Bureau within the Department of Foreign Affairs will ensure increased economy in the administration of our aid and improve coordination of development assistance policy with foreign policy generally. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Scholes)  adjourned. 
Sitting suspended from 12.59 to 2.15 p.m. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Section 111 of the Family Law Act 1975 enables regulations to be made making such provision as is necessary to enable the performance of the obligations of Australia under the Convention on the Recovery Abroad of Maintenance signed at New York on 20 June 1956. 
I am informed that, initially, after the Family Law Act commenced on 5 January 1976, the Attorney-General deferred the preparation of regulations under this section pending the determination of the challenge in the High Court early last year to the validity of major provisions of the Family Law Act. The provisions challenged included section 75 which enables maintenance orders to be made. 
I am further informed that late last year, following the High Court decision, the Attorney-General approved the drafting of regulations under section 1 1 1 subject to consultations with my Department and the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. The consultations with my Department have concluded, and those with the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs will, I understand, be completed very shortly. 
I also understand that, subject to any problems disclosed by these consultations, drafting instructions will be given immediately thereafter. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Col Nolan Jazz Quartet was invited to pay a private visit to Peking by the Australian Embassy Social Club. 
The costs of fares from Hong Kong to Peking and return were met by the net proceeds from the performance and by Musica Viva Australia. 
The trip was not a pan of the official cultural exchange program with China. 
The Quartet played to non-Chinese audiences only. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
I commented several times in the House last year on reports of widespread atrocities in Kampuchea. I pointed out that Australia has no diplomatic representation in Phnom Penh and that we have no direct knowledge of events within Kampuchea itself. Reports of the number of people killed vary very considerably and add to our uncertainty about the situation there. 
Under the circumstances I am not able to confirm whether the particular atrocities described in  Murder of a Gentle Land  did occur, but I have said that if reports of atrocities were true- and the growing volume of evidence leads us to believe them to be true- no government could condone them. 
and (4) Australia does not have diplomatic relations with Kampuchea and an appropriate opportunity to register with the Government of Kampuchea our concern at the reports has not yet arisen. Neither Australia nor, as far as I am aware, any other country has lodged a protest with the United Nations about human rights in Kampuchea. Hovever, Thailand recently sent a special report to the UN concerning an attack earlier this year by Kampuchean troops on three border villages. There appears to be a difference of view as to the ownership of the territory in which the villages lie. 
Contestants in National Sporting Championships (Question No.  139) 
Apart from some ten countries in respect of which the information is not yet available, the answers to the honourable member's  questons  are: 
Algeria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Chile, China, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Egypt, France, German Democratic Republic, Federal Republic of Germany, Great Britain, Greece, Hungary, Iraq, Italy, Jordan, Libya, Mexico, Morocco, Pakistan, Portugal, Romania, Saudi Arabia, Soviet Union, Sudan, Turkey, United States. 
The following missions in Beirut were either closed completely or left with only caretaker staff during most of the fighting: 
Argentina, Austria, Australia, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Brazil, Canada, Chad, Costa Rica, Denmark, Finland, Ghana, India, Iran, Ivory Coast, Japan, Kuwait, Netherland, Oman, Qatar, Senegal, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, People's Democratic Republic of Yemen, Yugoslavia. 
The following countries have subsequently re-opened their missions in Beirut: 
Argentina, Bahrain, Brazil, Finland, Iran, Japan, Kuwait, Netherlands, Oman, Qatar, Switzerland, Tunisia, People's Democratic Republic of Yemen, Yugoslavia. 
Immigration from Friuli Region  (Question No. 253) 
-Statements akin to that were not made solely in the United States, but a careful reading of the speech on foreign policy I made in the House before going overseas would show that statements along those lines were contained in that speech. It does not list factual evidence. In fact what it says is that we will be watching the situation carefully following the assurances given and the interpretation placed upon them by the previous Australian Ambassador to China and accepted by the present Government as a significant change in the attitude of the Chinese Government. As I recall, on this element my speech concluded that we will be watching carefully to see whether there are any changes in attitude. So there is no long term judgment or judgment  sine die.  I believe there is a requirement to involve China to a greater extent in the international community. I have said so before. I said it not only in the United States but also here. 
-The short answer is that discussions of significant moment are taking place at present between the Secretary of State for the United States of America and the Government of the Soviet Union. I do not think it would assist those discussions for other countries to be seeking further clarification of remarks at the time when these discussions are occurring. It is true that the statement made by President Podgorny was made some few days before Secretary of State Vance went to Moscow. But, after all, what he said was a reiteration of what the Soviet Union has been saying for some time; that it favours demilitarisation and that it wishes to have a zone of peace. In this context our officials on occasions have had discussions with the Soviet Union as to just what this means. For example, my former Permanent Head put to the Soviet Union: 'Does it mean that you agree to the dismantling of your base at Berbera?' 'No', said the Soviet Union, 'because it is not our base; it is a Somali base'. Frankly, until we have an expression which indicates that it is in fact and in reality, as most commentators and certainly the United States Government at present regard it, namely, a Soviet base I think the discussions in that area will enter into some difficulty. As is well known, the discussions that Secretary of State Vance will be having will extend over a much wider area than just the Indian Ocean. We must await the reaction of the Soviet Union to the proposal enunciated by the American President and discussed in somewhat greater detail by the Secretary of State. Until that time I think it would be wiser for countries outside the 2 super powersthe United States of America and the Soviet Union- not to do any more than the form of exploratory discussions that officers in my Department have had with representatives of the Soviet Union. But clearly there will need to be, either during this period of talks with the United States or at some future date, if it is agreed that there be further discussions on the Indian Ocean, an acceptance publicly by the Soviet Union that the base in Somalia is in fact what most would accept it to be, a Soviet controlled entity. If that is forthcoming we can look for discussions heading towards some form of demilitarisation in the Indian Ocean. The contrast between the Government and the Opposition on this matter is of course that we have at all times called for the very thing that is occurring now- discussions to see whether it is possible to enter into an arrangement for mutual balanced reductions, not for the opting out unilaterally of one country, namely the United States, which was symptomatic of all statements made by the Leader of the Opposition. 
-I cannot recall all the detail of the answer I gave about that visit on return from a conference in Persepolis in Iran in 1975. 1 do recall, however, that without my knowledge there were in fact 2 Indonesian officials waiting for me at the airport when I put down there. I do recall that I attended a monkey dance with them and that I was then taken to a motel. I cannot recall - 
-I will come back to that in a moment. I cannot recall all the details of the discussion. I may at some stage have said that the 
Australian Opposition had great admiration for President Suharto's leadership. If I did, that would reflect the attitude that our Parties in coalition, either in Government or in Opposition, still hold and it was of course the view of the previous Prime Minister. He has been very quiet on this matter for some time but I do recall that the Leader did indicate that this was his view. I certainly would not have discussed anything regarding Supply. 
As to the other matters referred to, I have absolutely no recollection of raising them at all in September 1975. As I say, the visit was a brief break on my way back from Iran and my recollection is that apart from dinner, I attended a monkey dance which probably was appropriate if one had in fact discussed Timor. I think I am entitled to put this back on the record. That would probably have been a fair summation of what was transpiring in the Government Party of the day at that time. I hesitate- in fact it is quite some time, as the Leader of the Opposition knows, since I have referred to the background of events in Timor- but let me just say that the first person to issue a statement of concern in regard to events in Timor was I in September 1974. The first person to raise the matter in the Parliament by way of debate was I in a discussion on a matter of public importance in this chamber in February 1975. The first person - 
-You were personifying that at the time. There is no need to give it to us. The Australian people rejected you. 
-So it would not have been discussed in any way like that by me because what I said consistently, privately, both in discussions that the honourable member knows I had with representatives from East Timor when he himself would talk with them, and publicly with the calls and the statements I made on behalf of the Opposition in 1974 and 1975, would indicate that what is implied in that question is quite the antithesis of the viewpoints we were putting forward, except for our high regard for the  President  of Indonesia and to that extent it would be true. Any other allegation would be totally contradictory of all the views and concerns I was expressing at the time. I simply say in conclusion that if in fact endeavours made by these Parties in opposition had been not only listened to but responded to then, there may have been some means of preventing what occurred in the latter part of 1975 in Timor. I will say no more on the matter. It probably does no good to those who suffered in East Timor for Australian politicians to be engaging in some form of political harangue. This happens from time to time, and I get a little sick of nearing that the Government has been abjectly silent when - 
-Here he goes again. 
-Yes. You have been here a long time. I recall your comments about Cambodia and you were shut up the moment you got back. 
I draw my answer to a conclusion by saying that what is contained in the question is the very antithesis of the views I held and the statements I made throughout 1974-75. Other than the reference that I recall was made to  President  Suharto, the question does not reflect views that I was putting to anybody at that time. All I wish to add is that the Government's record is not the sorry record of connivance. What is implicit in the question can more accurately be attributed to somebody else in this Parliament. 
in reply- I wish to reply briefly to some of the remarks that have been passed in the debate. I thank honourable members, to some extent on both sides of the House, though I would have to say that the sheer hypocrisy, cant and indeed illiteracy that have been evident in the remarks of the Opposition lead me to conclude that it has no conception of what has been transpiring in the administration of aid programs over the greater period that we have been in power. The decision to abolish the aid agency was taken within a few months of the election of the current Government. To all intents and purposes the aid programs have been administered formally by the Agency in the sense that legislation is applied until this Bill has passage. In fact aid has been administered by a group of people operating as they did in the Agency, in the way in which they will function as a bureau. 
I was intrigued to hear speakers on both sides of the Parliament say that aid should be above politics, but in the case of the Opposition the moment such sentiments were uttered they were forgotten. This came from an Opposition berating the Government for reducing the percentage of gross national product devoted to aid which was precisely the percentage the Opposition gave when it was in Government in its last Budget in 1975, brought down by the then Treasurer Hayden. On the forecast and estimates of the Treasurer's Budget Papers, in the Budget Speech and the documents accompanying it in 1975, Labor's aid commitment as a percentage of the gross national product was cut from 0.56 to 0.52 per cent. 
-A very substantial cut. I shall come back to that in a moment. I am glad that members of the Opposition now recognise the fault at that time. The momentum, the downward turn of the economy had become even worse by the time we came into power. As I shall reiterate later, the real effectiveness that can be engendered by a government in the amount of money forwarded for aid programs will in fact depend on the strength of the economy at home. Even Labor recognised that. But those who indulged in what I refer to as cant and hypocrisy and wearing flowers and hearts on their sleeves today proclaiming the importance of aid programs would do well to recall that under the aegis of a special relationship with Papua New Guinea, it was Labor that slashed aid programs to that country, and not just in any year but in the very year in which independence was to be reached by Papua New Guinea- the most sensitive period of her development towards nationhood. What did we do? Instead of just increasing aid for one year we gave a 5-year rolling program of such magnitude that the Finance Minister of Papua New Guinea went to international forums and said that Australia's program of aid and development assistance to Papua New Guinea was a model for all other countries to follow. So it seems to me that those who would hector and lecture ought to reflect on not merely their own inadequacies but the nature and the delinquency in the administration and nature of aid programs when they were in power. 
In my second reading speech I referred to the fact that we have increased our aid programs to the Pacific nations by 400 per cent. However, underlying it all, what is really the test is not the nature of the administration of aid programs, nor indeed the percentage of gross national product- - people can have a fixation about both amounts and percentages- but the nature of those programs whether they are relevant to the needs of the people to whom they are supposedly applied. That is the real criterion, the real test. If that is the criterion, then I think that during our period in government we have been singularly successful. I am aware that the honourable member for Cook  (Mr Dobie)  at one stage in his speech said that he would like assurances that there would be no problems with the Public Service Board in regard to experts. All I can say in that regard is to reiterate the reference in my second reading speech on this Bill that the Government is seeking delegations from the Board. I have no reason to believe that the changing nature of aid administration will adversely affect the Board's decision. 
I should now like to deal with some matters raised by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  and touched upon by other members of the Opposition. I know that the appearance has been created that I personally and indeed this Government have cause for shame in dissolving an agency whose creation we supported in Opposition. I have listened to the constant regurgitation of my own words when speaking on the Bill to create the agency in 1974. A thorough reading of that speech ought to be well recommended to members of the Opposition. If they were to read the theme of that address perhaps their illiteracy regarding aid programs and their administration might be removed. 
Well, do not just hold it in your hand, read it and digest it. If you had read it perhaps you would not have made the speech you made tonight. 
-Oh, the honourable member has been listening to himself. Do not read my speeches and reach those conclusions. I do not know why he is bringing such subjective premises to bear on speeches that I prepare. 
What was that? 
-Would the honourable member like to keep going for a moment? 
-No, I am always greatly cheered by interjections from the honourable member for Mackellar. There is hardly any need for me to say that I really do refute the charges made by the Opposition in regard to the change in the agency itself. If members of the Opposition were actually to read the speech that the honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins)  has been waving in the air tonight, they would see that I qualified my support for the agency- albeit that I spoke in favour of it- in a number of ways. My recollection is that I did emphasise then the importance of co-ordinating programs and of the relationship of aid policy and foreign policy. The Leader of the Opposition certainly cannot complain about that link since the burden of his speech was that the abolition of the agency would harm Australia's foreign relations. Of course the primary aim of aid, as I have touched upon tonight, is to help poor countries on the path to self-sustaining economic growth. Its impulse is thus fundamentally humanitarian. But it is also in Australia's national interest that we give aid. In 1974, in the very speech referred to so frequently this afternoon and this evening and which the Opposition claims represents an about-face on my part, I said: 
There is, of course, more to our external relations than involvement in development strategy but in the long term there are few other single issues more compelling or of more peculiar significance to Australia than the development issue in its broadest perspective. It carries implications for the whole range of our external relations in the long term. It may be as some observers have pointed out that foreign aid has not always promoted national well-being and stable political conditions. But the proposition that the development issue and Australia's security are quite unrelated and therefore our development assistance efforts will have no impact on our long term security is misleading, if not untenable. The proposition should really be that ineffective development assistance does nothing to promote Australia's security interests in the long term. The fact is that if the efforts to promote development had fallen short of their objectives, it is not the idea of development assistance that is at fault but the inadequacy and the ineffectiveness of the approach to the problem by both the developing countries and the donor countries. An effective aid program will help to promote national well-being and stable political conditions and, as such, an improvement in such a program can only enhance regional security. 
In professing to see something reprehensible in the dissolution of the Australian Development Assistance Agency, the Opposition unquestionably is confusing means and ends. Whether Australian aid is administered through a statutory body or through the Department itself is not the critical question. What is important is that our development assistance be generous and effective and that it be administered economically. 
I take up the last point first. The facts are that experience has shown that substantial staff savings were possible by integrating the agency into -the Department. In practice, that situation, as I said earlier, has existed virtually since the beginning of last year. The staff of the bureau is some 180 fewer than when the agency was at its maximum size. Integration within the Department means that administrative services can be provided on a common basis, therefore leading to substantial staff savings. This is not to say that the bureau's staff resources necessarily are adequate for an expanding aid program. The facts are that under this Government Australia's commitment to help its neighbours has expanded. My Department has submitted proposals for staff expansion in areas of the bureau concerned with the fulfilment of the Government's commitment. I touched on that a little earlier. That there is nothing inviolate about the forms of aid administration is in fact shown by the reality that independent statutory bodies, independent statutory aid agencies, are a very rare species. 
The man who wrote the speech of the honourable member for Scullin which he regurgitated tonight did not recognise something about the reference he made to the United Kingdom. I think he said there was an untrammelled role of a separate aid body. He did not recognise that the very Minister who administers that is not even a member of Cabinet and indeed, to the best of my knowledge and recollection, the Minister responsible for development in the British Cabinet has his matters handled by the Secretary for Foreign Relations. So when I say that even independent statutory aid agencies are a very rare species, even within that rare category, there are great restrictions. In almost all major donor countries, the administration of aid one way or another is linked with the administration of foreign policy. There is nothing anomalous internationally about the administration of aid through a bureau such as we are proposing by transferring the agency into such a body. The honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  cited the 1972 Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs Sub-Committee's recommendation as if it justified the administration of aid solely through an independent aid agency. In fact, that Committee considered that there were other suitable options, including a bureau such as now exists. 
The Leader of the Opposition claimed that the Bureau is to be smothered by my Department. The facts are that the Bureau will exercise all the functions of the Agency. It will be headed by a director with the rank of  Deputy  Secretary, responsible only to the Secretary and, through him, to me. Moreover, with one exception, all the present senior managerial staff of the Bureau were the senior managers of the Agency. The honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Connolly)  has given the lie to the Opposition's claim that Australian aid is now markedly less than it was under Labor. There were a few charges by the Leader of the Opposition that should not go unanswered. He seemed to be under the misapprehension that aid to the South Pacific has been reduced and that he will not fulfil the $60m pledged over 3 years, including the current financial year. We most assuredly will. It is true that there has been some small slippage this current year, in terms of the target set, but when a major expansion of this order- some 400 per cent over 3 years- is planned there are inevitably difficulties in the earlier stages. 
-Just listen. The honourable member was busy preparing his speech on uranium for the debate that is to follow. He missed the reality that the Treasury, in the final year of office of the Labor Government, slashed the aid programs. That must be what is weighing heavily on the honourable member's mind. I was saying that when a major expansion of some 400 per cent is planned it is inevitable that there will be some difficulties in implementation in the early stage. I think it is important to point out that some of the difficulties are on the side of the recipients- changing their priorities, for example, so that planning for certain projects has to begin again. Some difficulties are due to the problems that arise in Australia. However, overall expenditure on the South Pacific is rising extremely rapidly. This year it will easily be the highest on record. The commitment, which is not to expenditure in any one year, will be met. 
Furthermore, the Leader of the Opposition sought to make some cheap charge that our commitment to the South Pacific was made only after a Soviet aid team visited the region. I know of no such team. Perhaps he was referring to Press reports that the Soviet Union might give aid to some South Pacific countries. Let me assure the House that work on the aid commitment to the South Pacific was well advanced long before those reports appeared. The fact is that the expansion of Australian aid to the South Pacific which took place between 1972-73 and 1975-76 referred to by the Leader of the Opposition for which he mistakenly took credit, was the result of a Liberal Government pledge, I think, to give more than $15m over those 3 years. When that commitment had been fulfilled we had returned to office, and we took a decision to make the new fourfold commitment. Far from winding down the aid program, as the Leader of the Opposition alleged, this Government has increased aid expenditure and has made major innovations which I have outlined in speeches outside the House. In particular I refer honourable members to one delivered to the Swinburne Institute of Technology on 8 November last year. 
However, aid expenditure cannot be isolated from overall government expenditure, which itself must have regard to Australia's economic circumstances. The best foundation for a growing Australian aid program is a healthy Australian economy. The first priority of this Government is to get the economy moving again on a sound basis. 

 Dr JENKINS (Scullin)-Mr  Deputy Speaker- 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
While there are references to political prisoners in some United Nations documents, there are no estimates of the kind sought by the honourable member. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Australian Government considers that SWAPO is a major and authentic representative of political opinion in Namibia. It does not however regard it as the sole authentic representative of the Namibian people. The Government believes that the representatives of indigenous political forces in Namibia other than SWAPO should be included in the process of negotiation to determine Namibia's constitutional future. 
In December 1974, the previous Government contributed $ I 50,000 to UNICEF to assist in a UNICEF project in Zambia directed at providing humanitarian and educational aid to refugees there connected with a number of liberation movements, one of which was SWAPO. The present Government has not made any financial contribution to SWAPO. 
For some years the Australian Government has made regular contributions to the United Nations Fund for Namibia and to the United Nations Educational and Training Program for Southern Africa, both of which provide educational assistance to Namibian students regardless of their political affiliations. 
Taiwanese Fishing Fleets Operating in Australian Waters (Question No. 339) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Australian Embassy in Rangoon, has made an official application to the Burmese Government for permission for the group of Australians led by  Mr Wixted  to enter Burma and conduct a search for the remains of the  Lady Southern Cross. 
The Burmese Government has indicated its approval in principle for the expedition to enter Burma and has requested further information on the group's plans before a final decision is made. 
The Australian Government is prepared to continue to assist with contacts with the Burmese Government on the expedition's behalf. 
The answer to the honourable member's questions are as follows: 
1 ) It is not customary to give reasons for rejecting an application for political asylum and none was given to Hishamuddin Rais. 
On the information available to the Government from Hishamuddin himself and from other sources, he was not eligible for asylum on the widely accepted principles applicable in such cases: these principles are reflected in the Draft Convention on Territorial Asylum. 
The answers to the honourable member's questions are as follows: 
20 March 1976. 
No. 
-. 
The original Letter of Credence was signed by Her Majesty the Queen on 22 March 1976. Letters of Credence are normally dispatched to Buckingham Palace under the cover of a letter from Government House Canberra with the request that they be placed before Her Majesty for signature. 
On 2 April 1976 the Ambassador-Designate reported that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs had advised that the Letters were incorrectly worded, and thus unacceptable to the Irish authorities. The reason for this was that the Letters of Credence were incorrectly addressed to the  President  of Ireland in the form used by the British Government, that is, the form acceptable to Buckingham Palace for British Ambassadors. The British form is that the  President  of Ireland is addressed in Letters of Credence by name only his title not being mentioned. In 1958 the Australian and Irish Governments agreed to use a form and title of address different from the British practice. This describes the Irish Head of State by name and as  President  of Ireland. 
) The corrected Letter of Credence was dispatched to Dublin on 7 May 1976. 
19 May 1976. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Government is aware of reports that the offices of the South African Council of Churches and the Christian Institute were raided by the South African Security Police on 26 November 1976, that certain documents were confiscated and that several members of both organisations were detained for questioning. The Australian Embassy in Pretoria subsequently confirmed these reports 
and (3) The Australian Council of Churches did indeed make known its alarm at the reported raids. In addition to his public statement in December, the  President  of the Council, Bishop Graham Delbridge, said in a telegram to the Minister for Foreign Affairs that the Council was pleased at Australia's strong stand in the United Nations against apartheid but believed that more must be done to seek peaceful change in South Africa. 
Information reeived from the Australian Embassy in Pretoria has indicated that all persons detained during the raids have since been released and that to date no charges have been laid in connection with the raids. From this and other information available it is clear that large numbers of opponents of the South African Government's apartheid policies remain in detention under the provisions of a variety of oppressive security laws. 
The Australian Embassy in Pretoria has been instructed to take an appropriate opportunity to inform the South African authorities of the concern being expressed in Australia about the action taken against the two organisations, and similar action taken against others opposed to the South African Government's apartheid policies. The Government has made known to the South African Government on numerous occasions and in the clearest terms its opposition to the policy of apartheid and will continue to do so. 
-The impressive demonstration in the recent election in India of that country's firm commitment to democracy has been widely and favourably commented upon in 
Australia. That has been conveyed to the Indian Government in messages from the Prime Minister to the Indian Prime Minister and from me to the Indian Foreign Minister. Our relations with India have always been strong. We have regular officials' talks and there are a number of cultural arrangements and agreements- the science and technology co-operative agreement, for example- between the 2 governments. I can recall the new Indian Prime Minister stating in an address to the Non-Aligned Bureau earlier this month that India would remain non-aligned 'in the real sense of the word'. He also said that for India non-alignment represents a national consensus and has become in that sense a national article of faith. I can recall him stating that India was prepared to do more to give greater contact and shape to the non-aligned program. 
The new Indian Government has also stressed the continuity of Indian foreign policy and comparisons that are made between the 2 governments ought to bear that in mind. It has declared that, consistent with the spirit of non-alignment and the non-ideological content of its foreign relations, it will maintain and seek to improve its relations with all countries. It is clearly not putting quite the same stress as the previous Government did on relations with the Soviet Union, though most of its statements are couched in the sort of language I have just mentioned. For example, India has stated that it will pursue a policy of balanced relations with all the super powers. It has, of course, expressed concern at the lack of progress in the implementation of the United Nations declaration to make the Indian Ocean a zone of peace. The Foreign Minister in particular has stated that, without the elimination of great power rivalry and the existing foreign military bases, as in the case of Diego Garcia- though it is to be noted that there was no mention, as I recall, of the Soviet base in Berbera no meaningful advance in this direction would be possible. 
In summary, the Prime Minister and I will meet the Indian Prime Minister and Foreign Minister at the Commonwealth Heads of Government meeting in London in June. We look forward to that meeting with great expectation. I believe that, despite the careful analysis of documented statements that have been made by members of the Government, I can witness a spirit which would indicate to us a desirability for making the relationship between Australia and India even warmer and more enduring. The Prime Minister and I are looking forward to the meeting in June and to holding discussions on bilateral as well as international and Commonwealth issues. 
-My attention has been drawn to the matter raised by the honourable member. The Ranger Uranium Inquiry report states that Australia is not a party to The Convention on the Prevention of Marine Pollution by Dumping of Wastes and Other Matter. However, Australia is a signatory to the Convention, having signed it in October 1973. It is also observing the terms of the Convention under a voluntary scheme administered by the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development in conjunction with the State governments and industry. This Government is currently conducting negotiations with the relevant State authorities with a view to preparing suitable legislation which will enable Australia to ratify the convention. 
I have not seen the remarks but I will examine them. The Government's view on matters pertaining to South Africa, its racism and its extension of that repugnant philosophy implemented through the Bantustans is something that I would not think, despite the reading of those remarks, I would be prepared to change an attitude on. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In 1975 and 1976 the issue of Australian passports to residents of Queensland totalled 35 397 and 42 137 respectively. As no statistics are kept as to the areas from which applications are received, it is not a practical exercise to determine how many of the grantees resided within the electoral division of Capricornia. 
-There are 2 officers from the Australian Embassy in Jakarta presently visiting East Timor. Their visit will extend from 26 April to 30 April. It is hoped that the visit might provide us with some first hand information about the use of the Australian contribution to the Indonesian Red Cross for humanitarian assistance in East Timor. The visit is also partly to start preliminary local preparations for a visit to East Timor by a team of Australian officials from the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. That visit was announced by the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs on 30 March, and it has been approved. 
In arranging the visit it was made clear to Indonesia that the discussions and the visit did not amount to recognition of the integration of East Timor into Indonesia. I have seen articles in newspapers which imply, if not state, that any dealings with Indonesia on a matter such as this amount to  de facto  recognition. To put it mildly, that is a viewpoint which flows from illiteracy or ignorance. There can in fact be 3 stages in the recognition process. There can in fact be intercourse between states without recognition. A will for recognition is required on the part of the government examining the question of whether there should be recognition. I have said in the past regarding  de facto  recognition that any ambiguity which exists is implicit in the term and, so far as this matter is concerned, not in the Government's policy. As I have said, nonrecognition does not necessarily signify nonintercourse. There has to be a will on the part of the recognising body. There are numerous examples in public international law for this statement. 
As is well known, and as I have said today, there can be 3 stages in the recognition process. The first stage is informal relations on a nonrecognition basis as distinct from  de facto  recognition. The second is  de facto  recognition. The third is  de jure  recognition. Any of those steps can be chosen at any time. Furthermore, the 2 officers are expected to travel quite extensively in East Timor and to provide us with an opportunity to make an independent assessment of the situation. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (3) Australia has contributed towards the relief of disasters overseas, both natural and man-made, by direct bilateral grants of cash and commodities and also by regular financial support for the activities of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, the United Nations Children's Fund and the United Nations Relief and Works Agency. Contributions made by the Australian Government to international disaster relief organisations are listed in Table 1 herewith. Contributions for the relief of specific disasters, either direct or through appropriate international organisations are listed in Table 2 which shows the particular emergency and the nature of the assistance given. Total Australian contributions towards disaster relief are shown in Table 3. 
In-depth research would be required before a definitive listing of all disasters occurring throughout the world during the past 5 years could be established. Examination of departmental records, however, indicates that the only major disaster in the period under reference which has not been the subject of Australian assistance was the recent series of earthquakes in China. In this case the Chinese authorities did not take up the Prime Minister's offer of help. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) I am sure that the honourable member will share the Government's concern both that the Beirut Embassy should be re-opened as soon as possible and that it should be reopened in conditions giving reasonable assurance that staff will be able to carry out their duties effectively as well as in acceptable conditions of safety. It is also a matter of concern, in view of the importance of migration from Lebanon to Australia, to ensure that the many people who may be expected to approach the Embassy in Beirut on migration matters should be able to do so in safety and with the assurance that their business will be handled promptly and efficiently. In this respect the opening of the Australian Embassy presents different features from those to be taken into account in the case of many others in Beirut. 
Recent developments in Lebanon have again demonstrated that this has not been a matter for easy judgment. Planning is however proceeding for re-opening in May, which will provide time for proper administrative arrangements to be made, including the completion of the migration task-force operation in Cyprus and transfer of staff to Beirut. Meanwhile consular and immigration services are also available at the Embassy in Damascus. 
This information should be available to the Embassy in Beirut after it is re-established. 
-I am pleased to deal with this question, for reports concerning my visit to Bali in September 1975 are not only distorted, they are totally false. The facts are as follows: In September 1975 I left Australia to visit Papua New Guinea and then went onwards to attend a conference in Iran. Before leaving Australia my wife and I planned to stop over in Bali on the way back from Iran, and I contacted the Indonesian Ambassador in Canberra to arrange for visas. Well might the honourable member for Fraser listen with interest. I made it clear to the Ambassador that my sole purpose in stopping over was to have a rest. All I requested of the Ambassador was a visa. When I arrived in Bali and was met by the 2 Indonesian officers, as I have previously stated in this House, I had no foreknowledge that they would be there. In the event, my wife and I that night attended 2 social functions and had a drink with them before retiring. During all this time we had a general conversation about relations between our 2 countries including, naturally, the Timor issue. My well known views were politely but firmly restated. 
As to what purports to be the 'record of interview' of that conversation, it is simply a travesty of a report. What is not outright falsehood or invention is drastically distorted. I did not say that the Liberal Party would not protest against an Indonesian resort to force on the Timor issue. Indeed, for many months, I had been saying quite the contrary. The fact that when in office we did protest at the highest level on a government to government basis and indeed by taking the matter, as the previous Government did not. to the United Nations and voting against Indonesia, makes nonsense of the claim that I did say so. 
I did not refer to the Association of South East Asian Nations in cynical terms of a 'moral cover' but genuinely in terms of an opportunity to develop and demonstrate the effectiveness of the organisation which should not be missed. I was the first to introduce the question of an ASEAN initiative into the Australian debate on Timor. It was applauded editorially. What I said in Bali was completely consistent with my public position, which can be found on the record in this House and which is referred to in the documented account of the previous Government's handling of the Timor issue by a former member of  Senator Willesee  's staff. I did not say that I respected the Whitlam policy, nor that I would continue it in office. I did not respect it and I did not continue it. 
Lastly, I did not outline the scenario concerning Australia's domestic politics which is set out in the alleged record. Anyone who honestly believes that any politician, let alone one who had been out of the country for some time, could set out such a detailed scenario as early as September 1975 either has only the most tenuous understanding of the Australian political situation as it existed at that time or is prepared to take conspiracy theory to the point of fantasy. The fact is, as  Mr Tjan  states, that these matters were not discussed at all. This part of the document, which comprises nearly half of the whole, moves from extreme distortion to simple outright fabrication. What gives this report the lie most conclusively is the policy which the Government has actually followed on the Timor issue. That policy has been consistent with what I and other Ministers have said publicly and with what I said in Opposition, reminding the House that to the best of my knowledge the first member of this Parliament ever to issue a statement on Timor was me in September 1974 when I learnt of the previous Prime Minister' duplicity. I followed it both in this House and outside throughout the remainder of 1974 and throughout 1975, and countless people can be called to corroborate my private views, which were at all times consistent with my publicly expressed views. From September 1 974 onward, from the time of the meeting between the then Prime Minister Whitlam and  President  Suharto, I was consistently a critic of the Labor Government's stance. All that I said privately and publicly bears that out. 
May I turn finally to the allegation that I misled the Parliament when I stated that I was completely surprised to be met at Bali by 2 officials. That statement of my reaction of surprise is correct. It is alleged that a cable from Ambassador Woolcott casts doubt on this. Well,  Mr Woolcott  's apparent conclusion was incorrect. My only conversation with Ambassador Tasning was to request a visa- nothing more and nothing less. Ambassador Tasning completed his term in Australia last year and he is now the Indonesian Ambassador to Singapore. Last night a cable was received from our High Commissioner in Singapore recounting a conversation he had with Ambassador Tasning yesterday. It reads: 
In my conversation with him on 2 May Tasning confirmed that you had never asked Tor, or discussed either a briefing or meeting about Timor, during your visit to Bali in September, 1975. All that was sought was a visa, which had been issued. 
I table that cable. 
-It is correct, of course, that we have special safes in the Department for holding highly classified documents. I would like to follow that question further down the line but it being the subject of highly classified information dealing with security and intelligence matters, the honourable member will be aware that precedent dictates- which I accept- that I cannot comment one way or the other on such highly classified documents. 
I have listened in particular to the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  to what amounted to nothing more than a farrago of fanciful fiction leavened with lies, and he knows it only too well. 
-I withdraw the remark. It was certainly a farrago of fanciful fiction. The Leader of the Opposition had prepared that speech before I gave my answer at question time. He chose to go on with his speech, knowing it to be incorrect, knowing it to be false and seeking to cover his own craven record in this Parliament and elsewhere over the issue of East Timor. He said at one stage that the first time it was alleged by the present Government that he had entered into an arrangement with  President  Suharto about the incorporation of East Timor into Indonesia was after the 'fateful day of 11 November'. He also knows that to be incorrect because he is aware that on 9 September 1974-not 1975 but as far back as 9 September 1974-1 was advised of his complicity. I issued a statement on that occasion drawing attention to what had transpired in those talks. The statement referred to the sort of article that appeared in the  Canberra Times  that  Mr Whitlam,  at that stage, was advocating incorporation of East Timor into Indonesia. Of course, he was saying that it should be carried out 'on the basis of selfdetermination'. As I said in that statement there can be no pre-conditions or pre-judgments on the future of a people. There must be no constraints and no intimidation in any free act of self-determination. The Leader of the Opposition well knows that by saying he favoured incorporation and then adding after it the words some act of self-determination', the very statement was qualified. The belief in selfdetermination was qualified by that first desire. From that date of complicity we had oftrepeated acts and statements revealing duplicity. Whether they were revealed to the other members of the government or not, one is uncertain. 
I had never broken the convention of going through the documents, some of which unquestionably have been removed, prior to the date I became the Minister for Foreign Affairs. But 1 was advised- before reading in the newspapers of it only the week before last- as I have been in different ways that I am not, as the Leader of the Opposition would know, able to reveal, of an interview between the Indonesian Foreign Minister and a representative of Australian Associated Press in which the Foreign Minister said words to the effect: 'Whitlam gave us the green light. Whitlam said we could move, but the present Foreign Minister was opposed '. 
Are you assuming that he would not know the foreign policy of his own country or are you denying your own duplicity? Now do both, if you wish. Challenge the Foreign Minister's authority to speak. But put that to one side. Challenge the truth. You know as well as 1 do that you gave the green light in September of 1974 and you know that from 9 September 1974 we published this and we worked against it. You know that there are latter day yappers in the Parliament today who talk about being opposed to what transpired. But where were they in September 1974? Those people on the other side were not standing with me. Where were they in February 1975 when I introduced a matter of public importance in this Parliament condemning you for what you were conniving in and drawing attention to the events in Indonesia and Timor? You did not dare come into Parliament - 
-I take the point,  Mr Speaker.  Where,  Mr Speaker,  was he? Cringing in the corridors, throughout the craven behaviour that he had gone on with, keeping away from it all. I note that, from the latter part of November 1974, 1 was the only one, I think, to ask questions in this place- no, you,  Mr Speaker,  as Leader of the Opposition also asked one in addition to the questions I asked- on this matter. As I can recall, in the early part of 1975 again only Liberals pursued the matter. In the latter half of 1975 nine questions on this matter were asked- six by members of the Liberal and National Country Parties, three by the then Government. There were 2 pointed questions to you at last by the man you had deposed- the former - 
... the man the present Leader of the Opposition had deposed, namely  Dr Cairns.  He got nowhere in the questioning. Labor in government did nothing but acquiesce. What did we do? The Labor Party in government at no time took the matter to the United Nations, neither in the General Assembly nor the Security Council. The House should bear in mind that when we came into government Australia was no longer a member of the Security Council. This was one area in which, after an initial reluctance to change a policy during the period of the caretaker government, we nevertheless determined to do so even before the election. We voted against Indonesia in the Fourth Committee of the General Assembly before election day. I gave that advice consistent with all I had been proclaiming and the antithesis of all you had done. Then we went into the Security Council where we were not members and put forward viewpoints which were the contrary of what you had espoused and connived at during your period in government. The public reference to this, to the representative of Australian Associated Press the week before last, reveals you for what you are in terminology that cannot be expressed adequately in this Parliament, a conniving coward who seeks to proclaim previously prepared material - 
-I withdraw the remark. Really, I do not need this sort of rhetoric, because the facts - 
I meet with your request,  Mr Speaker.  All the facts from September of 1974 prove what I am saying to be correct. You come into the Parliament today with a prepared speech prior to the answers being given and refuse to accept the denial of those who were involved, including the present Australian Ambassador in Jakarta and the present Indonesian Ambassador in Singapore. Because of what I know about the Leader of the Opposition I am aware that there would be a marked reluctance. I do not expect charity; I normally expect honesty: But I gave that away after 9 September 1974 in regard to you. But this desperate man needed to go on.  Mr Speaker,  you will know from my answer at question time that there is absolutely no truth in this allegation whatsoever. I find it interesting - 
I find it intriguing, bearing in mind the evidence put to this Parliament by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  today, about the records taken out of this building by the man who is now Leader of the Opposition, that the one member of this Parliament who received the cable, now shown to be incorrect, from  Mr Woolcott,  the one man to whom it was addressed, was  Mr Whitlam.  He is the only one in this Parliament whose name appears as a recipient of that cable. The names of  Mr Renouf  and  Mr Menadue  also appear, but the copy shows that the one member here to receive it was  Mr Whitlam.  I do not know who of the few he had around him were retaining this for him but, somehow, somewhere it was carefully but casually dropped in the course of the last couple of days. I would not know who carefully but casually dropped it. I can only indicate the one alleged recipient in this Parliament of that document. But it does not require my denials, supported by the Ambassador in Jakarta and the Ambassador in Singapore. I ask: What of the judgments of those who worked for the Labor Party in government? One of the trusted advisers working in Prime Minister's Department.  Mr 
Gregory Clark, has also indicated with clarity the role of the former Prime Minister in this devious deception. Another  Dr Viviani.  worked for the former Foreign Minister, who to his credit it is known disagreed fundamentally with the path the then Prime Minister was taking. I shall read a couple of quotes quickly obtained from what she wrote in the  Australian Outlook  of August 1 976, many months after ceasing to work for  Senator Willesee.  She wrote: 
The first, and cardinal circumstance was  Mr Whitlam's  initial judgment in September 1974 - 
That magic date again: 
. that the incorporation of Timor into Indonesia was preferable to its independence. 
That is on page 222. On page 224 the article states: 
There is strong evidence - 
I would not know where it comes from but she cites it and she was in the Foreign Minister's office:  to suggest that a major Indonesia-led, armed and supported advance had begun in mid October and escalated rapidly through into November. So,  de facto,  Indonesia had breached the undertaking before November 1 1 . 
On page 226 the article states:  . . no previous Australian government was as pusillanimous in expressing publicly to Indonesia its support for Australian interests in self-determination and opposition to the use of force as the Labor Government in 1 974 and 1 975. 
The real role of the former Prime Minister, now Leader of the Opposition, who seeks to transplant his own guilt on others, and who has failed to do so, we do not know. The statement that he has made today is based on alleged statements of others. They have since denied them. The real truth we do not know. We only know the outline of what I have been able to put. That, after all, mirrors the attitudes I have taken outside the Parliament from September 1974 until now. Countless dozens of people who are aware of my private views and those who read them as publicly expressed from September 1974 until we became the Government are well aware that under no circumstance could I have put those views attributed to me in the  National Timesviews  that have since been denied by those who were there. My own record as Foreign Minister since November 1 975 indicates my action in trying to prevent at the eleventh hour, if you like, what has been connived at for so long by the Leader of the Opposition. I wanted to take the matter to the General Assembly of the United Nations and have it voted on accordingly. It was an action that the previous Government never took. 
As to the Leader of the Opposition, all I can say about his talk of scandal yesterday is that amazement at his gall competes unsuccessfully with disgust at his hypocrisy. As the document reproduced on the front page of the  Canberra Times  today shows, he not only believed that Timor should be incorporated into Indonesia, but he made it clear to President Suharto. An act of self-determination was seen only as a necessary legitimising step to bring this about, not as something valuable in itself to be approached without preconceptions as to the outcome. The Leader of the Opposition, as Prime Minister, did not say that the Australian Government would oppose unilateral Indonesian action. He said only that no Australian government would allow it to be thought that it supported unilateral action. His only concern, as ever, was with appearances. This is the man who accuses me of misconduct. It has totally rebounded as has always been the case. 
-I believe that I answered all these matters in detail yesterday. I see no reason to add anything further to what I said. The whole matter has been put before the House. The records and views of others were ignored totally by the Opposition in the debate yesterday. The carefully prepared statements of the Opposition were erroneous and ignored the answer I gave yesterday. If Opposition members cannot even pay attention to an answer before making a speech which turns out to be redundant, I see no reason to add anything further to that answer. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, may I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation. Before the debate is resumed on this Bill, I would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill and the Income Tax (Companies and Superannuation Funds) Amendment Bill as they are associated measures. Separate questions will of course be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest therefore that you permit the subject matter of both Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) (a), (b) and (c). The issue of diplomatic passports for the purposes suggested would not fall within the established guidelines approved by the Government. 
We have no detailed knowledge of who is and who is not currently entitled to diplomatic passports in other countries. However, not all countries issue diplomatic passports to members of Parliament representing those countries at international meetings. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No- taken at ministerial level; (b) No- taken at ministerial level, following an interdepartmental committee review; (c) Yes. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2 ) Please refer to the answer provided for Question No. 186 on page 969 of  Hansard,  19 April 1977. 
Several non-governmental organisations, notably Amnesty International and the International Commission of Jurists, have published reports on this matter. 
I have covered this ground sufficiently. There seems no need for me to try to extend the possibilities of the desperate honourable member for Oxley as he tries now to appeal to the left wing of the Party that deserted him as he deserted those views which he formerly held. All I will say is that I have indicated already that what was to be a holiday seemingly turned out to be some sort of semi-official visit when people arrived and completely surprised me. As I have said, they too have corroborated that. I have nothing further to add. The honourable member should dig deeper in his own Party for the real information about government attitudes to Timor. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to authorise a contribution by Australia of $A133.76m towards the fifth replenishment of the resources of the International Development Association, or IDA as it is commonly called. The IDA, established in 1960, is an affiliate of the World Bank which assists its poorest member countries by providing long term interest-free credits for sound development projects, utilising grant funds provided by its developed member countries. The IDA is by far the largest and most effective concessional lending institution in the world today. It has approved development credits totalling more than $US 1 1 billion for all the major sectors of economic development, with special emphasis on agriculture and transportation as well as projects for education, urbanization, industry, population and nutrition, tourism, telecommunications and electric power. 
Starting with initial subscriptions made in 1960 and thereafter, together with 4 subsequent replenishments of its resources, IDA has been provided with a total of some SUS12 billion for lending to the poorest developing countries. The resources of the Association are replenished every 3 years. The fourth replenishment totalled SUS4.5 billion to cover commitments over the 3 years period ending 30 June 1977. Since IDA resources will be fully committed by 30 June 1977, additional resources are required to cover lending operations after that date. 
Following protracted negotiations on a fifth replenishment, which commenced almost 18 months ago, member countries decided, having regard to the needs of the poorest countries, that they should provide a substantial increase in IDA resources compared with the level they had contributed to the fourth replenishment. The traditional donors of the IDA agreed, subject to parliamentary approval in the various countries concerned, to provide an amount for the fifth replenishment equivalent to SUS7.2 billion. In addition, a number of countries intended to contribute resources to IDA for the first time. These countries are Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates and the Republic of Korea. Kuwait, a traditional donor, apart from its share in the SUS7.2 billion total, has agreed to make an extra contribution. These contributions to IDA by the oil surplus producing countries and Korea are a welcome development. I ask leave of the House to have incorporated in  Hansard  a table which sets out the prospective contributions to be made to IDA under the fifth replenishment. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to authorise an initial Australian Government contribution of $A8m, to be paid initially in the form of promissory notes, to the International Fund for Agricultural Development- IFAD- as well as to approve Australia's membership of the Fund. As honourable members may know, the decision to set up the International Fund for Agricultural Development was one of the major initiatives taken at the 1974 World Food Conference in Rome. Australia was one of 3 developed countries, together with the Netherlands and New Zealand, which with 3 1 developing countries cosponsored Resolution XIII of the World Food Conference which recommended the establishment of such a Fund. The Secretary-General of the United Nations subsequently convened a conference to work out the details and size of the Fund. Following meetings of interested countries in May and October of 1975 and in February 1976, the terms of the Agreement for the establishment of the Fund were finalised at a plenipotentiary conference on 13 June of last year. The text of the Agreement is set out in the Schedule to the Bill. However, the Agreement was not opened for signature before prospective contributors to the Fund had made pledges amounting to an aggregate of $US 1,000m. This was achieved in December 1976, and the Agreement was opened for signature at the United Nations on 20 December 1976. To date 40 countries have signed the Agreement and six have ratified it. Australia signed the Agreement on 30 March 1977. 
Membership of the Fund is divided into 3 categories. Category I comprises members of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, Category II the members of the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries and Category III other developing countries. The Agreement will enter into force upon ratification by 6 States in Category I, 6 States in Category II and 24 States in Category III and when the aggregate of initial contributions amounts to at least the equivalent of $US750m. 
The principal objective of the Fund is to make available finance ibr agricultural development projects. More specifically, the broad aims of IFAD include the encouragement of agricultural development in low income countries, with particular emphasis on food production in those countries which have the most serious food deficits; the encouragement of greater utilisation of the potential for food production in other developing countries; the improvement of the living conditions of the rural poor through activities which will increase their opportunities and incomes; and a reduction in malnutrition through the improvement in food production and distribution systems. The Fund will become a new Specialised Agency of the United Nations. 
One of the important features of the International Fund for Agricultural Development is that it will tap not only the traditional aid resources of the OECD countries, but also the substantial resources of the members of the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries. The OPEC countries and the OECD countries are making roughly equivalent total contributions to the Fund. The Government warmly welcomes participation by the OPEC countries in a co-operative venture of this nature with the developed West. Australia played a significant role in the establishment of IFAD and has, as a prospective member, pledged an initial contribution of $A8m in the form of non-negotiable noninterest bearing promissory notes encashable over a period of not less than 3 years. This compares with pledges by the United States of America of $US200m, the United Kingdom of stg15m, Canada $C30m and New Zealand $NZ2m. Amongst the pledges of the OPEC countries are Saudi Arabia 's pledge of $US 1 00m and Iran's pledge of $US 104m. 
The Government believes that the International Fund for Agricultural Development has an important role to play as a new source of investment for projects designed to increase food production in developing countries. The Fund accords with one of our chief aid priorities of providing the impetus for developing countries to help themselves to achieve self-reliance in food production. It is particularly appropriate that a major primary producing country such as Australia should play an active role in an organisation of this nature. Furthermore, it is likely that, as IFAD gets under way, there will be commercial opportunities for Austraiian agricultural machinery, technology and expertise in connection with IFAD projects. The Food and Agriculture Organisation of the United Nations already looks to Australia for significant contributions in such specialised areas as dryland farming and pastoral land use in arid zone Middle Eastern countries. IFAD can be expected to continue, and to expand on, this pattern. 
The principal obligations imposed on Australia are stated in Articles 4 and S of the Agreement. Under section 3 of Article 4, the Governing Council of IFAD may invite Australia to make contributions to the resources of the Fund additional to its initial contribution. The major rights Australia will enjoy under the Agreement are those stated in Article 6 concerning the organisation and management of the Fund. Australia is entitled to be represented on the Governing Council and to appoint one Governor and an alternate to the Council which will conduct the business of the Fund. I believe that it is in both Australia's national interest and in the interest of the international community as a whole, that we should play an active part in the International Fund for Agricultural Development by contributing $8m to the Fund and ratifying the Agreement establishing the Fund. I commend this Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Lionel  Bowen) adjourned. 
-Yes, the Government is aware of the resolution before the Security Council. As honourable members will be aware, sanctions voted by the Security Council are binding on all members of the United Nations. The Government will therefore consider the introduction of legislation to carry out this new measure should it be adopted. We understand that countries such as the United States and the United Kingdom are thinking similarly, and we would in fact be the only country in the United Nations that was maintaining such an office. The Government will of course take care to ensure that the legislation will be so drafted that it will not interfere with the liberty of individual Australians; that their liberty will not be infringed to the extent that they will be unable to express freely opinions with respect to Rhodesia. The provisions of the legislation would be aimed at the Rhodesia Information Centre itself and at preventing any person in Australia from acting as the agent, or holding himself out as the agent of the illegal regime in Rhodesia, and from receiving or using funds for that purpose. The Government hopes, of course, that current moves towards a negotiated settlement in Rhodesia will be successful. Meanwhile, however, in common with the United States and the 
United Kingdom which are sponsoring the negotiations, and in common with the United Nations members generally, Australia will continue to apply sanctions as voted by the Security Council. 
Pursuant to section 30 of the Australian Development Assistance Agency Act 1974 I present the annual report of the Australian Development Assistance Agency for the year ended 30 June 1976. 
For the information of honourable members, I present the report of the Australian delegation to the Thirty-first Session of the United Nations General Assembly held in New York from 22 September to 22 December 1976. This was the first- 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Representation allowance is an advance of official funds to assist officers to establish and maintain the contacts necessary to perform their official duties in the manner most beneficial to Australia. Officers are required to account fully and in detail for their use of the allowance. The attached schedule lists representation allowances payable as at January 1977 to Heads of Mission. Representation allowances payable to other Foreign Affairs officers serving in Australian Missions overseas are set out in Part 7 of the Public Service Board's Determinations relating to Overseas Service. 
Rates payable in 1 976 and earlier years are not readily accessible and the extraction of these would require unjustifiable time and effort. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In Kingston in May 1975 Commonwealth Heads of Government (including Australia) decided unanimously in favour of providing immediate financial assistance to the new Government of Mozambique if it decided to comply with mandatory sanctions imposed by the United Nations Security Council in respect of Rhodesia, and endorsed u 'recommendation that an initiative should be taken by Commonwealth Governments at the United Nations to establish a program of assistance for Mozambique in terms of Articles 49 and 50 of the Charter'. 
The United Nations Security Council subsequently adopted a unanimous resolution calling on members to assist Mozambique to compensate it for its action in applying sanctions against Rhodesia. In response to this international appeal, Australia committed $Al million for food aid. including freight, to Mozambique. This food aid comprises about 286 tonnes of corned meat and 3800 tonnes of wheat. Consistent with the Commonwealth Heads of Government resolution, a special fund was established under the auspices of the Commonwealth Fund for Technical Co-operation to provide technical assistance to Mozambique. The target set was 1 million. In response to the Commonwealth appeal, Australia contributed $US 100,000 to the special technical assistance fund for Mozambique. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) As far as I am aware. Action for World Development has taken no action with the Government in order to have foreign aid given to countries which are termed communist. 
Action for World Development is an ecumenical development education agency sponsored at a national level by the Australian Council of Churches and the Episcopal Conference of the Catholic Church. It seeks to promote understanding of the issues of world development and to encourage Australian citizens to take appropriate action for a more just world. AWD does not engage in fund raising activities and does not send funds overseas. 
-The answers to the honourable member's questions are as follows: 
1 ) The Department of Foreign Affairs submitted the original Letter of Credence to Government House. As was explained to the House in my reply to Question 429, this was incorrectly worded. 
The corrected Letter of Credence was submitted by the Department of Foreign Affairs to Government House, for forwarding to Her Majesty the Queen, on 6 April 1 976. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The terms of the question show that there was a hitherto undetected ambiguity in the reply to Question No. 1305 as printed in  Hansard  of 3 December 1976. The earlier question in effect referred to all Australia-based staff overseas. I regret that my reply could be and was misinterpreted to mean that the local allowances of Heads of Mission have a component built into them to cover employment of domestic assistance. Whilst this is the system applicable to other officers it is not the case with Heads of Mission. Instead they are reimbursed for the costs of employing domestic assistance to levels approved by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. To extract details of the levels and cost of domestic assistance employed by each Head of Mission, even within the more relevant of the numerous categories cited in the question, would take more time and effort than is considered justified. 
The attached schedule lists the rates of local allowances paid to each Head of Mission. 
The Minister for Foreign Affairs has provided the following answer to the honourable member's question: 
Yes. 
Yes. 
and (4) The Government would welcome an agreement for force reductions in Europe which established a satisfactory balance between NATO and Warsaw Pact forces, thus contributing to stability and security. Australia is not a party to these negotiations. 
The answers to the honourable member's questions are: 
Yes. 
, (3) and (4) President Carter has proposed negotiations between his country and the Soviet Union on mutual military limitations in the Indian Ocean. The only country which is in a position to 'lend effective assistance to the implementation of this initiative' is the Soviet Union. When 
United States Secretary of State,  Mr Cyrus  Vance, was in Moscow in March the 2 countries agreed to form a working group to discuss possible military limitations in the Indian Ocean. It is of course early days to judge yet what are the prospects for these discussions, let alone what might be their outcome. Questions about the level of forces and capabilities on which the United States and Soviet Union might be able to reach agreement or about a role for Australia in implementing an agreement between them are premature and hypothetical at this stage. 
-The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Department of Foreign Affairs has, at my request, kept me fully informed of developments; 
No. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The two officers from the Australian Embassy in Jakarta arrived in Dili on 27 April 1977. On 28 April they flew to Viqueque Los Palos Fatumaca and Baucau. On 29 April they flew to Same, Maliana Balibo and Bobinaro. On 30 April they flew to Liquica and Dili before returning to Jakarta. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There are 129 persons paid by the Department of Foreign Affairs at First or Second Division levels. Of these, 66 occupy Public Service Act positions in Australia and overseas and 63 are Executive Council appointees in charge of Australian missions overseas. 55 of the latter are permanent officers of the Department on leave under Section 72 of the Public Service Act for the duration of their appointment. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1968 Protocol to the International Convention for the Unification of Certain Rules of Law Relating to Bills of Lading, 1924. 
This Protocol has not yet entered into force. At present the Government does not have the matter under active consideration and further action will depend upon which countries become, or indicate an intention to become, contracting parties to the Protocol. 
1969 amendments to the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution of the Sea by Oil, 1954, as amended in 1963. 
Australia accepted these amendments on 7 November 1973. The amendments will come into force internationally on 20 January 1978. It is intended that Section 3, 4 and 9 of the Pollution of the Sea by Oil Act 1972 will be proclaimed to come into force on the same date thereby enabling Australia to comply with its obligation under these amendments. 
and (iv) 1971 amendments to the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution of the Sea by Oil, 1954, as amended in 1963. 1971 amendment to the International Convention on Load Lines 1966. 
Action is being taken towards acceptance by Australia of these amendments but the matter cannot be finalised until the Commonwealth and State authorities have settled on a division of administrative and legislative functions in relation to shipping. Discussions with the States are continuing and when the matter has been resolved it will be possible to provide the honourable member with a more detailed answer. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) ( a ) Convention on Facilitation of International Maritime Traffic, 1965: Monaco, Ghana, Zambia, United Kingdom, Dominican Republic, Yugoslavia, Norway, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, Czechoslovakia, Belgium, Nigeria, Iceland, Ivory Coast, Trinidad and Tobago, United States, Finland, Singapore, Canada, Germany, Federal Republic of, Sweden, Netherlands, Israel, France, Denmark, Switzerland, Tunisia, Poland, Madagascar, Ireland, Greece, Italy, Fiji, New Zealand, Spain, Syrian Arab Republic, Chile, Austria, India, Bahamas, Iraq, Hungary, Surinam. 
International Convention Relating to Intervention on the High Seas in Cases of Oil Pollution Casualties, 1969: Denmark, United Kingdom, Japan, Belgium, Senegal, France, Norway, Fiji, Liberia, Sweden, Spain, United States, Morocco, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, Dominican Republic, Syrian Arab Republic, Monaco, New Zealand, Germany, Federal Republic of, Lebanon, Netherlands, Panama, Yugoslavia, Mexico, Tunisia, Cuba, Poland, Bahamas, Finland, Ecuador, Surinam. 
International Convention on Civil Liability for Oil Pollution Damage, 1969: Senegal, Fiji, Liberia, Ivory Coast, Lebanon, Morocco, Algeria, Syrian Arab Republic, France, Sweden, United Kingdom, Norway, Denmark, Dominican Republic, Germany, Federal Republic of, Union of Soviet Socialist Republic, Monaco, Netherlands, Spain, Panama, South Africa, Poland, New Zealand, Tunisia, Japan, Yugoslavia, Greece, Bahamas, Portugal, Brazil, Equador, Belgium. 
Convention on the Prevention of Marine Pollution by Dumping of Wastes and other Matter, 1972: Afghanistan, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Canada, Cuba, Denmark, Dominican Republic, France, German Democratic Republic, Guatemala, Haiti, Hungary, Iceland, Jordan, Kenya, Libyan Arab Republic, Mexico, Morocco, New Zealand, Nigeria, Norway, Panama, Philippines, Spain, Sweden, Tunisia, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom, United States of America, Yugoslavia, Zaire. 
Action is being taken towards ratification of conventions (a), (b) and (c) but the matter cannot be finalised until the Commonwealth and State authorities have settled on a division of administrative and legislative functions in relation to shipping. Discussions with the States are continuing and when the matter has been resolved it will be possible to provide the honourable member with a more detailed answer. 
Australia is not a party to Convention (d) but it is a signatory, having signed the Convention in October 1973. Australia is also observing the terms of the Convention under a voluntary scheme administered by the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development in conjunction with the relevant State Governments and industry. This Government is currently conducting negotiations with the relevant State authorities with a view to preparing suitable legislation which will enable Australia to ratify the Convention. 
Overseas Travel by the Premier of Queensland in July 1976 and February 1977 (Question No. 236) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Between 30 June and 25 July 1976 the Premier of Queensland visited Iran, Denmark, Sweden, Norway, the United Kingdom, Austria and Hong Kong. Between 15 and 26 February 1977 he visited Iran, Kuwait, Bahrain. Saudi Arabia and Singapore. 
and(3) 
July 1976. 
In Iran the Premier called on the Prime Minister accompanied by the Australian Ambassador, and on the Minister for Agricultural and National Resources accompanied by the Mimster(Commercial)ofthe Australian Embassy. 
In Denmark, Sweden, Norway, the United Kingdom, Austria and Hong Kong the Premier made his own arrangearrangements these were private visits. 
February 1977 
In Iran, the Premier had an audience with the Shah and called on the Prime Minister and the Minister for Industries and Mines, accompanied in each case by the Australian Ambassador. 
In Kuwait- in which Australia has no resident representationthe Premier made calls unaccompanied by any Australian diplomatic officials. However the Australian ConsulGeneral from Bahrain, who was in Kuwait on other business, met the Premier at the airport and returned with him on his aircraft to Bahrain. 
In Bahrain, the Premier called on the Prime Minister and the Minister of Development and Industry, accompanied on both occasions by the Australian Consul-General. 
In Saudi Arabia, the Premier called on the Minister of Industry and Electricity, accompanied by the Counsellor (Commercial ) of the Australian Embassy. 
In Singapore, the Premier made his own arrangementsthis was a private visit. 
Eye Testing Programs in Schools (Question No. 325) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The United Nations has designated 1979 as the International Year of the Child. 
and (3) It is anticipated that activities in Australia will be directed towards the special needs of children in this country. The matter is presently under consideration in the Departments of the Prime Minister and Cabinet, Foreign Affairs and Social Security.  1978- A Special Year in the United Nations  (Question No. 710) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) There was a proposal at the 3 1st session of the United Nations General Assembly in 1976 to declare 1 978 an International Year for Disabled Persons. However, the resolution 
The answers to the honourable member's questions are as follows: 
1 ) Yes. The paragraph to which the honourable member refers concluded: 'To a large extent this means increasing emphasis on aid to the rural sector, not only in terms of economic inputs, but including also such factors as health, education, and employment'. 
Yes. During my address at Swinburne College on 8 November 1 976,I stated that: 'My Government believes it is the unquestionable right of all human beings to be relieved of poverty and to have a decent standard of living . . . '. While being careful to ensure that our development programs are consistent with the priorities of recipients, we are paying particular attention to supporting large-scale, integrated programs of assistance within the rural sector generally, which is one of the most effective means of providing increased assistance to the poorest groups of developing countries. 
Yes. Please see my address at Swinburne College already cited in which I stated that: 'Australian aid is of greatest benefit if it is concentrated on sectors that are critical to the development strategies of recipients and where we are in a position to provide relevant assistance. In practical terms, this means, in most cases, an emphasis on the rural sector. This emphasis will involve Australia in a wide range of activities, including infrastructure development, agriculture, animal health and nutrition, education and employment creation generally. We are already making considerable progress in this direction with a number of large-scale development programs intended to bring about the balanced development of whole regions, for example in the Philippines, in Indonesia and in Fiji'. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to my answer to a question in Parliament on 3 May. 
-The short answer is that I am maintaining a close concern in the matter. Representations have been made since the date mentioned by the honourable member in his question. It will be recalled that Monsignor Thuan has reportedly been held in detention by the Vietnamese authorities since 1975 without charges being brought against him. The Australian Government raised the matter in Hanoi in July 1976. Since that time we have continued to make inquiries about his welfare, not only in Hanoi but also with the Vatican. These inquiries suggested that he was in good health and receiving civilised treatment although recent newspaper reports have suggested that his state of health is now very poor. Australia's embassy to the Holy See recently sought further information from the Vatican about the welfare of Monsignor Thuan. The Vatican was unable to add much to the recent Press reports that we have gathered other than that he was still alive and still in detention. 
Last month my Department drew this matter to the attention of the Vietnamese Embassy in Canberra. The Australian Government recognises that the detention of Vietnamese citizens in Vietnam would be considered by the Vietnamese to be essentially a domestic matter for their own Government. However, because of the depth of concern expressed by many Australians about Monsignor Thuan. a concern shared by the Government, I have written in my ministerial capacity to the Vietnamese Charge d 'Affaires in Canberra about the welfare of persons under detention in Vietnam and of Monsignor Thuan in particular. That letter has been delivered to the Charge. 
-I well understand the honourable member's extensive interest in this matter. He will recall that prior to the Sixth Session of the Law of the Sea Conference the Government made it perfectly clear that it was hoping for a widely supported multilateral convention which included, among other things, the provision of a 200-mile exclusive economic zone. The Sixth Session's deliberations concluded in July of this year. In the light of the fact that a growing number of countries are making or in the process of making unilateral declarations of extended maritime jurisdiction, and bearing in mind the need to protect our own valuable fishing stocks from the increasing number of foreign vessels fishing in our area, the Government stated that it would re-examine the need for legislative action after the Sixth Session had concluded. Of course, that now has been done, with the Sixth Session finishing in July of this year, as I have indicated. 
We have decided that legislation should be drafted to enable the proclamation of a 200 nautical mile Australian fishery zone. Such a move should be seen as the first stage in exercising, in accordance with international law, Australia's 200-mile zone rights around Australia and the Territories. In regard to the further questions asked by the honourable member I say that legislation is therefore now being drafted. No decision has yet been made regarding the timing of its introduction or when it will come into force. Those and other details will, of course, need to be discussed with other countries and in particular, pursuant to the undertakings we gave to the member countries of the South Pacific Forum, with those countries at the Forum's forthcoming meeting towards the end of this month. 
-I would have to say that the information we possess is limited. Nevertheless, it is clear from a number of unconfirmed reports that have emerged that extensive repression, including executions, has taken place in Kampuchea since the Khmer Rouge came to power. In fact in recent testimony on human rights in Kampuchea the conclusion of a United States State Department official as to the estimate of the number of people who were thought to have perished in Kampuchea was that, while there was no way to confirm a precise figure, the number of deaths appeared to be in the tens of thousands, if not hundreds of thousands. 
Turning to recent incidents that have been verified by independent observers and covered by reputable news media, there is no question but that Kampuchea troops have killed villagers, including women and children, living in the border areas between Thailand and Kampuchea. We realise, of course, that these border areas are in dispute as are, according to recent reports, parts of the frontier between Kam. puchea and Vietnam. But the slaughter of villagers can only lend credibility to the horror stories that have come from inside Kampuchea. We condemn in the strongest possible terms such cruel and unnecessary actions wherever they may occur and appeal to the Government of Kampuchea to respect international human rights principles. No government could possibly condone such slaughter, pillage and destruction. 
The answers to the honourable member's questions are as follows: 
Yes. 
Australia has been assisting the Indonesian Government in the telecommunications sphere since 1968, commencing with a study by an Australian Mission of Indonesia's domestic and international telecommunications requirements. The study made recommendations on the feasibility, economic suitability and priority of telecommunications projects in Repelita 1 (the first Indonesian five-year plan concluded in 1974). An outline study for overall development of the Indonesian telecommunications system was also prepared, followed by the drafting of detailed plans, designs and specifications, and provision of associated consultancy services established to advise on the construction of a trans-Sumatra microwave radio system. This system included the building with World Bank finance of a network of nearly 50 microwave repeater stations in Sumatra. 
Further specific planning was later undertaken for the development of a telephone and junction network for Jakarta telephone subscribers, and the design of local and trunk exchanges and allied cable works for nine provincial centres in Sumatra, to establish and link the Sumatran subscriber network with the microwave system. 
The agreement formally signed in Jakarta on 14 March 1977 represents the fifth phase of this continuing activity and covers the two year period 1 July 1976 to 30 June 1978. The Australian contribuuon will be concerned with three fields as follows: 
an advisory service to Perum Telekomunikasi and supervision of telecommunications projects which are being supported by Australian development assistance funds; 
the supply of agreed material and equipment appropriate to the provision of local and trunk exchanges plus cable work at major centres in Sumatra; 
provision of a general advisory service to Perum Telekomunikasi. 
Phase five involves an Australian contribution of approximately $2.3m over the period1 July 1976 to 30 June 1978. Of the $15m allocated to Indonesia for Australian telecommunications assistance over the period 1969 to 1978, approximately $13. 18m was expended by the end of the 1976-77 financial year. 
Proposals drawn up by aid-receiving countries for donor support would normally be examined in some detail by officers of the Australian Development Assistance Bureau and its technical advisers to determine their feasibility and economic viability before being accepted as an aid commitment. In this instance, the whole scheme for the construction and installation of a telecommunications system to service the needs of Sumatra and its linkage with Jakarta were developed conceptually and carried through all planning and design stages by the Australian Telecommunications Mission established under the aid program for that purpose at the request of the Indonesian Government. 
The Mission staff were provided by the Australian Telecommunications Commission and its predecessors. Criteria used both in the selection of a microwave communications system from among a number of available communications options, and in the planning and design of local and trunk exchange installations, were identical with those used by the ATC in planning similar projects in Australia to meet our domestic requirements. Planning by the Mission staff necessarily took account of Sumatra's geophysical structure, location of main population centres, population densities, immediate and projected consumer usage, revenue potential, maintenance needs, operational costs, availability of operational staff, linkage terminal facilities, inter-working with existing equipment, capital costs and many other factors. The plans and specifications were subjected to searching economic and technical scrutiny by the world Bank before its loan to the Indonesian Government for the major element of the project i.e., equipment and construction costs for the microwave repeater stations, was approved. 
The building of access roads to nearly 50 hill-top or mountain-top repeater station sites, actual construction of these stations and installation of radio equipment, all of which were funded by Indonesia, together with cable and exchange installations directly related to the supporting Australian aid input of exchange equipment and materials, provided employment for a substantial Indonesian workforce over a period of several years. In parallel with improvements in road, rail, and other communications systems, infrastructure projects such as this lay an essential framework for subsequent development, much of which is employment producing. 
The World Bank analysis mentioned in (4) above is relevant. The Project has proceeded basically according to the original plans and progress under Australia's commitment is monitored continuously. No fresh surveys to assess the economic and social impact of the operation have been undertaken by the Australian Government since the project commenced. The need for a final evaluation study will be considered when the installations have been completed. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The Government remains committed to achieving the target of disbursing 0.7 per cent of gross national product as official development assistance. In fact this commitment was recently reaffirmed by the Prime Minister at the Commonwealth Heads of Government meeting in London. 
While it has not been possible to set a definite time-table for the achievement of the target the Government is maintaining overseas aid at the highest level consistent with the overall budgetary situation. Australia's performance of 0.46 per cent for 1976-77 compares more than favourably with the average of 0.33 per cent ( 1976) for member countries of the Development Assistance Committee of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development. 
It is estimated that, for 1977-78, 0.47 per cent of GNP will be given as official development assistance. 

 -Mr Speaker, I assume that the question is prompted by Press speculation, to which my attention has been drawn over the last few days, which concerns  Mr Woolcott  's performance as Australian Ambassador to Indonesia and speculation about his future appointment. As to the former, I have to say and wish to say that  Mr Woolcott  has been carrying out a very responsible job in difficult circumstances with the degree of professional skill and competence that might be expected from him as a senior and experienced officer of the Department of Foreign Affairs. I want to stress publicly that the Government is satisfied with  Mr Woolcott's  performance in Jakarta and that he enjoys the Government's confidence in his assignment there. I am not prepared to comment on the Press speculation, much of it mischievous, much of it personally wounding to  Mr Woolcott,  about where he might go after he has completed his term in Indonesia. But I want to make it clear that his next assignment will not only mark the Government's continuing regard for him but will also reflect the Government's view of the importance of the assignment itself. 

 - Mr Acting Speaker - 
-The first round of discussions on mutual military limitations in the Indian Ocean between the United States of America and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics was held in Moscow in June. This followed the discussions that Secretary of State Vance had in March on a total package regarding disarmament matters. The aim of the United States in these discussions is to prevent any further build up of US and Soviet military presences in the Indian Ocean, to establish the  status quo  and perhaps later to reduce the current level of these presences. This mirrors the long standing policy of this Government. The aim is for mutual balanced reductions, a viewpoint we put forward since the days when we were in opposition in contrast to the demands of the former government, the present Opposition, which was calling for unilateral withdrawal by the US irrespective of the moves of the Soviet Union in the Indian Ocean. 
The Australian views have been communicated in great detail to the United States and the US Administration has undertaken to consult very closely with this Government before any final agreement is reached with the Soviet Union. This consultation is taking place as the negotiations continue between the United States and the Soviet Union. Our Embassy is in constant contact with the Administration. I have had numerous discussions with Secretary of State Vance this year, not only on this issue but on many others. The United States and Australia are agreed, as recorded in the ANZUS communique of 28 July, that any arms limitation agreement in the Indian Ocean between the two major powers must be balanced in its effects and consistent with Australian and United States security interests. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
According to our information, the Government of Israel has approved the establishment of 92 kibbutzim, moshavim, neighbourhoods and other forms of settlements in the territories occupied during the war of June 1967, viz, the Golan Heights, the Sinai peninsula, the West Bank of the Jordan, the Gaza Strip and East Jerusalem. 
In the Golan Heights, three settlements were established in 1 967, five in 1 968, one in 1 969, two in 1 97 1 , three in 1 972, two in 1973, two in 1974, six in 1975, and one in 1977. In the Sinai peninsula, one settlement was established in 1969, and one each in 1 97 1 and 1 972. In the West Bank, one settlement was established in 1967, five in 1968, five in 1969, three in 1970, one in 1971, one in 1972, two in 1973, four in 1975, four in 1976, and six in 1977. In the Gaza Strip, one settlement was established in 1967, one each in 1969, 1970 and 1971, two in 1972, one each in 1973 and 1974, three in 1975, one in 1976 and five in 1977. Two additional settlements established in the West Bank without the Government's approval in 1975 were accorded post facto approval on 26 July 1977; a third, approved as an industrial settlement in 1975 (and included in the above figures), was given also on 26 July 1977 post facto approval as a residential settlement. It was announced on 17 August that approval had been given by the Israeli Ministerial Committee on Settlements for the establishment of three more settlements in the West Bank. 
In addition, in East Jerusalem and the adjoining area in respect of which Israeli legislation was amended to allow the laws of the State of Israel to be applied following the war in 1967, one suburb (or neighbourhood) was established in 1 968, one in 1 969, seven in 1 973 and one in 1 974. 
Representation in Lebanon (Question No. 1149) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
While there is room for some argument about the definition of maintaining or closing a mission, our latest information from Beirut indicates that the answers to the honourable member's questions are as follows: 
Algeria, Belgium, Bulgaria, China, Costa Rica, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Egypt, France, German Democratic Republic, Federal Republic of Germany, Great Britain, Greece, Hungary, India, Iraq, Italy, Jordan, Libya, Mexico, Morocco, Pakistan, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Saudi Arabia, Soviet Union, Spain, Sudan, Turkey, United States of America. 
Argentina, Austria, Australia, Bahrain, Brazil, Canada, Colombia, Finland, Iran, Japan, Kuwait, Netherlands, Oman, Qatar, Senegal, Sweden, Switzerland, Tunisia, United Arab Emirates, Yemen Arab Republic, People's Democratic Republic of Yemen, Yugoslavia. 
Convention Providing a Uniform Law on the Form of an International Will (Question No. 1153) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Canada, Libya, Niger, Portugal, Yugoslavia. 
-During the early hours of this morning an attempt was made to adbuct the Indian Military Attache, Colonel Iqbal Singh. As this deplorable incident, which, I understand involved the physical wounding of the Attache, is still being investigated by the police authorities I am not in a position to make a detailed statement on what has occurred. I do, however, wish to record that the Government deplores and regrets this tragic occurrence, which has understandably caused considerable anguish, not only to Colonel Singh and his wife, who also was involved forcibly in the attempted abduction, but also to the High Commissioner and other members of the staff. 
The Acting Secretary of my Department has already seen the High Commissioner and, at my direction, on behalf of the Government has expressed deep regret at the incident and has conveyed the Government's promise to do all in its power to apprehend the person responsible. Coming on top of the recent fire at the premises of the Indian High Commission, last night's occurrence warrants, I believe, the added sympathy and concern of all members of the House. 
Honourable members Hear, hear! 
-The Government is aware of the growing international interest in the Antarctic resources and of the need for Australia and its Antarctic Treaty partners to respond to it. In my speech in the House on 15 March I referred to many of the complex issues facing us, especially those involving Antarctic resources. I also spoke of the need to define our national interests in terms which recognised the potential importance of the Antarctic to the whole of mankind. 
As regards the element of sovereignty and title to which the honourable member refers, it is evident from the Law of the Sea Conference and the demands being made by a number of nations, based on the concept of the common heritage of mankind, that this principle will be applied by many in the international community to claims made and held in the Antarctic. It is the policy of the Australian Government, however, to maintain our sovereignty, notwithstanding those demands. It is a sovereignty whose legal basis is well supported by Australian activity dating back, from the Australian point of view, to Mawson's first expedition from 1911 to 1914, to the transfer of title through the Executive Council by Britain to us in 1933 and to its early discovery and exploration. We have, of course, recently announced plans to increase our activities by allocating extra expenditure in this year's Budget for rebuilding our three Antarctic stations, expanding the scope of our scientific work in the Antarctic and its adjacent waters, and beginning design studies for an Australian ship to meet our transport requirements to the Antarctic and our research requirements in the Antarctic and its adjacent waters. 
The most urgent issue at the present time is the danger of uncontrolled exploitation of the Antarctic's marine living resources. We are working with our Treaty partners towards a conservation convention aimed at preserving the Antarctic's marine living resources for future generations. We see such a convention as being the most effective means of safeguarding the ecological balance amongst the Antarctic's marine life. But, if in the future challenges are made to Australia's sovereignty, I reiterate that it is the policy of the 
Government to maintain that sovereignty over our Territory in the Antarctic. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: ( 1 ), (2) and (3) During the visit by the Prime Minister to the People's Republic of China last year,  Mr Fraser  expressed the concern of the Australian Government about the support given by the People's Republic of China for insurgency movements in South East Asia. The Chinese made statements in reply that their relations with foreign communist parties would not be allowed to impinge on government to government relationships. 
The answers to the two parts of the honourable member's question are: 
1 ) Australia has cultural agreements under negotiation with Argentina, Greece and Romania. 
(a) The following exhibitions, groups, performers or artists have been offered in 1977 by countries with which Australia has a cultural agreement: 
-I naturally confirm the matters alluded to by the Leader of the Opposition at the commencement of his question. As he and honourable members are aware, sanctions voted by the Security Council are binding on all members of the United Nations. The Government therefore, along the lines I indicated towards the end of the last parliamentary session, has been preparing draft legislation for introduction, if possible, during this session of Parliament. The timing will be a matter for the Leader of the House to determine in connection with other legislative requirements. It is not for me to answer when, in fact, the Bill will be introduced. What is absolutely critical in the mind of the Government is that such legislation has to be drafted so that it does not, in any way, infringe on the liberty of individual Australians freely to express their opinions with respect to Rhodesia. That is not the aim of the legislation at all. That absolute freedom must be guaranteed. I do not see the situation as one of rushing this legislation through at the present moment. The answer as to the actual program rests with the Leader of the House, a fundamental matter being the nature of the legislation itself. 
As far as any resettlement of Rhodesians is concerned, I am of course aware that a report appeared in a weekend newspaper, allegedly quoting from a brief prepared for me, on the subject of resettlement. As the Leader of the Opposition knows it is not the practice, at least of this Government, to comment on reports which purport to represent the unauthorised release of information. However, I feel bound to point out that the whole purpose of the Government's policy towards Rhodesia to date has been to support Western diplomatic efforts to bring about a peaceful settlement in that country, incorporating both majority rule and the protection of human rights for the entire population of Rhodesia. The Government hopes that a peaceful settlement in Rhodesia may yet be achieved. 
In regard to the question of resettlement, my colleague the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs is not proposing at this stage to alter any migrant entry policy in respect of its application to Rhodesians. This situation is set out in the reply which my colleague gave on 19 April of this year, I think, to a question on notice by the honourable member for Bowman. Consideration of any future action will depend on the nature of developments. In regard to the question of resettlement, I refer the Leader of the Opposition to my colleague's answer. 
-The honourable member is correct in drawing attention to the considerable speculation in the media and elsewhere that the United States may decide to withdraw from the International Labour Organisation. Australia values highly the work performed by the International Labour Organisation in the labor field and in the promotion of social justice generally. We see the Organisation, with its tripartite structure comprising government, employees and workers, as fulfilling a unique and a valuable role in world affairs; but that does not deny the pressures imposed on the United States by its membership of the ILO or the problems facing the ILO at present. However our view is that these problems should be solved by negotiation and dialogue, and that withdrawal by the United States at a critical stage would be not only detrimental to the future of the ILO but could have serious repercussions for other multilateral bodies. Accordingly, whilst the decision is naturally one for the United States to take, we together with some other of its friends- we have not been alone in this matter- have been active in drawing to the attention of the United States Government our strong hope that it will remain in the ILO. 
I have spoken recently to the United States Ambassador and have reiterated to him 
Australia's concern at the situation. I spoke on behalf of the Australian Government, after having talked with my colleague the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations; on behalf of all Australian States, for all labour Ministers had met on this question and had indicated a common view, on behalf of Australian workers, a viewpoint having been expressed by the  President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions on this matter indicating concern; and on behalf of employers,  Mr Polites  having put a view. So on behalf of the labour Ministers of the respective States, of workers, employers and on our behalf I put the viewpoint that we would hope that the United States, in its reconsideration of the matter, would determine to remain a member of the ILO. 
-It is correct that the honourable member has been questioning and making representations to me over a lengthy period of time. At all times he has taken a constructive interest in this very difficult area. I have been spending time on the matter, as have some of my colleagues. To put the matter into perspective let me say that since 1972 fewer than 40 cases of child abduction have been referred to my Department. However, these figures give no real indication of the size of the problem but unless they are reported it cannot be measured. The removal of children from Australia by one parent without the consent of the other is, of course, illegal. What is not widely known is that certain steps can be taken to prevent children being removed illegally. If a parent considers that his or her partner may remove a child without his or her consent he or she should fill in an inquiry form at a passport office. This will at least help to prevent travel documents being provided for the child until a court order can be obtained. Inquirers are counselled to this effect at the passport office. When a court order is obtained the parent should have a lawyer notify all carriers that to remove the child would be a contravention of section 63 of the Migration Act. 
Unfortunately however-I think this is implicit in the honourable member's question- there are other ways in which these preventative measures can be bypassed, and it would not be helpful to give them further publicity by referring to them here. As the honourable member has indicated, an interdepartmental committee has been studying the matter and it has recommended, among other things, the amendment of legislation and a further examination of other measures since a complete legislative remedy has not yet been devised. The Family Law Act, and questions of citizenship, dual nationality and passport issue are all involved. Therefore passport control is only one element of a major legal problem. Other aspects concern the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, the Minister for Administrative Services and the Attorney-General. However, I propose to put amendments to the Passports Act to the Government for early consideration. These will provide at least a partial solution to the problem of child abduction. The matter will unquestionably require continuing study. 
The honourable member referred to the Fathers Organisation for Revolutionary Custody Entitlement. All reports concerning that organisation have been placed in the hands of the Commonwealth Police. As I understand it, despite its investigations, which included interviews with the reporter from the  Sunday Independent  who wrote the original story and interviewed a member of the Senate, it has been unable to discover anyone who admits to being a member of the organisation or anyone who has first hand knowledge of it However, I understand that the Attorney-General's Department has received no complaints of child abductions being carried out by any such organisation. 
-It would hardly come as any surprise to the honourable member if I answered in terms which indicated that Australia remains firmly committed to membership of the United Nations and to the purposes and the principles of the United Nations as spelt out in its charter. I detected in correspondence to newspapers thoughts that would be akin to the message within the question that the honourable member poses. Quite frankly, I would like to take the opportunity of putting those sorts of thoughts down. 
The importance and the value of the United Nations derives from its comprehensiveness. It is the only international meeting place at which virtually all countries are represented. Despite its imperfections- and there is no doubt that those exist- its comprehensiveness ensures its indispensability. The growth and the change in the United Nations over the years have reflected, for better or for worse, the growth and the change that have occurred in the world. Beyond that, the United Nations provides Australia's only means at the present moment of consistent and ready contact with close on half the countries of the world. 
In terms of the need for access, the United Nations is of great benefit to us and to other countries. It is important, I believe, that Australia works to ensure that the United Nations authority and effectiveness is improved. The results of debate will not always please everybody within the General Assembly or the Security Council. However, I believe that the need for debate is generally recognised. It is not always possible for Australia's views to be fully reflected in the United Nations decisions, but that is not something from which we should run away. Decisions are taken by a majority, and in many instances there is a ready made majority. I would hesitate to describe that, as is implicit in the question, as something that is always at the disposal of the communist countries. The numbers in the United Nations point rather to Third World or developing country predominance. But whatever the nature of the majority, the rights of the individual members remain protected by the charter's emphasis on individual national sovereignty. 
We have before us at the moment a matter to which I referred yesterday and which might call that aspect into question. But only in very special Security Council cases are the United Nations decisions binding on member States. However, they are binding on occasions. In the Security Council there is a further protection of the veto power which may be exercised by the United States of America, the Soviet Union, France, the United Kingdom and China. 
Finally, just before I sum up, I shall deal with the last part of the honourable senator's question which related to Australia's contribution to the United Nations. That is, after all, an international obligation which I belive Australia should continue to accept. There is also the consideration that much of the contribution is in the form of assistance to developing countries, and the work of United Nations agencies is indispensable and is well known. So frustration and annoyance should neither blind us tc the effectiveness of the United Nations nor lead us to a conclusion that we should cease to belong to it morally, intellectually, politically, strategically, realistically- I will run out of adverbs soon; someone will have to supply me with a copy of Roget in a moment. It would be an act of utter folly to subscribe to thoughts which are based on all forms of misconception which primarily, it seems to me, are motivated by short term emotional issues either of frustration or annoyance. 
-I have read reports of this but I have no detailed information that I can convey to the House at this juncture. 
-There were unofficial discussions on this matter as the British were looking to solutions, with support from Western countries, on the Anglo-American initiatives. The program does not provide for Commonwealth forces. It provides for United Nations forces. It is one element of a total package. The question of Commonwealth forces is not under discussion at this moment. 
-I shall be as brief as I can, in answering the honourble member's question. It requires a great deal more detail than I am able to provide at Question Time. The Australian Embassy in Beirut reopened on 17 May. It is now concentrating on immigration and consular work relating to Lebanese who have applied to come to Australia. With the easing of civil unrest in Lebanon, normal immigration procedures have now replaced the special concessional arrangements under which some 10,700 Lebanese came to Australia in 1976-77. That number compares with the 1 ,500 who came to Australia in 1 975-76, before the special arrangements were introduced. As I said, normal immigration procedures have now replaced those special concessional arrangements. More than 1,000 Lebanese still have applicatons registered with the Embassy to emigrate to Australia, most of them being in the context of family reunions. Their applications are being processed as quickly as possible. 
As to the security situation about which the honourable member asks, efforts are now being made to implement an agreement of 25 July 1977 regulating the presence of Palestinians in 
Lebanon. Until that agreement is implemented it will be difficult to evolve an overall political solution to Lebanon's problems. In the meantime, Beirut itself remains generally calm, if often rather tense. However, the situation in southern Lebanon is causing greater concern. The Government hopes that, in the interests of the people of Lebanon, and in order to avert any escalation of the situation, law and order will be restored and a political settlement arrived at as soon as possible. 
The further question posed by the honourable member concerned humanitarian assistance. Honourable members will be aware that considerable humanitarian assistance has been made available over and above the admission of an increased number of refugees to Australia. In 1975-76 Australia gave $50,000 worth of skim milk powder to Lebanon and in 1976-77 $400,000 worth of canned meat was provided, to be distributed equally by the International Committee of the Red Cross and Caritas in Lebanon. In 1977-78 we will be contributing 100 tonnes of canned meat valued at $160,000 to a specific nutritional project aimed at assisting destitute and malnourished schoolchildren. This is the first contribution under a three-year program of assistance to this project, estimated to cost $500,000. We are keeping under review the possibility of contributing to a United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees program for the resettlement within the Lebanon of displaced persons. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The honourable member might properly seek this information from the honourable senator and members concerned. The honourable member for Tangney,  Mr Peter  Richardson, has, however already informed me that he has never visited Southern Rhodesia. 
I refer the honourable member also to pan ( 1 ) of the reply to his question on notice No. 1 325. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The following states continue to recognise the so called Government of the Republic of China' in Taipei as the government of China: 
Bolivia, Colombia, Costa Rica, Dominican Republic, El Salvador, Guatemala, Haiti, Holy See, Honduras, Ivory Coast, Republic of Korea, Lesotho, Libya, Malawi, Nicaragua, Panama, Paraguay, Saudi Arabia, South Africa, Swaziland, Tonga, United States, Uruguay and Nauru. 
-Yes, I have noticed the increasing attention being given to the Antarctic and have referred to it in the chamber on previous occasions. The Ninth Antarctic Treaty Consultative Meeting, which was held in London, ended on 7 October. I think it is fair to say that the meeting was unique among consultative meetings inasmuch as the discussions centred largely on issues relating to Antarctic resources. A major outcome of the meeting was the adoption of a recommendation that a regime for the conservation of Antarctic marine living resources should be concluded before the end of 1 978. This recommendation reflected the unanimous view of the Treaty partners that this is an issue on which concerted and urgent action is required. 
Having said that the partners in the Treaty reached that conclusion, it might be well to advise the House that Australia will act as host to a special consultative meeting of Antarctic Treaty partners from 27 February to 17 March next year to prepare a draft regime which can then be adopted at a subsequent decisive meeting. Australia has taken a leading role in preparing for such a regime by submitting to this recent meeting a draft conservation convention on Antarctic marine living resources. The draft will be one of the basic documents to be considered at the Canberra meeting next year. 
The Treaty partners at the meeting referred to also made provision for further meetings and studies on legal, scientific, and ecological aspects of minerals exploration as necessary steps prior to the commencement of any moves to exploit the Antarctic's mineral resources. In conclusion, I think it can be said that the meeting was quite satisfactory from Australia's point of view, especially since the concept of a living resources regime has begun to emerge along the lines advocated by Australia. Progress has been made in the consideration of the technological and environmental aspects of future minerals exploration. 
-First, I would like to assert that despite everything that has been said on this subject raised by the honourable member and every development that has taken place, Australia's relations with Indonesia have remained fundamentally sound. We have spoken in the plainest language of the great importance of the Australian-Indonesian relationship. We have described the need to sustain and cultivate this relationship, having become after three decades what might be described as a constant factor in our foreign policy. We have pointed out that the present Government regards this relationship as one of the most important and substantial strands in the whole complex web of Australia's foreign relations. Australia's relationship with Indonesia is a matter, I would have thought, on which all parties should agree. I do not think anyone who makes a rational study of Australia's on-going contacts and exchanges with Indonesia could justifiably deny that the relationship is extremely viable, dynamic and expanding. Looking beyond the ill-advised appeals that have been made by a vocal minority either to break off or at least greatly reduce the scope of the relationship, the extensive range of activities over which we have built up flourishing contacts with Indonesia in both the public and the private sectors are living evidence of the health of the relationship. In summary, therefore, I would reaffirm the strength and the soundness of our relations with Indonesia and express my confidence that it is a relationship that is destined to continue to develop rather than to wither away or be dismantled merely because of disagreement over a single issue. There has been no turning away from this relationship in the past two years and there should be no turning away from it in the future. 
Having had discussions on more than one occasion with the honourable member, I am aware of the background to this matter. It is true that Miss Eather, an Australian citizen, was arrested in India in July 1976 with a group of people in connection with the alleged robbery and murder of several people in Thailand and Nepal. Miss Eather has now turned a police witness, and because of this it is possible that she will not have to face charges. As long as she is a police witness and no charges are made against her, legal representation for her is not required. She has been advised by the Indian authorities that she will be able to obtain legal representation in the event that charges are made. As a police witness, she has been detained throughout the trial to give evidence and also for her own protection. As I recall, Miss Eather has appeared in court on a number of occasions since 4 July this year, when the trial commenced, and the court proceedings are still in progress. It is not known when the case will be concluded, as it has been complicated by the need to bring witnesses from abroad. 
In connection with the second question asked by the honourable member, Miss Eather appeared in court on 6 October on a separate charge of attempted suicide in May this year. After a brief hearing the case was postponed until today, 18 October, when Miss Eather will be required to appear in court in India for the purpose of remand. I understand that a further hearing is scheduled for 4 November. So far as the latter part of the question is concerned, officers of the High Commission attend most court hearings and visit Miss Eather in prison as often as possible.  Her  next of kin in Australia have been kept informed on her welfare. During the last visit, which was on 14 October, it was learned that Miss Eather was to be transferred back to the general prison ward that day from the isolated ward where she was being detained for her own safety. As I understand it, the transfer was in accordance with her own wishes. I will keep in touch with the honourable member, knowing his deep interest in the matter. 
The answer to the question asked by the Honourable the Leader of the Opposition is as follows: 
1 ) The Turkish-Cypriot zone occupies 38.5 per cent of the area of Cyprus. 
(a) With the knowledge and acquiescence of the Cypriot Government, members of all diplomatic missions to the Government of Cyprus, except those of the Greek Mission, move freely between the Greek Cypriot zone and the Turkish-Cypriot zone both for recreation and to maintain contact with Turkish-Cypriot officials and Turkish Government representatives. This does not imply recognition of the Turkish-Cypriot Administration. The Turkish-Cypriot authorities restrict access to certain areas. 
The Australian Mission maintains a migration office in Turkish-Cypriot Nicosia which is open two days a week and visited regularly by the Acting High Commissioner and by visiting migration officers. The Acting High Commissioner also maintains contact with Turkish-Cypriot officials, with the Turkish Government representative in Cyprus and with organisations such as Red Cross or Red Crescent. The Australian High Commissioner to Cyprus, who is resident in Greece, has visited the Turkish-Cypriot zone on each of the two occasions he has been to Cyprus this year. 
(b) Members of the Australian Police contingent visit Turkish occupied areas on a daily basis. However, personnel are not permitted to remain overnight. The areas visited are restricted to Kyrenia, Salamis, Famagusta and Xeros. Biweekly patrols are made to both Xeros and Kyrenia. Periodically contingent members escort refugees through the Ledra Checkpoint and medical evacuations are effected from the Turkish area when required. The Commissioner of the Commonwealth Police,  Mr J.  M. Davis, visited Cyprus and inspected the Australian police contingent in October 1976 and September 1977. In 1976 he visited Xeros and in 1977 Famagusta. 
Defence Expenditure (Question No. 1S04) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) The United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees has given the following list of contributions and pledges as at 1 October 1 977, to the appeal for refugees from Indo-China in Thailand and other countries in Asia. 
-I take the opportunity, in answering this question from the honourable member for Evans, to reiterate at the outset what 
I said yesterday outside the House: The Government naturally deplores the recent hijacking of the Lufthansa aircraft and particularly the callous murder of the aircraft's captain. Equally, it should be said that we applaud the firm response of the Federal Republic of Germany, in the face of considerable pressure, and the success of the commando attack on the aircraft at Mogadishu Airport. Mention ought to be made in that context of the co-operation extended by the Government of Somalia. 
We certainly hope that the recent hijackings will give the United Nations additional impetus in finding more effective means of combating international terrorism than exists at present. At recent sessions of the United Nations General Assembly Australia has urged that a widely supported convention be drawn up to protect third parties and to bring hijackers to justice. Stated simply, we have to ensure that the hijackers have no haven. Last night I telephoned New York and discussed the matter with the Australian Ambassador to the United Nations. At my request he then discussed with other delegations- in particular the delegation of the Federal Republic of Germany- the prospects for accelerated action at the United Nations on the items dealing with terrorism and the draft convention against the taking of hostages. I am informed that these items are now listed for debate and action in the General Assembly in mid-November. I am informed also that  Dr Waldheim,  the United Nations Secretary-General, has written to the  President  of the International Air Pilots Association to say that he had personally urged that these items be given the highest priority. We too shall obviously, from what I have said, give our full support to any measures which may be devised at the United Nations to combat effectively international terrorism. In the meantime, a number of delegations at the United Nations, including the Australian delegation, is already examining existing conventions on hijacking to see what further action the General Assembly might appropriately recommend under those conventions. 

 -Mr Speaker, here we go again. We had all sorts of conscience baring and moral hand washing in the House quite some months ago by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition on questions of foreign policy when he sat subservient and silent over incidents that occurred near to Australia and took a totally different line once he went into Opposition. Now, on a question concerning Papua New Guinea, he tries to imply that the relationship has been ruptured. It was the action of his Party when in government in 1975 which led to the most disjointed and disappointed series of talks on the side of Papua New Guinea on aid questions shortly prior to or shortly after the date for independence when Papua New Guinea was seeking to determine its budgetary allocation for the period immediately after independence. Talks at Kirribilli in 1975 stay in the minds of officials and Ministers of Papua New Guinea to this day and will do so for a long time hence. 
-The Leader of the Opposition knows the scars that were created then. He knows that when we came into government we immediately held talks with Papua New Guinea. We worked out a five-year agreement with Papua New Guinea, and that agreement has been hailed by  Mr Julius  Chan and others-  Mr Chan,  I remind the House, is the Acting Prime Minister of Papua New Guinea at the moment -as an example for other donor countries to follow. The agreement was reached in an atmosphere of appreciation of the way in which Australia was responding to Papua New Guinea's requests and not imposing its own views. It has been hailed by the Papua New Guinea Government successively in international forums. 
I refer now to the matter that was raised in relation to recent talks on aid. There were official talks to see whether it was possible to reach agreement on an update of the formula determined only early last year. In other words the 
Papua New Guinea Government, appreciative of the certainty that is inbuilt into the agreement on aid, was nevertheless proposing a further form of agreement that could be utilised over the remaining three-year period of that agreement. Following the talks,  Mr Barry  Holloway, the new Minister for Finance, was in Australia this week attending a seminar which I addressed and which he addressed on Sunday and which I addressed again on Monday. He and I had talks. We have agreed that we will have further discussions on the figure for the third year of this current five-year agreement and that we will also have further discussions in regard to the fourth and fifth year of the agreement. The Minister for Finance indicated to me that he was perfectly happy with this arrangement. 
Papua New Guinea has changed, as honourable members will be aware, to a financial year based on the calendar year. So it is essential that we give that country a reading for the allocation from Australia, probably by the end of November, so that it can have its effective budgetary finalisation into December. We have also agreed to give Papua New Guinea certainty for further discussions on the formula for the fourth and fifth years. There is no doubt that this is most satisfactory to Papua New Guinea. The Minister indicated that to me. It is satisfactory from our point of view. It is a further update of an agreement which, as I say, was hailed by Papua New Guinea. What is contained in the question of the Deputy Leader of the Opposition bears no resemblance to the facts of the discussion between the Finance Minister and me. 
In regard to the final aspect of the question asked by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, I discussed this matter last night with the Acting Prime Minister of Papua New Guinea,  Mr Chan.  A statement issed by  Mr Chan  accurately reflects the tone of that conversation and the conversation that occurred between the Australian High Commissioner,  Mr Critchley,  and  Mr Chan. Mr Chan  expressed his regret that an action of an officer of the High Commission had led to a misunderstanding of the role of the High Commission.  Mr Critchley  accepted an assurance by  Mr Critchley  that Australia had not established nor was establishing a spy network in Papua New Guinea. It is well to recall that the officer was declared to Papua New Guinea and accepted by that country. The statement issued by  Mr Chan,  as I say, accurately reflects the conversation between him and me but more particularly between him and the High' Commissioner yesterday. 
-As far as I am concerned, the statement issued by  Mr Chan,  as I have said, accurately reflects the discussion between him and the High Commissioner. As a consequence I have nothing to add to the matter, other than to reiterate that the Government of Papua New Guinea agreed to the posting of this man in the first place. 
-I do not think I need comment specifically on the type of allegation made. I would make this passing comment: Whilst what transpired as an action by this officer was outside the agreement reached between Papua New Guinea and ourselves, what intrigues me is that the fact that he worked on the staff of the 
Leader of the Opposition would ipso facto in the mind of the honourable member disqualify him to do anything on behalf of Australia. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
A number of official and diplomatic passports are issued, some for a very limited period and some for a period of years. The period of validity depends on the purpose of the bearer's official travel abroad and the time he or she is likely to spend away from Australia for this purpose. Some holders of official and diplomatic passports travel frequently throughout the year. Some travel very occasionally. It would not be a practical exercise to determine how many persons travelled on these documents in a given period of time. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The details provided by the honourable member regarding the number of deaths in detention and  Mr Biko's  detention in 1976 approximate those which have been provided to me. I understand, however, that  Mr Biko's  last detention dated from 18 August. 
and (4) The South African Government can be in no doubt about the fact that the detention and treatment of its political opponents by the South African authorities and particularly the number of persons who have died recently in detention, has attracted and will continue to attract strong criticism throughout the world, including Australia. In the absence of clear evidence about the circumstances of  Mr Biko's  death and the presence of other similar deaths, a full inquiry would seem only proper. Refusal to carry out such an inquiry would not only provoke further strong condemnation throughout the world, but would also inevitably lead people to implicate the South African authorities in the deaths of  Mr Biko  and those who died before him. 
As to the request for direct representations by the Australian Government, the attendance at  Mr Biko's  funeral of an officer of the Australian Embassy, along with many other western diplomats, is perhaps the most fitting expression of Australian and international feeling about this sad incident. 
No. 
-I am pleased to confirm, as my colleague the Minister for Transport indicated a couple of days ago, that following urgent action at the United Nations to consider the problem of hijacking the International Federation of Airline Pilots Association did decide to defer its strike action. In answering the honourable member's question I would like to point out that so far as I understand it a draft resolution has been agreed to by a number of delegations calling on states to take all necessary steps to give effect to international agreements and recommendations dealing with the safety of civil aircraft. The Australian delegation has been instructed by me to co-sponsor that resolution. A number of states, including Australia, have also requested the inscription of a proposed new item entitled 'Safety of International Civil Aviation' which I am informed will be examined at the General Assembly shortly. It is important that practical and widely supported solutions to combat hijacking should be found under the proposed new items. I can assure the honourable member that Australia will continue to give full support at the United Nations to efforts to find ways of preventing and suppressing acts of hijacking and of protecting the victims of such acts. 
Before concluding I also would like to add a word of congratulations to the members of our mission at the United Nations. Had they not been so active last week I might not have been able to give a reply in such positive terms. It is another example of the effectiveness of the Australian representation in the United Nations. I wish we could always be so successful. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The following libraries are maintained within the Department of Foreign Affairs: the Central Library and a legal sub-library in the Administration Building, Parkes, Australian Capital Territory; the Australian Development Assistance Bureau Library, AMP Building, Hoban Place, Canberra City, Australian Capital Territory; the International 
Training Institute Library, Middle Head Centre, Middle Head Road, Mosman, New South Wales. In addition, libraries are maintained in each of the 74 Australian diplomatic and consular missions overseas. 
The main purposes of the different libraries are: 
Central Library to meet continuing reference and information needs of all officers within the Depanment 's subject interests. to maintain a collection of documents and publications received from the United Nations and the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development. to select and supply Australian books, newspapers, periodicals and official publications to Australian diplomatic and consular missions, and to advise on the development of libraries at these missions. to maintain the Legal Division sub-library. 
Australian Development Assistance Bureau Library to meet continuing reference and information needs of officers of ADAB. to maintain a collection of all project reports published by the Bureau and its consultants. to act as a deposit and distribution centre in Australia for reports, documents and publications issued by the Colombo Plan Bureau. to act as centre within Australia for forwarding to relevant authorities inquiries received from the Society for International Development, Paris. 
International Training Institute Library to provide relevant information for sponsored overseas trainees and staff involved in training programs administered by Australian Development Assistance Bureau and conducted at ITI. 
Post Libraries to provide an information and reference service on Australia to Australia-based staff at a mission, to visiting and resident Australians, and, where local circumstances permit, to local officials, academics, students and the general public. to provide for the Australia-based staff general background material on the country and region within each mission 's reporting responsibilities. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) The quantities of Australian canned meat provided to developing countries in the past three years under the Australian food aid program are detailed in the table hereunder. Estimated shipments in the present financial year are also shown. 
-I feel very tempted to express a personal view about standing here at this particular time. I am dealing with a very serious matter. The honourable member has asked a question regarding talks which occurred last week between officials accompanying  Dr Mabon,  who has received a fair degree of publicity over the course of the last few days, and Australian officials about the preparation of bilateral safeguards agreements between the two countries. The British officials were, of course, fully apprised of Australia's policy and expressed their understanding of it. It is anticipated, by both sides I think, that there should be no particular difficulties in the successful conclusion of the negotiations, which will continue next month. Both sides agree that it should be possible to reach an initial agreement before Christmas of this year. That is in answer to the first part of the question that has been posed. 
In regard to the second part of the question as to whether the statement of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition had any effect on those talks, I would bluntly say no. The people involved are fully apprised of Britain's needs and of Australia's policy and the statement made by  Dr Mabon,  referred to by the  Deputy  Prime Minister, and the response from the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition are in my view very significant in several respects. First,  Dr Mabon  's statement made clear what is deliberately being obscured by Labor in this country- that the question of the export of uranium need not be and should not be reduced to a party political or ideological issue. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition should realise, as some of his colleagues clearly do, that the issue is the survival of the energy dependent Western societies. 
May I recall just two statements made not by conservative politicians but by well known British unionists. First, the General Secretary of the Electronics Union in Britain, in supporting the development of Britain's nuclear energy industry last month, said that death from starvation, cold and wars of conquest would be the fate of the world if energy supplies ran out. If that is not good enough, honourable members should check with Joe Gormley, the British miners' leader, who added that an anti-nuclear energy motion would 'send us back to the jungle'. Quite frankly, the perspective of men like these, men who need no lectures from the Deputy Leader of the Opposition on Labor principles, is light years away from that of the Deputy Leader of the Opposition who tries to reduce uranium merely to an election issue. Those men are unlikely to be impressed by his rantings. 
The second point of substance is that  Dr Mabon  's statement is a salutory reminder of how supine- let me put it bluntly- and how gutless the leadership of the Australian Labor Party is. Where were the viewpoints of  Mr Hawke, Mr Whitlam  and  Mr Hayden  at the time of the ALP Federal Conference? They are the people who allegedly recognised the overwhelming strength of the case for exporting uranium. Where have they been lately on this issue? They have washed their hands of the matter. Why they cannot show the courage of their British counterparts and let Australia meet its international obligations in responding to a world energy problem and developing a major industry will be tested by the Australian people. 
The third point I make is that the outburst of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition is the clearest evidence that nothing has changed. Between 1972 and 1975 the leaders of the Labor Government developed the gratuitous insulting of friendly governments into a major art form. For example 'bash a Yank a day' was their pretty familiar slogan. That slogan was used by the  Australian Financial Review  in describing them. It was not just the Americans who were subjected to this treatment. Now the Deputy Leader of the Opposition is showing us that he is in serious training to give a repeat performance, but he will not get the opportunity. In summary, it is clear that the Labor Party's approach is not based on morality or principle; it is based merely on an ideological opportunism of the worst kind. 
-I had before me legislation that was in draft form and which I hoped to put to the Parliament and to inform the Security Council of. But I sent it back. Frankly I thought it was too dragnet in its approach. I have consistently said on this matter that Australia will meet its international obligations as determined by the Security Council, but in meeting those obligations I will not trample over the rights of individual Australians to participate in political matters and express a particular view about Rhodesia. If honourable members opposite want it bluntly, as far as I am concerned in meeting that obligation I will not jeopardise the rights of those people one iota. I will meet those obligations and I will repeat in the Security Council that Australia will meet its obligations. 
-You raced in, in blind style - 
-I do not have the dates with me, and I doubt that I would be inclined to give them in any case, because this is a matter between the officials and myself. The nature of legislation, which is in draft form only at this stage, should not concern the Leader of the Opposition. It is up to the Government to determine the legislation that is introduced into the Parliament. When such legislation is in draft form or its principles are before me, that is a matter for my judgment. But I can assure the Leader of the Opposition that these matters have been discussed in some detail. I think the last discussion would have, taken place early last week, although I do not want to be held to that. That is the situation as I recall it at the present moment. 
As regards the other matters raised by the honourable gentleman, I have said already that the measures that the South African Government has taken have filled us with regret. They include, as I recall, the banning of about 18 organisations, some of which are well known internationally and whose representatives have been highly regarded for their moderate views on South Africa. I have said when interviewed on a number of occasions that we have received the news of repressive measures with profound regret. We have fully shared the serious concern expressed by the international community at this most recent turn of events in that country. 
Lest there be any misapprehension in the mind of the Leader of the Opposition, let me remind him of the sorts of things I have been saying. Far from deterring opposition to apartheid, the denial of basic human rights and Press freedom, which such measures represent, they are likely to have the opposite effect. Whilst silencing moderate opinion, in our view they will strengthen the hands of the extremists. This can only limit the possibility of dialogue as the only satisfactory means of solving South Africa's political problems. Matters such as these, as the Leader of the Opposition knows, are before the United Nations. Depending upon the way in which they come forward as resolutions, we will be expressing further views. 
I say by way of introduction, in answering this question briefly, that I have noticed references to the fact that such negotiations have been occurring with Japan. I will divide my answer in tow. I will answer on matters relating to future contracts and then I will turn to the question of existing contracts. The Government's policy, of course, is that export of uranium under any future contracts should be subject to bilateral agreements as described in detail in the Prime Minister's statement of 24 May. General discussions on the policy have, of course, been held with Japan, particularly in June of this year. But to date no negotiations have been entered into on a bilateral agreement with Japan on the possibility of amending the existing nuclear co-operation agreement of 1 972. 
I am advised that it is not correct that Japan has refused to accept Australia's safeguards requirements. That could not possibly be known; there have been no bilateral discussions on the matter to date. Nor is it correct, I understand, that new contracts cannot be concluded until the necessary safeguards agreements have been completed. I have said before, and the Government has said, that it is the safeguards agreements that must be enforced by the time deliveries fall due under any new contracts. In regard to existing contracts, the Government's permission for shipments to proceed continues to be on the basis of the factors, including the safeguards, which I recall were spelt out by the Minister for the Environment, Housing and Community Development in November of last year and, I think, reiterated by him in June of this year. 
-I have no information regarding the allegation about - 
-Here we go again. I will have a go at you again. I do not mind. Yesterday was quite successful. If we want to start - 
-That policy does remain. I remember stressing it particularly because endeavours were made- let us be quite frank about it- by some officials in drafting matters and the Prime Minister and I overrode the drafts of the officials at the time. It is the consistent policy of the Australian Government to oppose the use of napalm, et cetera. I recall both the briefing documents and minutes that were sent to me throughout and at the end of the diplomatic conference. I would like to treat this question with the utmost precision because there was more than one resolution there. If the honourable member will permit me to do so, I will reply to him as soon as I have refreshed my memory on the particular resolution to which he has referred. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, rather than allow this debate to lapse, I naturally take the second call. I assume that I take the 15 minutes that is allocated normally to the Opposition. So not only has the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  run away from the extra five minutes allocated to him, and from asking any questions this morning, but he has revealed himself as having joined that equivocal band of hand-wringers- Hayden, Hawke and Whitlamwho have refused to debate this topic previously. On this' occasion, as in the past, I assume the same ideological line will be poured out now that the speech has been delivered to the honourable gentleman by bis writers. We have heard it previously. 
I support the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  on this matter of public importance. As a consequence of the honourable member for Reid receiving and distributing the document to which the honourable member for Mackellar referred, the honourable member for Reid could be, prima facie, a felon. We have no problems in supporting the matter raised by the honourable member for Mackellar. The contents of that leaked document support the viewpoints put forward by the Government. I agree with the remarks made by the honourable member for Mackellar, particularly when he said that a policy, I think he put it, of denying nuclear energy was a policy leading towards nuclear war. Honourable members will recall the statements of the Government along this line. The people opposite who proclaim themselves the moral spokesmen of the Parliament are the ones who are not only lacking direction politically and lacking determination intellectually but who are in reality lacking any moral basis for the stand that they have taken. 
Moral principles alone do not determine how one acts on questions such as these. They are multi-faceted ones. Moral principles, intellectual determinations and realistic assessments- all these aspects- are combined. Honourable members opposite are mouthing moral principles, as they frequently do, as if they are the ones who are putting forward a moral argument. To do so is to deny the reality that nuclear power is now adopted as a growing, major and significant force of energy in the world. They are denying people the opportunity not only of having jobs and having factories operating but of developing their own countries. 
I have pointed out previously in this place what British trade unionists, for example, have said. On Tuesday I quoted the General Secretary of the Electronics Union in Britain who, in supporting the development of Britain's nuclear industry, said that death from starvation, cold and wars of conquest would be the fate of the world if energy supplies ran out. Joe Gormley, the well known and oft quoted British miners' leader said that an anti-nuclear energy motion would 'send us back to the jungle'. That attitude is not for the hand wringers on the other side, the cheap expedients who will grab those fringe operators who want to propagate on the periphery of politics. No reasoning, no moral principle, no rational assessment can support the stand they take. The debate which they have sought to provoke in Australia is not a debate simply revolving around Australia. It is not constrained to this nation. It is part of a global debate which is taking place against the background of an impending world energy crisis of quite unprecedented and potentially disastrous dimensions. 
The crisis does not lie in some indefinite future. Unless rapid action is taken it will be upon us in a decade. If it is allowed to occur the consequences will be not only economic and industrial but will have profound, social and political effects, with foreign policy implications. The consequences would be particularly great for the energy reliant Western countries and energy reliant, as they develop, developing countries. The Opposition would sweep that aside. The need for Australia to act now is a result of the ever-mounting demands made upon it by the energy deficient nations which are desperately aware of the energy supply difficulties that they face in the next few decades. It is generally recognised that, by the mid-1980s, the expansion in world demand for oil will exceed the rate of new discoveries and that thereafter the world's oil reserves will become increasingly depleted during a relatively short period-probably only decades. So, do not tell me that the Opposition is putting forward an argument on a moral basis. 
The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition directed remarks in a rather scatty, to put it mildly, Press statement accompanying the document that he put out yesterday, which he illicitly received during the course of the day. He implied that it denigrated the Government's case. Why does he not look at the basic documents on which the policies of this Government rest- namely, the documents flowing from the Ranger inquiry? This Government has never denied, because it is in the report of the inquiry, that the Ranger inquiry chaired by  Mr Justice  Fox concluded that there are defects in the existing safeguards arrangements. Those defects, as I recall the words in the report, 'do not render valueless the concept of international safeguards'. The Ranger inquiry reported, and the Government agreed, that it is both essential and possible to make safeguards arrangements more effective. The Government's safeguards policy, frankly, does just that. We have always said that the safeguards are an evolving thing and that we are working to strengthen them. The fact that we probably have the tightest safeguards policy in the world today is ready evidence that we are not out on a mad grab for sales of uranium but that we want to influence people to tighten their safeguards. The safeguards have worked. They are not yet totally effective. As the honourable member for Mackellar said, we could never give a castiron guarantee about them, but we will steadily evolve and improve them. 
Can honourable members opposite really justify their fanciful nonsense that by opting out of selling uranium we would have more influence over those safeguards? Twenty per cent of the Western world's known reserves of uranium are in this country. Do honourable members opposite believe that at a time of energy crisis, which is forthcoming, they could be an influence in the international scene by abdicating from the arena? Their position can be summed up only as an amoral attitude that brings about such abdication. The bilateral measures that Australia is taking, together with the existing multilateral arrangements, will unquestionably, adequately and effectively guard against misuse of Australian supplied uranium. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has said, nevertheless, that the wider the consensus amongst nuclear supplying and nuclear importing countries concerning controls to apply to the world nuclear industry, the more effective these controls will be. The broader the consensus, the greater the control. It seems axiomatic. So this Government, with likeminded countries, will be working to have bilateral controls and multi-lateral controls strengthened. 
The Ranger inquiry identified a number of defects in existing safeguards arrangements. No one has run away from those. We have never said that we live in the perfect nuclear world. The Government has overcome these defects in its own safeguards policy by introducing measures which go beyond existing multi-lateral safeguards arrangements. The Opposition, from its vantage point at the heights of confusion, represents the safeguards that would apply to all delliveries of Australian uranium under future contracts as being the same as those that the Ranger inquiry criticised. They are not. It is time for the Opposition to get the facts. It is time indeed for it to tell the truth. It is time for it to examine the facts and from that develop a policy. It is time for it to cease its criticism of existing multi-lateral safeguards arrangements and start making contributions towards the strengthening of safeguards. It is time for it to realise that this Government has strengthened the safeguards arrangements to apply to deliveries of Australian uranium under future contracts. 
In the past the Opposition has claimed that the incentive towards safeguards comes not by supplying uranium but by withholding it. Frankly, it is absurd. 
-The honourable member says that is right. He is confirming an absurd proposition. By permitting exports of uranium under stringent safeguards unquestionably Australia will be in a better position to strengthen safeguards. It will be only as a secure supplier that Australia will be listened to seriously on the subject of improvement of safeguards. To leave Australian uranium in the ground until multilateral safeguards are improved, as is suggested so frequently by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, who is to follow me in the debate, is a policy of weakness and inaction. In fact it is turning our back on the needs of the world not merely for supplies of energy but in fact to strengthen the very element that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition attacks, namely, the safeguards. It is irresponsible and it condemns Australia to total powerlessness on this subject. It would be left to the rest of the international community to determine the safeguards. 
We have constantly said that built into our safeguards policy is a requirement for review and improvement. It is a consequence of the Government's firm conviction not only that international safeguard standards are capable of improvement but also that increasingly effective safeguards will in fact be introduced. It is not to say, as I recall the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  said some time m September, that current safeguards are 'completely inadequate'. If one wants to take at face value the remarks of the Opposition, one can only conclude that it regards the International Atomic Energy Agency safeguards as static as well as ineffective. The Government has always said that they are evolving and they can improve. The Opposition distort the facts. We have taken the initiative in strengthening the international nonproliferation regime. We are working effectively now. It is clear that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition did not pause to seek to comprehend the document that he accepted and then propagated. 
Unlike the Opposition, which is simply content to rely on criticising present multilateral safeguard arrangements, as I have said, the Government has formulated and announced a tough and comprehensive safeguards policy which contains stringent bilateral conditions over and above what are required by the IAEA. What is the point of conclusion of the document recording  Mr Justice  Fox's views? It is that Australia is a clean skin. To use his very words, we were 'clean-skinned'. We are now in a position to exert influence. That is the basic criterion today. We are clean. It is accepted that we have the toughest safeguards. It is indicated that we have a clear responsibility to influence. 
Do not let anyone tell me that by opting out of the international community, which is what the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition seeks to do, we would be able to display and execute our undertakings. No wonder the Opposition did not ask any questions about uranium this morning. It recognised that the document mirrored matters the Government has put forward time and again. It was left to an honourable member on the Government side to ask the Prime Minister a question and, as the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition knows, he was able to indicate that ten days ago, long before the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition became the recipient of stolen property, that  Mr Justice  Fox had written to the Government indicating that he found himself in almost complete harmony with United States officials. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition latched on to the reference to the Carter policy without even comprehending the nature of the Government's approach to the Carter energy program enunciated by the  President  in April of this year. 
There is nothing new and nothing surprising about the fact that some countries question aspects of United States policy. They have already geared themselves to moving into the field of reprocessing. If one country unilaterally says that another country ought not to reprocess does anyone think the second country would greet that statement with relish? Come into the real world, for goodness sake. There is nothing new or surprising about the fact that final United States policy will need to await the outcome of current deliberations in the Congress. There is no doubt that United States policy has already made extremely important headway with the opening of the international nuclear fuel cycle evaluation program- a major Carter initiative to which we are contributing and in which we are playing an active role. The future will unquestionably see a process of international give and take on both sides of this question. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The Minister's time has expired. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
An increasing proportion of cattle requested for foreign aid projects have the requirement of registration with the appropriate breed society in addition to technical requirements. In these cases, the breed society concerned has been involved in the selection of the animals. In other cases public tenders continue to be called (see answer to Question 1246  Hansard,  House of Representatives 1 December 1976, page 3091). 
Yes. The stringent specifications relate to characteristics other than show ring performance, and for example in the case of dairy cattle emphasis is placed on milk production. 
On one occasion in 1973 some cattle purchased by public tender were criticised for being undersized and having deformities and ringworm scars. The assessment of the reputation of Australian and other donors' stock must be highly subjective. I am convinced that our current arrangements provide good quality stock, that all potential suppliers have the opportunity to oner their stock, and that the price paid is appropriate. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (3) The Government considers that the attendance at the funeral of  Mr Steven  Biko on 25 September of an officer from the Australian Embassy in South Africa was the most fitting manner to express Australian feeling on this occasion. 
I understand that the number of deaths, whilst in custody, of persons detained by the South African police in connection with alleged offences of a political nature since early 1 976 is of the order mentioned by the honourable member. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In the Asian-Pacific region Australia has been involved in projects related to electricity generation and distribution in the following countries: 

Cook Islands- Northern Islands Power Study. Commenced 1977 report expected in November 1977. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, may I have the indulgence of the House to raise a point of procedure on this legislation. Before debate on this Bill is resumed, I would like to suggest that it may suit the convenience of the House to have a general debate covering this Bill and the States Grants (Tertiary Education Assistance) Bill as they are associated measures. Separate questions will, of course, be put on each of the Bills at the conclusion of the debate. I suggest, therefore, that you permit the subject matter of both Bills to be discussed in this debate. 
-I am aware of the concern of many members of the Baltic community about the attitude of the Labor Party on this matter. I have to say that there is in writing considerable justification for that concern. I think that one of the most profligate purveyors of policy the Labor Party has ever had is  Mr David  Combe. In a letter dated 22 August of this year he wrote to a prominent member of the Baltic community in a manner which shows that the Labor Party has learnt nothing from its irresponsible action in recognising incorporation in 1974. Indeed,  Mr Combe's  letter, in offensive and even abusive terms, casts a slur on the people of the Baltic States. In the letter he describes as 'a stupid deception' the attitude that Latvia, Estonia and Lithuania are not legally part of the Soviet Union. In 1974 his leader- the present Leader of the Opposition- described it as a cruel deception. What was a cruel deception in 1974 becomes a stupid deception in the words of  Mr Combe.  The particular interest of this letter is that  Mr Combe  seeks to excuse his leader and lay the blame for the grievous error at the door of a senior public servant,  Sir James  Plimsoll. In his letter  Mr Combe  states: 
It was of course  Sir James,  not  Mr Whitlam,  who initiated the proposal to recognise reality. 
That tactic, frankly, is contemptible. Members of the Baltic community know who was responsible for the decision of the then Government. The Leader of the Opposition knows who was responsible. Indeed the Foreign Minister in the previous Government,  Senator Willesee,  knows who was responsible and knew at the time.  Senator Willesee  was, at best, only a reluctant defender of the Prime Minister, as he had reason to be, as the decision was taken during his absence overseas. It was only by dint of continued and consistent effort by members of the then Opposition, the present Liberal-National Country Party Government, that the facts were dragged out of the then Prime Minister. 
The decision to recognise the incorporation of the Baltic states became public knowledge only when a Press report out of Moscow- not an official Government statement to the Parliament, not a Government Press release- disclosed the fact one month after the decision by the Prime Minister in Canberra and nearly three weeks after the Australian Embassy in Moscow had been informed. The Australian people had no reason to suspect that such a decision would be taken. The members of the Baltic community in Australia were treated rudely and with utter contempt.  Mr Combe's  letter shows that nothing has changed. 
I turn now to the first part of the question which seeks in a comparitive form the action that the present Government took. On 17 December 1975, just four days after the present Government was elected to office, it instructed the Australian Ambassador in Moscow that he and members of his staff should not in future make official visits to Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania.  Mr McComas  the Honorary Consul for Latvia in Australia prior to the Labor Government's decision, was informed that he could resume his functions as Honorary Consul. We executed our duty to move away from de jure recognition. That was done within a matter of days of election to government. In short, the Government said very quickly and very effectively that it did not accept the legality of the Soviet annexation of the Baltic states. This remains the situation. The Government's policy will not change after 10 December. 
-Australia conducts only minimal whaling activities compared with Russia and Japan. I recall that we were participants in the International Whaling Commission meeting which was held in Canberra during this year. I was overseas at the time of the meeting. It is my firm recollection that we comply with the conservation policies of the Commission. In regard to specific elements that the honourable member has raised I will be pleased to take them up with those of my colleagues who are also associated with the matter-for example, the Minister for Primary Industry- and I will reply to him further. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The questions raised by the honourable member involve complex issues of law that in many respects are unsettled. It would therefore not be appropriate for me to canvass these legal problems at this stage. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There have been no changes in the situation since  Mr Casey's  answer on 9 April 1957. Without wishing to exaggerate the significance of it, it is worth noting, however, that, with only one' exception (the United States of America), there was no response from any state when Australia extended to the AAT the Convention of the World Meteorological Organisation in 1955 and the Universal Postal Convention in 1959. 
Determinants of Australia's Foreign Policy (QuestionNo.1588) 
The answers to the honourable member's questions are as follows: 
1 ) It is unlikely that it could be said that a particular conception of human rights has represented the sole determinant of Australian foreign poliCy at any time towards any country. 
The official Government attitude towards China, the USSR, Vietnam and Cambodia has been stated in the Parliament on various occasions by the Prime Minister and by me, including in my ministerial statement of 1 5 March 1977. 
See answer to ( 1 ) above. 
The present government cannot speak on behalf of a previous government 
The government is dearly on record in its wish to maintain and develop the CloSest possible relations with ASEAN countries individually and collectively. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
and (3) The South African authorities were informed of these representations in writing by the Australian Ambassador on 26 July. It would of course have been desirable for the representations to have taken place at an earlier date, but the essential fact is that they have been made. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1) Other than the Rhodesia Information Centre in Sydney, there is a similar office in Washington and until recently one in Paris. 
The French Government, in January 1 977, took action by decree to close the Rhodesian Information Office in Paris. With regard to the Rhodesian Information Office in Washington, I understand that it is the United States Administration's firm intention to give effect under United States law to the resolution which it co-sponsored in the Security Council on this question. 
Australia is bound by the terms of Security Council resolution (No. 409) which was adopted unanimously on 27 May 1977. The Government has made it clear that in meeting the terms of this resolution legislation will be drafted so as to avoid infringing the civil liberties of Australian citizens. 
Children involved in Custody Proceedings: Withdrawal of Passports (Question No. 176S) 
Australian courts already have the power to order a parent or guardian involved in a custody suit to surrender a travel document in which a child 's name appears. 
The illegal removal of children from Australia is of continuing concern to the Government and the procedure for the issue of passports taking into account the danger of child abduction is under active review involving appropriate Ministers and departments. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The decisions which have been made by the 13 Antarctic Treaty Consultative Parties on Antarctic resource questions are contained in separate recommendations on mineral resources and marine living resources adopted by them especially at the Ninth Antarctic Treaty Consultative Meeting in London (29 September-7 October 1977). The recommendations adopted at this meeting include the most important decisions made by the Consultative Parties on exploitation and conservation questions in relation to Antarctica's natural resources. 
In the recommendation adopted at the Ninth Consultative Meeting on mineral resources, the Consultative Parties recommended to their Governments that they urge thennationals and other States to refrain from all exploration and exploitation of Antarctic mineral resources, while making progress towards the timely adoption of an agreed regime concerning Antarctic mineral resource activities. The Consultative Parties also recommended that their Governments study the content of a future regime based on principles to be agreed upon, but including the following principles elaborated at the Special Preparatory Meeting on Antarctic minerals exploitation in Paris last year 
the Consultative Parries will continue to play an active and responsible role in dealing with the question of mineral resources of Antarctica; 
the Antarctic Treaty must be maintained in its entirety; 
protection of the unique Antarctic environment and of its dependent ecosystems should be a basic consideration; 
the Consultative Parties, dealing with the question of mineral resources in Antarctica, should not prejudice the interests of all mankind in Antarctica. 
The Consultative Parties also recommended to their Governments that they continue to study the environmental implications of mineral resource activities in the Antarctic Treaty area and to hold a meeting of ecological, technical and other related experts with a view to developing scientific programs aimed at improving predictions of the impact of possible technologies for mineral exploration and exploitation in the Antarctic and developing measures for the prevention of damage to the environment. 
In the recommendation on marine living resources the Consultative Parties recommended that a definitive regime for their conservation should be concluded before the end of 1978 and that a Special Consultative Meeting be convened in order (a) to determine the form of the definitive regime; (b) to prepare, if necessary, draft rules of procedure for a subsequent decisive meeting for the establishment of the definitive regime; and (c) to decide on participation in such a meeting. 
Pending the entry into force of the definitive regime for Antarctic marine living resources, the Consultative Parties recommended to their Governments that they observe the following interim guidelines: 
they cooperate as broadly and comprehensively as possible in the mutual exchange of statistics relating to catch of Antarctic marine living resources; 
they should show the greatest possible concern and care in the harvesting of Antarctic marine living resources so that it does not result in depletion of stocks of Antarctic marine species or in jeopardising the Antarctic marine ecosystem as a whole; 
they urge those Governments which are not parties to the Antarctic Treaty and which engage in activities involving the use of the marine living resources of Antarctica to take account of these guidelines. 
The Consultative Parties also recommended that their Governments cooperate broadly and comprehensively in scientific investigation and in the exchange of information relating to the Antarctic marine environment, and that they intensify as far as possible scientific research related to Antarctic marine living resources. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
European Communities Information Research and Development pamphlet 9/77 states that in 1976 there were the following numbers of nuclear installations in the civil nuclear industries of the nine member States of the European Atomic Energy Community (EURATOM): 35 preparation and frabrication plants  71 power reactors 117 research reactors 13 reprocessing plants  211 research centres, laboratories, stores, enrichment plants and others. 
I understand that some of these installations were still being constructed in 1976, rather than in operation. The figures for the numbers of nuclear installations are at present available publicly only on a European Communities basis, rather than on a national basis, because of the role of the 
European Atomic Energy Community in relation to the nuclear industries in the nine member States. 
Australia is not a party to the Safeguards Agreement concerned. The subsidiary arrangements, including facility attachments, to be concluded under the Safeguards Agreement, define the technical procedures for the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) to implement its safeguards on a permanent basis in the seven non-nuclear-weapon States of the European Atomic Energy Community. They are confidential to the parties to the Safeguards Agreement 
Pending finalisation of the subsidiary arrangements, the IAEA is applying safeguards to nuclear facilities in the seven non-nuclear-weapon States of the European Atomic Energy Community by means of ad hoc safeguards inspections under the terms of the Safeguards Agreement 
As I said on 22 July, the Government wants to see early resolution of the subsidiary arrangements between the European Atomic Energy Community authorities, the national Governments of the seven non-nuclear-weapon States that are members of the Community and the International Atomic Energy Agency. The Australian delegation reiterated this view at the meeting of the IAEA Board of Governors in September, when the Director-General of the IAEA reported that progress was being made in the negotiation of subsidiary arrangements. 
Incentives for the Arts (Question No. 1313) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The answer to question No. 1239 carried no implications with regard to the matter of whether or not there are differences between the policies and practices enunciated by the Government of the People 's Republic of China and the Communist Party of China. The assurance given to the Prime Minister when he visited China last year is a matter of public record and is best assessed by examining China's record in the area of foreign policy. Such examination suggests that party-to-party relations have not been allowed to impinge on state-to-state relations. 
and (5) I draw the honourable member's attention to my address to the Deepdene Branch of the Liberal Party on 9 August 1976 in which I outlined the Government's longstanding and continuing concern about this matter, and in which I commented on the assurances given to the Prime Minister during his visit to China- '. . . We recognise as a fact that the Chinese Government has historical links with some of the insurgency movements of South East Asia. We do not approve of these links, but we recognise that for the Chinese Government they involve various accumulated obligations, commitments and political investments. We hope, for the sake of the stability of the region, that these links will be broken, but we do not think it would be realistic to expect this to happen suddenly. We also recognise that whether party-to-party relations impinge on state-to-state relations is not a matter which the Chinese leaders alone can decide: the views of other states on this matter may differ from their own. Nevertheless, taking all this into account, the impression we were given, both by the particular statement made and by the general concern expressed about stability, was that the Chinese leaders will be concerned to conduct party-to-party relations in ways which will not damage the efforts to develop good relations with the countries of the region; that a clear priority is given to the latter. This is clearly a matter of considerable interest for Australia which attaches great importance to the stability and development of South East Asia. ' 
It would be an error to suggest that a divergence of views between Party and Government was the major feature of the Dubcek Government in Czechoslovakia and the main cause of its regrettable fate. 
Taxation: Evasion by Use of Family Trusts (Question No. 1531) 
I refer the honourable member to the information provided by  Senator Withers  in answer to question No. 1116 asked by  Senator Douglas  McClelland  (Hansard,  9 November). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
It remains the case, as pointed out in answer to question 1345  (Hansard,  16 November 1976, page 2746), that there is no general practice with regard to determining the relative seniority at an Australian overseas mission of officers from different Government Departments. However, in addition to three females serving in charge of a mission, there are currently five other female officers of my Department serving as  Deputy  Head of Mission; they would normally take charge of the mission in the absence of the Head of Mission. In overall terms there are (in addition to the female officers serving as Ambassador to Denmark, High Commissioner in Nauru and Acting High Commissioner in Cyprus) two female officers of the Department of Foreign Affairs currently serving as Counsellors, six as First Secretaries, five as Second 
Secretaries, fourteen as Third Secretaries and one each as Attache and Vice-Consul. 
Other Government departments, according to records held in my Department, currently have overseas a total of twenty-one female officers with the designation of Counsellor, First Secretary, Second Secretary, Attache or ViceConsul. 
The answer to the honourable member's questions are as follows: 
The Report of the Committee on Contributions of the United Nations (Supplement No. 11 (A/23/11) ) dated 26 August 1977 and the Addendum thereto dated 1 September 1977. The addendum lists both the assessed and voluntary financial contributions paid by member States in each of the calendar years 1975 and 1976. 
Concerning the second and third of the honourable member's questions, contributions to the United Nations are based essentially on national income. Having established on the basis of comparative national income what proportion of its overall budget each member should pay, members are billed for an amount Thus Australia in 1976, paying 1.52 per cent contributed SA4.4 million. It is agreed that least developed countries and most seriously affected countries should pay 0.02 per cent and also that the low per capita national income countries (below $1800) should receive a deduction. The relationship between contributions and national income in the least developed, most seriously affected and low per capita income countries is thus different to that of the high per capita income countries. 
Paragraphs 26-34 and 45-53 of the Committee's Report set out problems in comparing GNPs Until the 1978-79 period the calculation of contributions has been based on a three year base period. For 1 978-79 a seven year base period (1969-1975) will be used. This method of calculations avoids wide fluctuations in contributions and gives some recognition to the concept of national wealth, which is of course difficult to measure. 
The Committee's report was adopted last month by the Fifth Committee of the General Assembly and will be considered in plenary session in December. 
The following States are not members of the United Nations, but have made some financial contribution to certain United Nations activities in which they participate: 
-This was a decision by Cabinet this year and naturally I have nothing to add to the Cabinet decision. 
Opposition members- Oh! 
-The only addition I would make, to clarify any implication, is that I nominated  Sir John  Kerr on the Executive Council minute and attended the Executive Council meeting where the matter was determined. 
I have noticed the remarks reported this morning. No, there is no truth in the allegation made by the Opposition senator. As I have indicated publicly, we recognise the fact that East Timor is part of Indonesia, but not the means by which this was brought about. My statement on 20 January gave the reasons. I rely on memory as to the content of that statement but succinctly the reasons were: Firstly, that Indonesian control is effective and covers all major administrative centres; secondly, that it is necessary to press on expeditiously with the question of family reunion; thirdly, that it is necessary to do the same with the rehabilitation of Timor; and fourthly, that to carry out the last two matters in particular we need to have more extensive direct dealings with the Indonesian Government as the authority in effective control. It was therefore a reality with which we had to come to terms. Any other matters to be negotiated are not, were not, and have never been salient considerations at all. The Opposition senator's statement is as misconstrued as the Opposition's policy towards Timor has always been. 
-There is no truth in  Mr Booker's  allegations which were cited in the  National Times  of 27 February and which were to the effect that he was forced into retirement and that ASIO reports were used for that purpose. There is no truth in the allegation that ASIO reports were made on  Mr Booker.  All I will say on this matter- this has already been indicated by the Prime Minister on behalf of the Government- is that the circumstances in which ASIO reports will now be made available is pursuant to the recommendations of  Mr Justice  Hope. All I will say in regard to  Mr Booker,  apart from denying that ASIO reports were used against him, is to reiterate what I said once before about him, and that is that he was not forced to retire on any ground at all. He chose to retire rather than to accept re-appointment to the Public Service in Canberra at a level lower than that which he regarded to be his due or to accept another appointment overseas as a head of mission, which was discussed with him. 
Australia's participation in the International Nuclear Fuel Cycle Evaluation flows directly from the Government's uranium and nuclear safeguards policies. It is based on the conviction, as expressed in Washington in October 1977 in the communique of the INFCE organising conference, that effective measures can and should be taken at the national level and through international agreements to minimise the danger of the proliferation of nuclear weapons without jeopardising energy supplies or the development of nuclear energy for peaceful purposes. The INFCE study is now fully under way and it has our active support. All the eight working groups which cover the whole spectrum of the nuclear fuels cycle, from fuel availability through to enrichment, reprocessing, fast breeder reactors, waste management and even advance reactor concepts, have met and have organised their work programs. 
There has also been a meeting of the technical co-ordinating committee which is responsible for overseeing the total work program. Australia is participating in seven of the eight INFCE working groups. We are a co-chairman, with the Philippines and Switzerland, of working group three dealing with assurances of long-term supply of technology, fuel and services about which I note the honourable member specifically asked in the latter part of his question. In this role our concern will be to ensure that any measures which may be agreed to eventually are consistent with and contribute to non-proliferation objectives while, of course, meeting energy requirements. Furthermore, Australia's Ambassador-at-Large on nuclear nonproliferation and safeguards,  Mr Justice  Fox, has established an office in London and is maintaining an active travel program in monitoring developments on non-proliferation issues, including developments in INFCE and, of course, the International Atomic Energy Agency. 
-I am aware of the difficulties facing both the political parties and the people of the New Hebrides as they move on the path towards independence. As the New Hebrides is one of our closest Pacific neighbours and is a territory with which Australia has long-standing and quite diverse links it is only natural that we should be concerned about the direction taken by recent events there. We have watched the developments there closely and we have been in touch on occasions both directly and indirectlythrough accredited diplomatic representatives and those who have come to see me to discuss the matter- with most of the principal parties involved in the situation. 
We welcome the determination of the administering powers of the New Hebrides- that is, Britain and France- to advance the territory to independence by 1 980. 1 hope that this will be achieved in full accordance with the wishes of all the people of the New Hebrides. However, the Australian Government has been disappointed to note that the peaceful transition of the New Hebrides to independence currently appears threatened by the failure of the parties concerned to reach full agreement. In particular, we have observed with some concern the manner of the establishment of a so-called provisional government. Whilst it is not for us to interfere in the internal affairs of another country or territory, we feel as a neighbouring member of the South Pacific region that it is our duty to urge all the parties concerned to endeavour to reach a harmonious solution to the difficult situation which now exists in the New Hebrides. We feel sure that common ground exists whereby the prospect of disorder can be avoided and the processes of self-determination, to which all concerned have pledged their adherence, can be fulfilled. 
Summing up the situation from the Government's point of view, we look forward to the achieving of a solution and a lessening of the tensions which are foreign to the South Pacific. In regard to the final element touched on by the honourable member about new elections, I believe that one means of achieving the solution with less tension that I referred to earlier may be to take advantage of the recent call by the Vanu Aku Party for fresh elections in the New Hebrides to take the process of reconciliation a step further. 
Yes, the reports are correct and, yes, we will give strong support to the British move. Reports of atrocities in Kampuchea continue to appear in the media and are mainly based on accounts given by refugees who have fled to neighbouring countries. We, of course, have no independent information on the situation which might confirm or refute specific reports because Australia does not have formal diplomatic relations with Kampuchea. The few foreigners who have visited this country since the new Government came to power have been severely restricted in their activities. However, notwithstanding the constraints on information, there seems little doubt, as I said in this Parliament I think in August of last year, that the most severe repression has taken place. The Australian Government's strong condemnation of cruelty and of disregard for human rights has been expressed on many occasions and it has a deep concern over what appears to have happened in Kampuchea. I reiterate the appeal I made to the Government of Kampuchea in August of last year to respect international principles of human rights. Finally, as I confirmed at the outset of this answer, the British are pressing for an independent inquiry and we are supporting that move. It would be invidious- indeed, inhumane- if we were to take any other view for we cannot ignore such questions of human rights in Kampuchea in the face of persistent reports of violations of the most basic of these rights, namely, the right of human beings to life itself. 
For the information of honourable members I present the report of the Australian delegation to the Third United Nations Conference on the Law of the Sea, Sixth Session, New York, 23 May to 15 July 1977. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) On 9 December 1 977, 1 said that Australia had worked actively in the United Nations General Assembly to achieve a consensus in support of a resolution on the peaceful uses of nuclear energy. This resolution recognised that international co-operation in the peaceful uses of nuclear energy should be under agreed and appropriate international safeguards in order to prevent the proliferation of nuclear weapons. 
No. I said that there was need for the widest possible international agreement on an appropriate framework for the management and operation of the nuclear fuel cycle. 
The Government's support for international nonproliferation objectives precludes co-operation either in the sale of uranium or the provision of technology directly related to the nuclear fuel cycle to non-nuclear weapon states which are not parties to the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty (NPT). India is not a party to the NPT and under that Treaty is regarded as a non-nuclear weapon state. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Following a review by my Department of the problems associated with the issue of passports, an interdepartmental committee met in June, last year to consider recommendations made by the Department. The review was wide ranging covering the Passports Act and Regulations and other relevant legislation as well as the administrative procedures relating to the issue of passports. The incidence of child abduction was one of the matters considered by the Committee. 
Departments who participated in the interdepartmental committee were Attorney-General's, Business and Consumer Affairs, Health, Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, Administrative Services (Commonwealth Police), ASIO, Prime Minister's and Cabinet and Home Affairs. 
I expect that I shall soon be in a position to provide details of the recommendations arising from this review. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a)$361;(b) $1,081; (c) $10,499; (d)$16,651. 
The Department conducts a continual campaign for the recruitment of staff. The cost of advertising in relation to staff recruitment during the period 11 November 1975 to date was $28,592. 
Division 315/2/13- Department of Foreign AffairsIncidental and Other Expenditure $24,885. Division 318/2/06-Department of Foreign Affairs- Australian Development Assistance Bureau- Incidental and Other Expenditure $3,707. 
Advertising was arranged through the Australian Government Advertising Service. 
All payments in respect of advertising were paid to the AGAS. 
Advertising was lodged with agencies by the AGAS in accordance with its normal practices. 
The estimated cost of advertising in the 1977-78 financial year is $29,500. 
Transport between Tasmania and Mainland (Question No. 106) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Spratly Island: Current claimants to the Spratly Islands or part thereof are believed to be Vietnam, the Philippines and the People 's Republic of China. Vietnam and the Philippines maintain military garrisons on separate islands of the Spratly group. 
Paracel Islands: Current claimants are believed to be the People's Republic of China and Vietnam. The People's Republic of China maintains a military garrison on Paracel Islands. 
Kurile Islands: The Soviet Union claims, occupies and exercises jurisdiction over the Kurile Islands, which it is understood to interpret as including Kunashiri and Etorofu Islands and Shikotan Island and the Habomai group. Japan claims these four are historically and legally Japanese territory. 
Senkaku Islands: Current claimants to the Senkaku Islands are believed to be Japan and the People's Republic of China. It is understood the Senkaku Islands are normally uninhabited, but have been patrolled by Japan in the past. 
The regime on Taiwan is believed to be a claimant to the Spratly, Paracel and Senkaku Islands and maintains a military garrison on an island in the Spratly group. 
In providing this information, the Government takes no stand on the merits of or the current position in respect of any of the above claims. 
Covenant on Civil and Political Rights (Question No. 120) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There have been consultations with the States since December 1976 on the implementation in Australia of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights. Further consultations will be necessary before a final decision is taken on ratification of the Covenant. 
Since December 1976 the following States have ratified the Covenant: Guinea (24 January 1978); Guyana (15 February 1977); Panama (8 March 1977); Poland (18 March 1977) and Spain (27 April 1977). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The following countries have been approached with a view to ascertaining their attitude towards entering into reciprocal arrangements with Australia for the recognition and enforcement of custody orders: 
Argentina, Bangladesh, Canada, Chile, Cyprus, Egypt, Eire, France, Germany (F.R.G.), Greece, Hong Kong, India, Italy, Malaysia, Malta, Netherlands, Pakistan, South Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sweden, Turkey, United Kingdom, United States of America, Uruguay, Yugoslavia. 
The Family Law Act 1975 and the Family Law Regulations enable custody orders originating in New Zealand and in Papua New Guinea to be registered in Australian courts and thereby to acquire the same force and effect as if they were custody orders of the Family Court of Australia. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Since 24 February 1977 Australia has negotiated extradition treaties with Denmark, Finland, the Federal Republic of Germany and Norway. The texts have been initialled but not signed. All four treaties will be of general application and the offences which will be extraditable will include the offences prescribed in the Convention for The Suppression of Unlawful Seizure of Aircraft. 
Agreements for Scientific and Technical Co-operation (Question No. 126) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Australia has concluded agreements for scientific and technical co-operation with the following countries: 
USA (1968) USSR (1975) 
India (1975) 
Federal Republic of Germany ( 1976) 
Of these the USSR and the FRG were approached by Australia and India and the USA approached Australia. 
In addition, Australia has concluded cultural agreements which contain specific undertakings to promote and encourage the development of bilateral contacts in science as well as in other fields. These agreements have been made with France, Indonesia, India, the Republic of Korea, Thailand, USSR, Italy, Iran, Singapore, Malaysia, Yugoslavia, Philippines and Romania (signed but not ratified). 
Australia has also been approached formally by the German Democratic Republic with a view to concluding an agreement for scientific and technical co-operation From time to time various other countries have raised with Australia the possibility of a scientific agreement but no draft agreements have been presented by either side for discussion. 
The honourable member may be aware that at the Prime Minister's direction, a group of officials is examining policies for Australian Government involvement in international scientific and technological activities particularly with regard to whether Australia should enter into further bilateral scientific and technological co-operation agreements with other countries. It is expected that this group will shortly produce its findings. 
Comprehensive Reciprocal Agreements on Social Security (Question No. 128) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Australia has not concluded any comprehensive reciprocal agreements on social security since 22 February 1 977. 
Reciprocal Agreements on Medical and Hospital Care (Question No. 129) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Australia has not approached any country with a view to negotiating agreements for the reciprocal provision of medical and hospital care. 
-During the past week I held talks in Bangkok and attended the annual meeting of the Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific. Whilst I had discussions with Thai officials- the Prime Minister, Foreign Minister and others- in regard to refugees generally, which is a matter for my colleague the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs to discuss when I report to him on those discussions, I also raised with the Vietnamese Vice-Foreign Minister the question of 400 applicants who had been approved for entry to Australia by my colleague but regarding whom there has been little progress achieved by our representations to the Vietnamese. I had wide-ranging discussions with the Vice-Foreign Minister. This was a follow-up to the important meeting, the first meeting, in New York last year between the respective Foreign Ministers of our countries. I stressed in regard to the 400 refugees that have received approval that we wanted to get matters moving. I told  Mr Hoang  Bich Son that whilst I understood that the Vietnamese would examine the matter on a case by case basis I hoped that there could be some expedition. He replied to me that the Vietnamese had reached agreement with a number of other countries on family reunions. He was aware of Australia's request and did not believe that people should be held against their wishes. 
However, as I expected, he emphasised that the Vietnamese Government would continue its policy of looking at individual cases. I indicated to him the distress caused to families in Australia by continued separation from members of those families in Vietnam since the events of 1 975. The Government will leave no stone unturned in seeking a solution to this problem. I am confident, in the light of the spirit in which the representations which I made last week were received, that the Vietnamese Government is not only well aware of the strength of our feeling on this subject but also prepared to move forward on it. Let me say in passing and in conclusion that the Minister indicated specifically that, notwithstanding certain differences, the relationship between our particular countries was a sound one and that he hoped he would be able to assist in this specific humane matter. 
-Here we go. The honourable member for Port Adelaide is stroking his platitudes until they purr again. I will keep the answer as brief as possible,  Mr Speaker.  The Government has, of course, been following developments in the Horn of Africa with close attention. It has been extremely disturbed at the opportunities which the hostilities between Ethiopia and Somalia have provided for interference in the region's affairs by outside powers. As I have stated before, Australia firmly believes that territorial disputes are best settled by negotiation and compromise rather than by resort to arms. We earnestly hope, therefore, that both sides will observe the ceasefire and that it will be possible to commence negotiations directed at bringing about a peaceful settlement and restoring stability to the region. 
In regard to the latter part of the honourable member's question, in such circumstances the continuing presence of Soviet and Cuban military personnel in the area can only exacerbate tensions. Put bluntly, we do not accept that the Soviet and Cuban military presence can be justified at all. We look to their withdrawal as a necessary contribution to the restoration of peace in the area to which I referred earlier. 

 -Mr Speaker, I shall be as brief as I can. It is simply indicative of the respect I have for you that I get that remark in first. The Australian Government, of course, welcomes the recent signing into law by  President  Carter of the United States Non-Proliferation Bill. In his statement on signing the Bill into law,  President  Carter left absolutely no doubt as to the importance of nuclear power as a source of energy for the United States and for other countries. At the same time he emphasised, as the Australian Government has continuously emphasised, the imperative need to press ahead in efforts against nuclear weapons proliferation. He referred to the importance of adequate nuclear fuel supplies for countries accepting non-proliferation and safeguards requirements. 
As succinctly as possible, the Act gives a central role to encouraging universal adherence to the Non-Proliferation Treaty, lt specifies conditions that will be required for nuclear exports from the United States. These include, of course, the application of International Atomic Energy Agency safeguards of indefinite duration and cover all peaceful nuclear activities in nonnuclear weapon states, the prohibition of nuclear explosive uses, the maintenance of adequate physical security, and United States consent to re-transfer, et cetera. 
-If the honourable member listened to me he would recognise that many of these provisions are closely in line with Australian safeguards policy and bear out the sort of things we said throughout last year to the effect that if we adopted such tight safeguards other countries would follow suit. That is what has happened. The United States will be renegotiating its existing bilateral agreements with customers for its nuclear exports to incorporate the tighter conditions provided for in the legislation. Our own negotiating position will be strengthened by the shared aims of our two governments in this important area of nuclear safeguards. 

 President Carter also said that substantial progress had been made in the last year in the field of safeguards and non-proliferation. He has previously paid credit to the Prime Minister and to this Government for the policies they have pursued in this area. He pointed to the guidelines established by the nuclear suppliers group and to the commencement of the International Nuclear Fuel Cycle Evaluation. We agree that these and other developments constitute substantial progress. There is no other way in which to put it. During the period leading to the formulation of the Government's own safeguards and uranium export policies, and subsequently, there has been extremely close contact with the United States. As I say, this has unquestionably been of substantial benefit to both countries in the pursuance of shared aims in restraining proliferation. 

 - Mr Speaker, I can assure you that I had absolutely no idea that the question was to be asked. This is not one of the questions normally referred to as Dorothy Dixers. Had I known the question was to be asked or even expressed in these terms, I would have reminded the honourable member that it was hardly right to include in a question the viewpoint that Australia has not been 'sympathetic' to Israel, as was implied by the question. I refer honourable members to the policy of this Government as laid down throughout its period in Opposition and prior to the change of attitude by the previous Government which, under the guise of evenhandedness a guise that this Government specifically rejected- laid down a policy viewpoint in 1975. Our policy was based firmly on United Nations resolutions 242 and 338. That policy has been expressed consistently by me and by the Government and in its voting in the 
United Nations where frequently we have stood witu maybe one or two other countries in the defence of Israel against those who would seek to implement or support the charter of the Palestine Liberation Organisation which is specifically aimed at the destruction of that state. 
I can assure the honourable member, quite apart from the content of my answer to date, that I would have therefore rejected any implication that we do not support Israel's right to exist. Quite the contrary. The Australian Government has never given any specific recognition to the PLO. It will not do so while the PLO maintains its denial of Israel's right to exist as expressed, as 
I have referred to, in the Palestinian national charter. However, Australia's diplomatic representatives in relevant capitals do have informal contacts with PLO representatives as circumstances sometimes require that in the role of Australian diplomatic work. I have already expressed on behalf of the Government our attitude towards the Palestinian attack in Israel on 
II March. I have received reports that Israeli forces this morning crossed the frontier into southern Lebanon. Those reports have been confirmed. It has been reported that Israeli land, sea and air forces are moving against concentrations of Palestinians in southern Lebanon, but these and other details of the action are yet to be confirmed. I think it would be asking too much of me at this juncture to comment further on that matter. But I reject, as I feel bound to do by the nature of the wording of the question, any implication that this Government has not stood by Israel's right to exist. It has done so in undertakings given before being elected to government and it has executed it in its actions, votings and stances in the United Nations, and I see no reason to change. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is: 
Yes. 
(a) A copy of the guidelines is available to members in the Parliamentary Library. 
The United States, The Soviet Union, France, Britain , The Federal Republic of Germany, Canada, Japan, Switzerland, Belgium, Italy, The Netherlands, Sweden, The German Democratic Republic, Czechoslovakia and Poland. 

 - Mr Speaker, the question hardly requires answering because I have already indicated time and again publicly that we have forwarded model safeguards agreements to a wide number of countries. 
Well, wait a moment. I shall take your question seriatim. Just restrain yourself. I have already indicated in the media and elsewhere- in fact most of my statements have been made in here- 
Well, most of my statements are made in here but they seem to be so incomprehensible to members of the Opposition that they are not prepared to debate them. 
The model safeguards agreement has gone to a great number of countries. As I have said publicly, discussions have already been held with the Finns. I do recall answering a question about the model safeguards agreement and the discussions entered into with the British last year in this Parliament. There have been official discussions with other countries, including the Philippines. I would expect these discussions with a variety of countries to continue over the months ahead. The model safeguards agreement mirrors, of course, the statement first made in the Parliament by the Prime Minister and subsequently by me, both here and elsewhere. 
In respect of the question asked about the tabling of the safeguards agreement, I shall reexamine the agreement and determine whether it is wise, at this juncture, to table it. It does mirror the governing principles of safeguards that we have had before. I shall give consideration to the request made by the honourable member and reply to him in due course. 
-The short answer to the first part of the question is no, a request was not made. As to the second part of the question, we are already giving support, as evidenced by the last part of the question. I add to that my own remarks about the outstanding Australian contribution in a number of areas to the United Nations peace-keeping forces. The value of that contribution, whether in regard to a helicopter contingent, the police force, et cetera, is not generally known. We were requested early in 1976 when the Secretary-General visited Australia to give additional assistance by way of helicopter support and we responded positively to that request. On this occasion we were not asked for assistance, but I underline that in situations such as that which occurred recently in the Lebanon a balance of representation is sought Our assistance was sought in 1976. It is not unusual that it was not sought in 1978. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is provided in the following table: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Migration and settlement agreements are currently in force between Australia and the Federal Republic of Germany, Italy, Malta, the Netherlands, Turkey and Yugoslavia. 
I am advised that there are no migration and settlement agreements under negotiation. 
International Year of the Child  (Question No. 131) 
The answers to the honourable member's questions are as follows: 
1 ) The Indonesian Government permits the importation into Indonesia of motor vehicles for personal use, duty free, in respect only of officers having diplomatic status for the period of their assignment in Indonesia. Other Australian Government officials and aid personnel, not having diplomatic status, are permitted to purchase a locally assembled motor vehicle for their personal use at 'diplomatic' or tax free prices. Acquisition of one vehicle only per family is permitted in each two year period for all categories of staff other than the Head of Mission, his Deputy and officers of Minister rank who have a limit of two vehicles. 
It is common practice for Australian officials to arrange clearance of their personal motor vehicle through clearing agents who are registered to carry out this work by the Indonesian Government. I am advised that it is not possible for these arrangements to be made through any firm or individual who is not operating under Government licence. 
I am advised that it is not known how the clearing charges are disbursed by the Indonesian clearing agents. 
Clearing charges paid by Australian officials in Indonesia in respect of importation of privately owned goods, including motor vehicles, are neither tax deductible nor reimbursed or subsidised by the Australian Government. 
The Australian Government expects Australian officers serving overseas to comply with the laws and regulations  of the host  country in respect of their personal transactions. 
Raids on Church Organisations in South Africa  (Question No. 211) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
14 December 1976. 
See my answer to question No. 1716 of 8 November 1977. 
Chloroform: Use in Pharmaceuticals  (Question No. 220) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1) (a) $3,583,500-of this total $2,120,700 was spent on overseas staff transfers, excess baggage, travelling allowance, accommodation costs, family reunions, compassionate travel and Head of Mission leave and consultations. This amount also includes expenditure by the Australian Development Assistance Agency. Expenditure of $939,000 was made for overseas post travel activities, leave fare entitlements, locally engaged staff travel, taxi and car hire charges and meal allowances. Expenditure of $523,800 was made in respect of Internal Audit inspections and other such administrative travel. 
$347,000-This figure includes fares, travelling allowance, accommodation costs, taxi and car hire costs and meal allowances as well as an amount of $102,000 for domestic travel in respect of the Australian Development Assistance Agency. 
) 9 1 . 1 7 per cent and 8.83 per cent. 
Yes. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In reply to the honourable member's previous question No. 1208  (Hansard,  20 October 1977, page 2299), I indicated that it would not be a practical exercise to determine how many persons travelled on these documents in a given period of time. 
Similarly, it is impractical to determine the exact numbers of these documents on issue at any given time. However, it is possible to determine the total number of passports which have been distributed to  issuing  offices in  toe preceding live  years. 
The following table provides those details for the given dates: 
Yes. The question appeared on the Notice Paper of 26 October 1977 as question No. 1902 but lapsed on the dissolution of Parliament. 
Department of the Special Trade Representative: Expenditure on Travel and Subsistence (Question No. 275) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Answers to questions ( 1 ), (3) and (4) are incorporated in the following table: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
, (3) and (4) I have nothing to add to the general comments I made on 28 February 1978 in response to the question without nonce put to me by the honourable member for Kingsford-Smith.  
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  ( I ), (2) and (3) See my response to parts (2), (3) and (4) of question No. 280. 
The answers to the honourable member's questions are: 
1 ) and (2) I understand that at a Singapore Press conference on 28 February General Kriangsak was asked about the effect of the Manila Treaty of 1 954 on Thailand 's relations with Indo-China. He is reported to have said that the Treaty presented no obstacle to relations with Indo-China and that although the clauses of the Treaty remained operative, SEATO itself had been disbanded. I understand he added that in his opinion, SEATO had in the past been a valuable organisation in which there had been close cooperation among the members. My understanding is that General Kriangsak made no specific reference to Australia or New Zealand in this connection. 
Australia remains a party to the Manila Treaty and values greatly its relations with the other parties to it. 
The answers to the honourable member's questions are as follows: 
The Department of Foreign Affairs has (a) 11 fulltime employees and ( b) one part-time employee making and distributing tea in its Head Office. In its State Offices there are no employees engaged for tea making. 
The cost in 1976-77 for (i) salaries was $80,660 and (ii) other oncosts are fully met by patrons of the service as required by financial regulations covering such services. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) The diplomatic and consular communities in Australia, including family members, total more than 2,000 persons. However preparation of a reply giving the details sought would involve an excessive amount of work, which I do not believe is warranted at this stage. 
Diplomatic immunity, which does not mean immunity from the law of the receiving State, but from the jurisdiction of its courts, relates to the diplomatic staff of diplomatic missions in Canberra and their families and, in respect of criminal jurisdiction only, to those members of their Administrative and Technical staff and their families, who are not Australian nationals or permanently resident in Australia. The Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations, annexed to the Diplomatic Privileges and Immunities Act 1967-72, sets out the position (Articles 1, 29-32 and 37-38 especially apply). Diplomatic staff are listed in the 'Diplomatic List' published by my Department and available to each Member through the Table Office. 
There are no diplomatic missions outside Canberra. The more limited immunities of consular officers, both career and honorary, and consular employees, are set out in the Vienna Convention on Consular Relations, annexed to the Consular Privileges and Immunities Act 1972, (especially Articles 40-43, 38, 63 and 71). The extent of Consular representation in Australia may be gathered from the booklet 'Consular and Trade Representatives in Australia' published by my Department. 
Persons entitled to diplomatic and consular privileges and immunities, are required under Articles 41(1) and 55 ( 1 ) of the respective Conventions, to respect the laws and regulations of the receiving State. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) The Government has ascertained that  Mr Montsitsi  has been held in detention without charge since 1 3 June 1977, under the Terrorism Act. 
It is aware of reports that he has been assaulted while in custody, but is not in a position to confirm these. 
and (5) As I have stated previously, the South African Government can be in no doubt that the matter of detention and treatment of its political opponents will continue to attract strong criticism throughout Australia. The Government will continue to make known to the South African authorities its strong views and those of the Australian people with regard to cases such as that of  Mr Montsitsi  and others. 
by leave- I wish to make clear the Government's position with respect to the creation of establishments, institutions or organisations which can, because of the diplomatic terminology used, result in substantial difficulties in Australia's relations with other countries and impede the operations of Australia's foreign policy, the effective conduct of which is vital to the well-being of the nation. This is particularly so when such an establishment is referred to as an embassy*. Australia is a party to the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations. That convention, in article 22- which has the force of law in Australia- imposes on Australia a special duty to prevent any impairment of the dignity of a diplomatic mission accredited to this country. It is not a matter which can be dealt with in any sense of compromise. It is a matter of our international obligations and the domestic law which gives effect to these obligations. I need hardly add that this would not apply to such establishments as the so-called Aboriginal Embassy as it did not affect the standing of any other nation with which Australia has diplomatic relations. 
It has not been necessary in the past to treat this matter as one for legislative action. However, this has now become necessary because of the establishment in Canberra late last year of a so-called Croatian Embassy. It is because the establishment of the so-called Embassy has had important ramifications for Australia- ramifications with respect to the Vienna Convention, Australia's responsibilities under it, the effective operation of Australia's foreign policy, and our long-standing relations with a universally recognised nation, namely Yugoslavia- that the Government now feels it necessary to consider legislation to put an end to this anomaly and to guard against any recurrence. 
I therefore wish to set out the Government's position with regard to this matter. The so-called Croatian Embassy has been set up in Canberra by certain persons who may or may not be fully aware of the serious implications of their actions, which impede the correct and orderly conduct of Australia's international relations, for which I am directly responsible. It is therefore necessary that I now make clear to this House beyond any possibility of doubt the Government's views and intentions on this matter. These are in short that an establishment such as the so-called Croatian Embassy is damaging to the national interest and that such an establishment cannot therefore be tolerated. 
Yugoslavia acceded to independence in the context of the post-World War I settlement, to which Australia was a party. Australia has longstanding and friendly relations with that country. By mutual agreement many people from Yugoslavia have settled in Australia. This has strengthened our ties. We respect Yugoslavia's sovereignty. The Government cannot therefore view with indifference an attempt to establish and maintain on Australian territory any organisation which not only is openly dedicated to the destruction of a state in friendly relations with Australia but which also arrogates to itself an unacceptable title and status which could in turn disrupt the orderly conduct of Australia's relations with another universally recognised member of the international community. This could clearly have a substantial adverse effect on our international standing, the conduct of Australia's foreign policy and our national interest, thus affecting all Australians. 
It can scarcely be maintained that the setting up of a so-called Croatian Embassy is not an impairment of the dignity of the diplomatic mission which in law, and in fact, represents Yugoslavia in this country. It is of no less concern that the unauthorised establishment of this socalled Embassy interferes with the exercise of the executive power of the Commonwealth to conduct Australia's international relations. The Government is thus deeply concerned lest other minority groups may be inspired by the continued existence of the self-styled Croatian Embassy to believe that they, too, may similarly interfere in and jeopardise Australia's relations with sovereign states. Furthermore, it has been a longstanding policy of Australian governments to oppose the importation into Australia of alien political and racial feuds. The Government is also concerned about the aggravation of tension between certain ethnic groups. 
At this stage let me make it quite clear that it is not in any way the Government's wish to discriminate against the Croatian community or to stop, or hinder, members of that community forming their own groups and clubs where these are not aimed at a state and government with which Australia has normal diplomatic relations. The overwhelming majority of the Croatian community in Australia has shown, by its contribution to the development of Australian society and culture, a strong loyalty and commitment to its new homeland. It is an affront to this loyalty and commitment that a so-called Croatian Embassy should purport to represent them. The proper international representative of the interest of Australians of Croatian, as of other, origins is the Australian Government and no one else. 
The only course of action for the authors of this enterprise is for them to abandon it forthwith and revert to the means by which dissent may be peacefully asserted within the law as it prevails in our society. In order to leave no doubt of the seriousness with which this matter is being regarded, and consistent with the provisions of article 22 of the Vienna Convention, I wish to inform the House that the Government will introduce legislation specifically prohibiting institutions or bodies falsely representing themselves as diplomatic, consular or other official missions of another country or part of another country. Such action is essential not only to remove the anomaly which has already been created, but lest the practice of establishing socalled embassies be extended thus jeopardising Australia's foreign relations and national interest. The Government does not believe that the Australian community would support the establishment of organisations so obviously to the detriment of this nation. I present the following paper: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is that the last report was conveyed to the United Nations SecretaryGeneral in December 1975 covering the period from mid-December 1975 to mid-March 1976. In February1976 decided that the provision of these quarterly reports was no longer appropriate. Nevertheless this still leaves the Government free to respond to any future requests for Australian contributions to United Nations peacekeeping operations, but without advance commitment. 
United Nations Convention on the Recovery Abroad of Maintenance  (Question No. 121) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Australia has not yet acceded to the United Nations Convention on the Recovery Abroad of Maintenance. I have raised the question of accession with the Attorney-General who has the carriage of matters covered in the Convention. 
I am informed that the Attorney-General's Department is ascertaining what additional resources would be required to establish the Transmitting and Receiving Agencies as provided for in the Convention. The Agencies would assume responsibility for the day to day running of the scheme. I am further informed that the Attorney-General 's Department is proceeding with the preparation of regulations under Section 111 of the Family Law Act 1975 to enable performance of the Convention's obligations in the event of Australian accession. 
The answer to the three parts of the honourable member's questions are as follows: 
(a) The following countries have approached Australia with a view to negotiating a cultural agreement: 
Poland, Egypt, Hungary, Pakistan, Senegal, Bulgaria, Madagascar, Israel, Turkey, Czechoslovakia, Afghanistan, Cyprus, Austria, German Democratic Republic. 
Australia has not approached any country with a view to negotiating a cultural agreement. 
Negotiations between Australia and Argentina on a cultural agreement remain in abeyance pending advice from Argentina that it wishes negotiations to resume. The present position in negotiations between Australia and Greece is that Greece is studying a counter-draft text submitted to it by Australia. 
(a) The following exhibitions, groups, performers and artists have been offered by countries with which Australia has a cultural agreement in 1 978: 
Italy 
Objects from Pompeii. 
India 
The Chhau Dancers of Bengal 
Indian poet  Mr Jayanta  Mahapatra. 
Yugoslavia 
Exhibition of Mediaeval Frescoes 
Yugoslav Contemporary Art Exhibition 
Cellist Walter Despalj 
France 
Treteau de Paris 
U.S.S.R. 
Soviet film-makers 
Exhibition of West European Graphics from Soviet Collections 
Exhibition of 1 8th and 1 9th Century Russian Graphics Master Puppeteer 
Two Soviet ballet dancers to work with the Australian Ballet 
Two Soviet dancers to work with Australian dance companies 
The following exhibitions, groups, performers or artists have been sought from countries with which Australia has a cultural agreement in 1 978: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Australia 's contribution to the Special Action Program of the Conference on International Economic Co-operation (CIEC) will be disbursed in two ways. Half will be provided as an additional payment to the International Development Association (IDA) and is untied. The other half will be provided bilaterally to countries eligible as IDA recipients and which are experiencing the problems to which the Special Action Program is directed. In 1978-79 these will be Bangladesh, India, Sri Lanka, Tonga and Western Samoa. The bilateral contribution will take the form of Development Import Grants which the recipient governments may use for the purchase of Australian goods and services serving developmental purposes. Aid given in this form is demonstrably additional to existing aid expenditure and can be disbursed speedily, these being two requirements of the Special Action Program. Development Import Grants do not introduce new principles with respect to tying. Such commodity aid has been given in the past and it was tied to Australian goods. Development Import Grants involve the introduction of improved procedures for purchase intended to ensure that recipients are able to obtain more quickly than under previous arrangements imports they consider most suitable for purchase from Australia. 
The proportion of Australia's development assistance in the form of ued grants during 1 975-76 and 1 976-77 was as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member 's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Middle Eastern countries, including those oil exporting states referred to in the Committee's report, are becoming aware of opportunities in Australia for long term productive investment through the broadening of Australia's diplomatic and commercial representation in the area, Australian Government sponsored and private trade missions, and an increasing number of official and private Arab visitors to Australia. A recent development has been the opening of a mission in Libya; an Australian trade mission returned from the Middle East in March; another is due to visit there in April; and consideration is being given to further strengthening Australia's commercial representation in the Gulf States. Foreign investment policy is of course the responsibility of my colleague the Treasurer.' 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In line with the policy of successive Australian governments since recognition of the People 's Republic of China on 21 December 1972, passports issued by the regime on Taiwan are not accepted as travel documents. People who present such passports, and whose entry to Australia is approved, are issued with Letters of Authority to enable them to travel to Australia. Eleven of the Taiwanese visitors to the meeting of the International Press Institute travelled on Letters of Authority issued by the Australian Commission in Hong Kong. One Taiwanese visitor travelled on a Hong Kong Certificate of Identity and was issued with a visa by the Australian Commission in Hong Kong. 
Expenditure on Domestic Air Travel (Question No. 442) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The report was tabled in the House of Representatives on 14 October 1976. 
The  Chairman  of the Committee sought consideration by the Attorney-General, the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs and the Minister for Foreign Affairs of the recommendations made in the report 
A study of the report by officers of the three Departments concerned has not yet been concluded. The Ministers concerned will consider the recommendations made in the Joint Committee's report in the near future when the results of the interdepartmental study are submitted. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows, based on the latest information available to me: 
Other than Australia, the countries listed hereafter have undertaken to provide the ILO with voluntary contributions: The United Kingdom, Spain, Norway, Sweden, the Netherlands, the Federal Republic of Germany, Luxembourg, Cyprus, France, Canada, Belgium, Papua New Guinea, New Zealand, India, Iran, the Philippines, Thailand, Indonesia, Pakistan, Afghanistan, Surinam, Saudi Arabia, Jordan and Venezuela. 
) The following table shows the amount pledged or provided by each country. Amounts are in $US, unless otherwise indicated. 
United Kingdom, $250,000; Spain, $130,000; Norway, $384,000; Sweden, $320,000; Netherlands, $400,000; 
Federal Republic of Germany, $700,000; Luxembourg, $7,250; Cyprus, $1,740; France, $200,000; Canada, $200,000; Belgium, $303,000; Papua New Guinea, $A5,400; New Zealand, SNZ20.000; India, $125,000; Iran, $50,000; Philippines, $35,809; Thailand, $26,750 (approx.); Indonesia $41,000; Pakistan, $5,222; Afghanistan, $5,000; Surinam, $1,710; Saudi Arabia, $208,889; Jordan $8,704; Venezuela, $450,000 (including donations by workers and employers). 
On present indications it would appear that a number of other countries are considering making a contribution to the Director-General's appeal, although they have not yet reached a final decision. 
-The honourable member asks a whole series of questions. I will try to cover them in this answer. I recall signing a letter to the honourable member for Blaxland, I think late last week, indicating to him that a wide number of countries- I think that it is in excess of 15- have received the draft model safeguards agreement. As I have said in this House and outside it, that model safeguards agreement reflects the statement of the Prime Ministers, the statement of the Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs at the time when the decision was announced, with respective Ministers announcing policy details in this Parliament when I was overseas, and a following statement I made in this House on safeguards policy. Therefore, this policy is enshrined in the model safeguards agreement. It has been sent for discussion at official level to the number of countries that I have indicated. 
Government to government negotiations by their very nature must be confidential. The House must be assured that the model safeguards agreement reflects the policy, stringent as it is, as announced by the Prime Minister and other Ministers in this House. The negotiations with the Philippines were held between Australia and Philippines officials during the visit to Australia in March of the Philippines Secretary for Energy,  Mr Velasco.  I am advised that officials were able to negotiate the terms of a bilateral safeguards agreement to a pretty advanced stage. I understand that, so far as the officials are concerned, only some minor points remain to be negotiated between them. When a text has been negotiated by the officials it will then need to be submitted to the two governments for approval. That cannot be taken to be a matter of course or for granted. The official negotiations are proceeding well. It will then be a matter for the Government in Australia and the Government of the Philippines to determine whether that agreement, should it be reached between officials, can be ratified by the respective governments. Negotiations have been conducted, as I say, on the basis of Australia's model bilateral safeguards agreement which translates into draft treaty form Australia's safeguards requirements as announced in the Parliament. The policy imposes stringent conditions on the sale of uranium to ensure that it is not diverted to nuclear weapons. 
I turn to deal with the safety aspects which I recall was another element in the question. Of course, the safety aspects are important. As we have said time and time again, they are a separate matter from the non-proliferation safeguards. It is primarily for the authorities in the country concerned to ensure that proper safety measures and environment protection measures are taken. It will be a matter for us to be assured that the Philippines authorities are well aware of these requirements. These matters have been covered in talks held in Canberra between the respective officials, touched upon by the Minister for Trade and Resources and myself, but left at this juncture to the officials to negotiate. It will then be a matter to decide whether the Government can accept the agreement tentatively entered into between officials. 
-The Government is aware of the concern in developing countries about their educational problems, including the problem of illiteracy, and is assisting in solving them in a number of ways through activities conducted under the aid program. Training for teachers from these countries is provided in Australia and at education institutions, such as the University of the South Pacific, within developing countries themselves. The assistance which Australia gives to education in developing countries is planned and carried out in close consultation with the governments concerned. In these areas it is primarily a matter of what those governments request and then it is a matter of whether we can respond to those requests. Requests are seldom made for Australian teachers to teach in schools in developing countries but a number of Australian educational experts have been sent to work in their teacher training colleges or to assist their education departments in developing their educational systems. Also, direct financial assistance is given to a number of in-country education institutions. Indirect assistance is given through support for the activities of the Australian voluntary aid organisations. In conclusion, I have not yet determined what measures would be appropriate for the commemoration in Australia of World Literacy Day on 8 September. 
-The honourable member knows that there is nothing contained in that allegation which amounts to the truth at all. I have said time and again that our policy requires the conclusion of bilateral safeguards agreements with uranium importing countries. The details of the model agreement, which has been forwarded to other countries, reflect the policy as laid down, firstly, by the statement of the Prime Minister of 24 May last year and, secondly, by other statements made by Ministers. That is what those draft arrangements encompass. It would be contrary to all government practice to bring matters into the Parliament while we are in the midst of negotiations on a government to government level. I have informed the honourable member of that fact in answer to questions. I have written to him on it. I note in answering the question asked by the honourable member that he is un able to engage in any form of dialogue other than to ask me another question. I replied to him, 
I believe, a couple of weeks ago. I have heard nothing further from him than the tagging of another question on the end of one posed by the Deputy Leader of the Opposition last week, which was answered. 
Before answering the question I would like to give some credit- I do not do this glibly- to two other honourable members as well as the honourable member for Denison for the active interest they have taken in the Antarctic. They are the honourable member for Hawker and the honourable member for Bradfield. I say this by way of introduction because the honourable member for Hawker and the honourable member for Bradfield - 
-Senator Wheeldon also attended the convention. I was referring only to members of this House. I do not say this lightly. The contribution of those honourable members at this important treaty consultative meeting of a few weeks ago was favourably commented upon by everybody I spoke to at the meeting. I must add that that is not always the case, but on this occasion it is worthy of special mention. I am most grateful. Australia's national interest requires that there be a detailed examination of this matter before partisan positions are taken. I leave it to the respective parties to work up their own cases in due course. But that is said as a consequence of many comments. 
The meeting set out, of course, to elaborate a draft definitive regime for the conservation of Antarctic marine living resources and to prepare for a decisive meeting later in the year which would hopefully establish the regime. The text which emerged from the meeting reflected, I believe, a very carefully balanced package designed to bridge the gaps between the different positions and to meet some of the concerns of each country. The draft convention establishes clear conservation principles which are to be binding on the parties. It sets up a commission with broad powers, envisages the establishment of a scientific committee, calls for accession to the convention by States engaged in research and harvesting and so on. 
Most of Australia's basic interests and policy objectives are well accommodated in the text. One major issue of vital concern to Australia which has not yet been resolved is how to deal with the fact that parts of the areas covered by the convention come within the national jurisdiction of the claimant states, a jurisdiction which is disputed by the non-claimant states. Several formulations which might protect the positions of both groups were attempted and are being considered by governments at present. As to the latter part of the honourable member's question, the draft convention for the conservation of the marine living resources which is being negotiated by the Antarctic Treaty consultative parties provides for the establishment of a commission with broad powers to adopt and implement conservation measures with regard to those resources. I expect a final conference to take place later this year, hopefully in Canberra following a mid year meeting in South America at which the convention will be adopted. 
It will be necessary for the parties to the Convention to decide on a suitable site at which the commission will be located. The Government, of course, has expressed an interest in having the commission established in Australia. That is all we can do at this juncture. The Premier of Tasmania has consulted with me about Tasmania 's merits. I have had a very lengthy submission from the honourable member for Denison and, of course, I will weigh these matters up. It is just not possible at this stage to give any indication of the eventual decision on the location of the Commission. 
-The Government is, of course, aware of reports about continued interference by Cuban troops and Soviet advisers, socalled, in Angola. According to these reports, Cuban troops have killed many civilians in the course of recent attempts to wipe out so-called right wing opponents of the present regime, and there have been other reports that the Soviet Union has established a camp to train guerrillas for operations in Zimbabwe, Namibia and Zaire. It is no secret that in Angola there are large numbers of Cuban troops- according to recent estimates, about 18,000- and also some Soviet advisers. Also, it is clear that there are some training camps for guerrillas, although probably not on a large scale. 
As I have said before, the Government supports peaceful and negotiated solutions to the problems of southern Africa and has on a number of occasions condemned violence and terrorism. So far as the major thrust of the honourable member's question is concerned, I want to state succinctly and clearly that in the Government's view, the Cuban and Soviet military interference in the affairs of countries of the region has not advanced the cause of peace one iota. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The matter of the seabed boundary between East Timor and Australia has been touched on in recent discussions between Australia and Indonesia at official level. It will be discussed in detail with Indonesia in due course. 
Off-shore petroleum exploration permits between Australia and Timor have not been the subject of consideration at this time. 
Draft Constitution for a World Parliament  (Question No. 186) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
I do not propose to formulate views on the draft. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Australia has played an active role and cooperated with other States and international organisations in developing international measures to counter terrorism. 
Australia is a party to all the major treaties which deal with different facets of terrorism. These are the 1963 Tokyo Convention on Offences and Certain Other Acts committed on Board Aircraft; the 1 970 Hague Convention for the Suppression of Unlawful Seizure of Aircraft; the 1971 Montreal Convention for the Suppression of Unlawful Acts Against the Safety of Civil Aviation; and the 1 973 Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of Crimes Against Internationally Protected Persons Including Diplomatic Agents. 
We have also supported the International Atomic Energy Agency proposal for a convention requiring States to take strong action against any crime including terrorist activity, involving nuclear materials or facilities. We are aware of the European Convention on the Suppression of Terrorism to which the Report on the Middle East of the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence refers. The Convention, however, is only open to accession by member States of the Council of Europe. 
Australia has been very active in recent United Nations debates on terrorism. We were one of the early co-sponsors of a Resolution on the Safety of International Civil Aviation (Res. 32/8) which, among other things, appealed to States which had not become Parties to the Tokyo, Hague and Montreal Conventions to do so. In the Sixth Committee of the General Assembly Australia has supported the Federal Republic of Germany's proposal for a draft Convention 
Against the Taking of Hostages. We co-sponsored at the 3 1 st session of the General Assembly the Resolution setting up an Ad Hoc Committee to examine the German proposal. 
At the regional level, Heads of Government attending the Commonwealth Regional Meeting in Sydney from 13 to 16 February, agreed to explore ways in which their respective countries could enlarge collaboration, both regionally and internationally, in combating terrorism. We were pleased with the decision to establish an ad hoc working group to pursue such efforts. 
I appreciate the honourable member's concern with the growing problem of international terrorism and wish to assure him that Australia will continue to give full support to all constructive measures to curb it. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1)1 have seen press reports that Liao Cheng-chin in an address to a meeting in the Great Hall of the People in Peking on 28 February 1 978 said: 'The United States must sever its so-called diplomatic relations with the Chiang 
Clique, withdraw all its armed forces and military installations from Taiwan and the Taiwan Straits area and abrogate its so-called mutual defence treaty with the Chiang Clique'. (2), (3) and (3) Australia on 21 December 1972 recognised the Government of the People's Republic of China as the sole legal government of China and acknowledged the position of the Chinese Government that Taiwan is a province of the People's Republic of China. This was accepted by the Chinese Government and remains the position of the Australian Government. 
As the United States has diplomatic relations with the regime on Taiwan, Taiwanese visitors are permitted to enter the United States in an official capacity and as representatives of that regime. Canada, like Australia, recognises the Government of the People's Republic of China. I understand that the Canadian Government's policy on the entry of persons holding passports issued by the regime on Taiwan is essentially the same as that of the Australian Government, although details of its application may differ in some respects. (6 and (7) The People's Republic of China maintains that Taiwan is a province of China. The regime on Taiwan purports to be the government of the whole of China of which Taiwan is a province. Both agree that Taiwan is not an independent country. In these circumstances, there can be not question of the Australian Government recognising Taiwan as an 'independent nation'. 
-Honourable members will be aware that Resolution No. 425 of the Security Council referred to by the honourable member called for, among other things, strict respect for the territorial integrity, sovereignty and political independence of Lebanon within its internationally recognised boundaries. Of course, it called upon Israel to withdraw its forces from Lebanon. I have previously issued statements following the attack in Israel on 1 1 March. I have had discussions relating to the Israeli attack in 
Lebanon with the honourable member and representatives from his electorate, particularly those from the South Lebanese Association. I have indicated to him in those discussions, and would confirm now, that the Government regarded Resolution 425 as a worthwhile outcome of the Security Council's debate on this very serious situation which had developed, and considered the establishment of UNIFIL, to which the honourable member referred, to be a positive step. UNIFIL 's task, of course, will be an extremely difficult one, but we nevertheless trust it will be able to pave the way for the early restoration in southern Lebanon of the authority of the Lebanese Government, and for the normality and security which the people of southern Lebanon have awaited for so long. 
The Government is well aware that the problems of the people of southern Lebanon are now even greater than they were. The considerable number of casualties and the displacement of many thousands from their homes were particularly distressing. It was with these humanitarian problems in mind that I announced on 22 March that a shipment of canned meat that had already been sent to Lebanon for special welfare programs was being diverted to emergency programs established by the Lebanese Government to feed people who had fled from southern Lebanon. I announced also that I had authorised the expenditure of a further $200,000 to purchase more canned meat for shipment to Lebanon. 
-The honourable member could ask our Charge d 'Affaires because, as is the wont of our officials overseas, he witnessed the delivery of the meat itself. One may well ask, in view of the nature of the interjection, just how seriously the honourable member regards this distressing situation. The meat was requested, and we responded to the request. Over and above that response, the Government is giving sympathetic consideration to further emergency assistance being made available. It appears that only this side of the House shares that concern. 
-Ministers have a healthy respect for questions without notice asked by the honourable member for Lilley. I have not seen the report to which he alludes. As a consequence, I will make investigations and look at the matters raised by him. If there is an implication that there is a problem in our relations with the People's Republic of China, I reject it. I will go no further than saying that since this Government came to power the movement in relations with the People's Republic of China has been most significant in regard both to the cultural agreements that we have discussed and to family reunion, consular agreements and other matters. The Prime Minister's visit was a most significant event in carrying that relationship further. I will examine the matters referred to. Of course, the Ambassador referred to is, strictly, no longer in government service. I will be wanting  Dr Fitzgerald  to head up an Australia-China foundation- I have indicated that elsewhereand the Government will be giving consideration to the membership of that body. I will look at the remarks which have been made and reply to the honourable member in due course. 
The answers to the honourable member's questions are as follows: 
When in 1955 Australia extended the Convention of the World Meteorological Organisation of 1 1 October 1947 to the Australian Antarctic Territory the United States Government notified the Australian Government that 'it does not recognise any claims so far advanced in the Antarctic and reserves all rights accruing to the United States out of activities of nationals of the United States in the area '. So far as can be ascertained from the records of my Department and from the depositary of the Universal Postal Convention, no such response was notified by the United States Government when in 1959 Australia extended the Universal Postal Convention of 3 October 1957 to the Australian Antarctic Territory. 
According to available information, Australia was the only country which extended these conventions to claimed Antarctic territory. 
I have stated time and again that Australian Government policy rests firmly on resolutions 242 and 338- and to some extent on 339. Resolution 242 is more of a threshold resolution in this area and must be endorsed. The difficulty with all countries in this area is that different groups have given different interpretations to those resolutions, particularly resolution 242. 
The honourable member has helped me by interjecting in that way. I shall give him my interpretation of resolution 242. I have done it in great detail, not only in statements since I have been Minister for Foreign Affairs, but also in publications produced during 1 975 on behalf of the then Opposition indicating that the form of so-called 'even-handedness' pursued by the honourable gentleman's Government, which led, 'for example, to abstaining on questions such as deeming Zionism to be a form of racism, was an even-handedness that we rejected and still do. If the honourable gentleman wants to pursue us down this line he may. 
I have been at pains not to cause divisions in the Australian domestic community in regard to the most critical flashpoint in the world. I believe that when endeavours are made such as the most significant advance by  President  Sadat last year, it is more beneficial to the cause of peace and indeed to the elements mentioned by the honourable member- respecting the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the States concerned- not to get into domestic debates in those areas in a country such as Australia. By that I do not mean that we reject debate, but we oppose the injection of the basic disharmonies that people sometimes seek to introduce into Australia. We have supported the endeavours to bring about a successful conclusion. We trust that the forays that were made both into Israel and into Lebanon will not set back the peace-keeping process in the Middle East. I reconfirm the Government's attitude that its policy is firmly founded on Resolution 242. 
-I shall investigate the actual international community statements on Timor. As honourable members will be aware, other countries have not concerned themselves with the position of East Timor to anywhere near the same extent as this Government. I make the distinction between this Government and the previous one whose lamentable performance in this area has been commented upon from time to time. I have detailed the factors behind the recognition of Timor on numerous occasions. In relation to the latter part of the question, the reality of the situation dictated the need for such recognition. It was not brought about by pressure from Indonesia or any other country. I shall be in touch with the honourable member in relation to the first part of his question, but I have covered this matter in so much detail before. The factors behind the Government's recognition were indicated by me outside the Parliament before it resumed, and they have been discussed in the Parliament and elsewhere. 
-The Australian Government has followed with concern the proceedings in Pakistan. The Lahore High Court, of course, last month sentenced former Prime Minister Bhutto to death following his conviction for the murder in 1974 of the father of a former political colleague. He appealed against the sentence to the Supreme Court which will begin its hearing shortly. I had to consider in this case factors relating to the internal affairs of another country. I did not wish to act in a way which would be seen as a direct interference in the legal process and in a manner which could prejudice the appeal. But, having considered all those factors, I instructed our Ambassador to make representation on behalf of the Australian Government to the Pakistan Ministry of Foreign Affairs seeking commutation of the death sentence. The Ambassador was instructed to state that in seeking such clemency the Government had taken into account the close and friendly relations which exist between Pakistan and Australia and which, indeed, enabled us, in my view, to express concern at the death sentence without, we would hope, its being taken as interference in Pakistan's internal affairs. The representations made by the Ambassador stated that while the Australian Government appreciated that the judicial process had not yet been completed, we felt compelled to seek clemency. 
The Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in Pakistan responded that, while our humanitarian motives were understood, the case in its view was sub judice at the time. Appeals for clemency in its view were liable to be seen as interference in the legal process in that they might prejudice the result. As I said, I had earlier weighed that in consideration. Nevertheless I felt that such an appeal for clemency should be made. It was also explained by the Pakistan Ministry of Foreign Affairs that if the Supreme Court upheld the death sentence  Mr Bhutto  could still appeal further to the Governor of the Punjab and then to the  President  of Pakistan. It is my view that notwithstanding the response of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in Pakistan the Government was correct in this instance to join with some other responsible members of the internatioal community to seek clemency on behalf of the former Prime Minister. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Government has initiated exchanges with a wide range of countries, both on a bilateral basis and in the Preparatory Committee for the Special Session of the General Assembly on Disarmament, on the issues to be discussed at the Special Session. Discussions have taken place with over forty countries, including all the nuclear powers and countries from all major regions of the world. Such consultations are continuing. 
The recent Commonwealth Heads of Government Regional meeting also provided an opportunity for consultation on issues relevant to the Special Session on Disarmament. I draw the honourable member's attention to the reference to the Special Session in the  communique of that  meeting. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Government believes that the Special Session of the General Assembly on Disarmament can give new stimulus and focus to international efforts in the whole field of arms control and disarmament. Australia, as one of the ViceChairmen of the Preparatory Committee, has played an active role in the preparation of the major documents for the Session. It has emphasised the need for development of a set of basic principles to guide arms control and disarmament negotiations and for a realistic program of action as a contribution to a new international consensus on priorities for future negotiations. The establishment of meaningful priorities by the Special Session would act as a catalyst in promoting negotiations in specific areas of concern to the international community. 
The Government is particularly concerned to see the Special Session promote nuclear arms control objectives, in particular the strengthening of the non-proliferation regime and the achievement of a comprehensive nuclear test ban treaty. 
The Special Session will also examine ways in which the existing international disarmament negotiating machinery can be made more effective. The Government believes that changes can be made in the Conference of the Committee on Disarmament (CCD) in order to make it a more representative and more effective negotiating body. To this end, it has initiated consultations with a wide range of countries. 
-It is no secret that there have been differences between successive Australian governments and the Maltese Government over a number of aspects of our bilateral relationship. The Maltese Government feels that Australia should make significant contributions in the form of aid to Malta's economic development and the Maltese Prime Minister,  Mr Mintoff,  has publicly criticised the Australian Government for allegedly refusing to receive high level delegations from Malta. Naturally the Australian Government regrets that these criticisms have been made in a highly charged public atmosphere and in a manner which, frankly, has served further to exacerbate the differences. The suggestion that Australia owes Malta assistance because of the contributions made to our development by large numbers of Maltese immigrants I find hard to accept. 
It ought to be obvious. I recognise the interjector and I realise that he has no comprehension whatsoever of Australia's development assistance programs. Quite frankly, there are many countries that must be considered ahead of Malta in determining which country is to be the recipient of our large scale aid programs. We readily acknowledge the contribution of those who have come to Australia from Malta. Fine contributions have been made by the Maltese community in this country. I would be surprised if the members of that community thought that that ought to be the criterion for the determination of Australia's aid programs.  Mr Mintoff  has also drawn attention to the imbalance of bilateral trade in Australia's favour. Australia is a multilateral trader, as are most countries in the world, and we seek to balance our trade multilaterally. Nevertheless, I am informed that the Department of Trade and Resources is continuing to assist Maltese efforts to increase exports to Australia and to encourage Australian investment in Malta. 
On the question of high level visits to Australia, what  Mr Mintoff  has failed to mention, and he is well aware of it, is the exceptionally short notice given, apart from the pressure of business, in regard to the delegations that sought to come to Australia in the early part of 1 976. We have indicated that we would have been pleased to receive a delegation at a more convenient time. Any suggestion that we rejected outright proposals for visits is quite incorrect. The Australian Government would like to see its relations with Malta restored to their former warmth. That is more likely to be achieved by quiet diplomacy than by a public exchange of grievances. Official channels exist for this to be done and it is to be hoped that they can be properly utilised. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 

 Dr Helen Hughes's report has been helpful to the Government in a number of ways. For example, it has confirmed the value of external expert advice. You may wish to know that I recently established a Consultative Committee on Research for Development to assist the Australian Development Assistance Bureau identify and make specific recommendations concerning research and research-related projects, institutions and programs which benefit developing countries and which might be assisted under the aid program. 
The work of this Committee will ensure that much greater emphasis is given to support for development research, by mobilising Australian capabilities more effectively than has been possible until now. 
The Government does not at present have before it any proposal for establishing an Institute of Development Studies. In due course, the Consultative Committee on Research for Development will be examining possible institutional arrangements for supporting development research activities under the aid program. 
South Australian Non-metropolitan Railways: Effect of Takeover  (Question No.  221) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable gentleman to the answer which I gave to the question on notice No. 1876  (Hansard,  8 
November 1977, page 3134) in the last Parliament. There have been no further decisions taken by the Antarctic Consultative Parties since that time. 
Following a decision taken at the Ninth Antarctic Treaty Consultative Meeting in London last year, a Special Consultative Meeting met in Canberra from 27 February- 16 March to elaborate a draft definitive regime for the conservation of Antarctic marine living resources. This meeting will continue this task in Buenos Aires in July. We expect a decisive meeting to establish the regime will be held later this year. This meeting will involve the Consultative Parties in major decisions on the conservation of Antarctic marine living resources. 
Officers of Department of Foreign Affairs associated with UNESCO (Question No. 319) 
The answers to the honourable member's questions are as follows: 
(i) At November, 1975 the following officers of the Department were engaged on duties associated with UNESCO: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Australia is a party to the Agreement of 19 February 1 954 concerning the status of United Nations Forces in Japan. 
Australia concluded an Agreement on 9 May 1963 with the United States concerning the Status of United States Forces in Australia. On 1 0 October 1 965 the  President  of the United States issued a proclamation under the provisions of the Service Courts of Friendly Foreign Forces Act, which permits Australia to exercise within the United States jurisdiction over offences committed by members of the Australian Armed Forces in the United States. Negotiations have not been concluded with the United States on the terms of a reciprocal Status of Forces Agreement, in accordance with the protocol to the Agreement of 9 May 1963 concerning the status of United States forces in Australia. 
On 1 December 1971 Exchanges of Notes between Australia and Malaysia and Australia and Singapore (constituting the Five Power Defence Arrangements) were signed which inter alia concerns the status of Australian forces in those countries. 
A reciprocal Status of Forces Agreement with Papua New Guinea entered into force on 26 January 1977. 
The Australian visiting forces legislation under the Visiting Forces Act of 1 963 can be invoked to make provision for the status in Australia of visiting forces from a declared member of the Commonwealth of Nations (and the United States). Similar reciprocal legislation is known to exist in the United Kingdom, New Zealand, Canada and Malaysia and by adoption of imperial law in several other member states of the Commonwealth of Nations. 
Negotiations for a Reciprocal Claims Agreement with Canada are in the initial stages while such negotiations with the United Kingdom and New Zealand are well advanced. 
Protection of States against Domestic Violence  (Question No. 343) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
and (3) The Australian National Group nominated candidates for the elections held in 1960, 1966, 1969 and 1975. 
In 1960, the Group nominated Philip G. Jessup (USA), Helge Klaestad (Norway), Vladimir M. Koretsky (USSR) and  Sir Muhammad  Zafrulla Khan (Pakistan). For the casual vacancy created by the death of  Sir Hersch  Lauterpacht the Group nominated  Sir Gerald  Fitzmaurice (UK). At the time of making its nominations, the Group comprised Chief Justice of the High Court  Sir Owen  Dixon, former Chief Justice  Sir John  Latham,  Sir Kenneth  Bailey, then Commonwealth Solicitor-General, and Professor K. O. Shatwell, then Dean of the Faculty of Law in the University of Sydney 
In 1966 the Group nominated  Sir Kenneth  Bailey. At the time of making its nomination, the Group comprised  Sir Owen  Dixon, Chief Justice  Sir Garfield  Barwick,  Sir Kenneth  Bailey, then Australian High Commissioner in Ottawa, and Professor Shatwell. 
In 1969, the Group nominated  Dr Thanat  Khoman (Thailand),  Mr Constantin  Stavropoulos (Greece) and  Dr Jimenez  de Arechaga ( Uruguay ). The Group comprised  Mr R.  J. Ellicott, then Commonwealth Solicitor-General,  Sir Garfield  Barwick,  Sir Kenneth  Bailey, then Special Consultant in International Law to the Department of External Affairs, and Professor Shatwell. 
In 1975, the Group nominated  Dr Edvard  Hambro (Norway),  President  Manfred Lachs (Poland), Professor Shigeru Oda (Japan) and Judge C. D. Onyeama (Nigeria). The Group then comprised  Sir Garfield  Barwick,  Mr M.  H. Byers, Q.C., Commonwealth Solicitor-General,  Mr C.  W. Harders, Secretary of the Attorney-General 's Department, and Professor Shatwell. 
I am advised that before each election the Government has consulted with the Group to ensure that the Group is aware of the foreign policy implications of any decision it may make in regard to the nomination of candidates. The Government has also at times suggested candidates which the Group might consider nominating, but always on the understanding that the Group is an independent body which makes its own decision as to the weight which should be given to any suggestions put to it. 
I am advised that since his appointment to the Australian National Group in 1964, the Chief Justice has participated fully in the Group's deliberations before each triennial election. 
Department of Industry and Commerce: Expenditure on Domestic Air Travel (Question No. 441) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) TheDepartment of Foreign Affairs has produced a submission to the reviewundertaken by the Department of Administrative Services and the Department of Finance referred to by the Prime Minister in his answer to question No. 468 on Tuesday 4 April, 1978. Details of the number of copies of particular newspapers and periodicals purchased by this Department in November 1977, and of assessed costs over a year will be available in the results of this review. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is: 
Yes. 
Yes. 
As my colleague the Minister for Primary Industry noted during question time on 7 March 1978, the principles upon which our relationship with China have been based serve the mutual interests of our two countries and the Government has no intention of attempting to change the basis of the relationship. 
Reciprocal Agreements on Social Security  (Question No. 768) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Yes. 
The Government has been giving careful consideration to this matter, and in view of the serious questions raised by the establishment of a self-styled 'Croatian Embassy', I made a statement to the House on 5 April outlining the Government's intentions.  (Hansard,  5 April 1978, page 993). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) None. It is unlikely that any substantive change to the federal state clause as it now stands would be acceptable to the majority of the ILO's members. 
None. The determination of the status of State of Chief Industrial Importance in the ILO context is governed by the application of a weighted formula by which, on a ten-point scale, national income rates six points, assessed contributions to the ILO budget rate three points and the size of the economically active population rates one point. Whether or not Australia should be included among the ten states of chief industrial importance will be determined at the next General Review of this category of states or when the governing body decides to fill the seat left vacant by the United States. The outcome will depend upon Australia 's relative ranking as determined by the application of the foregoing formula on the basis of the then current economic statistics but present indications suggest that Australia would not be included. 
Under the provisions of Article 7 of the ILO Constitution the governing body determines the ten states 'as occasion requires'. 
Bauxite Mining in Western Australia  (Question No. 773) 
-The book that the - 
-Not at all. The honourable member is not asking for that and I will defend him for the question he has asked. 
The honourable member for Wills seeks to interject. He is out of his class and he knows it. I would keep quiet and not draw attention to myself if I were he. 
My answer to the latter part of the question is that I certainly will make an explanation to the House. It is my intention at the moment to place some matters before the Parliament in connection with this question next week. But it is incorrect in the view of the Government to make the assumption, which the honourable member made in the earlier part of his question, when he asked: 'Are they no longer part of Australia?' At law and by traditional practice in the area they have never been part of Australia. In fact, the original documents defining the Territory of Papua and the colony of Queensland indicate quite clearly that these tiny islands lying approximately 800 metres off the coast of southern Papua were in fact, and then deemed to be at law, part of the Territory of Papua. 
-They were so described in the instruments of transfer to the colonial authorities in the latter part of the last century. I will lay these papers before the Parliament, as I have indicated already. Regrettably, some confused cartographer or others deemed to describe them unilaterally as part of Australia. That does not bear examination and does not stand up to what is shown in the original documents. Those mapping authorities, such as the Oxford Atlas and the like, who go to original documents to draw their maps rather than plagiarising the maps of others, have placed these islands in the Territory of Papua. After our examination of the original documents, I can state that the reality today is that in approaching the Torres Strait negotiations with Papua New Guinea, as part of our negotiations from the Arafura Sea to the Coral Sea, I set to proceed from a proper basis at law. The law clearly stated that these islands belonged to Papua New Guinea from the original decree in the latter part of the last century. 
There are some people who clearly disagree with this view. I do not believe that such people have gone to the original documents and have traced them through in establishing their viewpoint. More to the point, perhaps, in a practical sense and in a sense of concern for the people of the area, I state that a submission was received from the Queensland Premier who said only yesterday that he was not concerned with the Federal Government's interpretation of this situation. Contained in that submission was the statement of the Torres Strait Islanders themselves, on whose behalf some people claim to speak, that they do not regard these islands as part of Queensland. They have never regarded them as within their area or as part of the traditional areas for themselves. They have always regarded them in the traditional movement, execution of fisheries and other activities within the Torres Strait, as part of the Papuan coast and as part of Papua. 
So it means that at law, in the attitude of the Queensland Government, in the attitude of the Torres Strait Islanders and in the attitude and decisions of the Federal Government and of the Government of Papua New Guinea, the islands belong to Papua New Guinea. It seems to me that there ought to be no doubt, therefore, as to their proper legal standing. Some persons, as is their right, seem to question this. I wish they would return to original documents. If they did so, their questioning might be more accurate. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) (a) 37. One officer departed Canberra for Sydney on 6 February, sixteen on 8 February; eight on 9 February; four on 10 February and eight on 1 1 and 12 February. The majority of officers resumed duty in the Department either on Friday, 1 7 February or Monday, 20 February. 

$261.40. The Department of Foreign Affairs was responsible for paying for travel and other allowances of only five officers. 
$1,859.30. 
The answers to the honourable member's questions are as follows: 
Action has commenced to prepare the necessary legislation to enable Australia to become a party to this Convention. 
Appropriate action will be taken for Australia to become a party to the Convention by accession when the legislation comes into force. 
Handicapped Persons: Sales Tax on Vehicles (Question No. 804) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. I have seen the report to which the honourable member refers. As to the substance of the report, I invite the honourable member's attention to the joint statement which the then Papua New Guinea Foreign Minister,  Sir Maori  Kiki, and I issued on S June 1976 concerning agreement on a number of points basic to a Torres Strait settlement in which it was stated,  inter alia,  that: 'Papua New Guinea, in view of the wishes of the Torres Strait Islanders which  Mr Peacock  had stressed, has accepted that Australia will retain all Australian inhabited islands.' It is therefore incorrect to suggest that a delimitation of territorial seas or of 200-mile zones between Australia and Papua New Guinea would leave those islands under Papua New Guinea sovereignty or administration. It was also stated in the joint statement of S June 1976 that: 'a zone will be established in the Torres Strait to protect and preserve the traditional way of life and livelihood of the Torres Strait Islanders and the residents of the adjacent coast of Papua New Guinea, including fishing and freedom of movement, both north and south of the seabed boundary.' It is therefore correct that the Austraiian Government has sought a regime which will ensure protection for the traditional fishing rights of the local inhabitants of the Torres Strait, and has obtained the provisional agreement of the Government of Papua New Guinea to the establishment of a Protected Zone for this purpose. The Australian Government's position in further negotiations with Papua New Guinea will be to reach an equitable and permanent settlement which will embody these points of provisional agreement. 
The joint statement of S June 1976 also contained the following statements: 
It has been agreed that the Australian territorial sea around the islands of Boigu, Dauan and Saibai, which will lie to the north of the seabed boundary, will be three miles, and that there will be a line delimiting the territorial sea between these islands and Papua New Guinea.' 
A seabed boundary will be delimited between Australia and Papua New Guinea. It will run through the protected zone which, the two Ministers agreed, will be established in the Torres Strait. Papua New Guinea agreed that the seabed boundary will lie to the north of all Australian inhabited islands except Boigu, Dauan and Saibai. Australia has accepted that the seabed boundary will be drawn in a location more southerly than the line at present applying under Australian legislation for offshore petroleum administration purposes, that this line does not represent the Australian view of the appropriate permanent location of the seabed boundary, that the seabed boundary will run to the south  or  Boigu, Dauan and Saibai and it will be continuous. ' 
The joint communique issued by the Prime Ministers of Australia and Papua New Guinea,  Mr Fraser  and  Mr Somare,  on 11 February 1977 stated that: 'provisional agreement had been reached on the location of a seabed boundary running some 1200 miles from the Arafura Sea, through the Torres Strait and out through the Coral Sea.' The joint statement which the Papua New Guinea Foreign Minister,  Mr Olewale,  and I issued on 10 February 1978 concerning interim proclamations of extended maritime jurisdiction in the area between Australia and Papua New Guinea stated that: 
Neither Government was committed to final and permanent arrangements in respect of maritime boundaries on the basis of the interim proclamations to be made but it was their intention that such arrangements would be decided upon in the course of the negotiations they had now agreed to resume on a settlement of all issues relating to the Torres Strait and other areas between their two countries.' 
and (4) I invite the honourable member's attention to the joint statement of 10 February 1978, and to the statement which I issued on 31 March 1978, concerning interim proclamations of extended maritime jurisdiction in the area between Australia and Papua New Guinea. 
It is the intention of the Australian and Papua New Guinea Governments that final and permanent arrangements in respect of the delimitation of territorial seas and 200-mile zones will be decided upon in the course of the resumed negotiations to reach an equitable and permanent settlement on maritime boundaries between their two countries and on all other issues relating to Torres Strait. 
-I must say at the outset of what will have to be a succinct answer to a series of questions dealing with an intricate matter that we do not start from the assumption that countries will seek to breach their important treaty obligations to us or to the International Atomic Energy Agency, or under the Nuclear NonProliferation Treaty. Of course, our safeguards agreements will provide for IAEA safeguards to verify that the uranium supplied is for peaceful purposes and will not be diverted to nonpeaceful or explosive purposes. There will, of course, be regular consultations with uranium importing countries to satisfy ourselves on the implementation of the agreement. Furthermore, the IAEA safeguards themselves involve periodic reports of a state's holdings of nuclear material; inspections of material and checks of documents and records; and techniques of containment, for example, locks, safes and surveillance, including automatic cameras. On top of that there is a requirement to explain any discrepancies which are discovered. 
Our particular bilateral consultations will not duplicate that process but will provide machinery for confirming to us that the agreement is being properly implemented, and for raising and resolving any questions as to its implementation. The IAEA, of course, can perform only as well as the best available measurement and other techniques permit. Nevertheless, IAEA safeguards provide such a high measure of confidence that any significant diversion referred to by the honourable member in his question would be detected in time. They are a serious deterrent to diversion because of the high probability of detection. 
If a diversion is detected or if a country cannot give a satisfactory explanation for a discrepancy which is picked up in an IAEA inspection the matter would be reported to the Board of Governors and all the members of the IAEA, the Security Council and the General Assembly. The Board would call on the country concerned to take prompt corrective action and may invoke sanctions. These include cutting off IAEA assistance, requiring the return of supplied material and equipment and suspending the country concerned from the Agency. If a country breached its treaty obligations towards Australia we could draw on all the diplomatic, political and legal procedures available to governments in any case where the treaty is broken. We also would have the option of cutting off supplies. A breach which led Australia to cut off supplies would be likely to prompt similar action by other suppliers. Australia advocates such a collective approach to sanctions. 
Finally, countries which have invested heavily in nuclear power reactors and which are coming to rely on that power generating capacity will obviously attach the greatest importance to the security of supplies of fuel. For example, after 1 985 France is expected to be dependent on nuclear power for 60 per cent of its electrical power generating capacity. In this way our willingness to make Australian uranium available to meet world energy needs, but subject to stringent safeguards, makes an important contribution to international nuclear non-proliferation. Ultimately the most important objective to which Australia is contributing by this policy and by its parallel high level of activity on nuclear arms control issues is an international environment in which no country could seriously contemplate the nuclear weapon option. 
For the information of honourable members, I present the annual report of the Department of Foreign Affairs for the year ended 31 December 1977. 
Pursuant to section 25 of the Australia-Japan Foundation Act 1976, 1 present the annual report of the Australia- Japan Foundation 1976. 
by leave- 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to my answer to a question in the House on 3 May 1977. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Discussions with the States are continuing and it is hoped that suitable legislation will be prepared shortly to enable Australia to ratify the Conventions referred to in Questions Nos. 234 and 235. 
-Since this Government took office, and particularly since its decision on the export of uranium, Australia's activity on arms control and disarmament has increased markedly. I have read with some interest the views of honourable members opposite that the Government has done nothing on the question of disarmament. There is a touch of irony, apart from mystery, in reading the speech of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition who in one sentence said the Government was doing nothing in New York and, remarkably, in the next sentence said that apart from posturing greatly in New York nothing was being done here. 
The Opposition is devoid of any initiatives on human rights. It knows that since the early 1950s Australia had not served on the Human Rights Commission. She now is a member and as a consequence our policies are being pursued there. At the last General Assembly meeting we co-sponsored resolutions on the comprehensive nuclear test ban, on the Strategic Arms Limitation Talks negotiations and on nuclear non-proliferation. All three resolutions were adopted with wide support. In fact the resolution on the comprehensive nuclear test ban was supported for the first time ever by both the United States and the Soviet Union. Of course even to the most bereft minds opposite it ought  to  be obvious that one cannot achieve a successful nuclear test ban unless one has the support of both super powers. In this instance for the first time, as a consequence directly of Australia's initiative, they supported the resolution. 
We have also been active in the preparations for the United Nations Special General Assembly Session on Disarmament. I have heard that we have done nothing on that. In fact, we are a vice-president of the organising committee. The special session can potentially give new stimulus and focus to the whole range of arms control efforts. We have emphasised the need for a set of basic principles and for a realistic program of action as a contribution to a new international consensus on priorities for future negotiations. At the last two General Assembly meetings I have spoken extensively on disarmament. Finally, our decision to allow the export of uranium under stringent safeguards was taken in the context of our support for nuclear arms control objectives. As regards all these issues put to the House, Australia is not only continuing to exert as much influence as possible but is doing so effectively, as can be seen by the results obtained in the United Nations. 
by leave- I wish to inform honourable members that, in my discussions in Port Moresby last week with the Papua New Guinea Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade,  Mr Olewale,  we agreed upon the principal basic elements which are to be included in the treaty to be concluded on maritime boundaries between our two countries and on other matters relating to the Torres Strait. In this statement I propose to present a broad commentary on the course of the negotiations. I also intend to respond more fully to questions which have been raised concerning the status of certain islands in the Torres Strait. It is important that honourable members understand that because the Papua New Guinea Parliament is at present in recess, I have agreed with  Mr Olewale  that we shall each present to our respective parliaments in two weeks time a fuller outline of the principal basic elements to be included in the treaty. It is also my intention that, at that time, illustrative maps will be made available to honourable members which will indicate more clearly than words can do the results of these important negotiations. 
Honourable members will know that Australia and Papua New Guinea have been engaged in these negotiations over a period of years, beginning before Papua New Guinea moved to independence in 1975. The negotiations have involved a requirement to delimit territorial seas, the seabed and fishing zones throughout the area between the two countries. This requirement arises because there are no existing international lines of delimitation on these matters. There could be no such lines until Papua New Guinea became independent. It is true that the so-called 1878-1879 Une has commonly been regarded as constituting a maritime boundary. However, it is clear from the very terms of the letters patent referring to the line that it did not represent a sea or seabed boundary. The purpose of the line was only to indicate the islands that were annexed to Queensland. The negotiations have also involved the question of the status of certain islands in the Torres Strait and many intricate historical, cultural, social and economic factors of great significance to the people of the area. 
The Australian and Papua New Guinea governments have approached the negotiations with great care and concern in order to arrive at a solution which is equitable in human terms and lasting and beneficial in its consequences. We have sought an agreement which will stand the test of time both legally and functionally. We have been determined to achieve a treaty settlement which would strengthen the fabric of the relationship between the two countries and their peoples, which we both regard as of high importance. We have looked for a treaty settlement which will have the capacity to adapt to changing circumstances on matters of day-to-day significance while at the same time retaining a durable certainty about the distribution and nature of the rights of the parties concerned. 
It has been common ground that a treaty of this kind should be comprehensive and enshrine agreement as a total package definitive of jurisdiction throughout the area of shared interest. Thus, whilst there has been preoccupation with the Torres Strait as an area of special significance to both countries, the question of the delimitation of seabed and fishing rights throughout the whole area running some 1,200 miles from the Arafura Sea to the Coral Sea has also been of major importance. 
In the course of our negotiations, it became necessary to confirm and identify precisely those islands which were annexed to Queensland. I undertook last week to provide further material for honourable members on this particular matter. In a statement on 31 March 1978 I said that research had shown that the small uninhabited islands of Kawa, Mata Kawa and Kussa, which lie very close to the Papua New Guinea mainland but which have often been shown on maps as part of Queensland, were not among the Torres Strait islands annexed to Queensland in the last century. I added that the Australian Government had accordingly informed the Government of Papua New Guinea that, in the eventual treaty, Australia would recognise them as part of Papua New Guinea. 
I dealt with a number of aspects of this matter in my answer to a question in this House on 3 May. As I stressed in that answer, it is necessary to go back to the original documents in order to establish their intention. A paper dealing with those documents, with relevant chart and map extracts attached, has now been placed in the Parliamentary Library for the information of honourable members. I invite the attention of honourable members to that paper and wish to add only three points. Firstly, the paper shows among other things that, when the relevant letters patent were being prepared by the British authorities in 1878, a line was drawn on an admiralty chart to show the islands intended to be annexed. That is to say, a chart was specifically prepared by the British authorities to show the intent of the letters patent, and copies of that chart were duly circulated to the Governor of Queensland and others, together with copies of the letters patent. The chart shows a line that excludes the Kawa Islands and Kussa Island from the islands to be annexed to Queensland. 
Secondly, as the paper points out, the original intent has not been completely forgotten or overlooked. Maps have appeared, under very distinguished auspices, showing the Kawa Islands or Kussa Island as not being among those annexed to Queensland. In particular, the 1878 admiralty chart was referred to when the territorial extent of Queensland was examined in the legal context of the seas and submerged lands litigation in 1975 in the High Court. The chart was specifically referred to by Queensland counsel as showing how the 'boundary' was defined in the letters patent. 
Thirdly, the correction of the widespread misunderstanding about these islands has not meant the creation of a legal vacuum. The effect of the letters patent of 8 June 1888 constituting British New Guinea was that islands off the south and south-eastern shores of British New Guinea 'not forming part of the Colony of Queensland' were included within British New Guinea. By virtue of the Papua Act 1905, British New Guinea was accepted by the Commonwealth as a territory under the authority of the Commonwealth by the name of the Territory of Papua. After the Second World War that Territory was administered in union with the Territory of New Guinea and, as the third schedule to the Papua New Guinea Act 1949, as amended up to the time of Papua New Guinea's independence, makes clear, islands within the Torres Strait that were not part of the State of Queensland continued to be within the bounds of Papua New Guinea immediately prior to Papua New Guinea's independence. 
It will be clear from what I have said about the status of the Kawa and Kussa Islands that no question arises about any transfer of Australian territory to Papua New Guinea. Papua New Guinea sovereignty over those islands will be recognised in the treaty. Australian sovereignty over all Australian islands in the Torres Strait and their 3-mile territorial seas will be recognised in the treaty. The Torres Strait Islanders will, of course, remain Australian citizens. There will be a delimitation of the territorial seas between Boigu, Dauan and Saibai and Papua New Guinea. In addition, there will be lines delimiting seabed and fisheries jurisdiction running through the whole area between the two countries. 
I also regard it as most important that, in addition to the clear jurisdictional lines which will be enshrined in the treaty, a protected zone will be established in the Torres Strait. This zone will protect the traditional practices and cultures of the peoples who inhabit the area. The treaty will provide that they will be able to move freely about the zone in pursuit of their traditional way of life and that this will remain undisturbed by the formal jurisdictional arrangements. 
I believe that the approach taken by the two governments towards the treaty settlement- to resolve the many complex and sensitive issues by a process of steady and frank bilateral negotiationhas been the correct one. I regard the agreement now reached upon the principal basic elements to be included in the treaty to be an historic one. Whilst considerably more work has yet to be done on the development of detailed treaty articles, I am now confident that it will represent a mutually acceptable and equitable settlement which meets the genuine concerns and interests of the two countries. As I explained at the beginning of this statement, I have been able to give at this stage little more than the broadest account of the outcome of my recent negotiations with  Mr Olewale.  As I have agreed with him, we shall however each be presenting to our parliaments in two weeks' time a fuller outline of the agreed basic elements to be included in the treaty. I present the following paper: 
Australia and Papua New Guinea: Negotiations on Maritime Boundaries and on Other Matters Relating to Torres Strait- Ministerial Statement, 11 May 1978. 
Motion (by  Mr MacKellar)  proposed: 
That the House take note of the paper. 
As the present member for Kooyong I naturally wish to be associated with the motion and to confirm again my sympathy to Dame Pattie and the Menzies family. Over the last week very many tributes have been paid to  Sir Robert,  both in Australia and overseas. It is worth remembering that had he not outlived most of his distinguished contemporaries there would have been even more tributes from eminent sources. Three of his outstanding characteristics in my view are worthy of particular mention. Firstly, I refer to his political courage, his willingness to take unpopular courses, to express unfashionable views and even to undertake tasks for which the chances of success were less than even, because he thought it was necessary and right. Secondly, I refer to the breadth of his political perspective. There have been few Australian politicians less parochial or less constricted by ideological blinkers. In international politics he brought Australia into a larger league, not stridently, not raucously, but with a realistic appreciation of how we could fit into such a larger scene. Thirdly, I refer to his respect for language in politics. By this I mean more than that he made great speeches. In his speaking, in his writing, in his thinking about politics  Sir 
Robert was concerned to match words to substance, to mean what he said, to say what he meant, to respect his audience. In a world in which rhetoric threatens to become an end in itself, in which public relations threaten to displace substance and jargon constantly presses on good English, this is not a negligible virtue. 
In the Anglo-Saxon tradition I believe we have been taught to think of conservatism and liberalism as alternative and opposed positions.  Sir Robert  Menzies' career is a salutory reminder that they are not necessarily so. He was certainly conservative, somebody who valued what was tried, tested and familiar. But what he wanted to conserve were essentially liberal values and liberal institutions.  His  commitment to those values was not doctrinal or theoretical; it was based on long experience and the fact that they had evolved gradually and were the products of a particular historical tradition. It was a fully earned commitment, immune to changing fashion and confident in itself. In substance,  Sir Robert  Menzies combined all the essential qualities of leadership: Courage, judgment, integrity and dedication. Such qualities are frequently found in part in other men;  Sir Robert  had the rare combination in full. 
It is no exaggeration to say that there is a particular grief in the minds and hearts of the overwhelming majority of people who reside in the suburbs which make up the electorate of Kooyong. Constituents felt great pride in the fact that they were represented by  Sir Robert  Menzies. To many members of parliament that would be the highest accolade. On all occasions either when one was with him in that electorate or when one listened to the views that were expressed quoting him one felt great pride flowing through the constituents of his electorate. It is fair to say that he in turn felt great pride in representing them throughout his 32 years as their member. 
I shall always be in the debt of  Sir Robert  Menzies for his original interest in me when I was only a law student and standing as a condidate for the former seat of Yarra, which continued through the various positions I held as either  President  of the Victorian division of the Liberal Party or a member of this Parliament. It was of course an honour to know him, it was an honour to receive his advice, and it was an honour to follow him in this Parliament. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Many countries have expressed their interest in the general question of the conservation of Antarctic marine living resources. Australia has been involved in some multilateral discussions about this, especially in the context of the Food and Agricultural Organisation. 
However, the definitive regime which the honourable member refers to is presently being negotiated by the Antarctic Treaty Consultative Parties. It was agreed at the Ninth Antarctic Treaty Consultative Meeting in London last year that a Special Consultative Meeting be convened in order to elaborate a draft definitive regime. This meeting began its work in Canberra from 27 February-16 March. It will continue its task in Buenos Aires in July. Our discussions on the regime for the conservation of Antarctic marine living resources have consequently been confined to the Antartic Treaty Consultative Parties. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Bombay- Our relations with India in all fields have developed since 1976 and, during the recent visit of the Prime Minister of India, the Australian Government confirmed its interest in continuing to develop ties with India. 
Consular, commercial and immigration activities from the areas formerly handled by the post in Bombay, have all increased since its closure in 1976. In addition, we have a major continuing commitment to aid programs in India which require administrative support. Bombay is the major Indian city apart from the capital, New Delhi, its major commercial centre and a regular port of call for Qantas services to and from Australia. Qantas has three eastward and three westward flights a week to and from Bombay, and the number of Australians travelling through has increased quite dramatically. 
Reopening a Consulate-General in Bombay will provide a valuable second channel for representation and contact with Indian regional authorities and important business interests, constitute an additional consular facility for Austalian travellers, and facilitate handling of migration matters in the area. 
Los Angeles- Since the Consulate-General was closed in June 1976, the expansion of Australian consular, trade, information and general political activities in the United States has meant that the Consulates-General at San Francisco and Chicago which took over the areas previously handled from Los Angeles have borne a disproportionate responsibility which is now judged handled better on the spot. 
In 1976, Southern California's trade totalled$US17.3 billion (about the same as Australia's total trade) and 66 per cent of it was with Asia from where we face intensive and growing competition which needs to be met. 
The problems associated with obtaining visas by mail from San Francisco have had some impact on our tourist potential in Southern California. The additional burden on the Australian Tourist Commission in Los Angeles needs to be relieved. At present, about 4,700 seats are available each week on flights from Los Angeles to Australia. Australian tourism to the United States (with associated consular work) is expected to increase dramatically in the next few years. 
A major world exposition is to be held at Los Angeles in 1 98 1 in which Australia will need to participate if it intends to bid for the venue of Expo 88. An office of substantial status will need to be established at Los Angeles well before 1981 to provide preliminary facilities for the Australian Exhibit Organisation. 
UNESCO- UNESCO is a major international organisation with more than 140 member governments and significant activities in almost every field of education, science, the social sciences, culture, communications and development. The scope of UNESCO's programs has been steadily increasing and the extent of our own involvement in these programs has widened significantly, particularly in the Asian and Pacific region. The appointment of a full-time Ambassador will assist Australia 's contribution to the development of UNESCO's future programs and help ensure that our own growing interests in these programs are reflected in them. UNESCO is the most politically sensitive of the UN Specialised Agencies and the political aspects of Australia 's role in the Organisation have assumed increased importance. It is appropriate that this and the other factors noted above should be recognised by the appointment of a full-time Ambassador to UNESCO. 
On the withdrawal of the previous full-time Ambassador to UNESCO late in 1976 his functions reverted to the Ambassador to France. 
Since that time significant areas of consultation and cooperation have opened up between Australia and France and continue to develop steadily, including our relationship with the European Communities, nuclear matters, cultural relations, defence exchanges and our interests in the South Pacific, Antarctica, the Middle East and Indochina. As a result, the Ambassador to France cannot without prejudice to his principal functions give to UNESCO the attention that its importance in the international community and its significance to Australia deserve. 
No. My letter to the Prime Minister is a classified document. Arguments put forward in that letter are outlined in ( 1 ) above. 
While no specific proposals for opening posts were made in my Department in the Review of Australia's Overseas Representation, a set of criteria used in deciding whether to establish a mission or post was submitted. Decisions to open the posts were taken against these criteria. 
Financial arrangements consequent upon the closure of the posts at Los Angeles and Bombay and in regard to UNESCO are as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2). Details of attacks on diplomatic and consular premises or representatives since my predecessor's answer on 25 October 1972, and prosecutions and convictions in respect of these attacks are shown in the following list. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Most countries accepting refugees for permanent settlement from Indo-China and East Timor are developed countries and therefore would not require financial help from Australia. 
Australian bilateral assistance to developing countries who may have accepted refugees from Indo-China and East Timor is not specifically aimed at helping those countries resettle refugees, but is intended to promote their economic and social development. 
Most of Australia's financial contributions to help with the care and re-settlement of refugees have been channelled through the office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) which has a mandate to seek solutions to the problems of refugees. Australia makes regular annual contributions to UNHCR and in 1978 Australia will contribute $740,000 to UNHCR 's General Program from which UNCHR's worldwide refugee activities are funded. Funds are allocated from this source for assisting refugees including those from Indo-China and East Timor. 
Immediately after the cessation of hostilities in IndoChina Australia contributed $4m to UNHCR programs in Indo-China in the period 1974-75. More recently, Australia has made substantial contributions to UNCHR's Special Program for Indo-Chinese refugees in Thailand and other countries in Asia, including the boat people. In 1977, Australia contributed $ 1 m and in 1 978 $ 1 .3m. 
Australia also gave $250,000 to the International Committee of the Red Cross in 1975, and $250,000 to the Indonesian Red Cross in 1 976 for the relief of refugees in East Timor and Indonesian Timor. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am informed that Australian States and Territories have entered into arrangements under their respective legislation for the reciprocal enforcement of judgments with the following ' countries '-in the terms of the relevant legislation. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In 1964 it was estimated that there were 975,000 Tamils of Indian origin in Sri Lanka. These people were descended from Indian Tamils taken to Sri Lanka during the latter part of the 1 9th century as plantation labourers and are distinct from the Sri Lanka Tamils whose forbears have inhabited parts of Sri Lanka for centuries. Sri Lanka 's Indian Tamils are stateless persons. In agreements between the Indian and Sri Lankan Governments signed in 1964 and 1974 it was agreed that of these 975,000 Sri Lanka would grant citizenship to 375,000 (plus their natural increase) and India would agree to the repatriation to India and grant Indian citizenship to 600,000 (with their natural increase). This has been taking place in a phased program over a number of years. The decision on whether to seek Sri Lankan citizenship or repatriation to India is one for the individuals concerned to make, there being no provision for compulsory repatriation. 
The Indian Government has been active in providing assistance to those who opt for repatriation. This assistance includes financial grants, loans, training, and other assistance. 
The resettlement program is principally of bilateral concern to the two countries and, as far as the Australian Government is aware, neither has sought the involvement or assistance of third countries in it. 
In providing assistance to developing countries it has long been Australia's policy to respond to the priorities decided by recipient countries. Should either India or Sri Lanka consider that resettlement rates a high priority as an objective of Australian assistance then we would consider their approach. 
5 ) As the matter is one of resettlement already covered by agreements between India and Sri Lanka it is unlikely that the question of applying for refugee status in Australia would arise. 
The Australian Government does not propose to intervene in the resettlement program amicably agreed between India and Sri Lanka. 
The answers to the honourable member's questions are as follows: 
Yes. 
2 ) Following the Axis invasion of Yugoslavia in 1 94 1 the former royalist governor of Slovenia, Ban Marko Natlacen attempted to negotiate with the occupiers for a separate Slovene state under German and Italian patronage similar to that afforded to the fascist puppet state of Croatia. The German and Italian governments decided however to divide Slovenia between themselves, two thirds being annexed to the German Reich and the remainder to Italy. The royalist governor was permitted an advisory role to the Italian occupation forces in Slovenia. 
Though some royalist emigres, in the context of the post war situation, advocated an independent status for Slovenia and described themselves as in favour of a 'Free Slovenia ' as some form of constitutional monarchy, the only coherent war-time force dedicated to the liberation and reconstitution of Slovenia was the 'National Liberation Anti-Fascist Front'. This movement of all Yugoslav peoples was, however, dedicated to the re-establishment of a federal Yugoslav state in which Slovenia would be, as it is today, a constituent republic. Its leader was the current  President  of Yugoslavia, Josip Broz Tito. 
No. 
Yes. 
Passports:  Mr Morris  Glickman and  Mr lga!  Makler (Question No. 996) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  ( 1 ), (2), and (3) The Government is aware of the remarks attributed to the Indonesian Embassy to which the honourable member has referred. The Indonesian Government has stated as firm policy its support for the independence and sovereignty of Papua New Guinea. There is no information available to the Government to suggest that the Indonesian Government is considering any action contrary to that policy. 
Pursuant to section 25 of the Australia- Japan Foundation Act 1976 I present the final annual report of the Australia- Japan Foundation for 1977. 
-May I say at the outset that the Government condemns unreservedly the senseless and brutal killings of innocent men, women and children recently in Zaire. Some of these people were apparently killed in the face of the French and Belgian rescue operation. Without that operation, however, many more most probably would have died. The background to these events is that the attack on Kolwezi was carried out by a group calling itself the Congo National Liberation Front- the group referred to in the honourable member's question- which was apparently based on former Katangan secessionists living in Angola. Their aim appears to have been to bring down the present Mobutu Government in Zaire or to bring about the secession from Zaire of the Shaba province, which, of course, is the former Katanga, as was attempted in the early 1960s. To this extent the matter is an internal one for Zaire, although the attack clearly represents another threat to stability in an already tense and uneasy region. 
So far as we can judge, no Cuban troops have been directly involved in the attack, although according to some reports Cubans and East Germans in Angola may have provided training and support. The employment of Cubans or others in an active role would be a very serious development, internationalising the conflict and constituting further blatant interference in another important African country. I have previously made it clear in the House that in the Government's view Cuban and Soviet military interference in the affairs of countries of the region has not advanced the cause of peace one iota. The French and Belgian rescue operation was of course not primarily intended to support the Zaire Government. Its stated objective was to rescue foreign nationals, mainly French and Belgian. Finally, according to information available to my Department to date, one Australian citizen was in the Kolwezi area at the time of the attack but has been safely accounted for. 
by leave- In my statement to Parliament on 1 1 May 1978 I informed honourable members that, in recent negotiations with the Papua New Guinea Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade,  Mr Ebia  Olewale, we agreed upon the principal basic elements which are to be included in the treaty to be concluded on maritime boundaries between our two countries and on other matters relating to Torres Strait. In that statement I indicated that  Mr Olewale  and I would be presenting to our respective Parliaments a fuller outline of those elements and that I would make available to honourable members illustrative maps which would indicate the results of these important negotiations. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has written to the Premier of Queensland,  Mr Bjelke-Petersen,  concerning the principal basic elements which are to be included in the treaty and my colleague the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  has also conferred with the Torres Strait Islander Chairmen. 
In this statement I wish to present to honourable members an account of the principal basic elements which the Australian and Papua New Guinea Foreign Ministers have agreed will be included in the treaty. The Foreign Minister of Papua New Guinea is presenting a similar account to his Parliament. Before proceeding to speak about the treaty elements, I wish to recall that Australia and Papua New Guinea have been engaged in these negotiations over a period of years, beginning before Papua New Guinea moved to independence. Both our governments have been determined to arrive at a permanent and equitable settlement which will meet the need to delimit our territorial seas and the seabed and fishing zones between the two countries. The settlement must also take account of intricate historical, cultural, social and economic factors of great significance to our peoples, including notably the people of the Torres Strait area. Both our governments have accordingly approached the negotiations with great care and concern in order to arrive at a solution which is equitable in human terms and lasting and beneficial in its consequences. We have sought an agreement which will stand the test of time both legally and functionally. We have been determined to achieve a treaty settlement which would strengthen the fabric of the relationship between the two countries and their peoples, which we both regard as of high importance. 
It is against this background that I now present for the information of honourable members a paper containing an outline of the principal basic elements which  Mr Olewale  and I have agreed will be included in the treaty, together with two illustrative maps which will indicate these elements graphically. At the conclusion of this statement I shall seek leave to have the text of the paper incorporated in  Hansard.  I commend this paper and the supporting maps to the attention of honourable members. It is of necessity a long and somewhat technical document. I should therefore like to state some general points and then to summarise the main treaty elements on which agreement has been reached. Firstly, it should be kept in mind that certain outstanding points of substance are to be the subject of further negotiations. These points arise mainly from the principal basic elements which now represent common ground. Secondly, the package of elements which is now emerging provides for a fair and equitable division of sea and seabed resources between Papua New Guinea and Australia across the whole area traversed by the proposed lines of delimitation. This is what both Governments have been seeking to achieve. 
Thirdly, the basic elements provide for access from both sides to the sea and seabed resources of the Torres Strait area on terms which will foster the development of the economies of the immediate areas in and on both sides of the Strait. 
Fourthly, arrangements will be established in the Torres Strait area which are designed to meet fully the particular needs of the people of the area, including the people of the adjacent coastal area of Papua New Guinea, with regard to traditional movements and traditional fishing. In putting these arrangements into effect, the wishes of the people of the area will be taken into account by the two Governments. There will be machinery to ensure that representatives of these people will be consulted about decisions that affect them. 
Fifthly, there will be appropriate guarantees for freedom of movement ibr ships and aircraft in the area. In particular, these will ensure that internal sea and air services of the two countries will take place without delay, interference or inconvenience. There will also be provision for the passage of vessels using the Strait to go to other destinations along routes normally used for international navigation. The main treaty elements, briefly stated in non-technical and nonlegal language, are as follows: 
1 ) There will be a seabed resources delimitation line running through the whole area between the two countries and located as indicated on the two maps. 
There will similarly be a line delimiting the swimming fisheries resources jurisdiction between the two countries. In the central Torres Strait area, it will run to the north of the islands of Boigu, Dauan and Saibai as shown on the two maps. To the east and the west of that area it will coincide with the seabed line. 
In the treaty, Australia will recognise Papua New Guinea sovereignty over the islands of Kawa, Mata Kawa and Kussa; Papua New Guinea will recognise Australian sovereignty over all the Australian islands in the Torres Strait shown on map 1 1 as lying north of the seabed line. 
As shown on the maps, the territorial seas of the Australian islands north of the seabed line, and of Papua New Guinea in the area between Boigu and Dauan will be a maximum of three nautical miles, and a territorial sea boundary will be delimited between Boigu, Dauan and Saibai and Papua New Guinea. Neither country will in future extend its territorial seas across the seabed line. 
A Protected Zone will be established in the Torres Strait in the area shown on the maps. Within this zone the Torres Strait Islanders and the Papua New Guineans who live in the adjacent coastal area will be able to continue their traditional activities and to move freely about the zone for this purpose. 
There will be an embargo on mining and oil drilling of the seabed throughout the Protected Zone for 10 years from the date of entry into force of the treaty. This might be renewed thereafter by agreement. 
The treaty will include further provisions relating to the Protected Zone which will cover agreed principles, parallel measures to be taken by, and co-operation between the two Governments to provide for the following matters: (a) the protection and preservation of the marine environment; (b) the management and conservation of fisheries resources; (c) the protection of plant and animal life; and (d) the prevention and control of pollution. 
The treaty will make provision for detailed bilateral arrangements covering joint conservation, management and sharing of the commercial Protected Zone fisheries. Both Governments will consult and co-operate in the issue and endorsement of licences. The licensing arrangements will have regard to the desirability of promoting economic development and employment opportunities in the Torres Strait area including the adjacent coastal area of Papua New Guinea and the people of the area will be consulted about these arrangements. 
Subject to the phasing arrangements specified in the paper I have tabled, the sharing of the commercial protected zone fisheries will be on the basis that Australia will have an overall share of 25 per cent of the commercial fisheries in waters under Papua New Guinea jurisdiction; Papua New Guinea will have an overall share of 25 per cent of the commercial fisheries in waters under Australian jurisdiction. The share in the territorial seas of the Australian uninhabited islands north of the seabed line other than Turnagain, however, will be on a 50/50 basis and Papua New Guinea will have 100 per cent of the commercial barramundi fishery near the Papua New Guinea coast, excluding the territorial seas of Saibai, Dauan and Boigu. Each country will have preference against third countries to take up any surplus of the other country's share of the commercial protected zone fisheries. Third State operators will not normally be licensed to exploit those fisheries unless agreed by Australia and Papua New Guinea. 
In relation to the protected zone provisions permitting freedom of movement by the local people in the carrying on of traditional activities, the treaty will provide for co-operation on immigration, customs, health and quarantine arrangements. However, each country will retain the right to implement national controls to prevent abuses or other possible adverse effects of those protected zone provisions. 
There will be liaison arrangements to ensure the effective working of the protected zone provisions of the treaty. These will include a body, which might be called the Torres Strait Inter-Governmental Advisory and Consultative Committee, that will be responsible to the two Foreign Ministers. On the Committee, State and provincial governments and the local people will be represented. In addition, senior national Government officials will be nominated to facilitate, at the local level, the implementation of the protected zone arrangements. 
The treaty will contain provisions covering appropriate guarantees of freedon of navigation, passage and overflight. 
What I have set out in this statement, and in the paper I have tabled, is an outline of the principal basic elements which  Mr Olewale  and I have agreed are to be included in the treaty. This outline is in summary form and not in formal treaty language. Certain consequential points of substance remain for discussion between the two Foreign Ministers and considerably more work remains to be done on the development of detailed treaty articles. The technical descriptions of the various points and lines referred to in this statement, and in the accompanying paper and illustrative maps, require further careful checking and calculation before being finally agreed upon for inclusion in the treaty. It is planned that  Mr Olewale  and I will consult again in a few weeks' time in order to maintain momentum towards the completion of full treaty documentation. 
Meanwhile, I am confident that honourable members will agree with  Mr Olewale  and me that the agreement we have now reached upon the principal basic elements to be included in the treaty text is an historic one. We and our ministerial colleagues believe that a treaty incorporating these elements will represent a mutuallyacceptable and equitable settlement which will meet the genuine concerns and interests of the Governments and peoples of our two countries. I now seek leave to have incorporated in  Hansard  the text of the paper to which I have referred containing an outline of the principal basic elements. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

Outline of principal basic elements agreed upon on 5 May 1978 between the Foreign Ministers of Australia and Papua New Guinea to be included in the treaty to be concluded on maritime boundaries between their two countries and on other matters relating to Torres Strait. 
Notes: 
This outline is a summary, not in formal treaty language, and does not include all the detail that will be necessary in the treaty. 
Certain consequential points of substance are to be the subject of further negotiations. 
The two illustrative maps are indicative only. 
Subject to minor adjustment for reasons of technical computation and survey, there will be an agreed seabed resources delimitation line running through the whole area between the two countries and located as indicated on the two maps. 
Similarly there will be a line delimiting the swimming fisheries resources jurisdiction between the two countries, located as indicated on the two maps. The run of that line will coincide with that of the seabed delimitation line except that, between the meridians 142 03' 30" East and 142 5 1 ' 00" East, it will run to the north of the three inhabited Australian islands of Boigu, Dauan and Saibai 
Australia will recognise Papua New Guinea sovereignty over the islands of Kawa, Mata Kawa and Kussa and the smaller islands appurtenant to those islands and over their territorial seas, subject to delimitation as necessary to be specified in the treaty. Papua New Guinea will recognise Australian sovereignty over the inhabited islands of Boigu, Dauan and Saibai and the smaller islands appurtenant to these, islands, including Aubusi, Moimi and Kaumag and over the nine Australian uninhabited islands lying north of the seabed delimitation line, that is Turu Cay, Kerr Islet, Deliverance Island, Turnagain Island, Pearce Cay, Black 
Rocks, Bramble Cay, Anchor Cay and East Cay, and over the three-mile territorial seas of those islands, subject to an agreed description of the delimitation thereof which will appear in the treaty. 
The territorial seas of Australia and Papua New Guinea between Boigu and Papua New Guinea, and between Dauan and Saibai and Papua New Guinea, will be delimited along two agreed lines as broadly indicated on the maps. 
The breadth of the territorial seas of the Australian islands indicated on the map as lying north of the seabed delimitation line will be a maximum of three miles. No other Australian territorial sea will lie to the north of the line. The breadth of the territorial sea of Papua New Guinea along its southern coastline between the meridians 142 03' 30" East and 1 42  5 1 ' 00 " East will be a maximum of three miles and will not extend south of the two territorial sea delimitation lines or the straight line linking them as indicated on the maps. The extent of Papua New Guinea territorial sea, which will not in any event extend into the area south of the agreed seabed line, agreed areas of Australian territorial sea to the north of the seabed line, or the agreed area of Australian fisheries jurisdiction north of the seabed line, will depend on the base lines or archipelagic lines adopted by Papua New Guinea in accordance with international law. 
Australia and Papua New Guinea will not in future extend their territorial seas across the seabed delimitation line. 
A Protected Zone will be established in the Torres Strait within the area indicated on the maps. The treaty will contain provisions which safeguard traditional activities, including in particular traditional fishing, by the people of the Torres Strait area, that is the Torres Strait Islanders and Papua New Guineans who live in the adjacent coastal area, and which provide for continued freedom of movement about the zone in pursuit of these traditional activities. 
There will be an embargo on mining and oil drilling of the seabed throughout the Protected Zone for 10 years commencing from the date of entry into force of the treaty. The embargo may, by agreement between the two countries, be extended beyond the end of the 10 year period. The treaty will provide for equitable arrangements to be made by Papua New Guinea in respect of the holders of the Australian petroleum permit Q/10P in those parts of the permit area that will fall on the Papua New Guinea side of the seabed delimitation line. The treaty will also contain a provision along the following lines'. 
If any single accumulation of liquid hydrocarbons or natural gas, or if any other mineral deposit beneath the seabed, extends across a boundary line so as to come within the jurisdiction of both countries, and the pan of such accumulation or deposit that is situated on one side of the line is recoverable in fluid form wholly or in pan from the other side of the line, the two Governments will seek to reach agreement on the manner in which the accumulation or deposit shall be most effectively exploited and on the equitable sharing of the benefits arising from such exploitation. 
The treaty will incorporate further provisions relating to the Protected Zone which will cover agreed principles, parallel measures to be taken by, and cooperation between, the two Governments, to ensure: protection and preservation of the marine environment; management and conservation of fisheries resources; protection of indigenous flora and fauna (including endangered species, notably the dugong and certain species of turtle); prevention and control of pollution. 
10) The treaty will also contain detailed provisions on agreed arrangements in respect of commercial fisheries within the Protected Zone, including those fish of stocks belonging substantially to the area of the Protected Zone which occur outside but near the Zone within limits to be agreed between the two Governments. In respect of such commercial Protected Zone fisheries the treaty will contain provisions covering the following points: 
The conduct of commercial Protected Zone fisheries will be subject to the provisions that will be made in the treaty for the people of the area to continue to engage in traditional fishing. This will mean that traditional fishing will have precedence over commercial fishing. 
In the context of conservation, management and sharing-of-take ' arrangements in respect of the commercial Protected Zone fisheries, the fisheries authorities of both countries will consult and cooperate in the issue and endorsement of licences. 
In the administrative process of issuing licences, the relevant authorities of the two countries will have regard to the desirability of promoting economic development in the Torres Strait area including the adjacent coastal area of Papua New Guinea and employment opportunities for the people of the area. 
There will be periodic consultation with the people of the area on the licensing arrangements. 
The responsible authorities of each country will issue licences to their own nationals and endorse when necessary the licences of nationals of the other country. 
In allocating licences, and in deciding upon other jointly-agreed management and access arrangements in respect of the commercial Protected Zone fisheries, regard will be had to existing levels of 'take' by each country prior to the date of entry into force of the treaty but subject to sub-paragraph (g) below. Provided these levels remain within the optimum sustainable yield of the fishery concerned, they will not be reduced for five years from the date of entry into force of the treaty but, over the subsequent five years, levels of 'take' may be adjusted progressively so that Papua New Guinea will have an overall share of 25 per cent of the 'take' of the commercial Protected Zone fisheries in waters under Australian jurisdiction and Australia will have an overall share of 25 per cent of the 'take' of the commercial Protected Zone fisheries in waters under Papua New Guinea jurisdiction, subject to the following: 
In the territorial seas of the Australian uninhabited islands north of the seabed line, other than Turnagain, the 'sharing-of-take' formula will be 50 per cent Australia/50 per cent Papua New Guinea. 
Papua New Guinea will have 100 per cent of the take' in the commercial barramundi fishery near the Papua New Guinea coast, excluding the territorial seas of Saibai, Dauan and Boigu, and this 'take' will not be included in calculating the overall percentage share of 'take' in the commercial Protected Zone fisheries under the agreed 'sharing-of-take' formula mentioned above. 
The 'take ' by each country in individual fisheries will be a matter for agreement between the two countries in accordance with the abovementioned principles and in the context of subsidiary joint conservation, management, access and licensing arrangements negotiated in respect of individual fisheries and will not necessarily, in any single fishery, be the same as the overall percentage shares of the 'take ' mentioned above. 
In the event of the optimum yield not being taken up in a Protected Zone fishery or part thereof under the jurisdiction of one country because that country in any year or season after the entry into force of the treaty does not propose itself fully to exploit its share of that fishery, the other country will be given preference as against third countries to take up all or any portion of the surplus in that fishery or part. 
Vessels of third State operators will not normally be licensed to exploit the commercial Protected Zone fisheries unless agreed by the two countries. 
For the purpose of fisheries jurisdiction and the sharing provisions and subject to conservation, management and protection provisions, the following categories of living resources will be recognised: 
swimming fisheries resources (all living marine resources with the exception of sedentary organisms within the meaning of the 19S8 Convention on the Continental Shelf); 
seabed fisheries (most sedentary organisms as so defined); 
other living resources of the seabed (corals, seaweed etc., and, outside the territorial seas of Australian uninhabited islands north of the seabed line (except Turnagain), pearl shell). 
Fisheries jurisdiction will apply to (a), the seabed jurisdiction to (b) and (c). As a general rule, the fisheries conservation management and sharing arrangements will apply to (a) and (b). The position of (c) from the latter point of view will need to be further considered, except for pearl shell in the areas indicated. 
In relation to the Protected Zone provisions which will permit the continued performance of traditional activities by the local peoples and continued freedom of movement about the Zone for that purpose, there will be cooperation on immigration, customs, health and quarantine arrangements, although each country will retain the right to implement national controls to prevent abuses or other possible adverse effects of the Protected Zone provisions. 
There will be liaison arrangements between the two countries to ensure that the Protected Zone arrangements work effectively. These will include both a high-level Torres Strait Inter-Governmental Advisory and Consultative Committee responsible to the two Foreign Ministers, on which State and Provincial governments and the people of the area will be represented, and also the nomination of senior national Government officials to facilitate, at the local level, the implementation of the Protected Zone arrangements. 
The treaty will contain appropriate guarantees of freedom of navigation, passage and overflight in the Torres Strait area. 
-I present the following paper: 
Australia and Papua New Guinea- Negotiations on Maritime Boundaries and on other Matters Relating to Torres Strait-Ministerial Statement, 25 May 1978. 
Motion (by  Mr Groom)  proposed: 
That the House take note of the paper. 
Sitting suspended from 12.58 to 2.15 p.m. 
I understand that it is the case that the debate will be resumed, although arrangements seem to have been chopped about a bit. I will do my best to ensure that that is the case. Because I am going overseas on the weekend I would like to answer the questions which were posed. I am not closing the debate, of course, because the motion was moved by my colleague the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Groom).  I thank honourable members who have expressed appreciation and support in relation to this matter and for the references to the officials who assisted me during the period of negotiation. I concur in those views. They worked extraordinarily hard. 
I shall deal, first of all, with the questions raised by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen).  Turnagain Island is excluded from the 50/50 sharing because it is within- that is, is south of- the fisheries line where it runs north of Boigu, Duaun and Saibai and therefore is within the Australian fisheries jurisdiction. The question the honourable gentleman posed regarding Kawa, Mata Kawa and Kussa is answered by saying that the Islanders will be able to visit them for traditional purposes. That means that they will have access for their traditional fishing- not merely for swimming fish but also, for example, for mud crabs. 
I turn to the observations and questions of the honourable member for Hawker  (Mr Jacobi),  particularly those in regard to the Great North Eastern Channel. There will be the usual freedoms of navigation through this strait and the channel, and Australia will maintain navigational aids for the channel. The honourable member's final question referred to the share of the take of commercial fish in the three mile territorial seas around Australian islands north of the sea-bed line but, as I recall it, south of the fisheries delimitation Une. This will be 75 per cent Australian, 25 per cent Papua New Guinean in regard to the commercial take, but both Islanders and Papua New Guineans will be free to fish traditionally. 
I will not take much more of the time of the House. Without engaging in any politics, I simply wish to answer one other observation- it was not a question- made by the honourable member for Hawker. He observed that this situation had come about as a consequence of the initiative of the Labor Government. Without detracting from what the Labor Government did so far as Papua New Guinea is concerned, I point out that the first interdepartmental committee which was established on this question was set up in 1972 when I was Minister for External Territories. The report of that committee was made available to the incoming Minister at the time of the change of government. I will keep the Opposition informed as we move towards the negotiation of the treaty and naturally, as was put, I will keep the Torres Strait Islanders and the Queensland Government informed, as they have been so informed. 
The honourable member for Leichhardt  (Mr Thomson)  has participated extensively because his constituents have been involved in this matter. I greatly appreciate not only his remarks today but also his ready co-operation throughout. When his primary interest had to be his own constituents, he was at least prepared at all times to listen to my viewpoint. For that reason, I express great appreciation. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Shipton)  adjourned. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 understand that the Israeli Knesset in January this year passed a law which, when it comes into force, will prohibit the extradition from Israel of Israeli nationals. This prohibition will not, however, apply when the offence for which extradition of an Israeli national is sought was committed before he became an Israeli national. The law also provides for prosecution in Israel of those nationals not subject to extradition. Moreover, under the new law Australia will be able to request that an Israeli national, who has been sentenced in Australia and who then flees to Israel, serve that sentence in Israel. 
This law will not strictly affect the Extradition Treaty which has been in force with Israel since 3 January 1976. Article VIII of that Treaty provides that either Party may refuse to extradite its own nationals. This discretionary provision accords with international extradition practice whereby many countries refuse extradition of their nationals. Australia does not favour this practice. 
Along with some other countries party to extradition treaties with Israel, Australia has expressed its concern to Israel that the new law should not operate so as to allow Israeli nationals to avoid criminal proceedings. The Australian Ambassador to Israel has had discussions with Israeli authorities on this matter and has been informed of Israel's willingness to engage in negotiations to satisfy the Australian concern that a requirement for Israel to prosecute Israeli nationals not subject to extradition be formalised by an amendment to the Extradition Treaty. 
Sydney and Melbourne Urban Railways: Links with Airports (Question No. 1006) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Commonwealth Regional Consultative Group on Energy was established by the Commonwealth Heads of Government Regional Meeting in Sydney (13-16 February 1978) and is to be convened by India. The Group has not as yet held its first meeting. As a result, consideration has not yet been given to which energy development techniques will be examined by the Group, nor to which organisations will be consulted. It is anticipated that Australia 's participation in the work of the Group will fall primarily within the responsibility of the Minister for National Development. 
For the information of honourable members I present the report of the Australian delegation to the 32nd session of the United Nations General Assembly held in New York during the period 20 September 1977 to 2 1 December 1977. 
by leave- I deal in this statement with the consular services provided for Australians overseas. This is a major function of my Department and of our overseas posts. Together with the issuing of passports in Australia, it is the principal across-the-counter service of the Department. Recent and prospective growth in the consular workload and the notoriety of several current and regrettable cases overseas make it timely for there to be a ministerial statement. Australia does not have a separate consular service or a distinct consular stream in its foreign service. It is, however, our aim to train a larger number of experienced consular officials. The other side of overseas representation work, international negotiations, political and economic reporting, export promotion, migration, information activities and the many aspects of representational work, make more recognised contributions to the national interest than routine consular work. But it is the routine consular work which, for the Australian public, is the immediate and tangible benefit of the overseas representational services. 
There have been dramatic developments in the volume and nature of consular work in the past two decades. These developments have been world wide and closely related to the increase in travel. No developed countries have escaped increases in their consular responsibilities. Basic consular services are not optional. They are essential. If our own consuls are not in a position to act, others must act for us. Clearly we cannot respond by proxy to the one million Australians already going overseas each year. The number of valid Australian passports on issue is nearly 1.7 million. 
It has been assessed that Australia stands on the verge of a travel explosion. According to travel projections, in less than ten years' time some three million Australians will be leaving Australia each year for overseas destinations, an increase of more than 200 per cent. Obviously I applaud and encourage such a development. What better force for international understanding than the first hand knowledge of other countries cultures, aspirations and problems which can result from such travel. As well as increased traffic, there have been other changes. Twenty years ago most Australians who travelled abroad made their destinations Britain and western Europe. Australians now travel more widely around the world and by air rather than by sea. 
The character of today's travellers has also changed. More than 50 per cent of Australians who travel abroad are under the age of 30 and a substantial proportion of the remainder are in their advanced years. 
Unfortunately some of our nationals behave overseas in ways that would not be acceptable in Australia. The increase in Australians being arrested overseas for drug offences in particular is a matter of great concern to the Government on consular and other grounds. Although the majority of these unfortunate arrests occur in  South  East Asian countries the problem is by no means confined to that area. Our consular resources are coming under identifiable strain as a result of narcotics offences alone and I have given detailed personal attention to the administrative consequences of significant numbers of arrests of Australians overseas. Amongst other considerations we cannot afford to have the services available to law-abiding Australians overseas curtailed because our consuls are preoccupied with the problems of those arrested. 
This increase in arrests coincides with stiffer penalties for drug offences. Long prison and death sentences, which might become mandatory, have been introduced in countries close to us, such as Indonesia and Malaysia, the very countries many younger Australians are more inclined to visit. Increased offences mean an increase in the number of prison visits, arrangements for bail and legal representation, attendances at hearings, communications with family and, if the person arrested is imprisoned, a continuing interest in his or her welfare, sometimes for many years, under arduous prison conditions. Alongside a reasonable consular concern and natural sense of compassion for those convicted and punished overseas, there must, however, also be a balanced view of the significance of many of these drug offences. We cannot condone, and indeed can only condemn, the actions of those proven to have played a part in drug trafficking. 
At the Commonwealth Heads of Government Regional Meeting the Government made a new  commitment to examine the  possibilities of further regional co-operation to suppress the illicit drug traffic. It is very welcome to us that Malaysia is convening the working group on illicit drugs set up for that purpose. We shall participate fully in the work of the group as we do in relation to other international measures in this field. In this connection I draw to the attention of honourable members the recent useful visit by the Director-General of the United Nations Fund for Drug Abuse Control. In relation to drug offences, and generally, we have sought to take the preventative measures open to us. My Department issues with each passport a booklet-  Hints for Australian Travellers-  outlining difficulties and dangers inherent in travel overseas. I am pleased at the publicity the Press has given to the contents of this booklet. Many of Australia 's major newspapers are continuing to perform a public service through thoughtful and helpful articles on consular problems documented by actual case histories known to my Department. This publicity will assist the Government in its efforts to prevent the more avoidable occurrences and make Australians realise that they can turn to their consulates in times of genuine need. 
More and more Australian travellers fail to make proper arrangements to purchase return tickets, to cover risks through insurance or to take adequate funds with them. Last year over 700 Australians had to be helped and sometimes repatriated at public expense. Repatriation is approved only as a last resort on the basis of an undertaking that all costs will be repaid and much of this money is recovered. This provision is exercised strictly but compassionately. The amount of public funds used for distressed Australians has remained fairly constant in the last five years, rising only in exceptional circumstances such as the emergency in Cyprus. The funds necessary will however inevitably increase. 
I mention next the problems of dual nationality. Many migrants who are naturalised Australians, or in some cases their children who are natural born Australians, may be regarded by their country of birth, or their parents birth, still to be citizens of those countries. Such dual nationals can be subject to laws of the country of their first citizenship, who may claim jurisdiction over them in such matters as military service or taxation. My Department, and the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, attempt to make dual nationals aware of the problems they might encounter on return to their country of birth. 
Assistance to dual nationals, however, necessarily becomes a growing part of consular work as more foreign bom Australians return to visit their former homes. The problems of dual nationals cannot be overcome by citizens simply asserting that they do not accept their other citizenship. In some cases formal acts of renunciation are possible, but in other countries, no such provisions exist; the requirements should be carefully established in advance. It is for the individual to ascertain and bear the consequences of coming within the jurisdiction of another country which claims his or her citizenship, whether the individual, or the Australian Government, recognises that claim or not. Our consular officers can advise, but beyond a strict limit, they cannot assist when, in these circumstances, the jurisdiction of another country is being asserted. 
My predecessors have not placed on record a general description of Australian consular functions and services, and although there are some difficulties of definition, I believe it would be helpful to do so. Broadly speaking, they fall into two parts: The provision of notarial and documentation services, and the protection of Australian citizens. The first requires that Australian consular officers perform functions including the following: Notarial acts, oaths, affirmations and declarations such as the authentication or legalisation of various documents, from wills and contracts to school certificates and driving licences; the issue and renewal of passports and visas; the solemnisation and registration of marriages; payment of or advice on social security provisions including medical benefits; advice on the importation and registration of motor vehicles; advice on acquisition or loss of citizenship, particulary on dual nationality problems; provision of information on Australian Customs' requirements; the provision of facilities for voting in Australian elections overseas; the administration of regulations arising from the Navigation Act in regard to seamen; liaison with overseas legal authorities on instructions from Australia to arrange extradition; advice on exchange control and currency matters for personal or investment purposes; serving of writs and taking evidence; advising visitors to Australia of health and quarantine requirements and reporting on outbreaks of diseases in foreign countries. 
The second part, consular protection, arises from international practice of sovereign states recognising an obligation to protect the civil and legal rights of their citizen when abroad. An important consular duty is to ensure that Australian citizens arrested overseas are treated with due process in accordance with the laws of the state where the offence may have occurred and that they receive the same benefits of the law which the foreign state affords to its own subjects. We must ensure that an Australian arrested overseas knows his rights under local law and how to obtain legal assistance if he wishes it. Protection services also include assistance arising from the deaths of Australians abroad, including funeral arrangements, return of remains to Australia and the protection of estates and property willed to 
Australians. In addition to its internationally accepted obligations the Australian Government provides a range of services which are designed to assist Australians in trouble and distress of various kinds and which come, generally, within the scope of protection work. This assistance includes: Inquiries relating to the welfare and whereabouts of Australians; repatriation and financial relief of distressed Australians in the form of a repayable loan as already mentioned; welfare visits to persons in gaol, hospital or in an asylum; assistance in natural disasters or emergencies; and making available to Australian citizens who have been arrested a list of local lawyers who may be able to assist them. 
I have spoken in general terms of the wide range of these duties because of the difficulty of drawing lines beyond which protection will not be provided. The standards to be applied may differ from country to country depending on such factors as language and cultural differences, the opportunity for self-help and the local availability of social, charitable or welfare services. In the interests of economy and efficiency, my Department will seek to limit approved assistance while at the same time preserving the consul's flexibility to respond to individual human problems. Obviously not every limitation encountered in our consular services will be the result of economy measures. Indeed the investigation of complaints frequently reveals that assistance has not been provided either because it is prohibited under international convention or practice, or because the matter could be adequately dealt with privately, without official help. There is in fact something of a natural tendency for those overseas not to seek private assistance, for example the advice of a local lawyer, and to appeal instead for official help. 
As I stated earlier, not only are more Australians travelling overseas, but they are visiting a wider range of countries. It follows that, increasingly, there are requirements for assistance in places where we have no Australian consular office. Where the United Kingdom is represented and we are not, and it is not practicable to send in a consular officer, or the case needs continued attention, we have long turned to British representatives for consular assistance. I pay the warmest tribute to successive British governments and to the numerous British consuls, who have traditionally extended such assistance to Australians. A great many Australians owe the United Kingdom their thanks on this score, and I here express their cumulative gratitude. This service so far has been offered freely. We must, however, count on it being contracted in future and plan on the basis of assuming greater responsibility for our own people. 
Consular sharing, or the rationalisation of consular services between several countries is, on the face of it, an attractive proposition. There are however, issues of sovereignty and conflict of interest inherent in this kind of arrangement. The possibility of greater use of locally-engaged staff is limited by the provisions of the Vienna Convention on Consular Relations. The question of honorary consuls is one that has been examined but on which no definitive view has yet been reached. Although such appointments can be of help in tourist resorts or in ports where shipping and related cases are likely to occur, there are problems innate in the practice and, of course, there would still be some costs to be borne. On whatever basis, the prospect is for expanded Australian consular services in more centres at inevitably increased costs, not to provide a travel service for a privileged few, but in order to provide a truly public service for a large and growing proportion of the Australian people. I remind the House of the projection of 3,000,000 Australians travelling abroad annually in less than ten years' time. Other countries expect us to look after our nationals. Only second class countries ignore their citizens in time of need. Our geography is such that, with the exception of a few destinations, when an Australian travels overseas, he travels far. We do not just cross one of a number of contiguous borders in our own cars as in Europe. When we do travel in our own geographic region we do so in most cases to countries of very different cultures and levels of development. 
There have traditionally been charges for many of the consular services we provide overseas. It will be recalled that the report on Australia's Overseas Representation' by the House Standing Committee on Expenditure, tabled on 2 June 1977, included a recommendation that the Government give serious consideration to means of minimising the impact of the huge growth expected in overseas travel by Australians in the coming decade, and in particular to the feasibility of recovering the costs of appropriate consular services provided by our embassies, high commissions and consulates, by charging for them. As the House was informed on 12 April this year the recommendation has been accepted and my Department has in hand a study of the range of and charges for consular services. The issue of passports is one of the major aspects of consular work. In a statement on 2 March 1978 I indicated that the Government had reviewed its policy and procedures for passport issue. As an outcome of that review I will at the appropriate time introduce important amendments to the Passports Act. At this point I wish only to note that the possession of an Australian passport is proof of entitlement to consular services. Many travellers value it more properly when they face difficulties overseas. It is because of this direct relationship that the costs of consular services can be offset to a large extent by revenue generated by passport fees. 
A substantial part of the consular work detailed in this statement is routine. But much of it is critical and immediate. We must have the means to respond to an anxious parent in search of a missing child, to a pensioner whose social security benefits have been erroneously held up or in the aftermath of a disaster involving Australian citizens overseas. Because young Australians are arrested in another country with marijuana in their possession, are they to be treated as pariahs and offered no consular assistance on gaol conditions that they may find physically and emotionally unable to tolerate? In all the circumstances I have outlined, the Government has an inescapable responsibility to provide and plan for a growing range of consular services. Resources must be found notwithstanding requirements to contain expenditure and to maintain reasonable staffing ceilings. In our passport we ask other Governments to allow our nationals 'to pass freely without let or hindrance and to afford him or her every assistance or protection of which he or she may stand in need '. We can ourselves do no less. 
I present the following paper: 
Consular services provided for Australians overseasMinisterial Statement, 26 May 1978. 
Motion (by  Mr Adermann)  proposed. 
That the House take note of the paper. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 outlined in some detail the Government's approach to the Special Session of the United Nations General Assembly on Disarmament in my reply to Question No. 713 upon notice which appeared in  Hansard  on 1 3 April 1 978. I can assure the honourable member that Australia will join actively with other countries at the Special Session in a search for ways to eliminate the risk of nuclear war and to curb the spiralling levels of conventional arms. 
It will not be possible for members of the Parliament to participate in the delegation to the Special Session on Disarmament. I have had to take into account the nature of the work to be carried out at the Special Session and the structure of the meeting. This will differ from that of normal annual General Assembly sessions in that activity will be concentrated in drafting groups and causes. While it has been the practice for parliamentary observers to attend regular sessions of the United Nations General Assembly, this practice has not extended to special General Assembly sessions. The Australian delegation to the Special Session will be pleased to provide a briefing to any member of the Parliament who is in New York during the meeting. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The provisions of the Antarctic Treaty of 1959 relating to the prohibition of weapon testing, nuclear explosions and the disposal of radio-active waste material extend throughout Antarctica. 
The Partial Test Ban Treaty of 1963 prohibits nuclear weapon testing in outer space, as well as in the atmosphere and under water. States party to the 1967 Outer Space Treaty undertake not to place in orbit around the Earth any objects carrying nuclear weapons, or install such weapons on celestial bodies, or station such weapons in outer space in any other manner. 
Australian Participation in International Agreements on Hijacking and Piracy (Question No. 1 166) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The term 'hijacking' has no particular meaning in international law, although it is generally used to refer to unlawful interference with aircraft (as distinct from ships). Australia is a party to the following international conventions which deal, among other things, with ' hijacking '; 
the 1963 Tokyo Convention on Offences and Certain other Acts committed on board Aircraft; 
the 1970 Hague Convention for the Suppression of Unlawful Seizure of Aircraft; 
the 1971 Montreal Convention for the Suppression of Unlawful Acts against the Safety of Civil Aviation. 
Australia is also a party to the 1958 Convention on the High Seas. Article 14 of that Convention requires States party to the Convention to co-operate to the fullest possible extent in the repression of piracy on the high seas or in any other place outside the jurisdiction of any State. The expression 'piracy' is defined in Article 15 and it covers both ships and aircraft. 
No. 
No. 
See (3) above. 
Special Session of the General Assembly on Disarmament  (Question No. 1177) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Australian Delegation to the Special Session of the United Nations General Assembly on Disarmament, New York, 23 May to 28 June 1978 will be: 
Representatives 
The  Hon.  Andrew Peacock, M.P., Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Chairman of the Delegation) 
H.E.  Mr R.  L. Harry, C.B.E., Permanent Representative of Australia to the United Nations 
H.E. The  Hon. Mr Justice  R. W. Fox, Australian Ambassador-at-large for Non-Proliferation and Safeguards 
Alternative Representatives 

 Mr J. A. Benson, Department of Foreign Affairs 

 Mr R. K. Thomas, Department of Defence 

 Mr A. R. Oxley, Australian Mission to the United Nations, New York 

 Mr L. A. Rowe, Australian Embassy, Lisbon 

 Ms M. S. Wickes, Australian Permanent Mission to the United Nations, Geneva. 
Advisers 

 Mr J. Ridley, Senior Private Secretary to the Minister for Foreign Affairs 

 Ms D. J. Giles, Australian Mission to the United Nations, New York 

 Ms A. Darvall, Personal Assistant to H.E. the  Hon. Mr Justice  Fox. (2)I have met on several occasions with representatives of non-governmental organisations interested in disarmament and in the Special Session in particular. I have also replied in detail to a large volume of correspondence from both nongovernmental organisations and individuals expressing views and seeking information about Australia's attitudes and approach to the Special Session. 
The question of discussions between the official delegation and representatives of non-governmental organisations will be considered in the light of the outcome of the Special Session. 
The Prime Minister will also be attending the Special Session on Disarmament and will deliver Australia 's general debate statement. 
The answer to the honourable member's questions are as follows: 
Yes. 
) The issue of diplomatic passports is not dependent on an officer's public service classification. Diplomatic passports are issued to officers in accordance with the approved categories as prescribed by Cabinet, which provide for the issue of diplomatic passports to members of an Australian Government department or instrumentality assigned to a diplomatic mission overseas and notified to the receiving country as holding a recognised diplomatic rank. 
Further particulars in comprehensive form are not readily available and in any event would not add usefully to the information already provided. 
-From the honourable member's question it appears that some of his constituents are visiting Lebanon. If he will give me the specific information about those constituents and their relatives to which he has referred, naturally I will have inquiries made. I recall discussing with officers of my Department last month the desirability of warning Australians about travelling in Lebanon. This tragedy has been recurring for some time now. The ceasefire that came into effect on approximately 10 August appears at present to be holding, but the reality is that it is one of a series of ceasefires that have collapsed since the outbreak of major fighting in February. The latest accord may have a better chance of success since it reportedly contains provisions aimed at a disengagement of forces within the city of Beirut. The Australian Embassy, which is in West Beirut, has been keeping the Department fully informed of developments on a day to day basis. Naturally the Government welcomes the ceasefire and hopes that in the interests of the inhabitants of Beirut law and order can be restored and a peaceful political settlement arrived at as soon as possible. 
I ask the honourable member to give me details of the matter he has raised specifically and I shall have investigations made to ascertain what we can do.  His  concern for his constituents is a by-word amongst Government members, and I reiterate that we share the concern for not only his constituents but also people in the wider community who have suffered grievously and tragically in Lebanon. 
-Stated succinctly, Australia's attitude obviously is to have a positive and understandable interest in the maintenance and development of good relations between Papua New Guinea and Indonesia. We would be concerned to see them impaired by problems relating to the border between the two countries. The Australian missions in both countries have been instructed to keep in close contact with both governments to encourage consultation and understanding between them. The Indonesian response has been to stress the good relations it has with Papua New Guinea as well as the importance it attaches to them, and Prime Minister Somare has indicated that Papua New Guinea will continue to maintain a dialogue with the Indonesian authorities over the border. The Australian Government naturally welcomes these indications. In regard to speculation and reports on the matter, it is of interest to note that  Mr Somare  when addressing the Papua New Guinea Parliament on 14 August about the border situation emphasised 'that far too much is being made of the whole issue'. Those are his words, not mine. While we have not been in a position to check the accuracy of all the media reports which have appeared on this matter in recent weeks, it appears that some of them may have been somewhat exaggerated. Quoting Prime Minister Somare again, because this is a matter related to his own country, he also said in the Papua New Guinea Parliament on 14 August: 
This country's security has never been greatly threatened nor is our security seriously threatened now. 
-Stated shortly, the answer is that a formal request has not been received. The United Nations Secretariat has made an informal inquiry as to whether Australia could provide elements of an integrated logistics unit for the proposed United Nations Transition Assistance Group in Namibia, to be known as UNTAG. This group, which is provided for in the proposals of the five Western members of the Security Council for a peaceful transition to majority rule in Namibia, would have civilian and military components. Its central task would be to make sure that conditions are established to allow free and fair elections in an impartial electoral process. I stress that no formal request has yet been received. The inquiry obviously raises a number of issues that will require the closest examination by the Government. The Government is currently considering all the factors relevant to a possible Australian contribution. However, further details - 
-The contribution from the honourable member for Melbourne Ports will have to be a little more precise and a little heavier than that; otherwise he will be destined for the same fate as he was in Victoria. Further details of the proposed deployment and methods of operation of the force and its likely mandate will be required before a final decision can be taken, and these details will not be available until the Secretary-General's representative concludes the investigation that he is currently undertaking in Namibia. 
For the information of honourable members I present the Australian National Paper for the United Nations Conference on Science and Technology for Development 1979. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
The purpose of this Bill is to authorise a contribution by Australia of an amount up to $A96.82m towards the second replenishment of the resources of the Asian Development Fund. Honourable members will know that Australia has been and continues to be a strong and active supporter of the Asian Development Bank which is highly regarded as an efficient and effective mechanism for channelling aid to developing countries in our own geographic region. The prime role of the Bank, which was established in 1966, is to assist in the economic development of its developing member countries and to foster economic and social growth and co-operation in the Asian and Pacific regions. It does this by lending funds, promoting investment and providing technical assistance on a scale that developed countries could not achieve bilaterally. 
Since its establishment the Bank has lent about $US4 billion for projects covering all the major sectors of economic development with emphasis on the development of infrastructure facilities in the transport and communications, industry and electric power sectors as well as projects for agriculture, education, water supply and urban development. The Bank's lending activities are divided into ordinary and special operations. Ordinary operations are financed on the basis of the Bank's capital resources and its borrowings on the international capital market at commercial or near commercial terms. Special operations involve loans made on highly concessional terms to the Bank's poorest and least developed member countries and are funded from the Asian Development Fund. 
The Asian Development Fund was established in 1974 to provide for the systematic mobilisation of resources for concessional lending to the Bank's poorest and least developed countries. In this respect the Asian Development Fund can be likened to the World Bank Group 's soft lending affiliate, the International Development Association, although the obvious distinction is that the latter extends development assistance on a global basis while the activities of the Asian Development Fund are concentrated in the Asian and Pacific regions. 
Australia played a leading and positive role in the establishment and subsequent growth of the Asian Development Fund. Australia contributed the equivalent of $A18m, or about 5 per cent, towards the mobilisation of the initial resources of the Fund totalling some $US500m. Under the first replenishment of the Fund's resources Australia maintained the level of its percentage share by contributing $A30.7m of the total replenishment amount of $US809m for concessional lending operations during the three calendar year period 1 976-78. It is expected that funds available to the Bank under the first replenishment of the Asian Development Fund will be fully committed by the end of 1 978. 
During the past 12 months a series of meetings were held by donor member countries of the Bank to consider a proposal by Bank management for a second replenishment target of $US2. 1 5 billion for the four year period 1 979-82. The Bank's case, for such a substantial increase which was supported by a number of donors including Australia, was based primarily on the following grounds: 
Firstly, if the Bank were to provide mean  ingful assistance to its poorer and less developed member countries, a substantially larger concessional lending program would be required in the next few years than in the past;  secondly, a significant expansion was jus  tified by the particular responsibility which, as a regional bank, the Bank owed to its developing member countries;  thirdly, the need for the Bank to increase the  size of its concessional lending program 

<graphic href="110131197808170_40_1.jpg"></graphic>

through the Fund relative to its ordinary lending program; and finally, the Bank submitted that a four year lending program in lieu of the previous three year cycle would be appropriate as it would assist in forward planning by donor countries and the Bank while reducing some of the problems of implementation experienced in the past. 
At a final meeting of donor member countries in Vienna during April 1978, these principles were generally accepted and agreement was reached on a basic target of SUS2.0 billion against which Australia's 5.14 per cent basic share will be $A90.1m. In addition, a number of donor countries have pledged supplementary contributions and Australia has undertaken to contribute 5.14 per cent of these contributions up to a maximum total contribution of 5. 1 4 per cent of SUS2.15 billion, i.e., $A96.82m. Specific amounts to be contributed by the various donor member countries are set out in the attachment which specifies the basic contributions and supplementary contributions in Tables I and II, respectively. I ask leave of the House to have the attachment incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The tables read as follows- 


<graphic href="110131197808170_41_2.jpg"></graphic>

-Honourable members will see from the tables that Australia's overall commitment at this stage is $A93,394,073. However, in accordance with our pledge, any further additional supplementary contributions to the second replenishment that may be made by other donors will increase the amount of Australia's supplementary contribution. For this reason, the Bill provides for payment by Australia of an amount up to the maximum of $A96,8 19,695. This amount will not be subject to future adjustments in exchange rates. In accordance with past practice with respect to similar contributions to the Fund and the International Development Association, it is intended to exercise the option to lodge non-negotiable, non-interest bearing promissory notes encashable on demand as and when funds are actually required for loan disbursements. This will limit the impact on the Budget in the next year or so, as encashment of these notes will not begin before 1979-80. 
The Bank has a most important role to play in continuing to foster economic and social development in the region of immediate interest to Australia. It is Government policy to give high priority to the Asian and Pacific region in its foreign policies and to co-operate fully with multilateral agencies in the region, such as the Asian Development Bank. Continued Australian support for the Asian Development Fund is therefore clearly in Australia's national interest. This Bill provides an opportunity for honourable members once again to demonstrate their bipartisan support for the Asian Development Bank and its Asian Development Fund as an effective and efficient development finance institution and our willingness to provide the poorest developing countries in our region with highly concessional assistance through this organisation. I commend the Bill to honourable members. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Hurford)  adjourned. 
-by leave- I wish to inform the House of recent developments regarding Namibia. Honourable members will be aware of Press reports that Australia has been asked to provide a contribution to the proposed United Nations peacekeeping force in Namibia. The precise size and structure of the peacekeeping force- to be known as the United Nations Transition Assistance Group- has yet to be decided by the United Nations. However, informal soundings have been made as to whether Australia might be able to contribute to the force. Similar approaches have also been made to other countries. I would like to make it quite clear that so far no formal approach has been made to Australia; nor, contrary to some Press reports, has Australia made any offer of a contribution to the United Nations. 
I am not seeking today to make a definitive statement on all the issues involved in this important question. My statement today should be seen as a preamble to the Government's detailed consideration of it. I see it as most important that the Parliament and the public have the fullest possible comprehension of this matter and it is with this in mind that I now wish to examine the considerations on both sides- I repeat both sides- of the case. 
It is unlikely that Australia will be asked to provide combatant forces, but we could be asked to supply military personnel as part of an integrated logistics element involving a transport and supply unit, a communications unit, and some ancillary staff which would help back-up the main UN contingent. These items have been mentioned to us as possibly coming from Australia. But I would stress again that there has been no formal request. As is normally the case with United Nations peacekeeping operations, a force for Namibia would be set up pursuant to a resolution of the UN Security Council, which would provide it with a specific mandate spelling out its role and charter of operations. The force would be under a commander appointed by and responsible to the United Nations SecretaryGeneral. 
It is expected that the Security Council will meet towards the end of this month or the beginning of September to consider a report from the Secretary-General on the proposed operation of the force and to decide on its establishment. The Secretary-General's report will be heavily influenced by the finding of his Special Representative,  Mr Ahtisaari  of Finland, who is currently in Namibia to assess the political situation on the ground and the prospects for an orderly transition to independence. As part of his investigation  Mr Ahtisaari  will investigate in detail aspects of the establishment and practical operations of the proposed peacekeeping force. It will not be until this investigation is concluded and its recommendations adopted by the Security Council that more will be known of the tasks the force will have to perform, the extent and type of units likely to be required, the command arrangements and the difficulties likely to be met in carrying out the UN mandate. 
By way of background I should explain that the adoption by the Security Council of the proposals of the five Western members of the Council for a peaceful settlement in Namibia represents the first major success for Western diplomacy in southern Africa. Agreement in principle has been reached with South Africa and the major Namibian nationalist group, the 
South West Africa Peoples OrganisationSWAPO on the broad basis of settlement proposals for Namibia, although there remain differences in interpretation. This follows some 15 months of painstaking negotiations. The future of the South African enclave of Walvis Bay, not specifically addressed in the proposals, remains an important obstacle to an internationally acceptable settlement. 
In the proposals of the 'five', the central task of the UN force would be to ensure that conditions are established to allow an impartial electoral process leading to free and fair elections and independence. During the interim period both South Africa and SWAPO forces will be required progressively to withdraw to camps under UN supervision. The existing South African police will retain primary responsibility for maintaining law and order in accordance with arrangements to be agreed with and supervised by the UN Special Representative. The UN force will be required to assist the police in this role and to 'guarantee against the possibility of intimidation and interference with the electoral process from whatever quarter'. The UN force would also assume the task of the South African military forces in maintaining border surveillance to prevent infiltration. A civilian component of UNTAG is expected to assist with the administration of the elections. Under the agreed proposals a ceasefire is to be in effect prior to the arrival of the peacekeeping force. It is not intended that the UN would be expected to impose a ceasefire or a settlement but its position could be difficult if the ceasefire initially established were to break down after its arrival. 
Over the years, the United Nations' work in international peacekeeping has become one of the best known and most successful of its activities. There are at present United Nations peacekeeping forces operating in three regionsthe Middle East, Cyprus and Kashmir- and Australians are involved in all three. There is thus already a substantial contribution by Australia to United Nations peacekeeping operations. This has demonstrated our continuing support for the aims and objectives of the United Nations Charter; most importantly, the maintenance of international peace and security. Successive Australian governments have been firmly committed to these aims. 
Namibia is a country about the size of NSW and with a population of just under one million people. It is rich in minerals, including uranium. It was for many years administered by South Africa under a mandate granted by the League of Nations, which was changed to a trusteeship when the United Nations superseded the League. South Africa, however, refused to continue the trusteeship mandate, claiming that the territory had been fully integrated with South Africa. In 1966 the United Nations resolved that South Africa's continuing administration was illegal, a decision upheld by the International Court of Justice. In recent years a continuous but low level guerrilla campaign has been carried on by the Namibian nationalists, led by SWAPO, against the military forces of the South African Administration, numbering some 13,000, and the supporters of South Africa in the territory. This campaign has involved sporadic acts of terrorism, minor sabotage and some border incidents. The level of guerrilla activity has been on a very much lower scale than is currently the case in Rhodesia. In the light of this developing conflict, the five Western members of the Security Council last year instituted talks with all interested parties, including South Africa and SWAPO. These talks were aimed at achieving an early and peaceful transition from colonial status to majority rule and independence, through free elections under UN supervision. 
We in Australia have not been used to thinking of Africa as an area of particular concern to us. The primary focus of Australian defence planning is- of necessity- Australia's own region, although we have wider strategic interests elsewhere. The question therefore arises whether Namibia is an appropriate place for Australia to contemplate a significant military involvement. On the other hand, in an increasingly interdependent world the problems of southern Africa are important and we have consistently supported the need to find peaceful and negotiated solutions to them. Basic questions of human rights and majority rule are involved. Continuing instability, resulting from conflicts which stem from racial inequality, creates the very conditions in which extremist influences can thrive. The only beneficiary of such instability can be forces hostile to the West. It is in the West's interests for there to be a peaceful settlement in Namibia, the consequence of which would extend far beyond Namibia's borders. It would not of itself resolve the other problems of southern Africa but it would help to arrest the growing trend towards military solutions. 
In Namibia, through an initiative inspired and carried through by the Western powers, and substantially assisted by the presidents of the socalled front line states- Angola, Zambia, Tanzania, Mozambique and Botswana- the situation has reached the stage where there is now a real opportunity to reach a satisfactory and internationally acceptable transition to independence and majority rule. It could well be that as a result of elections under UN auspices SWAPO gains power in Namibia. SWAPO, as I have already noted, is the major Namibian nationalist group. It espouses a socialist philosophy and much of its rhetoric is based on marxism. But its program calls for a Western-style parliamentary system, guarantees of civil liberty and an equitable distribution of wealth. It has a maximum of some 4,000 guerrillas at all stages of training and proficiency, of whom some 200 are based in Namibia, with the remainder across the border in Angola and Zambia. SWAPO, like most similar nationalist movements, is divided. There are differences between its internal and external wings and between moderates and those who take a harder line. It is possible that if SWAPO were to split on ideological grounds or, if it seemed likely that it might not win the elections, there could be an upsurge in guerrilla activity. 
There can be little doubt that the proposed UN operation will be an extremely difficult and delicate one. The Western proposals contain a number of ambiguities and imprecisions, which could become the subject of contention between the parties themselves or one or other of them and the UN Special Representative. The physical difficulties attendant upon the introduction and establishment of the UN force will be considerable. Even when the force is in place there will remain the risk of a breakdown of the agreement and of disorder and violence. However, the situation the UN force would face in Namibia is one where it would be in the interests of all the parties that the settlement succeed and disorder be avoided. Nevertheless, the possibility of attacks on and casualties for a UN force in such a highly charged political situation cannot be ruled out. An Australian logistic force could be vulnerable to such attacks. 
There is also a potential for differences of opinion within the mixed UN force in the highly volatile political environment in which it will be placed. These could adversely affect its operation, especially in any combat situation, and have implications for its security. The visit of the Secretary-General's Special Representative to Namibia will no doubt shed additional light on these matters and assist us towards judgments on the sort of role, if any, Australia might be able to play. The effect of an Australian contribution would also need to be considered in the light of our own defence capabilities and the consequences for our military effectiveness if our limited military resources were to be depleted by a decision to contribute a key, if limited, element to a force in Namibia. 
The whole question of contributing to a peacekeeping force for Namibia will require the closest examination by the Government. We shall have to consider the value of an Australian contribution to the United Nations effort, and how our own national and foreign policy interests would be served thereby. There could be substantial costs, at a time when our fiscal policies require tight budgetary restraint on defence as well as other areas of government expenditure. There is also the basic question of whether, having regard to the fact that Australia is already contributing to United Nations peacekeeping forces in three other areas, Australia should wish or feel obliged to contribute in Namibia as well. In considering these questions, the Government will of course be in close consultation with the United Nations and other potential contributors. Until further information is available, detailed consideration of all the relevant issues is not possible. For example, before the Government could make a decision it would require further information on such matters as what other countries are likely to contribute, what will be the size and capabilities of their contingents and what would be the likely dangers to the force should one of the parties repudiate the agreement which includes a cease fire. SWAPO has said that it will not observe a cease fire until South African troops are confined to base. South Africa maintains that it will not confine its troops to base until a cease fire is in operation. Some elements within the South African Government are not reconciled to the settlement proposals. 
As well we would need to be assured that an Australian contribution would not be openended, and that the task given to the Australian contingent would be within its capabilities. Should there be delay in the electoral program or a deterioration in the general security situation, the UN force may well be required to stay on. Whilst it is always theoretically open to a country to withdraw from a UN force, it is in practice very difficult to do so. This could raise very serious practical difficulties for us. We shall need to examine carefully what other possible options are open to us. For all these reasons, the Government is not in a position to respond to the informal UN soundings at this stage. The Government will, however, keep the matter under the closest review in order to be able to make an early decision should a definite request be received from the United Nations. I shall keep the House informed. I present the following papen 
Namibia: Australia's Contribution to United Nations Peacekeeping Force- Ministerial Statement, 23 August 1978. 
Motion (by  Mr Killen)  proposed: 
That the House take note of the statement. 
I hereby present: 
The agreement between the Government of Australia and the Government of the Republic of Finland Concerning the Transfer of Nuclear Material between Australia and Finland signed on 20 July 1978, together with a letter sent to the Leader of the Finnish Delegation which negotiated the agreement; 
the agreement between the Government of Australia and the Government of the Republic of the Philippines Concerning Co-operation in Peaceful Uses of Nuclear Energy and the Transfer of Nuclear Material signed on 8 August, together with a letter sent to the Leader of the Philippines' Delegation which negotiated the agreement; 
the exchange of letters constituting the interim Agreement between the Government of Australia and the Government of the United States of America on Peaceful Nuclear Cooperation, of 8 August 1978. 
I seek leave to make a statement. 
Leave granted. 
The agreements which I have tabled represent important steps in the establishment of a network of bilateral agreements between Australia and countries wishing to import Australian uranium. The purpose of these agreements is to ensure that when Australia supplies uranium for peaceful purposes it will not be diverted to non-peaceful or explosive uses. To this end the agreements incorporate stringent safeguards and controls on the use of uranium we supply to other countries for peaceful purposes. 
Agreement with Finland 
The agreement with Finland incorporates all the Government's safeguards requirements as announced by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  on 24 May last year. These are: 
An undertaking that nuclear material supplied by Australia will not be diverted to military or explosive purposes; 
the application of International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) safeguards, which provide an international check against diversion of nuclear material; 
fall-back arrangements to ensure continued safeguarding of this nuclear material should IAEA safeguards for any reason cease to apply; 
a requirement for Australia's prior consent to any re-transfers, to ensure that uranium supplied by Australia cannot be re-exported unless we are satisfied that the ultimate destination is acceptable and that adequate controls would apply to the transferred material; 
a requirement for Australia's prior consent for high enrichment or reprocessing of nuclear material supplied by Australia. This ensures that these operations can take place only if Australia is fully satisfied about the arrangements and conditions. This effectively reserves Australia's position on reprocessing, as the Government has said it would, pending the outcome of current international studies including the International Fuel Cycle Evaluation Study-INFCE; 
provisions ensuring that adequate physical security will be maintained, to guard against theft or other illegal use of nuclear material by groups or individuals; and 
provisions for consultations to ensure the effective implementation of the agreement; 
all of these safeguards and controls are to cover nuclear material derived from Australian uranium so long as it remains in a form relevant from the point of view of safeguards; that is, until it has been consumed or diluted to the point where there is no practical possibility of it being useful for the purpose of making a nuclear weapon. 
The agreement itself establishes the safeguards obligations which Finland and Australia have accepted; the accompanying letter concerns the practical implementation of these obligations. It does not change or dilute the agreement itself. Finland is dependent on other countries for processing services such as enrichment and fuel fabrication and for disposal of spent fuel after use. It wished to have some indication from Australia of how, in practice, we would see the safeguards agreement affecting its plans. What Australia is saying in the letter is basically that our concern is with non-proliferation and it is not our wish to impose on Finland practical problems unrelated to this. 
Far from constituting any 'watering down' of the Government's announced safeguards policy, the Agreement includes provisions not explicitly foreshadowed in the policy statements but which add to the effectiveness of the Agreement. These are: A right for Australia to have access to relevant conclusions of the IAEA on its inspections in Finland; an article on sanctions which will apply if a recipient breaches the agreement or does not comply with IAEA safeguards; and an article providing for arbitral procedures to resolve any disputes over implementation of the agreement. We do not, of course, start from the assumption that countries with which we make nuclear safeguards agreements will seek to breach them, or their obligations under the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty, or their obligations under safeguards agreements with the IAEA. On the contrary, we will make such agreements only with countries which we expect to faithfully abide by their safeguards obligations. But the sanctions envisaged are serious ones and their acceptance in the Agreement is an earnest of the seriousness of the commitment which the Agreement represents. The prospect of an interruption of supply is a very serious deterrent and sanction for a country dependent on outside supplies of fuel for its nuclear power industry and reliant on nuclear power for an important portion of its electric power. 
The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen),  when he learnt the terms of the Agreement, said that it would not be acceptable to an Australian Labor Party Government. In international affairs, treaties are binding undertakings between nations, not trval matters to be upset at the whim of a government of the day. A government which repudiated its international treaties would be regarded internationally as irresponsible and untrustworthy. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition has claimed that, if there were a dispute over the Agreement, the arbitration provision would take control out of Australia's hands. This is not so. Australia is not required to wait for an arbitrator's decision before taking action. The arbitration clause is a normal one in international treaties and it provides an impartial mechanism for dealing with any dispute that might arise in the implementation of the Agreement. The inclusion of the arbitration clause protects Australia as well as Finland. It does not strengthen the hand of one party against the other. The Australian Labor Party has hitherto had a policy of support for the peaceful settlement of international disputes through arbitration and judicial settlement. In the absence of an arbitration clause, a dispute arising in relation to the Agreement would have been subject to the compulsory jurisdiction of the International Court of Justice- as a result of action taken by Australia during the term of office of the Labor Government. Arbitration was preferred because it is likely to be more expeditious, simpler and less costly, and involves procedures whereby parties to a dispute agree on the terms in which it is to be submitted to the tribunal. 
The Deputy Leader of the Opposition has also criticised the Agreement by saying that it contains no prohibition on stockpiling 'weapons usable' material by Finland. The Prime Minister's statement on 24 May last year did not say that there would be a prohibition on stockpiling of weapons usable material. There was no need for such a provision in our policy because the point is covered by other provisions of the policy. The production of weapons usable material requires, as a first step, high enrichment or reprocessing. For this reason, the statement of the Prime Minister on 24 May 1977 required, and the Agreement provides, that Australian material can be enriched over 20 per cent or reprocessed only if Australia were satisfied at the appropriate time as to the conditions and arrangements. We would, of course, not be satisfied with arrangements which posed a proliferation risk; this is explicit in the Agreement. We would not, of course, agree to high enrichment or reprocessing for other than peaceful purposes. 
The Deputy Leader of the Opposition has been quoted in the press as saying that in the Agreement 'there is an explicit endorsement of reprocessing to produce material for long term storage, which material would be usable for weapons'. There is no such endorsement. Australia has reserved its position on reprocessing while this is under study internationally, notably in International Fuel Cycle Evaluation. The Agreement fully protects this position. As the Prime Minister said on 25 August last year, one of the points on which we would need to be satisfied, before agreeing to reprocessing would be 'that there is not excessive stock-piling of plutonium in a way that could pose future proliferation dangers'. The Agreement itself specifies nuclear non-proliferation considerations, as well as Finland's energy requirements and need for efficient and proper waste management, as factors which would have to be taken into account by Australia in considering any request for approval to reprocess. 
I want to make it clear that the Government has never said that it intends to prohibit the reprocessing of Australian uranium. The Government has never portrayed its policy as a veto' policy. It should be understood that the Government, in seeking consent or discretionary provisions on reprocessing in bilateral safeguards agreements, is reserving the right to decide the conditions under which the reprocessing of Australian supplied material might take place. Obviously we would not permit reprocessing of Australian supplied material if the conditions and arrangements were not fully satisfactory from the point of view of nuclear nonproliferation. I might add that, contrary to assertions by critics, there is now widespread international acceptance that suppliers have a legitimate interest in ensuring that reprocessing takes place only under conditions which are considered to be satisfactory from a nonproliferation point of view. This is inherent in the guidelines of the Nuclear Suppliers Group which were published in February 1978. All of Australia 's major potential customers in Western Europe, and Japan, have accepted these guidelines. 
Agreement with the Philippines 
The Agreement with Finland is to be the first of many. The Agreement with the Philippines similarly incorporates all the safeguards requirements announced in our policy statement of 24 May 1977. The texts of the two agreements are, of course, not identical, as they reflect a different negotiating history and different concerns on the part of the Philippines and Finland. Nevertheless, honourable members will see that both are equally effective in meeting the requirements of Australia's nuclear safeguards policy. The letter accompanying the Philippines Agreement, which is an integral part of the Agreement, covers different ground from the letter accompanying the Agreement with Finland because it responds to particular questions raised by the Philippines. In terms of the Government's nuclear safeguards policy, the important point to note is that the accompanying letter in no way detracts from the obligations accepted by the Philippines towards Australia. I might mention in particular the physical protection provisions in the Agreement with the Philippines, as I gather the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition has raised a technical question about the standards they present. In technical terms, this provision derives from the International Atomic Energy Agency's document INFCIRC/254, which in turn generalises INFCIRC/225 Rev. 1. In layman's terms, and at the practical level of implementation, what matters is that the standards of physical protection required are in substance the same. Moreover they are the standards set out in the guidelines of the Nuclear Suppliers Group. 
Agreement with the United States 
The Interim Agreement with the United States is a document of a different sort. It has two essential purposes. In the first place it signifies the decision by the two governments to renegotiate their existing nuclear co-operation agreement of 1956 with a view to bringing the safeguards therein up to the standard required by their current policies. In the case of the United States, that is the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Act of 1978. In the case of Australia, it is the Prime Minister's statement of 24 May last year. 
The second main purpose of the Interim Agreement is to provide a means for the administration of the discretionary clauses in the two countries' present and future safeguards agreements. The effect of this arrangement, in essence, is that, should a third country importing Australian uranium so desire, the United States could act as its agent in seeking Australia's approval for a particular transaction or industrial operation. As honourable members will readily appreciate, this arrangement involves no surrender of Australian control, nor any weakening of the obligations of importing countries towards Australia under our safeguards agreements. It is merely a matter of their administrative convenience. Honourable members may recall that a similar interim agreement between Canada and the United States in November last year opened the way for the successful conclusion of Canada's negotiations with Japan on nuclear safeguards. 
The Interim Agreement also demonstrates conclusively that suggestions that Australian policy is at odds with that of the United States are groundless. In the Agreement, the United States spontaneously pays tribute to 'Australia's leadership role in preventing nuclear proliferation'. It also remains the case that the United States and other countries attach importance to Australian uranium being available to the rest of the world. This is because the availability of Australian uranium will of itself make technologies based on reprocessing and the use of plutonium less attractive and help to avoid a premature movement in this direction. Further safeguards agreements will follow. A draft agreement with Iran has been negotiated at the level of officials and is to be considered shortly by the two governments. Negotiations are also well advanced with several other countries. Each agreement will be made public as it is signed. The Government's nuclear safeguards policy is not only a highly responsible policy for the prevention of the proliferation of nuclear weapons; it is also an eminently practical and internationally workable policy which is already demonstrating that it is successful. 
Motion (by  Mr Eric  Robinson) proposed: 
That the House take note of the papers. 
Sitting suspended from 1.1 to 2.15 p.m. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I. ( 1 ) Australia/Japan Foundation. Under the revised Administrative Arrangements issued in December 1977, the administration of the Australia/Japan Foundation was transferred to the Department of Foreign Affairs from the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet. 
Yes. 
(i) 1975-76 $100,000; (ii) 1976-77 $150,000; (iii) 1977-78 $500,000. 
b) One line appropriation. Funds made available do not include administrative expenses which are provided under the Department's administrative items. 
3 ) The Auditor-General. 
Australia/Japan Foundation Act 1976. 
The Foundation, under Section 25 of its Act, must furnish to the Minister a report of its operations together with financial statements at the close of each financial year. A report was tabled on 24 May 1977. 
II. (1) The Australian Development Assistance Agency which came into existence on 9 December 1974 and was abolished by Act of Parliament (No. 24 of 1977) with effect from 1 July 1977. Its functions were taken over by the Australian Development Assistance Bureau of the Department of Foreign Affairs. 
Yes. 
(i) 1975-76 $391,306,700; (ii) 1976-77 $390,297,600; (iii) 1977-78 not applicable. 
Broken up into Divisions. 
3 ) The Auditor-General. 
The Australian Development Assistance Agency Act 1974. 
No review or inquiry into the Agency was carried out during its existence. Its abolition resulted from a change in government policy. 
( 1) Australian Secret Intelligence Service (ASIS). 
to (5) See the Prime Minister's statement to the House of 25 October 1977 on the Report of the Royal Commission on Intelligence and Security. 
Statutory Authorities responsible to the Minister for Productivity  (Question No. 1367) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as  follows: 
Nil. The Government decided early in 1977 that all Commonwealth employee food services would be operated by Commonwealth Hostels Limited. However, in 1976-77 a canteen was operated by my Department at the International Training Institute, Middle Head (Mosman), NSW. 
Commonwealth employee food services are required to operate on a self-supporting financial basis, within the division of costs prescribed in Treasury (Finance) Directions, Section 8. 

The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) No metal or glass waste is generated by my Department or the Australian Development Assistance Bureau. See the answer provided by my colleague, the Minister for Administrative Services to Question No. 1437 in respect of waste paper. Classified waste, because of its sensitivity is destroyed by my Department. 
See(l) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Australia's model nuclear safeguards agreement has been given to potential customer countries for Australian uranium and to a number of other countries which have expressed interest in it. The list of countries which have received copies of the model agreement will not be made public for both commercial reasons, and because of the wishes of some of the countries concerned. The list includes, however, the United Kingdom; France; the FRG; Italy; EURATOM; Japan; Canada; the United States; Finland; Austria; Iran; the Philippines; and the Republic of Korea among others. Countries which have furnished comments on the model agreement to the Australian Government have done so on the understanding that their communications with us were confidential. The Government therefore does not propose to make public any information about these communications. 
The United Kingdom, Finland, the Philippines, the United States, Iran, the Republic of Korea and Japan. 
Negotiations with the United Kingdom commenced on 29 October 1977; Finland, 6 December 1977; the Philippines, 2 March 1978; Iran, 2 May 1978; the United States, 23 June 1978; the Republic of Korea, 10 August 1978; Japan, 15 August 1978. 
The first round of negotiations was held in Canberra in each of these cases except those of Finland, the Republic of Korea and Japan, where the first round was held in their respective capitals. 
The negotiations have included meetings between delegations of officials and exchanges through diplomatic channels. In some cases there has been more than one meeting. The Australian representatives involved at particular stages have varied and I do not believe any useful purpose would be served by attempting to list individual officers. I can, however, say that the leader of Australia's negotiating teams in every case has been a First Assistant Secretary from the Department of Foreign Affairs and that delegations have included officers from the Depanment of Foreign Affairs, Trade and Resources and the Prime Minister and Cabinet and the Australian Safeguards office. 
Yes. J refer the Honourable Member to the texts of the agreements which have been concluded with Finland and the Republic of the Philippines. The texts of succeeding agreements will also be made public, tabled in Parliament and registered with the United Nations. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
In addition to visits by Australian officials in June and December 1977 for discussions with Canadian officials on nuclear safeguards there have been frequent exchanges through diplomatic channels and between delegations to international conferences. It would serve no useful purpose to list individual officers involved in these exchanges. They were officers of the Department of Foreign Affairs, the Department of Trade and Resources and the Australian Safeguards Office.  Mr Justice  Fox, Australia's Ambassador at Large for nuclear non-proliferation matters and safeguards, has visited Ottawa for discussion on three occasions since May 1977. 
These exchanges were confidential between the two parties, however, I would invite the honourable member to read my press statement of 18 January 1978 about the Canada/EURATOM Agreement. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: ( 1 ), (2) and (3) Please see reply to Question No. 147 1 . 
and (5) Since 24 May 1977 nuclear safeguards agreements have been concluded by Australia with Finland and the Republic of the Philippines. 
An interim agreement has also been concluded with the United States. The text of all three agreements has been made public and will be tabled in Parliament. There are of course nuclear co-operation agreements in force between Australia and several other countries which contain safeguards provisions and which were concluded prior to the new policy. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
None of the former 'Commonwealth lands' in the New Hebrides, which were formally transferred to the Land Trust Board in the New Hebrides on 3 December 1974 (not June 1973 as suggested in the question) has yet been passed to indigenous New Hebrideans 
The Land Trust Board has not been disbanded. Those expatriates who held leases in respect of the former Commonwealth lands at the time of the transfer in 1974 continue to do so. One of the conditions of transfer was that all current leases would continue and, in many cases, these were for 99 years. 
) It would not be appropriate for the Australian Government to make representations to the New Hebridean Government about an internal matter such as land policy. Australia relinquished responsibility for the former Commonwealth lands in 1974 when it transferred them to the Land Trust Board. 
Former Commonwealth Lands in the New Hebrides  (Question No. 1893 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
There have been no changes in the use and ownership of the former Commonwealth lands in the New Hebrides since they were transferred to the Land Trust Board on 3 December 1974 (not June 1973 as suggested in the honourable member's question). 
-The Government has been closely following recent developments in Rhodesia. It has noted the harder statements now being made by both sides and is very concerned at the increasing deterioration of the situation in Rhodesia. Honourable members will be aware that recently there has been a series of tragic, grievous incidents involving innocent civilians, both black and white, as a result of the continuing conflict. That can only underline the urgent need to bring an end to that conflict by the negotiation of a settlement which takes adequate account of the legitimate political aspirations of black Rhodesians to participate fully in the political processes of their country. Although initially the internal agreement signed at Salisbury on 3 March appeared to contain some positive elements and was at least an advance on the previous situation, it is now clear that it has not achieved its principal objectives. It has not brought about a ceasefire or conditions in which free and fair elections can be held.  Mr Smith  has conceded this himself. As he has indicated, elections which were to have been held this year will have to be delayed. Moreover, it has not been demonstrated that the internal agreement has the support of the people of Rhodesia as a whole, which must be the ultimate test of any settlement. 
The Government believes that it is unrealistic to expect the ceasefire to be effective unless the chief protagonists are involved and  Mr Smith  has acknowledged this by his recent meeting with  Mr Nkomo.  We have noted that  Mr Nkomo  has now said that he no longer sees the AngloAmerican proposals for an all-party conference as offering a solution. This, in the view of the Government, is most unfortunate and to be regretted. Time is unquestionably running out for a peaceful settlement, but it is the earnest hope of the Government that the parties can still make the compromises necessary to bring about a peaceful settlement in the interests of all the inhabitants of Rhodesia. 
-Yes, I confirm that, as has been well publicised, Ambassador Critchley has visited East Timor in recent days. As the House will be aware, the Government has been giving humanitarian aid to East Timor, partly through contributions to the International Committee of the Red Cross and, latterly, through the Indonesian Red Cross. The Indonesian Red Cross has advised us that the Australian contributions have been spent on medicine, medical supplies, relief goods, the administrative costs of distributing those items and the provision of basic medical care facilities in both rural and urban areas. At present, according to  Mr Critchley,  there is an immediate problem facing the Indonesian Government, and that is the resettlement of some thousands of people already in Indonesian camps and the large numbers who are continuing to report to the Government. The short term and long term difficulties of this situation are intensified because of the inadequate infrastructure and great development problems in East Timor itself. 

 Mr Critchley was given to understand that the Indonesians did have sufficient stocks, at least in the short term, of food and medicines available for these displaced people. The major problem, as he put it, was one of distribution because of the very poor state of the few roads and an acute shortage of suitable transport. As a consequence the Government, of course, has been saying that it would be considering quickly and sympathetically the question of further humanitarian assistance to East Timor. I have approved the offer of $225,000 to the Indonesian Government as an accountable grant to be applied through the Indonesian Red Cross for the support of its humanitarian program of assistance to the people of East Timor. Discussions are currently being held with the Indonesian authorities about the possible types of equipment and supplies most needed. This is, of course, an immediate approval and we will be keeping the matter under constant review. 
In answer to a question only a few moments ago asked by the honourable member for Ballarat, I mentioned a figure of $225,000. The figure should have been $250,000. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1)I have not established or continued any advisory or consultative committees which include members of parliament. 
) See the answer to question ( 1 ) above. 
Reports on Hearings before United States Congressional Committees  (Question No. 1300) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Within the limits of staff resources the Australian Embassy in Washington attempts to keep in touch with the Committee hearings which appear to be of direct interest to the Australian Government. In practice approximately half the time of one Foreign Affairs officer is devoted to following and reporting on Congressional Committee hearings relating to matters for which Foreign Affairs has primary responsibility. That officer also assists in the handling of Congressional matters for which other Departments are responsible to the extent practicable. There are 21 Senate Committees and 1 14 Sub-Committees; and 33 House Committees and 183 Sub-Committees holding an average of 20 to 25 hearings a day. Hearings are frequently not printed until months after the hearing and transcripts are only provided on request. It is impossible to predict which hearings will be of interest to the Australian Government, and the Embassy must therefore rely to an extent on advance notice from relevant United States officials of hearings that touch on Australian interests. 
Coverage of armed services and defence committee proceedings and reports are not a part of the responsibility of Foreign Affairs officers. There are, however, certain aspects (such as SALT and troop withdrawals from Korea) which require political input as well as some broader issues in the defence budget that have foreign policy implications. Foreign Affairs officers have also assisted in matters relating to Australian defence purchases under the Arms Control Act and defence purchasing offset arrangements. 
Foreign Affairs officers did not attend or report on Department of Defence budget hearings for FY78. In the event that the Embassy was aware in advance that hearings were to be held specifically on any aspect of Australia/United States defence relations, particularly relating to joint facilities, the Embassy would certainly cover them. The 35 volumes of hearings relating to the FY78 Defence Budget, including 8 volumes on House Appropriations Subcommittee Hearings, were not transmitted to the Department of Foreign Affairs. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Parliamentary Advisers included each year in the Australian Delegation to the United Nations General Assembly participate fully in its work. They attend Delegation meetings. Like other members of the Delegation, they are provided with a daily set of cables relating to their particular interests in the Assembly and to the work of the Session in general. The cables distributed to the Parliamentary Advisers, as to other members of the Delegation, would not include all cables received by the mission in New York. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 

 Mr Bhutto's counsel has now concluded his case to the Supreme Court appealing against  Mr Bhutto's  conviction and death sentence handed down by the Lahore High Court on 18 March 1978. The Australian Government continues to follow closely developments in the case and when the Supreme Court's decision is known, the Government will promptly decide what further action is appropriate. 
-The South African decision to proceed unilaterally with its own elections for Namibia amounts to a rejection of the recommendations of the Secretary-General of the United Nations for the establishment of a United Nations peace-keeping force. As will be recalled, the purpose of this force was to implement the Western proposals for a settlement, including internationally supervised free and fair elections leading to independence for Namibia. The Government does regret this decision by the South African Government. We believe that the Secretary-General's recommendations were consistent with the Western settlement plan which offered a realistic chance for a peaceful settlement. If South Africa goes ahead, its decision can only lead to a form of independence which would not be accepted internationally and to an intensification, unquestionably, of conflict in the area. It seems to me that the South African Government's decision plays into the hands of those inimical to the West. 
We hope that it will be possible for the South Africans to reconsider that decision. The implications of the decision for the United Nations proposals are not clear at this stage. It is expected that the Security Council will meet this week to consider the matter further. It is too early to say what action may be decided although it is expected that the Western members will make it clear that the Secretary-General's recommendations for a United Nations peace-keeping force are consistent with their plans as accepted by South Africa. As previously advised, Australia has not yet received a definite approach to contribute to the proposed United Nations peacekeeping force. The elements that the Government will be taking into account in considering this matter were set out in my statement to the House last month. It seems likely that the development of the force will now, at the very least, be delayed. We shall have to await the outcome of further United Nations consideration of the issues before we know whether the force will be established at all. 
-What an extraordinary question. 
-I would agree with that. In a comparison with honourable members opposite, that fact is accentuated. The 3-year rolling program announced in 1976 applied to the financial years 1976-77, 1977-78 and 1978-79. Therefore, it will be apparent to those who are not even numerate that we are not at the completion of the third year of the 3-year rolling program. During the last year of the rolling program the Government will be giving consideration, in the terms of the program, to continuing it. I have indicated that the Government takes the South Pacific seriously for a variety of reasons, but it is not merely my rhetoric and my undertakings made in this place or in announcements made at South Pacific Forums which are important; it is the very nature of the amounts given under the aid program. It ill behoves honourable members opposite to be critical of the Government's aid program for the South Pacific because this 3-year rolling program has brought about a 400 per cent increase in aid to the South Pacific. It would be an act of excessive generosity to say that our aid should be increasing beyond that rate. My recollection is that aid to be given in this last year of the 3-year rolling program is $28m. This is a substantial amount which was gratefully received and acknowledged. The role that Australia is playing has been endorsed by all member states. It is my intention during this financial year to put my mind to the allocation for the next financial year on the basis of its being a rolling program. At this juncture, not only is the amount not settled but also the nature of those programs has not been settled. I would have thought that, as with the member states of the South Pacific, the Opposition would have commended the Government for its programs in the area rather than played politics when it was unable even to do correct calculations in relation to the program. 
For the information of honourable members, I present the report of the Australian Delegation to the Third United Nations Conference on the Law of the Sea, Seventh Session, Geneva, from 28 March to 19 May 1978. 
I rise at this juncture because I am shortly to depart for overseas. If the debate on these estimates is not completed tonight and is continued tomorrow my colleague the then Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Sinclair)  will be able to reply to a number of the speeches and particularly some of the thoughts which the honourable member for Swan  (Mr Martyr)  put forward and which I assume others will express in regard to the general international relations arena. Two matters have been raised in regard to aid programs and I would not like to leave the country without directing the attention of the Committee to some inaccuracies that have been put forward tonight. 
By way of introduction let me say that regrettably in this chamber we see a lack of debate on foreign policy. This is not the fault of the Government. We have put down major foreign policy statements each year. This did not occur when the Opposition was in government. We have provided a conceptual framework for our foreign policy. My statement last year and my statement in May certainly indicated this. Of course the emphasis is on regional relations and with the great democracies, et cetera. But, above all, we were able to indicate the perception of changes when we were in Opposition and to follow them through. This contrasts, after the initial burst of some sensible changes which occurred when the Opposition came into government, with what then was nothing but a mixture of ad hockery, over-compensation and, frankly, in two areas, outright deception. 
-One was when at the fall of South Vietnam cables revealed dramatically in this chamber what was being done and the difference between the cables that were being sent by the Labor Government to Saigon and what was being sent to Hanoi. A major newspaper called for the resignation of the Government because of the outright deception that occurred. The other area, of course, was over Timor. We have discussed that in the past; so I need not go into it in this debate on the Estimates. That was the outright deception. Our committee of inquiry into the Third World is to fit within this perception and conceptual framework that we have. I would have liked to spend some time on the remarks that the honourable member for Swan made about the Third World. The honourable member on occasions kindly quoted from an address I delivered to the Institute of International Affairs. This address perhaps could be read by honourable members, who would see that I was not exaggerating the importance of the Third World countries but putting them in their proper context and placing on the emergent problems amongst the constituent countries of the Third World the emphasis that they require. 
I rise particularly because of the remarks made by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen),  who sought to indicate that if the Australian Labor Party were still in power there would be substantial increases in aid programs. I think he even referred to the Hayden Budget to emphasise this. The reality is that when the current Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  was Treasurer his first act in regard to aid programs was to slash the percentage of gross national product going to aid from 0.56 per cent to 0.52 per cent. Worse than that, he imposed the most enormous problems on Papua New Guinea in its very first year of independence. In that fragile period of September 1975 when that country entered into independence, it had its aid program slashed. Papua New Guinea has been put on notice tonight by the honourable member for Bonython  (Dr Blewett)  who indicated quite clearly that the quantum of aid to Papua New Guinea, quite apart from its nature, ought to be re-examined. If the honourable member wants to create again the uncertainty and the ferment in that country, both in the Opposition and in the Government, that his Party created while it was in government, then I think he has given due warning of that tonight. That was another element of the Hayden Budget which created grave uncertainty at the most sensitive period of time and which almost tore asunder that close trusting relationship which had been developed with Papua New Guinea by successive LiberalNational Country Party governments. The year in which it was entering into independence was hardly the year in which to commence the slashing of aid programs to Papua New Guinea. 
So not only did the Hayden Budget reduce aid expressed in terms of a percentage of the gross national product but also the aid program pursued by the Labor Party did not embrace the sorts of concepts which the honourable member for Bonython was calling for and which was implicit in the speech of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, namely, a change in the nature of the aid programs. The most dramatic changes that have occurred in the nature of Australian aid programs have occurred during the period in office of this Government. I shall touch on this aspect in a moment. 
I know that quantum alone is not a matter that can be simply pointed to. Opposition members have said this themselves. They cannot do otherwise having slashed aid expressed as a percentage of the gross national product during the last year in which they were in government. Changes that we have made in the nature of our aid programs, particularly to the South Pacific to which the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition referred, illustrate not merely that we can increase quantum in that area. I remind the committee that in an area in which the Opposition criticised our aid programs, in the three-year rolling program we increased by 400 per cent the amounts of money provided by the previous Government. We not only increased the allocation by a sizeable amount and gave the recipient countries certainty in planning, but also we charged the types of programs pursued. We introduced a form of assistance to local entrepeneurs. We introduced a method of meeting local costs in relation to aid projects. We are now doing that not only in the South Pacific but also in the Association of South East Asian Nations groups and in the least developed countries. We have introduced a system of forward programming through longer term commitments. This has been done largely to assist recipients of our aid with their forward planning. 
The other notable features of this Budget so far as aid is concerned is that it includes provision for the far-reaching changes introduced in Australia 's food aid program. This year the bilateral aid program includes an additional component in the form of development import grants for the purchase of development oriented goods and services from Australia. These grants are the method chosen to disburse bilaterally half of the contribution in this area. The other half will be given through a multilateral program in the form of untied cash payments to the International Development Association. 
Having referred to the International Development Association I want to mention something that occurred during the Labor Government's period of office. The International Development Association and the Asian Development Fund are charged with providing soft loans to the most needy countries. In 1974, on a per capita grant basis, the most needy countries in our area which justified a great deal of attention from Australia were the Philippines, Thailand and Indonesia. For reasons which are best known to the IDA and the ADF, they refused to allocate funds to those countries. At Australia's initiative, which was later supported by other countries, we have this year at last been able to change this situation around. The IDA and the ADF have been given directives once again to provide soft loans to Indonesia, Thailand and the Philippines. That matter was not even raised by the Australian Labor Party when it was in government. 
I had hoped to make a speech in which I dealt with the estimates line by line, but my departure for overseas will prevent me from doing that. I wanted to answer the charges about the aid program itself and to indicate that, for example, our aid program to the South Pacific, which has been criticised in this country, was warmly applauded by all leaders in the South Pacific. Our aid program to Papua New Guinea has been described by the  Deputy  Prime Minister of Papua New Guinea as being not merely the most enlightened in the world but as an example to all other developed countries to follow. Not only has this Government introduced a conceptual framework to our foreign policy, restored relationships with other countries and furthered our role in the region in the important area of economic relations and trade relations with ASEAN and the South Pacific countries but also in the particular areas of importance to us as well as to them- we should never dismiss that element which is of some importance, namely, that we have a responsibility in our own region and not just to distant lands- we have not merely increased the amounts of money available but more particularly we have changed the nature of the programs to provide both flexibility and forward planning. To my way of thinking it is a foreign policy that generally is endorsed by the Opposition. I do not look for bipartisanship of its own cause. However, if, after parties have examined issues, they see that there are not fundamental changes that is all to the good because one does not want a foreign policy tipped on its head when governments change. I am not an advocate of bipartisanship for its own sake. In reality the reason that support generally is given to this foreign policy, I would assume, is that either the Opposition finds such a policy plausible in itself or it recognises that its own homework has not yet been done. The reality is that the Australian Labor Party has not produced a foreign policy in the last two elections. No alternative foreign policy was put to the people in 1975 or 1 977. If that is the case, we can rely only on what I described earlier as a mixture of ad hockery, a degree of overcompensation and, I regret to say, in two cases, outright deception. 
The answer to  Mr Hurford  's question on  Mr Barnard's  retirement is as follows: 
Yes. 
No. There is no fixed procedure relating to or requiring public expressions of appreciation to retiring Heads of Mission, whether they are respected personalities such as the  Hon.  Lance Barnard or senior career officers with many years of service. 
Neither. 
On his return to Australia my Department expressed its appreciation to  Mr Barnard.  I was absent from Australia but with my warm concurrence the Acting Minister for Foreign Affairs on 8 June wrote to  Mr Barnard  in the following terms: 
On the conclusion of your term as Ambassador to Sweden, Norway, and Finland, I am writing to express my appreciation of your work in Stockholm. 
You have represented Australia with dignity and distinction during your term as Ambassador. Your dedication to duty, efficient management of the Mission and capacity as a diplomatic representative have been a credit to Australia and to the Australian Foreign Service. 
I join with your other colleagues in wishing you a happy retirement. ' 
I have publicly and privately, both before and after  Mr Barnard  's retirement, expressed similar sentiments. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. The Guidelines specify restrictions on nuclear exports which participating governments intend to apply to such exports. 
The conditions are set out in the International Atomic Energy Agency's publication INFCIRC/254 dated February 1978 available through the Parliamentary Library. 
Yes, for example Australia receives high enriched uranium from Britain for use in its research reactor. 
and (5) Information is not available on all such transfers, but on 1 1 January 1978 the major exporters of nuclear material, equipment and technology notified the International Atomic Energy Agency that they would act in accordance with the principles contained in the Nuclear Suppliers Group guidelines. It is noteworthy that the national policies of some of the countries contain additional restrictions. For example in December 1976 France announced that it would henceforth not authorise the export of reprocessing plants; in June 1977 the Federal Republic of Germany made a similar announcement; and the United States Nuclear Non-Proliferation Act of January 1978 imposes stringent limitations on nuclear exports. 
The answers to the honourable member's questions are as follows: 
and (2) See  Senator Carrick's  reply to  Senator Mulvihill's  question without notice in the Senate of 19 September 1978  (Hansard,  page 678). 
No. 
-For some time now the Government has been taking positive action at international level to find solutions to the tragic problem of Indo-Chinese refugees. I am grateful to the honourable member for referring to my initiative before the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees but, of course, there have been other proposals, and I refer to both the interest of the Opposition and particularly the endeavours made by my colleague the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs in association on this matter. As a Government we have been conferring with countries belonging to the Association of South East Asian Nations and with other governments about means to internationalise the problem. We were instrumental in bringing about an informal international meeting under UNHCR auspices at Kuala Lumpur in 
September to discuss the whole problem. Following the discussions I had with Secretary of State Vance and ASEAN leaders in New York, we again took the initiative at the meeting referred to by the honourable member, the UNHCR Executive Committee meeting in Geneva earlier this month. There we successfully called for further substantive consultations with all interested governments. It should be noted that this had the support not only of the Leader of the Opposition but also of most sections of the media. A further meeting will take place in Geneva under UNHCR auspices before the end of 1978. 
These initiatives resulted from our continued concern that present resettlement programs are proving inadequate to cope with the outflow of refugees. The worsening situation is, of course, causing growing concern not only to Australia but also to our ASEAN neighbours and to the traditional resettlement countries which were mentioned by the honourable member in his question. Our initiatives at Kuala Lumpur and, particularly, at the recent Executive Committee meetings provided excellent opportunities to apprise participating countries of the very real problems that are involved in this tragic situation. We are hopeful that the forthcoming meeting will create further international awareness and provide greater involvement in seeking solutions because a broadly based and more intensive international response is clearly necessary in support of the UNHCR. The Government is determined to continue its efforts in order to relieve the suffering of these peoples. In short, the answer is that we have enjoyed considerable success to date but further work will be required before the full objectives of our initiatives are achieved. 
-by leave- I draw the attention of the House today to what surely must be one of the great tragedies of our time. As honourable members will be aware, from Independence in 1943 Lebanese politics rested on a delicately balanced compromise or 'National Covenant' between Moslems and Christians. Elected positions were apportioned on confessional lines and a quota system regulated entry into the Public Service and the armed forces. It was based on an earlier demographic situation which by the 1970s had long been unrepresentative. It eventually broke down because the Maronites, by far the largest Christian group, were not prepared to accept the fact that the Christian community had become a minority and that the 'National Covenant' no longer reflected political realities in Lebanon. The consequence was the 1975-76 civil war which began in April 1 975 with fighting between Maronite and militant Moslem groups. Fighting stopped in November 1976 following an agreement between Arab leaders, including  President  Sarkis of Lebanon, on the formation of an Arab deterrent force, known as ADF. This force is now some 30,000 strong and composed mainly of Syrians, under the nominal command of  President  Sarkis. The civil war, however, did not resolve any of Lebanon's problems or inequalities. Fighting began again in February this year. 
The Government has been very disturbed for some months about the deteriorating situation in Lebanon and the increasing civilian casualties resulting from the fighting, especially in Beirut. Fortunately, the ceasefire which came into force on 8 October still seems to be holding. But Beirut has seen innumerable ceasefires break down over the last four years and clearly we cannot afford to be over-confident about how long this one will last. The Government hopes it will continue to hold and welcomes the recent decisions on troop redeployment in Beirut in an effort to reduce friction. The Government also supports the United Nations Interim Force in LebanonUNIFIL in its difficult task in Southern Lebanon. UNIFIL has brought a measure of stability and peace to that area. Tensions remain, however, and the United Nations involvement has not yet ensured the restoration of the Lebanese Government's authority in Southern Lebanon. The Australian Government regrets that the recent attempt by the Lebanese Government to extend its authority there, in cooperation with the United Nations forces, was not successful. It hopes that the parties responsible for the current impasse will co-operate in efforts towards an early re-establishment of Lebanese Government authority in Southern Lebanon. 
Lebanon's problems are extremely complex. The most recent fighting has seen Maronite militias pitted against Syrian members of the Arab deterrent force. However, there has also been fighting this year between Israelis and Palestinians, between Maronite. Moslem and Palestinian militias in Southern Lebanon, and between rival Palestinian factions in various parts of the country. Each group in Lebanon has its own aims and objectives. Unfortunately they have resorted more and more to violence to try to achieve their ends. The Lebanese army divided mainly on confessional lines during the civil war and, despite determined efforts by the Lebanese Government, the old wounds have not yet been healed. Efforts at reconstructing the Army have been hampered by disagreements- in microcosm the same focus of dispute as plagues the whole country. As a result, the Lebanese Government has been reluctant to use what there is of the Army because of the uncertainty of how it may react in any situation. In short, Lebanon has an assortment of highly armed factions disputing over a wide variety of issues but no national force to keep them under control. 
The Arab deterrent force which is largely Syrian in composition, but which also contains contingents from Sudan, Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates, is still considered by the Lebanese Government to be acting generally on its behalf as a temporary replacement for the Lebanese Army.  President  Sarkis has said he will seek a renewal of the ADF's present mandate which expires in a few days time. Unfortunately, the Arab deterrent force, whose job was to stop the fighting, has increasingly become involved in it, especially in Beirut. While the Lebanese Government considers it to be the only effective security force in Lebanon, the Maronite militia leaders now consider it to be an army of occupation. This clearly reflects Lebanese domestic political differences. However, I would like to point out that there is no simple interpretation of what has been happening in Lebanon. What is overwhelmingly evident is the fearful cost of the conflict. Already there have been thousands of fatalities and thousands of people seriously injured. Many of these have been innocent civilians. Few Lebanese families cannot have been affected. Hundreds of thousands are homeless. Thousands more have fled abroad, taking with them the talents and skills which had helped make Lebanon the prosperous nation it once was. The physical destruction caused by the fighting- the wrecked homes, schools and hospitals- is further testimony to the folly of this continuing conflict. 
The Australian Government supports United Nations Security Council Resolution 436 of 6 October 1978. This resolution called on all those involved in hostilities in Lebanon to put an end to acts of violence, to observe scrupulously an immediate and effective ceasefire so that internal peace and national reconciliation might be restored, based on the preservation of Lebanese unity, territorial integrity, independence and national sovereignty. These objectives are firmly endorsed by the Australian Government which believes that national reconciliation can be achieved only by compromise between the political groups within Lebanon. The Australian Government will support all efforts to reach such a compromise. This would help greatly to ease the internal pressures in Lebanon, allow the Lebanese Army to be reconstructed and, ultimately, make the presence of the Arab deterrent force unnecessary. 
There can be no doubt that the situation in Beirut and indeed in Lebanon as a whole is so tragic and complex that it merits once again concerted international effort to resolve its problems. The principal concern must be to stop the fighting, and we look to current moves in Beirut, Damascus and other capitals to achieve this. However, it is clear that the degree of tension and antagonism on the ground is so great in and around Beirut that an effective and lasting ceasefire will be difficult to achieve. It is also clear, unfortunately, that the Lebanese Government lacks at the present time the authority and resources to police a ceasefire. 
We have, of course, no direct standing in the Lebanese situation. But, with a large and very concerned Lebanese community in Australia, and in the face of a most serious situation of conflict, it is the right and responsibility of any government concerned with humanitarian issues and those of international peace and security to make its views known. What is needed is more active international support for a ceasefire, and the establishment of conditions conducive to a general quietening of the situation. An ADF more widely acceptable on the ground would be one way, and some form of United Nations intervention would be another. In a situation where the various groups in Lebanon- Maronite Moslem, Palestinian and others- are heavily armed, and where there is threat of total breakdown in law and order and indeed in the political unity of Lebanon itself, the need for action is clearly urgent. There is, in particular, a need to avoid a situation which carries the risk of Syria and Israel becoming increasingly involved on contending sides in Lebanon. 
If the United Nations were to look to the Security Council to consider some expanded peacekeeping operations in Lebanon, we have to bear in mind that an international consensus on the possible form of or even the need for such action does not exist at the moment. Unfortunately, it seems unlikely that the Security Council could go much beyond its resolution of 6 October. For it to do so the acquiescence of the five major powers would be required, as would be an indication of acceptance by the various parties on the ground in Lebanon. The Australian Government would certainly support any action taken on this basis. However, the Lebanese Government itself has not called for comprehensive United Nations peace-keeping action. Indeed, up till now, the Lebanese Government has shown no interest in such a course. But even the installation of a further force, if that could be achieved, would not be an end in itself. As I said in my general debate statement to the United Nations General Assembly on 6 October: 
United Nations peace-keeping operations can only be as effective as the parties to a dispute will permit. To be successful in the long term, they must be accompanied by intense efforts to resolve the underlying causes of the conflict. Peacekeeping is not an alternative but an important contribution to the negotiation and settlement of disputes. There is a responsibility on the parties to a dispute to work actively to resolve their differences and to remove the need for the continuing presence of United Nation forces. The peace-keeping role is intended to promote solutions, not to perpetuate disputes. 
Australia is of course anxious to lend its voice to moves towards a settlement of the underlying problems in Lebanon. This requires a more conciliatory approach by the various militia groups and by the wider communities from which they draw support. It is clear that only with the cooperation of all sections of Lebanese society can any Lebanese Government hope to achieve national reconciliation and harmony. It is this which must be the goal of all efforts, national or international, in regard to Lebanon's present tragic situation. 
I conclude,  Mr Speaker,  that at this delicate juncture, the most realistic line of action especially as I understand it from my recent meeting with  Dr Waldheim,  may be for the United Nations' Secretary-General to maintain his interest in the dispute. I know that  Dr Waldheim  feels a deep personal anguish about the situation in Lebanon and is anxious to do what he can to help bring the current conflict to an end. On S October, he announced that he had asked Prince Sadruddin Aga Khan to undertake a humanitarian mission to the region with a view to extending the Secretary-General's good offices to facilitate the cessation of hostilities. I can inform the House that I was able to indicate to  Dr Waldheim  on 6 October our support for that initiative. Prince Sadruddin 's mission clearly contributed to the recent strengthening of the cease fire which it is now for the parties to extend and consolidate. At this time, I make clear the Australian Government's support for any future role which the Secretary-General will find an opportunity to play and our view that this would constitute the most constructive point of departure which appears to be presently available to the international community. Finally,  Mr Speaker,  I remind honourable members that Australia has extended substantial humanitarian assistance to Lebanon over the last few years. This year alone we are providing $440,000 in meat and blankets. We have also contributed over $ 1 m towards the maintenance of the United Nations' peace-keeping force in Lebanon this year. I present the following paper: 
Situation in Lebanon- Ministerial Statement, 24 October 1978. 
Motion ( by  Mr McLeay  ) proposed: 
That the House take note of the paper. 
For the information of honourable members I present the report of the Australian Delegation to the recent Special Session of the United Nations General Assembly on Disarmament. I seek leave to make a short statement. 
Leave granted. 
I have been encouraged by the widespread parliamentary and public interest in disarmament matters and in the 
Special Session, and I have arranged for the preparation of a comprehensive report by the Australian delegation on the Session. I believe that the report will be a valuable document in promoting informed public debate on, and study of, arms control and disarmament questions. 
The Special Session recommended that governments give appropriate publicity to its work and conclusions and also decided that there should be an annual disarmament week commencing on 24 October each year. The tabling of the report during the present week demonstrates the support of the Government for these recommendations of the Special Session. 
The report comprises: 
An introduction by me, as leader of the Australian delegation. This outlines Australia's approach to the Session, our contribution to its work, the extent to which Australian views and interests were reflected in the final outcome; the overall significance of the meeting and its implications for the future; 
An account of the work of the Preparatory Committee for the Session and Australia's active participation in this; a resume of the principal elements in the Session's general debate, in which the Prime Minister took part; a detailed discussion of the negotiation of the Session's lengthy Final Document, including the major issues and difficulties involved in those negotiations; and an assessment of the meeting and the future course of international arms control and disarmament deliberations. 
A number of documents are annexed to the report. These comprise the full text of the Session's Final Document, a collection of Australian papers and statements, the statement of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  at the Session and my own news release commenting on the outcome of the meeting. 
May I draw the attention of the House to salient points in the report. Firstly, it demonstrates that Australia played a most active part in both the Preparatory Committee and at the Special Session itself. Our delegation made a substantial contribution to fostering a cooperative climate in which a consensus on the Final Document was successfully negotiated. Secondly, the report underlines the particular contribution which Australia made to the consideration of questions of nuclear arms control. Honourable members are aware that the Government has a strong commitment in this area. The Final Document of the Session brought out a number of points on nuclear arms control issues which the Prime Minister addressed in the Australian statement. Among these were: 
Recognition of the need for undertakings by all states in regard to nuclear non-proliferation objectives and for all nuclear transactions to be under effective international safeguards; the importance of substantive measures of nuclear disarmament by the existing nuclear weapon powers both as an objective in its own right and as an inducement to strengthening the existing non-proliferation regime; the urgent requirement for a comprehensive nuclear test ban and a new SALT agreement; and the desirability of a cessation of production of fissionable material for weapons purposes by the nuclear powers as a step towards scaling down the arms race. 
Thirdly, the report deals with the overall significance of the Special Session. This was twofold. For the first time all states have agreed on objectives and priorities which should govern arms control and disarmament and have committed themselves to take part in international disarmament efforts. A broad agenda for arms control and disarmament negotiations has been established and the international community will be increasingly involved in discussions and negotiations aimed at achieving substantive measures. 
In conclusion, I wish to draw to the attention of the House the changes in international disarmament machinery which were agreed upon at the Special Session and which are outlined in the report. The dormant United Nations Disarmament Commission has been revived as an allmember deliberative forum. Of special importance, however, is the establishment of a new 40-member Committee on Disarmament to replace the former Conference of the Committee on Disarmament or CCD as it was commonly described. The new Committee on Disarmament will be a negotiating body concerned with drawing up new international arms control and disarmament treaties and conventions. Australia has succeeded in securing membership of this Committee. This is a recognition by the international community of the positive and constructive contribution which Australia has made on disarmament questions over a number of years. Our membership of the Committee on Disarmament will involve us more closely in the international disarmament effort and will provide us with new opportunities to exert influence in line with this Government's long-expressed objectives. I believe that two major issues which should be addressed urgently by the Committee on Disarmament are a comprehensive nuclear test ban treaty and a convention banning chemical weapons. 
I wish to assure the House that Australia's objective is to realise effective and lasting measures of arms control and disarmament. Australia will make a major effort to build upon the existing network of arms control and disarmament agreements and to carry forward the achievements of the Special Session. I present the following paper 
Report of the Australian Delegation to the Special Session of the United Nations General Assembly on DisarmamentMinisterial Statement, 25 October 1978. 
Motion (by  Mr Fife)  proposed: 
That the House take note of the paper. 
As a consequence of the speech which has just been made by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  this is unquestionably an occasion during which we have listened to probably the most mediocre, meandering, misleading and, I am sorry to say, mendacious statement that has been made in many months. If the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition were to listen to his own leader, the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden),  he would know as well as I do that individual relationships with Association of South East Asian Nations countries are excellent. This is not only as a consequence of visits by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony),  myself, the Minister for Special Trade Representations  (Mr Garland)  but also by his own leader, except for some statements to which I will refer. It is not new that trade is a critical matter between those nations and Australia. 
The biggest issue we faced when we came to government was the dispute which the Australian Labor Party Government had created between the Philippines and Australia. The Labor Government shattered their aspirations by alleging that it could lower tariff barriers. Once that was done by an across the board sweep the Labor Government jacked up protection virtually overnight in various areas. We inherited the problems that the ad hoc, misleading and hypocritical policies of the Labor Government imposed on the Philippines, so honourable members opposite should not talk to us about not understanding the critical issue of trade. Since I have been Foreign Minister I have understood trade to be absolutely critical and have said so. One would need to be deaf, dumb, blind and mentally deficient not to recognise that ASEAN countries will double their populations over the next 15 years. Where are those people going to be employed? They will be employed in labour intensive industries and if there is effective competition against Australian industry now, it will grow in intensity. We have seen that and have sought to plan constructively with a package of programs. We are not only sensitive to the trade issue but have moved beyond mere sensitivity. 
What has this Government done in comparison with what the Labor Government did? One moment's reflection on the Labor Government's relations with ASEAN would be worth while. It was during its period in office that the Prime Ministers of Australia and Singapore refused to speak to one another in the end because they could get on in only the most abusive terms. It was during its period in office that the Thais, to quote the remark of their official government spokesman of the day, told the Labor Government to 'mind your own bloody business' because it was trying to intrude into their affairs. It was during the Labor Government's period in office that we shattered that trade element with the Philippines which had to be restored by this Government. 
Honourable members opposite asked me to point to what we have done so I will tell them. Not only were we invited to the meeting of ASEAN leaders last year in Kuala Lumpur but also since that time we have sponsored and paid for the Australian-ASEAN Industrial Cooperation Committee, the Australian-ASEAN Trade Fair, the Australian-ASEAN Forum, the Australian-ASEAN joint research projects, the Australian-ASEAN early warning system and we have increased Australian aid to ASEAN. I remind honourable members opposite that this Government was the first to implement aid on that basis, quite apart from contributions bilaterally. Beyond that, because we have a conceptual framework to our foreign policy that the Labor Government never had, we established a committee to examine the Third World and to see how we ought to react effectively to its programs. So honourable members opposite should not tell us what they intend to do. Shallow, shabby responses and the shattering of relations when they were in government is their record. It was an abysmal performance. Yet they stand here today and sweep aside the initiatives I have put forward already and sweep aside what their leader said on his trip around our region. 
He called for the further development of trade and in the same breath said that he would cut off supplies of uranium to the Philippines, such was his consistency. He called for closer consultation between Australia and the region and then announced that he would withdraw the Australian squadrons from Malaysia. He promised not to lecture on his trip but at every airport he gave lectures telling the region how it ought to put its affairs in order. So honourable members opposite should not tell us that they know how to administer foreign affairs. They cannot even bring themselves up to date; they cannot even be loquacious in a plausible manner in this Parliament. They were the Hayden remarks, that was the Whitlam record and we have heard the rather mendacious approach which the Opposition has adopted today. 
Over and above the initiatives we have taken with ASEAN and the establishment of a committee to examine the Third World, honourable members opposite should have a look at the way we have approached the challenge of development in the Third World today. Australia is unquestionably the leading Western industrialised democratic country in terms of its policy and program on the most critical issue that the Third World wants, namely, the Common Fund, which is fundamental to the integrated program of commodities that Third World countries have put forward. It is for this reason that other countries are now adopting in principle the program we have put forward and I hope that the negotiations which will take place at the resumed negotiating sessions next month will show that we , have been able to take other Western industrialises countries with us. This is not a program for just the Third World generally; it is central - 
-The honourable member would not know, of course. The program is central to both Indonesia and Malaysia, which are ASEAN countries, and we should recognise the desire that these countries have for an effective Common Fund. Australia has taken the leading position in the Group B countries and is seeking to build a bridge between the Group B countries as well. 
Over and above the ASEAN initiatives, the conceptual framework that I have talked about previously and the initiatives we have taken on the Common Fund, let us look at what we have done regionally by utilising the Commonwealth, which members of the Opposition thought was either a mechanism to enable its leader to grandstand or something to be dismissed. What we did with the Commonwealth was to establish the Commonwealth Heads of Government Regional Meeting in Sydney this year out of which we formed the consultative mechanism on trade and the working groups on drugs, terrorism and the like. 
-The honourable member calls it window dressing even though all those countries warmly embraced and are seeking actively to participate in the committees and working groups which have been structured. We are seeking mutual comprehension. We listen to one another, we co-operate with one another and we co-operate with the countries in our region. Honourable members opposite cannot even comprehend what is transpiring or agree amongst themselves. I recall, when I took the initiative before the United Nations High Commission for Refugees only a couple of weeks ago, receiving a telegram from the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  commending me for my initiative on what is the most critical human problem facing ASEAN countries today as the major first recipients of the human beings who are fleeing. The Leader of the Opposition supported this initiative but the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  yesterday described it as mere public relations and a gimmick. What sort of difference of view is that? It is not merely a matter of cosmetics or of point scoring; there is not even any consistency amongst members on the other side of the chamber. They should show a bit of genuine concern, put forward some initiatives and act upon them. They have done nothing and are reflecting again the shallow, shabby approach they had when in government which shattered relations and did not promote either goodwill or constructive solutions. That was their approach. 
I turn now to the record in trade for those honourable members opposite who want to talk about it. The two-way trade between Australia and ASEAN countries is growing significantly. Australia's imports from ASEAN countries have grown substantially from $97m in 1971-72 to $557m in 1977-78, an average annual growth of 34 per cent compared with an annual growth of 19 per cent in our total imports. I acknowledge that it is a growth on a small base but nevertheless the growth has been substantial. Australian imports of manufactures grew by an average of 47 per cent a year between 1971-72 and 1977-78. Even imports of the sensitive items subject to restraint, for example, clothing, textiles and footwear, grew from $6. 5m to $45. lm, an annual growth of 38 per cent. So, honourable members opposite need not tell me that progress is not being made. I recognise, and I have said it myself, that we have to continue to recognise that the problems in trade between the ASEAN countries and Australia will be considerable unless governments adopt responsible and responsive policies. This is what we have begun to do. 
The Labor Government did not do that. It had no conception of the ramifications of international economics in its foreign policy. The shattering effect of the 1973 oil price hike had no effect on the Labor Government's attitude to foreign policy. It rolled around, either overcompensating to one country or abusing another. It did not recognise that it had to establish a framework in which it measured international economic relations as an integral part of its foreign policy. That is why we have pressed on with these initiatives with ASEAN; it is why we have taken the initiatives we have in CHOGRM; it is why we have taken the initiative on the Common Fund and the integrated commodity program, the Law of the Sea and the sharing of resources. We have taken those initiatives because we see the necessity of working closely and harmoniously with the Third World, which includes ASEAN countries, albeit that they are the more moderate members of the Third World, within a framework of equitable international economic solutions. If honourable members opposite doubt that we are appreciated by those in ASEAN- and some still do- I will quote brief extracts from the remarks of the Minister representing ASEAN governments at the trade fair this week. I take two paragraphs. He said: 
But, Excellencies, this is not quite new in my experience with Australia. In Tact, this is characteristic of Australia which is known at least in my country - 
This is the  Deputy  Minister of Commerce in the Government of Thailand- that in the area of development assistance you are not only generous in terms of the volume of aid but, most significantly, you are also known for the quality. For example, the Australian assisted projects in Thailand have always been carefully chosen on the basis of benefits accrued to the recipients rather than their publicity value. The Australian experts are usually of the highest calibre and the monitoring of the results are also excellent. Here again is another model of international co-operation that the world can learn from you. 
He continued: 
In my view, the Fair is yet another clear demonstration of international goodwill and sincerity on the pan of Australia towards the ASEAN countries, and of the expressed determination to co-operate with them as equal partners for mutual benefits. This, we deeply appreciate, and leads me to believe that, while inaugurating this Fair, you have established a firm foundation for an increasingly strong and healthy bond between our countries in the years ahead. 
These are not my words. These are not the words of the Minister for Special Trade Representations  (Mr Garland)  or the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  These are the words this week of the representative of the Association of South East Asian Nations. I seek to have the rest of his remarks incorporated  in Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

Response by Prok Amranand,  Deputy  Minister of Commerce, Government of Thailand 
On behalf of the ASEAN Representatives present here, I have the honour and privilege to say how deeply grateful we are for your excellency the Prime Minister to be here to inaugurate the ASEAN Trade Fair. 
Since your Excellency made the offer at the Kuala Lumpur meeting with the ASEAN heads of government last year, we in ASEAN have followed the event leading to the launching of this co-operative venture with interest and enthusiasim. I have noted with great satisfaction that from the start this fair was carefully planned and meticulously prepared by Australian experts in close co-operation with ASEAN officials. For instance, the choice of products to be displayed were made only after thorough market investigations, and even the art designs of individual exhibits were the work of experts of high quality. Having previewed the exhibition yesterday, I was more than pleased with what I saw. I believe that such close co-operation between the fair organisers and exhibitors should be a model example to be followed in other instances. 
Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, the correction of trade imbalances, no doubt, requires a great deal of effort on all parts as well as decisive policy and administrative measures, this ASEAN Trade Fair represents one of them and I am convinced that it will achieve its objectives. In fact, considering the underlying concepts and the kind of preparations made, it must be an outstanding success and therefore, should be institutionalised as a regular event to be held periodically. . . . 
Finally, may I thank the depanment of Trade and Resources, the Department of Foreign Affairs and other agencies concerned for the tremendous efforts they made in making this first ASEAN Trade Fair a reality. 
-I thank the House. That will be firm corroboration of the matters that I am putting forward. Opposition members cannot come forward today with sniping, sneering criticisms which put forward no blueprint, no plan, indeed no record in government. We place extraordinarily high importance on our economic and trading relationship with ASEAN. We have been able to demonstrate this not merely by rhetoric but also by performance. The Prime Minister has made several visits to the region. So have I and so have other Ministers. As a result, Australia's trade and economic policies are now receiving special attention and special consideration. 
This means that the matter put forward by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition not merely falls to the ground but also is rendered irrelevant by any examination of the record and performance of this Government- and even more so when compared with the present Opposition's own record and with the disputes between its members. They have no conceptual framework for their policies. They have no central purpose. They have no record and they have no performance. Indeed, I must remind honourable members opposite that they have not even had a policy. When they went before the people in 1975 they did not produce a foreign policy and when they went before the people in 1977 they still did not produce a foreign policy. All they have done is to introduce matters of public importance which have been swept out the window as they justly deserve to be. I am sorry to say these things to a man whom I generally respect as a man who wishes to put forward plausible material. Nevertheless, in putting forward the matter of public importance today he made the most meandering, misleading, mediocre and, regrettably, mendacious address that has been made in months. It does not bear examination. 
The answers to the honourable member's question are as follows: 
1 ) and (2) I was aware that Miss Barbara Biggs returned to Australia in April 1978 and that there were irregularities relating to her travel documents. She returned to Australia from Guam through Nauru and Honiara, not New Zealand. 
and (4) Miss Biggs was found by the American authorities in Guam to be holding two valid Australian passports. These passports were impounded and Miss Biggs was issued with a Document of Identity valid for a single journey to Australia. Information relating to Miss Biggs ' possession of two passports was referred to the Commissioner of Commonwealth Police and following an investigation, she was convicted of three offences in connection with the matter in the Magistrates Court, Melbourne on 10 October 1 978. 
Immigration Procedures at Tullamarine Airport  (Question No. 2408) 
Yesterday I had occasion to describe a speech by the Deputy Leader of the Opposition as misleading, mediocre and mendacious. One would need to go to Roget to exceed the description of what he said in regard to our Embassy and the situation of refugees in Lebanon the day before yesterday. I quote from what he said, as recorded at page 2185 of  Hansard: 
The Australian Embassy has withdrawn from Lebanon. We have no quarrel with that. The Minister is entitled to be concerned about his staff. But to where has the Embassy gone? It has gone to Damascus. The Minister must surely be aware that a Lebanese refugee might just as well try to visit the moon as visit Damascus, the capital of Syria. Why was the Embassy not withdrawn to Cyprus, where many of the refugees have gone? 
The facts are: Firstly, the Embassy has not been withdrawn. Secondly, so far as going to Cyprus is concerned, there are at present some 3,000 to 4,000 Lebanese in Cyprus. Many of them have been there for some time. I am advised that none of them have approached our High Commission; so it is presumed that those who wish to go to Australia already hold visas issued in Beirut. Thirdly, as to his statements that going to Damascus is equivalent to going to the moon and that those who are fleeing the tragedy of Lebanon cannot get any assistance, I inform the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition of the following: Since the migration office opened in Damascus last week, some 420 applications have been received from Lebanese. This would represent approximately 1,400 persons. None of the applicants have complained about their need to apply in Damascus. None of them, they say, have experienced any problems in crossing into Syria. In fact, the attitude of the Syrian border officials has been described as very helpful. I suggest to the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition that he check his facts; that he get a new speech writer; that, having checked his facts, he start to rethink his attitude to the Middle East; and that, when he is rethinking, he does a genuine rethink and does not simply rearrange his prejudices. 

 - Mr Speaker, I claim to have been misrepresented. 

-Thank you,  Mr Speaker.  Firstly, the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  said that he adverted to a situation. He did not advert to it. He stated it as a bland factual situation that the embassy had closed. 
-If the honourable member would stop stroking his platitudes and listen, he would be better off. 
-He has all the gyrations of an intellectual cripple. He cannot be held responsible for his statements. 
We are talking about a tragic situation. The facts are that the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition said that the Embassy had been withdrawn and it had not. Consular officers are still operating in the Australian Embassy in Beirut and assisting those Australian citizens who seek such assistance. If the honourable member had been expressing the concerns of members of the Lebanese community in Australia that would be one thing. He did not. He put his viewpoints forward and stated them as facts. 
-The honourable member said that I misled the Parliament. I did not. I put the facts before the Parliament, which is contrary to what the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition has done. 

 Mr LIONEL BOWEN (KingsfordSmith)  Mr Speaker,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
The prospect of continuing instability in Iran obviously is a source of very great concern. The present balance of power in the Gulf region could be affected and any disruption of Iran's oil exports, if it were to affect the availability of sufficient quantities to meet Western needs, could have only a negative effect on Western interests in terms of the overall strategic balance. Equally, an unstable government in Iran cannot fail to have political repercussions from the eastern Mediterranean through the Indian sub-continent, at the very least. It has been confirmed that the Shah of Iran has appointed a military government to replace the Government of  Mr Sharif-Emami  who resigned on 5 November. In announcing the decision, the Shah said that he had been obliged to do so after the failure of his efforts to form a coalition government which would have included leading members of opposition groups. The Government has noted that the Shah has promised that the military administration will be an interim measure and that he has reaffirmed his commitment to the holding of free and fair elections, social justice and freedom from repression. We do not yet know, of course, how the people will react and how the military government will go about restoring order. 
The situation in Tehran and in the provinces is very uncertain. The Australian Embassy remains operating with a reduced staff. It is without telex services. However, the Department of Foreign 
Affairs has had telephone contact with the Embassy. As most honourable members will be aware, Press reports have indicated that mobs caused very great damage in Tehran on 5 November. They attacked airline offices, banks, hotels, restaurants, liquor stores, cinemas, department stores, et cetera. A large number of buses were burnt. The British Embassy was ransacked and damaged by fire. Furthermore, international airline schedules in and out of Tehran have become erratic because of strikes. 
In our view it would be unwise for Australian travellers to include Iran on their itineraties at present. We have received no reports to suggest that there is any more danger for Australian citizens than there is for other foreigners at this time but the situation could change rapidly and the Embassy is advising resident Australians that it would be prudent at the very least for them to remain at home until the position clarifies. 
The Government has been particularly active on this matter throughout the year. Whilst the present draft text of the proposed UNESCO declaration on the mass media, as termed, is an improvement over the earlier version which Australia found unacceptable at the last session of the UNESCO general conference in November 1976, it still contains unacceptable provisions. These could imply a need for government interference in media activities and thereby diminish the freedom of the media to operate in a way which we consider absolutely essential to the very basis of a free society. For these reasons Australia will not support adoption of the existing text. However, despite our inability to accept the current draft we have been consulting our Western partners for several months in an attempt to work out amendments which would protect the principle and practice of a free, extensive and responsible flow of information and to erase any suggestion of government control of the media. 
Our view is that the international community obviously should have access to the widest possible range of opinions and news on national and international developments. We are of course sensitive to the wishes of developing countries in building up their internal communications systems and news exchange arrangements. Our ambassador to UNESCO has stated Australia's policy, that is, that we stand ready to assist where we can in this area. In fact the Government has provided media and communications training courses as well as being prepared to contribute financially to international bodies such as the Asian-Pacific Institute of Broadcasting Development which is located in Kuala Lumpur. We see the development of the communications systems of other countries as enlarging and enriching the flow of information around the world, thus being a proper objective of UNESCO. However, we are deeply concerned that UNESCO should not become the vehicle of viewpoints which mar the objectivity of the organisation and seek to weaken a fundamental and basic tenet of democratic practice and liberal thought. This is a matter on which I have personally been in contact with the United States Secretary of State on more than one occasion throughout the year. It touches on a principle that we are not prepared to see politicised. No amount of extreme rhetoric from other elements of the international community will force me to change my view on what is, after all, a basic bulwark of liberty. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: (I), (2) and (3) The Australian Ambassador to Switzerland,  Mr K.  G. Brennan, is a senior distinguished career officer of the Department of Foreign Affairs who has a long record of involvement in international legal affairs. He has played a prominent part in recent years in a number of major international negotiations, particularly with respect to the Law of the Sea and Antarctica, since the commencement of his assignment in Berne in September 1974. He has led Australian Delegations to various meetings of the Antarctic Treaty Consultative Parties, and has been Leader or  Deputy 
Leader  or  Australian Delegations to the United Nations Conference on the Law of the Sea. 
The details of  Mr Brennan  's absences from Switzerland since 30 September 1974 are as follows: 18 October-3 December 1974- Member, Australian Delegation. United Nations General Assembly, New York 7-21 February, 1975- Intersessional Consultations, U.N. Law of the Sea Conference, New York 22-27 February, 1975- Preparatory Meeting, Eighth Antarctic Consultative Meeting, Oslo 7-22 June, 1975- Leader, Australian Delegations, Eighth Antarctic Consultative Meeting, Oslo 27 January- 18 February 1976- Intersessional Consultations, U.N. Law of the Sea Conference, New York 14 March-9 May 1976-  Deputy  Leader, Australian Delegation, Fourth Session UN Law of the Sea Conference, New York 26 June- 14 July 1976- Leader, Australian Delegation, Antarctic Special Preparatory Consultative Meeting, Paris 28 July-21 September 1976-Deputy Leader (and Leader in the absence of the Minister for Foreign Affairs), Australian Delegation, Fifth Session UN Law of the Sea Conference, New York 3 October-9 December 1976- Leave and Consultations in Australia 12 March-20 March 1977-Leader, Australian Delegation, Preparatory Meeting, Ninth Antarctic Treaty Consultative Meeting, London 17 May- 19 July 1977- Leader, Australian Delegation, Sixth Session, U.N. Law of the Sea Conference, New York 24-29 July 1977- Leader, Australian Delegation, Preparatory Meeting, Ninth Antarctic Treaty Consultative Meeting and First Special Antarctic Treaty Consultative Meeting, London 18 September-8 October 1977-Leader, Australian Delegation, Ninth Antarctic Treaty Consultative Meeting, London 9-16 December 1977- Intersessional Consultations, U.N. Law of the Sea Conference, New York 1- 17 February 1978- Leader, Australian Delegation, Intersessional Meeting, UN Law of the Sea Conference, New York 18 February-21 March 1978-Leader, Australian Delegation, Second Special Antarctic Treaty Consultative Meeting, Canberra 26-31 May 1978- Bilateral Consultations, Australia/USSR, on Antarctica, Moscow 31 May-2 June 1978- Bilateral Consultations, Australia/Poland, on Antarctica, Warsaw 9-16 June 1978- Member, Australian Delegation, FAO Committee on Fisheries, Rome 17- 20 June 1978- Bilateral Consultations, Australia/France, on Antarctica, Paris 12-30 July 1978-Leader, Australian Delegation, Second Session, Antarctic Treaty Consultative Meeting, Buenos Aires 20 August- 15 September 1978-Leader; Australian Delegation, resumed Seventh Session UN Law of the Sea Conference, New York 16-30 September 1978-Leader, Australian Delegation, Consultations on Antarctica, Washington 11- 13 October, 1978- Bilateral Consultations, Australia/France, on Antarctica, Paris 
In addition to absences on duty or on leave combined with periods of duty in Australia,  Mr Brennan  has spent the following periods on leave away from Switzerland: 18- 21 December 1974 (United Kingdom) 22 September- 10 October 1975 (Italy and Austria) 1-2 April 1977(France) 20-22 July 1977 (United Kingdom) 27 October- 10 November 1977 (Australia) 17 December 1977-8 January 1978 (Australia) 26-29 January 1978 (France) 22-25 April 1978 (Ireland) 28 June-7 July 1978 (Ireland). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) No. As indicated in  Senator Carrick  's reply to  Senator Mulvihill  's question  (Hansard,  19 September 1978 p. 678 q.v.) Australia is aware in general terms of the United States interest in the concept of regional spent fuel repositories. This has arisen in discussions between Australian and United States officials on several occasions but no specific proposal for such a repository in the Pacific region has been put to Australia for consideration. 
The United States is fully aware of Australia's position, as stated by the Prime Minister on 25 August 1977, that there is no intention of storing other countries' radioactive wastes in Australian Territory. 
See answer to (I). 
Chinese Students in Australia (Question No. 2525) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. I have conveyed Australia's willingness to cooperate to  Mr Huang  Hua on 28 August 1978. 
Responsibility for arranging the Chinese Government sponsored training program in Australia rests with the Australian Development Assistance Bureau of the Department of Foreign Affairs. The Bureau, which is responsible for the training component of Australia's development assistance program, has well established channels of communication with Australian educational institutions. These channels will be used as the requirements of the program emerge and the Chinese Government provides details of the fields in which it wants its students to study. 
Yes. Similar requests have been made by China of the United Kingdom, Japan, the United States of America, the Federal Republic of Germany, France, The Netherlands, and Canada. Inquiries have been made of the Governments of those countries and will be continued as appropriate. 
Human Rights in the Soviet Union  (Question No. 2562) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Government is unable to say that a correlation exists between actions taken by the Soviet authorities against persons campaigning for human rights in the USSR and the timing of prospective visits by prominent foreign leaders to the USSR. 
Speculation in the media, and elsewhere, that such a correlation exists is offset, to some extent, by equal and contrary speculation that the Soviet authorities have sometimes moved to relax procedures for the control of dissident activities prior to important state visits, as a means of improving the political climate for the discussions with the foreign leader concerned. 
The Government is deeply attached to the need to promote and defend the cause of human rights throughout the world. This position has been stated publicly on many occasions. The issue of human rights in the Soviet Union is one which has drawn the particular attention of the Government. The Government has called on the Soviet Union to implement the important principles of human rights embodied in United Nations instruments as well as the 197S Helsinki Accords. It will continue to do so. The Government's stand on human rights will be maintained into 1980 (when the Olympic Games are to be held in Moscow) and for as long as basic human rights are denied in the Soviet Union or elsewhere. 
I can give an absolute assurance that the Torres Strait Islanders are in full support of the agreement which was initialled by  Mr Ebia  Olewale- now the  Deputy  Prime Minister but then the Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade, and still holding that portfolio- and myself on 2 November. Together with the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, the Queensland Minister for Aboriginal and Island Affairs and the Queensland Premier we met with all island leaders in the Torres Strait, either the chairmen of the Islands or the  deputy  chairmen where the chairmen were ill. All island leaders represented were taken through all elements of the treaty which were discussed in detail. They endorsed the treaty unanimously. I said last week that it is a unique treaty reconciling on a permanent and equitable basis the claims of peoples and governments. 
-It is nice to hear from the honourable member. He has a self-proclaimed capacity to assemble facts but obviously he has no capacity to comprehend solutions. He should recognise that this is a most striking solution to a most complex, historical and geographical problem which has no precedent elsewhere. A lengthy arrangement has been reached from the Arafura Sea right through to the Coral Sea. It is obvious that there would be no precedent on that alone. But by having the agreement of all the Islanders, Papua New Guinea and ourselves that there be a protected zone which within it guarantees the sovereignty of Australian islands, that all Islanders remain Australian, that the Islands generate a territorial sea, that the customs and traditions of the peoples of the region are guaranteed and enshrined in a treaty, I can justifiably say that the settlement is unique. I genuinely believe that it would have bipartisan support just as it has- in answer to the question- the support of all concerned.  Mr Olewale  discussed the agreement with the inhabitants of the southern Papua coast, the area adjacent to the Torres Strait. They endorsed it. All island leaders endorsed it. The Queensland Government endorsed it. It is now a matter for signature by both governments later next month. This situation could not have been achieved, I might add, without the co-operation and assistance of the Queensland Government. I am grateful to the Queensland Premier for his ready assistance and support over the past few months on this matter. Without it the agreement would not have been achieved. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  ( 1 ), (2) and (3) The following table sets out requested information on foreign aid expenditure. The figures used have been taken from Budget Paper No. 8 for the years involved. These figures are presented on a net basis in accordance with the Development Assistance Committee requirement regarding international aid reporting, and for this reason they might differ from aid expenditure figures shown in other budget papers. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to the Prime Minister's answer to the Question No. 2090 (House of Representatives  Hansard.  17 October 1978, page 1972). 
Co-ordinative and Consultative Arrangements with the States  (Question No. 2111) 
-I have seen the report. It is incorrect to say that listening devices have been discovered in government premises inside Australia. Therefore the question that is contained in the report of the Government expelling or threatening to expel any Soviet official who is attached to Soviet diplomatic establishments in Australia has not arisen. However, a network of listening devices was discovered in the Australian Embassy in Moscow in June of this year. The devices were carefully hidden in the walls of rooms used by Austraiian diplomatic officers. Obviously the Government and its advisers could conclude only that the devices had been installed by agencies of the Soviet Government for the purpose of overhearing private conversations between Australian officials. The Government protested in the strongest possible terms to the Soviet Government at what it regarded as a flagrant and serious breach of diplomatic propriety. I summoned the Soviet Ambassador to inform him that the Government could interpret this evidence of intensive Soviet intelligence activity only as implying hostile intent towards Australia. I informed the Ambassador further that the Government had decided to cancel scheduled officials' talks between Austraiian and Soviet foreign ministries. I said further that the Government had also decided against signing in July an agreement providing for the extension of the bilateral cultural program. Furthermore, we later decided to suspend plans for the holding of a meeting to review the science agreement with the Soviet Union which had been due to take place in Moscow in September. The Austraiian protest was repeated by the Austraiian Ambassador in Moscow. 
We have not got much from the Soviet side. Perhaps the honourable member can give us all the information, if he treats it as such a joke. I can tell him that I seriously considered not sending that delegation, and so I ought. The Soviet Government has claimed that Soviet organisations were not involved and that the implanting of the devices must have been the work of others. We have responded that this explanation is unconvincing and that the Australian Government must continue to believe that the devices had been installed by or at the direction of the Soviet authorities. The Government continues to regard this matter with the utmost seriousness. The Soviet Union has been shown to be actively engaged in activities of an espionage character which it has recently and unconvincingly condemned in others, including some of its own courageous citizens. It need scarcely be emphasised that hostile intelligence activities detract seriously from the purpose of improving and developing relations between the Soviet Union and Australia, a purpose to which the Australian Government has been diligently directing its efforts. We are not disposed to be turned away from this purpose. It is to be hoped that the Government of the Soviet Union will do likewise and direct its energies towards the same objective and refrain from further activities of a nature likely to damage mutually beneficial relations. In the meantime, as I have said, we regard it as a flagrant and serious breach of diplomatic propriety. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Normal diplomatic relations with the Socialist Republic of Vietnam (formerly the Democratic Republic of Vietnam) and with the Lao People's Democratic Republic (formerly the Kingdom of Laos) have continued uninterrupted over the last five years. There has been a wide range of diplomatic contacts during that period. I have had a number of meetings with Vietnamese Ministers in the last year, the most recent being with Foreign Minister Nguyen Duy Trinh in New York on 1 1 October. Although formal diplomatic relations with Kampuchea were not resumed following the overthrow of the Lon Nol Government in April 1975, Australia recognises the present Government. There have been and continue to be contacts between Australia and Kampuchea through our respective representatives in Peking and in New York. 
There have been numerous occasions on which one or other of the matters mentioned has been raised with the representatives of each of these three countries. I have myself discussed certain of them with those Vietnamese Ministers and representatives whom I have met this year. The Australian Embassy in Laos has had a number of discussions with Lao Government leaders which have embraced such questions as human rights as well as cultural and academic exchanges. Discussions with Kampuchean representatives have covered the Australian Government's concern regarding human rights questions in Kampuchea. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Lebanon is not a regular recipient of Australian aid but we have responded to requests for emergency assistance in the past. 
Currently, there is a gift of 5,000 woollen blankets and 150 tonnes of canned meat valued at approximately $280,000 including freight, en route to Beirut. This gift was authorised in the last financial year but the unreliability of transportation to Lebanon has delayed delivery. 
A further 150 tonnes of canned meat valued at approximately $200,000 (including freight) has been offered to the Lebanese Government under the 1978-79 food aid program. A positive response is expected and shipping will follow as soon as possible. 
In regard to support for NGOs, the YWCA has recently applied for a grant of $31,400 towards its refugee programs in Lebanon, Jordan and Jerusalem. This request will receive consideration by a joint NGO/Australian Development Assistance Bureau Assessment Committee in early November. 
The Government has also provided budget support for a number of international organisations which include Lebanon in their areas of operation. These include the International Committee of the Red Cross (estimate for 1978-79-$100,000), UNHCR ($640,000), UNDRO ($100,000) and UNRWA ($420,000). 
Parliamentary Observers at South Pacific Conferences (Question No. 2653) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
According to records held by the Department of Foreign Affairs there were no Parliamentary observers at the first three South Pacific Conferences nor at the 8th or 9th Conferences in 1968 and 1969 respectively. The details concerning the other Conferences are set out below: 4th Conference 1 959-Mr M. L. McColm 5th Conference 1 962  -Senator N.  Buttfield 6th Conference 1 965-  Senator K.  A. Laught  7th Conference 1967-  Senator K.  A. Laught and  Mr 
D. Cross 10th Conference 1970-  Senator A.  J. Drury and the  Hon. Sir John  Cramer 1 1th Conference 1971  -Mr G.  M. Bryant and  Mr M.  J. R. MacKellar 12th Conference 1972-Senators R. Bishop and C. R. Maunsell 13th Conference 1973-Mr A. S. Luchetti and  Mr P.  E. Lucock 14th Conference 1974-Senators N. J. Bonner and C. G. Primmer 15th Conference 1975-Mr K. L. Fry and  Mr D.  M. Connolly 16th Conference 1976-Senator Justin H. O 'Byrne and  Mr J.  F. Cotter 17th Conference 1977-Senator P. Sim and the  Hon.  G. M. Bryant 18th Conference 1978-  Senator K.  Sibraa and  Mr B.  Simon 
Royal Commission on Australian Government Administration (Question No. 2656) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Australian Government supports proposals that would bring an end to the conflict in Rhodesia. In particular, the Government supports the proposals of Britain and the United States, known as the Anglo-American proposals, as the best basis to date for a lasting settlement in Rhodesia since they provide, among other things, for a round table conference of all the disputant parties to discuss a settlement. 
The Anglo-American proposals envisage a UN peacekeeping force, but in the present situation there has been no possibility of advancing this aspect of the proposals. 
The recent Rhodesian raid into Zambia has made prospects for the convening soon of an all-party conference along the lines of the Anglo-American proposals more uncertain. Nevertheless, it is the earnest hope of the Government that the relevant parties can still make the necessary compromises and enter into negotiations that will bring an end to the conflict. 
-The number of Australians arrested overseas on drug charges has been a matter of very great concern to the Government for some considerable time. Currently 79 Australians who are in gaol on drug charges in 2 1 countries are receiving consular assistance from the Department. An aspect of real concern is the mounting evidence of an increasing involvement in hard drugs, particularly heroin, and in trafficking. So far as the warning is concerned, all Australians receiving a passport are given a booklet prepared by the Department which has a prominent section dealing with drugs, with the severity of penalties, and with the changes that some countries have made in ensuring that those severe penalties are carried out. It seems that we can warn and warn and warn- the media have been particularly helpful in this regard- but others will disregard those warnings. 
Two years ago most of those arrested were young Australians on cannabis charges, usually related to small amounts apparently for personal use. But now increasingly arrests involve heroin, and the transition to heroin has brought with it the inevitable tragedies of young Australians dying overseas from drug overdoses. I do not think there is anyone in the House who would disagree with my own feelings on this. One has nothing but contempt for people prepared to profit by drug trafficking. It is an evil, pernicious and destructive practice. Unfortunately, it has become only too clear that some Australians are actively involved in this traffic in a highly professional way, and there has been a trend towards more severe penalties - 
-The Government's view on the internal settlement is well known. I have put it forward on a number of occasions, not only here but elsewhere. Whilst it was a positive move forward, involving as it did three factions of the existing five, saying that it was a positive move is as far as one could go. It did not embrace all the participants in the dispute in Rhodesia and therefore could not have full and total endorsement. The solution to the problem can be achieved by the majority of Rhodesians determining the form of government they desire, and that requires the participation of all people in that country. As to whether or not the internal settlement will fail, at this moment we cannot say that that is necessarily so. The Government's view all along has been that the Anglo-American proposals are the ones to work to. We still hold to that view. 
The question of immigration is primarily a matter for my colleague the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. If one desires a peaceful settlement of this increasingly difficult dispute in Rhodesia one would not want to be concluding immediately that the consequences implied in the honourable member's question will necessarily occur. We are, of course, receiving an increasing number of immigration applications from people in Rhodesia. They are viewed in the same way, without special categories, as applications from anybody else seeking to enter Australia, with the singular exception that those who have been supporting the illegal regime are excluded. If the situation worsened and we had to view it in humanitarian terms it would be a matter not merely for me to have consultations with other countries but for consultations with the Cabinet. Nevertheless, the Australian Government would stand prepared to respond humanely if the situation deteriorated grievously. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) four, (b) four (as for (a)); (c) eight; (d) none. 
The total cost for the equipment already purchased and being purchased is $6.3m. Because much of the equipment involved is shared by the central processors forming one integral network, individual costs cannot be accurately assessed. 
) As described in reply to question (2), all the computers form one integrated system which will be a total information handling system for all Overseas Posts and the Department. This system will embrace: 
automation of the Government's international telecommunications network and function; 
the provision of Information Processing facilities; 
the support of an International Data Switching facility; and 
the provision of 'Common Service' International Data Processing facilities for the Department of Foreign Affairs, Overseas Posts and other Departments and Authorities involved in overseas operations. 
The nature of the data stored by the system will be diverse, as is reflected in the broad function of the Department and 'Common Services' provided for other Departments and Authorities. The data involved will range from Australia-based and Locally Engaged Staff Records, Financial Transaction and Control Records, Equipment Inventory and Control Data, Procurement Transaction and Freight Forwarding Information, Migration and Travel Document Records through to Substantive Text Information. 
The Department's computers will be located in three inter-connected centres in Canberra, London and Washington. 
Access to the computer facilities will be available to those Departments and Authorities for whom the Departments provides common services. Direct physical access to the computers will be restricted to Departmental Officers. 
The prime objective of the initial phase of the Department's Information Handling System is to increase the efficiency of and to extend and enhance the service provided by the Government's international telecommunications network. The introduction of this phase will result in a reduction in the number of staff required to service the network and after allowing for an increase in the .number of computer support staff there is likely to be a net saving of at least twelve staff; this saving will be effected by staff wastage. It is estimated that a net saving of some further sixty positions will occur in subsequent phases of the Information Handling System. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) No information can be sold, hired or lent. Information stored as a result of operation of the diplomatic telecommunication network will be given as necessary to Government departments and authorities. Personnel Records will be given to the Public Service Board for incorporation into the MANDATA 'Common Service' system. Passport application and issue information will be given to the Department of Business and Consumer Affairs for incorporation into an on-line Passport Issue and Control Systems on computers in the Department of Business and Consumer Affairs. Access to this information is restricted to employees of the Department, or duly delegated officers of the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, involved in the issue of passports. Access to Passport Records will also be made available to Customs Officers to assist them in expediting the clearance of passengers at International Airports. 
(a) none; (b) none; (c) none; (d) as described above, to assist Departments and other Government authorities to perform their function. 
Only to those associated with the operations described in answer to question ( 1 ); on no occasion has information been sold, hired or lent. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No, because some of the information on nuclear explosions which is available to the Australian Government is of a confidential nature. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Embassy is aware that the Association of Migrants Returned from Australia (ANEA) issued a statement of its aims and requests at the opening of its first annual meeting on 4 September 1977 at Castelfranco in northern Italy. This statement, inter alia, asked the Australian Embassy to consider sending to ANEA free of charge, 'works and books of Australian authors in order to form a specilised library which ANEA could put at the disposition of whoever would be interested in Australian culture '. 
The Embassy has not been able fully to meet this specific requirement for reading material partly because of the volume of material involved in the request and partly because of other demands in Italy for material about Australia. It does, however, provide the Association with the Embassy's monthly publication 'Bolettino Australiano' and Australian Information Service weekly newsletters and releases of general interest. The Association also enjoys free access to the Embassy's film library. 
There is no question of the Embasssy having been unsympathetic to the desire of ANEA to obtain reading material of Australian origin. The Australian Government distributes overseas a selection of general information material including books, magazines and newspapers to a wide range of recipients. But there are many claims on the limited resources available. Considering the large number of Italian migrants in Australia and Italian interest in Australia, Italy has and continues to receive a large share of this material. 
Apart from the Australian Embassy's library in Rome to which members of the ANEA have access, there are also a number of other sources of information on Australia in Italy which have been sponsored by the Australian Government. Australia continues to provide books to Ca'Foscari University in Venice in support of the Australian Studies Course offered there by Professor B. Hickey. It has also pesented a selection of books to the University of Turin and will this year present a collection to the University of Bologna. 
While the Government believes that the universities, and especially the University of Venice, should for the time being receive priority in respect of the material available for distribution in Italy, it will nevertheless continue to keep in touch with the Association about its activities and give consideration to promote further assistance as resources permit. 
We are not exchanging the model safeguards agreement with the Soviet Union, as the honourable member knows. He also knows that the review of relations with the Soviet Union was brought about by discovery of the devices to which I referred and nothing more than that. 

 - Mr Speaker, I made it perfectly clear last week that I would brook no interference with the rights of this Parliament and with the determination that it makes on where its members go and who comprises its delegations. There was no direct request by Soviet officials to our people. As I understand it, one of our officials was told at a social function by a middle ranking Soviet official that the Soviet Union could have a certain attitude. This would not affect me in any way in choosing a delegation had it been my choice. In fact the matter rests with the parties and with the Presiding Officers. Let there oe absolutely no ambiguity on that. I made it clear last week and I reaffirm it today. The interesting thing is that this is the first time that members of this Parliament sitting opposite have taken such a viewpoint of the Soviet Union. This is in marked contrast to what occurred in Victoria the weekend before last when not even a condemnation of human rights could be supported when the most scurrilous treatment had been handed out - 

 - Mr Speaker, I ought to point out that no Minister rose to support you on that matter because we regarded the manner in which it was poured forth as so extraordinary that we thought that Opposition members condemned themselves. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
It is the Government's understanding that the Soviet authorities have not yet finalised arrangements for visitors to Moscow for the 1980 Olympics. Discussions on these matters are continuing between the Soviet Olympic authorities and individual Olympic committees in a number of countries. It was in furtherance of these discussions that three officials from the Soviet Olympic Games Organising Committee visited Australia in early October at the invitation of the Australian Olympic Federation. Further discussions are to be held next month when a representative from the Australian Olympic Federation is to visit Moscow along with representatives of Jetset Tours, the designated sales agency in Australia for Moscow Olympic Games package tours. It is to be noted that the general approach adopted by the Soviet authorities in relation to the physical arrangements for the holding of the Games has been approved by the International Olympic Committee. 
-The person primarily responsible for family reunion, as the honourable member knows, is the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. We are pressing on in regard to family reunions. I expect to discuss that matter and the question of the closing of any boundaries when the Indonesian Foreign Minister comes here. The question of seabed boundaries- there is a gap so far as Timor is concerned- is all tied in with the boundary negotiations that we will be having in due course in a variety of areas. As the honourable member knows, we have negotiated in the area from the Arafura Sea right through to the Coral Sea, not just on Torres Strait. We will have negotiations with the Solomon Islands and the French over their territories et cetera and so, too, we will be negotiating with the Indonesians on 200-mile zones as well as the closing of the gap- 
I will not go into questions of recognition. The Government's policy as I answer this question is as I enunciated it in January- namely, de facto recognition based on effective control of Timor by Indonesia. If there is a duty to negotiate in these areas I will proceed. The family reunion matter, as I said, is for the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. I would not like it to be thought that by passing over the matter one is not concerned about the humanitarian element. We have made commitments here and we will be looking forward to further progress in this matter when we discuss the full issue with the Foreign Minister next month. 
by leave- Honourable members will be aware that at my meeting with the Papua New Guinea Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade,  Mr Ebia  Olewale, in Daru on 2 November, we adopted, and agreed to submit to our respective governments, the text of the treaty that is to be concluded on maritime boundaries between our two countries and on other matters relating to the Torres Strait. I am now pleased to be able to inform honourable members that the treaty text which  Mr Olewale  and I adopted has been approved by both the Australian and Papua New Guinea Governments. I also inform honourable members that both Governments have agreed that the treaty will be signed in mid December at Papua New Guinea House in Sydney by the Prime Ministers and Foreign Ministers of Australia and Papua New Guinea. 
The treaty is a long, complex and detailed document. It incorporates in formal treaty language, and with the necessary degree of precision, the principal basic elements which I had agreed with the Papua New Guinea Foreign Minister would be included in the Treaty. I informed honourable members of these elements in my statements to the Parliament on 1 1 and 25 May. The treaty settlement which has now been achieved is one which protects the interests of Australia and all Australian citizens, while being, at the same time, a fair and equitable settlement between Australia and Papua New Guinea. A fundamentally important part of the treaty is that all Australian islands remain Australian, and all Australian citizens remain Australian citizens. 
I take this further opportunity of assuring honourable members that the Torres Strait Islanders, through their chairmen, have been fully consulted and have expressed their support of the Treaty settlement. Since the negotiations with Papua New Guinea were resumed earlier this year, there has been close and continuous consultation with the Government of Queensland and the Torres Strait Islander chairmen. My colleague, the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Viner)  held extensive consultations with the chairmen during visits to the Torres Strait in March and May. Since March, there have been three ministerial meetings with the Premier of Queensland and his ministerial colleagues, and many discussions between Commonwealth and State officials. 
The Premier and I, accompanied by the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs and the Queensland Minister for Aboriginal and Island Affairs, held joint consultations with the chairmen and  deputy  chairmen of the Torres Strait Island communities on Yorke Island on 31 October. The Islander chairmen endorsed the Treaty unanimously. The Queensland Government has concurred in the terms of the Treaty. 
The final negotiation of this Treaty, after years of patient negotiation between the Australian and Papua New Guinea Governments, is a most dramatic and important achievement. It reflects the sound basis of the relationship between the two countries and justifies the determination of the two Governments that this very complex issue could and would be resolved by direct negotiation between them. This has not been easy. We faced issues relating to sovereignty and sovereign rights and special legal and humanitarian problems which involved important national interests for each country. 
The Treaty will establish clearly the division of sovereign rights over resources between Australia and Papua New Guinea in the whole area between them- from the Arafura Sea to the Coral Sea. All these matters have been resolved by a Treaty which is equitable and meets the interests of both parties. The Treaty will give practical effect to a number of developing principles of international law. This will be significant in the process of development and acceptance of those principles. 
A most important aspect of the Treaty, and one to which Ministers of both governments have given deep personal attention, has been the need to provide for the special protection of the interests and the traditional way of life of the peoples of both countries who live in and adjacent to the Torres Strait. In this context, particular care has been directed to the preservation of the unique marine environment of the Strait. These most important objectives will be achieved by the establishment under the Treaty of a protected zone in the Torres Strait. The Government believes that the Treaty resolves all these problems in a way that sustains the interests of all Australians, snares fairly and justly the resources of the area and reconciles the claims of the peoples and governments of Australia and 
Papua New Guinea on a permanent and equitable basis with justice for all concerned. 
The team of officials who assisted me throughout these extensive and intricate negotiations was a major contributing factor to the successful conclusion of what has been a very complex exercise. Without the persistence, attention to detail and dedication of those officials, I would not have been able to reach this conclusion. I present the following paper 
Australia and Papua New Guinea- Negotiations on Maritime Boundaries and on Other Matters Relating to Torres Strait- Ministerial Statement, 23 November 1978. 
Motion (by  Mr Groom)  proposed: 
That the House take note of the paper. 
-I table the text of Australia's model bilateral nuclear safeguards agreement and seek leave to make a statement. 
Leave granted. 
-This is the document that was sent to potential customer countries for Australian uranium late last year as a basis for negotiations with them on nuclear safeguards. Honourable members will be aware of the requirement, described in detail in the statement of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  of 24 May 1977, for the prior conclusion of stringent bilateral safeguards agreements with countries wishing to import uranium from Australia under new contracts. In the past the Government has declined to make this document public. I explained in the House on 10 April 1978 that it would be contrary to established practice and principle to bring into Parliament matters under negotiation with other governments. I also pointed out that the model agreement simply reflected in draft treaty form the policy on safeguards which the Government has announced. 
The situation has moved forward since then; first the Government has signed safeguards agreements with Finland and the Philippines and has concluded an interim agreement with the United States. I have tabled these agreements in Parliament. These agreements, having been finalised and made public, have tended to replace the model agreement as the reference points for negotiations with other countries. The model agreement was merely a negotiating tool to that end. 
Second, it is the actual agreements we negotiate, not the model, which count and which have real status as binding legal documents. Honourable members and the public have always been free to compare the agreements, as they are concluded, with the policy requirements set out on 24 May 1977. It is clear that the agreements fully satisfy that policy and are indeed, in some respects, even more stringent. But the Opposition has persisted in trying to confuse and obscure this achievement by dragging in the red herring that the original negotiating tool- the model agreement- has not been made public. By tabling the model today I wish to dispel this irrelevance once and for all. It will be seen that the model text is, as we have always said, a completely faithful reflection of announced policy. 
Very satisfactory progress is being made in the negotiation of bilateral safeguards agreements. There is no doubt internationally or in the minds of other governments of Australia's determination to ensure effective safeguards. In addition to the agreements I have already mentioned, texts have been negotiated at official level with the Republic of Korea and Iran for consideration by governments. Negotiations are underway with the United States and Japan. Officials will soon be commencing negotiations with Sweden. We hope for early commencement of negotiations on safeguards to cover uranium exports to the European Community countries. All these agreements, when completed, will, of course, be tabled in Parliament I present the following paper. 
Model Nuclear Safeguards Agreement- Ministerial statement, 24 November 1 978. 
Motion (by  Mr Viner)  proposed: 
That the House take note of the paper. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to the answer provided by me to bis Question on Notice No. 1662 (see  Hansard,  21 September 1978, page 1338) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Department of Foreign Affairs, in consultation with the Departments of Defence, Prime Minister and Cabinet, Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, Trade and Resources, National Development, and Education, has given detailed consideration to the Joint Committee's report and its recommendations. A submission to the Government has been prepared and it will be considered at the earliest possible opportunity. 
The answers to the honourable member's questions are as follows: 
As the agreement makes clear, both the Philippines and Australia accept International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) safeguards on all nuclear material in all peaceful nuclear activities within their territory, under their jurisdiction or carried out under their control anywhere. The nature of the IAEA safeguards accepted by Australia and the Philippines as they apply to different forms of nuclear material are set out in IAEA document 1NFC1RC 153 (available in the Parliamentary Library) and require, in the case of yellowcake, notification to the IAEA of shipments and receipts of material 
and (3) Under the INFCIRC 153 safeguards system, the safeguards measures applied to uranium hexafluoride once it leaves the plant or process stage in which it has been produced, and enriched uranium produced from it, include physical inspection and measurement of holdings of nuclear material by IAEA inspectors to verify the materials accounts submitted to the IAEA. This system is required to be applied in all non-nuclear weapon states party to the Nuclear NonProliferation Treaty (NPT). In addition three nuclear weapon states- the United States, Britain and France- have signed safeguards agreements with the IAEA, although the agreements with the United States and France have yet to enter into force. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is: 
Yes, in the sense that the Department of Foreign Affairs was consulted by, and worked with, the Department of Transport on aspects of the International Civil Aviation Policy Review which had implications for Australia 's foreign relations. 
In tabling the report of the International Civil Aviation Policy Committee in Parliament on 1 1 October the Minister for Transport stated that editing of the report had been made only to protect confidential material supplied by commerical interests and to delete detailed comment relating to issues that impinge upon Australia's relations with foreign countries. Apart from that qualification the Department's views were reflected in the report 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Australia recognised the Government of Democratic Kampuchea on 17 April 197S but has not yet established diplomatic relations with it. In response to a recent approach from Kampuchea to enter into diplomatic relations the Kampuchean Ambassador in Peking was told that Australia attached importance to the maintenance of Kampuchea's independence and territorial integrity, that we did not rule out the possibility of establishing diplomatic relations in the future and that we wanted to continue to maintain contact through our Embassies in Peking The matter continues to be kept under careful review. 
Information available on the current situation in Kampuchea is at best sketchy. However, it seems that production, storage and distribution of food in Kampuchea has been hard hit by recent abnormally heavy wet-season flooding, which also seriously affected Thailand, Vietnam and Laos. In a speech in Phnom Penh on 7 November, visiting Chinese Vice Premier Wang Tung-Hsing referred to the Kampuchean people fighting the worst flood for 70 years. 
Australian representatives have occasional contact with Kampuchean representatives, principally through our respective Embassies in Peking and our Missions to the United Nations in New York. We also are in contact with diplomatic representatives of other countries who are accredited to Phnom Penh. Other sources of information include press and refugee reports. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Reliable information of the type requested is publicly available in, for example, the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute (SIPRI) Yearbooks entitled  World Armaments and Disarmament. 
The answer to the honourable gentleman's question is as follows: 
and (2) The Oder-Neisse line constitutes the recognised boundary between the Polish Peoples Republic and the German Democratic Republic (GDR). It follows the course of the Oder River from its mouth on the Baltic Coast to the confluence of the Neisse River and then along the Neisse River to the frontier of the Czechoslovak Socialist Republic (CSSR). The Polish/GDR Treaty of Friendship and Cooperation signed on 6 June 1950 accorded formal recognition of the Polish/GDR frontier along the Oder-Neisse Line. 
The Oder-Neisse Line has it origins in the agreements concluded between the Allies at Yalta and Potsdam in the closing months of the Second World War. These resulted by 1948 in the division of Europe into Western Europe and the Soviet controlled and dominated states of Eastern Europe. One of the major territorial adjustments effected in central 
Europe was the extension of the USSR boundary into what had earlier been Polish territory, with Poland being 'compensated' by the shift of its Western boundary into former German territory up to the Thalweg of the Oder and Neisse rivers. 
The issues of peace and security in Europe, which have included the questions of recognition and acceptance of Europe's postwar frontiers, have a central importance to global security which has been recognised by successive Australian Governments. These issues have also been central to the detente process and as such have been the subject of frequent multilateral discussion and consultation. The pursuit by the Federal Republic of Germany of what was known as the policy of Ostpolitik led to the successful conclusion of treaties by the FRG with the USSR ( 1970), Poland (1970), the GDR (1972) and the CSSR (1973). While no formal peace treaty has been concluded, these treaties accorded acceptance of the established boundaries of the FRG, GDR and Poland (including of course the Oder-Neisse line) and paved the way for the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe (CSCE). This conference resulted in the signing of the Helsinki Accords by thirty-five heads of Government in August 1975. The CSCE consultations, the bilateral treaties which preceded them, and the meeting called to review the Helsinki arrangements in Belgrade in 1977 are the most recent examples of high level consultations on central European frontier issues. 
and (4) The Secretary of the Department of Foreign Affairs held discussions with his counterparts in France, the Federal Republic of Germany and the United Kingdom in February/March 1978 which covered inter alia the political and strategic implications of central European boundaries, including the Oder-Neisse line, which were seen as having significance for Australia as well as for Western Europe. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  (1)1 understand the person the subject of the question to be  Mr Carlemo  Wacando.  Mr Wacando  is not one of the Chairmen or members of the Torres Strait Island Councils and does not live in the Torres Strait area. I have no evidence that he commands any widespread support 
No. 
(a) I am advised that the Attorney-General recently reviewed a decision of the Australian Legal Aid Office not to grant aid to  Mr Wacando  to enable him to institute proceedings in the High Court of Australia and agreed with the Office that this was not an appropriate instance for a grant of aid to be made. 
(b)  Mr Wacando  has not sought information from me on the Treaty settlement I am advised that the Prime Minister has not given 'written assurances that legal advice would be made available to assist a challenge to the border negotiations. ' 
I have satisfied myself, including making a personal visit to the Torres Strait, that the real concerns of the Torres Strait Islanders about the Treaty settlement have been met The Commonwealth Government has engaged in a continuous process of consultation with the Torres Strait Islanders for a number of years. The views of a wide range of experts has also been taken into account 
The Treaty will preserve, as a matter of priority, the traditional fishing rights of the Tones Strait Islanders. A Protected Zone within which those traditional rights will be preserved will be established. Subject to that priority, the Treaty settles the delimitation between Australia and Papua New Guinea fishing zones in the Torres Strait area; within the Protected Zone, it provides for the equitable sharing between Australia and Papua New Guinea of the catch of commercial fisheries, as outlined in my statement to Parliament on 25 May this year. 
Establishment of a Nuclear Waste Repository in the Pacific  (Question No. 3064) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
In his reply  Senator Carrick  drew a distinction between a spent fuel repository and a nuclear waste dump. The latter implies final and permanent disposal of either spent nuclear fuel or separated high level waste. As  Senator Carrick  explained, a spent fuel repository is essentially a secure storage for spent fuel to prevent its theft or other diversion to non-peaceful uses. This does not imply final and permanent disposal and does not involve separated high level waste. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) to (4) No. I draw the honourable member's attention to the answers to Question No. 2638  (Hansard2  1 November 1978, page 3156), Question No. 3065, and Question No. 3082. 
by leave- During the period in which I have been responsible for Australia's foreign policy, international affairs have been largely dominated by economic issues, international recession, inflation, the drift towards protectionism, concerted pressure for economic change by the developing countries and the ensuing dialogue between north and south- all combined to ensure that this was so. Of necessity, therefore, most of my previous statements to this House on foreign policy have focussed to a considerable extent on international economic matters and their implications. 
In dealing with these matters, however, I have consistently and emphatically sounded one warning: That it is utterly and dangerously wrong to assume that the prominence these economic questions has acquired means that the traditional issues of power politics are no longer of fundamental importance. These issues are in no sense displaced or rendered obsolete by the growth of economic interdependence or by anything else. So long as the world is organised in a system of sovereign states, power will continue to be the main arbiter in international affairs. Any doubt about the validity and importance of that warning should have been dispelled by recent events. Taken together these events represent a deterioration in the international strategic and political environment which has serious implications for our interests, as well as for those of our regional and Western partners. They are of grave concern to the Government. 
In this statement I will concentrate on the current geo-political situation and the Government's response to it. In general outline, the features of the situation are familiar to honourable members. After 3 1/2 years of comparative quiet, South East Asia is again the scene of armed conflict- first with the Vietnamese invasion of Kampuchea, then with the conflict between China and Vietnam. The conflicts reflect and were created by the hostility and rivalry existing among four states: The Soviet Union, China, Vietnam and Kampuchea. No one else contributed to them. No one else wanted them. 
In the Middle East and west Asia, a region of enormous strategic importance, instability has increased alarmingly. Military and political confrontation threaten the whole region. The most dramatic event has been the collapse from essentially internal causes of the Shah's regime in 
Iran. But this event- though of critical importance in its own right- cannot be seen in isolation. It follows closely on Marxist coups in Afghanistan and South Yemen, coups which have resulted in a very significant increase in Soviet influence in both countries. It has also happened at a time when Iran's neighbour, Turkey, is experiencing very serious economic and political difficulties. This pattern of events is unfolding when negotiations between Egypt and Israel are at a critical and finely balanced stage and when the area can least afford further uncertainty and confusion. 
In the Horn of Africa, military and political confrontation is not a threat but an established fact. It looks like remaining so for the foreseeable future. The same is true of southern Africa where the situation in Zimbabwe is becoming critical and prospects for a peaceful settlement of the civil war on the basis of majority rule are receding. Both in the Horn and in southern Africa, indigenous conflicts and instabilities which were already serious enough have been rendered progressively more so during the last four or five years by the pouring in of vast quantities of sophisticated arms- and the advisers deemed necessary to deploy them. I emphasise this deliberate and substantial militarisation of African conflict by outside states- particularly the Soviet Union and its Cuban surrogates- because I do not think that the qualitative change it has wrought in African affairs has registered clearly enough. 
Looking at this tense and volatile situation in the broad, I believe that several aspects require emphasis. First, the regions involved are not on the periphery of international politics, not of marginal significance. On the contrary, they are geo-politically critical. They possess vital resources and some of the world 's strategic 'chokepoints' are located in them. Collectively, their destiny is not merely of local or regional consequence but of vital global concern. Together they form a significant segment of the southern rimland of Asia and adjoining parts of Africa and as such constitute the interface between land and sea power. What happens in these regions is of great significance to the balance between those two forms of power. Second, it is a dangerous fallacy to assume that local conflicts in such critical areas can be contained and managed indefinitely. Instability is infectious. Unless resolved, local crises have a habit of getting bigger. An alternative to timely resolution of these crises is likely to be wider, more dramatic and inherently more dangerous confrontations at a later stage. 
Third, the current instability coincides with what are widely assumed to be the final stages of the negotiations for SALT II- the strategic arms limitation talks. The Australian Government strongly supports the completion of SALT II as a crucial contribution to arms control over the next decade. It is precisely because we do so that it is necessary to point out that both in strategic and political terms what is currently happening in Africa, the Middle East and Asia endangers a new SALT agreement. Such agreements cannot rest on air. They cannot be divorced from the general strategic and political environment and, to the extent that that environment deteriorates, their credibility as instruments of crisis management is diminished. They are a product of- not a substitute for- a basic minimum of trust. And if that trust is absent it is difficult to see how they can be concluded, let alone be made effective. 
My fourth general observation is that all the conflicts and instability to which I have referred are taking place in Third World countries. Those who believe that the Government's emphasis on Third World matters is misplaced should ponder this. Over the last three decades, the strategic, ideological and economic interests of the great powers have consistently interacted with the affairs of the Third World. To that extent there is nothing new in the present situation. But there is one difference. Over the last few years, and for a variety of reasons, one of the superpowers- the United States- has adopted a lower posture and a strategically less active policy towards the Third World. Many, inside the United States and outside it, have welcomed this. I will simply observe, as a matter of fact, that this restraint has not resulted in a greater insulation of the Third World from international power politics. On the contrary, it has coincided with the rapid rise of the situation we now face. 
I make one last general observation, also concerning the Third World aspect. When we think of the Third World, we are conditioned to think in terms of poverty and the problems of poverty. But in this case one of the regions- the Middle East- is not only the richest in the Third World but contains some of the countries with the highest per capita incomes anywhere in the world. And one of the key countries, Iran, had experienced significant economic growth and modernisation before its current troubles. It is well to remember therefore- and it is a question of remembering, for the truth is amply illustrated in the West's own earlier experience- that exceedingly rapid economic growth can cause profound social, cultural and political dislocation. This is particularly the case when it impacts on a traditional society unused to coping with change. This is a point of the utmost importance, for there are many Third World countries which are currently experiencing rapid growth and some of them are in our region. We should not make the easy assumption that as growth occurs these political problems will diminish and disappear. We should rather be appreciative of the serious problems of social and political adjustment which will confront them as a result of their economic progress. If we wish to avoid further instability and conflict we should be concerned to be sensitive not only to the needs of the poor of the Third World but to those who are achieving a measure of economic success. I repeat: Those who believe that international political and strategic questions and the economic questions relating to the Third World are separate matters are profoundly mistaken. They are doomed to be surprised by the world. 
In our region the conflict in Indo-China is the greatest cause of concern and I now turn to look in more detail at this and the Government's reaction to it. The basic situation which now exists in Indo-China is a matter of great concern and disappointment to the Government. But it is not a source of great surprise. In the foreign policy statement which I issued for the Liberal and National Country Parties three and a half years ago, in October 1975, we recognised that: 
Regionally, in the aftermath of the Vietnam war, South East Asia seems set to become a major theatre for the working out of a Sino-Soviet rivalry. 
That document went on to recognise the weight of Vietnam in that context and concluded: 
The unstable relationship between these three powers is certain to have an important effect on regional affairs in the near future. 
I refer to that document to establish that the Government's early recognition of the present crisis was firmly based on a long-standing anaylSls of the strategic situation. 
When the Liberal and National Country Parties came to office, however, we did not base our foreign policy on the assumption that conflict among the three communist states was inevitable. The main thrust of our policy was to work to integrate Vietnam into the peaceful and generally prosperous life of the region. For a while, there were promising signs that this would happen. No one sought to isolate Vietnam or to make it difficult for her to enter fully into the life of the region. The member countries of the Association of South East Asian Nations, even in the face of the Vietnamese Government's sponsoring of the flood of refugees with which they had to cope, were positive and forthcoming in their dealings with Vietnam. Australia, Japan and other Western countries gave aid to Hanoi and sought to encourage her more active participation in the international community. In the case of the United States there were special problems in the aftermath of the war; but it seemed that these were gradually being resolved. Vietnam joined and received assistance from international bodies. 
The situation began to deteriorate last year with increasing hostilities between Kampuchea and Vietnam, a worsening relationship between China and Vietnam and the signing of a Treaty of Friendship and Co-operation- which included a military assistance clause- between the Soviet Union and Vietnam. That deterioration became precipitate with the Vietnamese invasion of Kampuchea. It has been suggested in some quarters that the nature of the Pol Pot regime of Kampuchea provided some justification for Vietnam's invasion. But Vietnam did not take over Kampuchea in order to restore civil liberties and the fact that the Pol Pot regime was an evil and vicious despotism in no way affects our opposition to the methods of its removal by Vietnam. 
The Vietnamese attack on Kampuchea was an attack by a client of the Soviet Union on a client of China. Whatever its motivation the attack bore directly on the rivalry and competition between the Soviet Union and China for long term influence in the region- and, more generally, on the whole Sino-Soviet dispute. It was therefore doubly objectionable from our point of view first, because it sought to settle a dispute within the region by military means of the most extreme kind, a general invasion across a border; second, because it created the conditions for an escalation of great power rivalry in the region. It was a mark of the gravity with which the Government viewed this action that Australian aid to Vietnam was suspended. 
China's subsequent incursion into Vietnam can only be understood as a reaction to Vietnam's treaty with the Soviet Union, its invasion of Kampuchea and the installation there of a pro- Vietnamese Government. China's motives in striking across the border do not relate only to a border dispute but are aimed at Vietnam's political influence in Kampuchea, which is beyond China's immediate reach. In turn, its concern about events in Kampuchea relate not only to the extension of Vietnamese influence but also to the role of the Soviet Union as Vietnam's principal -backer. The issue between China and Vietnam therefore is not likely to be resolved with any element of permanence by a settlement on the 
Vietnam-China border which leaves the situation in Kampuchea unchanged. 
In responding to this unfolding crisis, the Government quickly and accurately assessed the course the crisis was likely to follow. We took prompt action to draw international attention to the gravity of the situation and to mobilise international opinion to press for moderation and to press for restraint. Indeed, we were among the first to do so. We have counselled prudence and moderation on all the parties to the conflict. We have called on Vietnam to withdraw its forces from Kampuchea, on China to withdraw its forces from Vietnam and on the Soviet Union to exercise restraint to prevent the last turn of the screw, which could be disastrous not merely for the region but for the peace of the world. It is to the latter 's credit that in the current phase of the crisis it has so far shown such restraint. 
Throughout, we have been open with the people of Australia- giving prior warning, explaining our understanding of the situation, what we are doing and why we were doing it. We are under no illusions that we can play the pivotal role in resolving this crisis. However, that is no reason for not taking action and doing so as effectively and as energetically as we can. I do not intend wasting much time on the Opposition's performance during this crisis. From the national point of view it is not a matter for rejoicing that it has been so feeble. Emotional charges or Cold War mentality do no good in the face of a serious regional crisis. It is those who respond to any warning of danger by making such charges who are the real emotional and intellectual prisoners of the Cold War. 
The parrot cry of 'even-handedness' is no substitute for thinking through a policy. The Opposition has accused the Government of a proChina bias. The only bias this Government has in regional affairs is towards peace and stability. To the extent that China, if left alone and unprovoked, would prefer peace and stability at this stage of its development in order to concentrate on internal modernisation, and only to that extent, there is a convergence between its present interest and ours. Is it being suggested that we should therefore change our interests in order to escape the charge of bias and ensure evenhandedness? The idea is absurd. Apart from this, all the Opposition has said is: 'Take the matter to the Security Council'. Fair enough! This is precisely what the Government has done. Last month the Government's views about the dangers of Vietnam's action in Kampuchea were put before the Council. Our representative called for a peaceful solution based on a cease-fire and withdrawal of Vietnam's forces. 
I pause momentarily from my reading of the text to remind the House that on not one occasion have honourable members opposite called for the withdrawal of Vietnamese forces from Kampuchea. Last week, the Government with other governments including those of the United States of America, the United Kingdom, Canada, New Zealand and Japan called for an urgent meeting of the Security Council. Last Saturday, our representative again expressed the Government's views very clearly. He emphasised that there should be immediate cease-fires in the conflicts, that Vietnam must withdraw its forces from Kampuchea and China must withdraw its forces from Vietnam and that there should be concerted efforts leading to lasting settlements, possibly using the good offices of the Secretary General. The Council already has two resolutions before it: A Soviet- draft calling for a Chinese withdrawal and a Chinese draft calling for a Vietnamese withdrawal. Obviously, a broadly-based resolution has not yet been found, but we hope that there will be a positive and constructive outcome. 
I can assure the House that the Government will not sit back. We will continue, in company with our regional and other friends, to search for and to consider all possible means which may help restore peace and stability in the South East Asian region. 
I turn now to a second issue of pressing concern to the Government, the political upheaval in Iran and its ramifications. Iran is a major country in one of the world's most sensitive and important regions. It is a neighbour of the Soviet Union, a major oil producer and a principal member of the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries. Its location on the Persian Gulf gives it strategic importance. Until very recently- although its regime was repressive- Iran was an important force for order and stability in an extremely volatile area. Any change in the political configuration of the Gulf region which were to jeopardise access to energy resources would represent a major threat to the economic well-being of the West. The cessation of oil exports from Iran, previously the world's second largest oil exporter after Saudi Arabia, has brought into focus again- as if the 1973 oil crisis was not sufficientthe world's heavy dependence on imported oil, most of which originates from the Middle East region. It has also reminded the world that oil is not simply an economic and resource problem but also a political one and that the politics of the region are very unstable. 
The glut on the world oil market has evaporated virtually overnight. The world's vulnerability to further supply dislocation has increased. The situation, if it persists, could have adverse repercussions on oil prices, inflation, trade, economic growth and on international relations generally. Given our partial selfsufficiency in oil, Australia has not yet been severely affected by the Iranian situation. However, we have to be concerned at the possible future impact on our major trading partners who are more directly affected. Assured delivery of oil is just as vital as an assured source of production and supply. The entire area of the Indian Ocean is influenced by the quest for oil and access to major oil fields. Geography has made it possible for a few countries, especially in the Gulf region, to control vital choke-points to and from the Indian Ocean. Political instability in the Gulf region, highlighted by the dramatic events in Iran, has therefore considerable strategic significance. 
The West has very sound reasons for being concerned over developments in Iran. With its commanding position at the entrance to the Persian Gulf, through which the bulk of oil is shipped, Iran has acted as a deterrent to antiwestern forces within and beyond the area. What has happened in Iran has to be considered at several levels. The situation inside the country itself has still to be resolved and it is still far from certain what the outcome will be. In terms of the local balance of power within the Gulf region itself, one of the principal restraints on the ambitions of several countries concerned to challenge the status quo has been removed, at least for the time being, and the balance has been seriously disturbed. In terms of the so-called 'northern tier' countries- that border on the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics- the upheaval in Iran, following closely on the proSoviet coup in Afghanistan and accompanied by very shaky conditions in Turkey, creates an entirely new situation. 
In ideological and political terms, it remains to be seen what 'demonstration effect' the Iranian revolution will have on neighbouring countries whose internal stability can never be taken for granted. Again, this has to be considered in conjunction with other recent political successes by radical elements within the region. But in the case of Iran there is the added question of what effect the resurgence of a populous Islamic fundamentalism will have on the region and, for that matter, beyond it in other Islamic countries. The indications are that the resurgence of Islam could cause significant and far reaching changes in the world. It is a revived force of great dynamism which is being generated in the context of social and cultural changes. It is our earnest hope that this force will be harnessed effectively to the benefit of both Muslim countries and the remainder of the world. 
Last, it would be idle to deny that events in Iran are also important in geo-political terms. With Saudi Arabia, Iran was the West's principal friend in the region. The comparative ease with which the Shah was removed and the fact that major Western powers could not affect the course of events must have some influence on perceptions both inside the region and beyond it. It will be vitally important that wrong conclusions are not drawn and that the temptation to exploit the situation in opportunistic fashion is resisted. This region is vital to Western interests and it should be apparent that there are very distinct limits to what the West can tolerate in terms of external attempts to undermine its position. Western countries will have to come to terms with the new realities, but it is also true that others will have to come to terms with the continuing reality of the Western interests which are at stake there. Australia, along with other Western governments, has indicated its willingness to work for good relations with the new Government in Tehran. 
I have talked at length about two critical situations and touched on others which deserve equally full treatment. But I will leave them for another occasion. I have said enough to indicate the general air of uncertainty and tension which currently hangs over the international scene. At the end of this decade of detente there are many signs that a familiar international landscape is changing and that new patterns are emerging. This is true not only within particular regions but also at the global, great power level. Some of the changes which have taken place at that levelthe establishment of full diplomatic relations between, the United States of America and China, the expansion of Japan's relations with Chinaare in themselves desirable; but what significance they will ultimately have will depend on how they fit into a picture which is not yet complete. 
As we approach the 1980s some perceptive commentators are pointing to a dangerous asymmetry. While the Soviet Union is increasing its already enormous military power faster than any other country, and while it is increasingly active in relation to the trouble spots of the world, politically it is the odd-man-out among the great powers. A country which at the same time feels militarily confident and politically vulnerable may easily miscalculate, especially if its military effort imposes increasingly heavy economic burdens and especially if its decision-making processes are complicated by the likelihood of an impending change of leadership. The regional crises that I have been discussing must be measured against this background as well as in their own terms. 
The Government is committed to work for peace and the reduction of tension. That commitment is global. The Government will do what it can to support all efforts to promote peace and stability. To this end, should the proposed United Nations peacekeeping force in Namibia be established, the Government has decided to offer an Australian contribution to that force. But the commitment is most fully demonstrated, and necessary, in our own region. We are committed, not only for moral and ideological reasons, but also because it is in Australia's vital interest that we should live in peaceful and stable surroundings. Our security and economic prosperity depend upon it. We have an interest in making it clear that we oppose the settling of disputes by military means. It is for these reasons that we made a real effort to prevent the situation in Indo-China from developing. As it has developed, we have sought to restrain the main protagonists. 
The role a country like Australia can play has some limitations. But that must not be an excuse for inertia and resignation. There are several things that we can do as well as anyone else and they are not of negligible importance. We can endeavour to dispel inertia and complacency and to make a serious effort to understand, assess and explain what is happening. We can stimulate international interest with the aim of containing the current crises. We can work at creating and maintaining momentum for peace. As far as our region is concerned, we are as well placed as any to do these things. If we do not, we can hardly complain if other, more distant countries, fail to do so. 
I present the following paper: 
The Geo-political Situation: A Pattern of InstabilityMinisterial Statement, 27 February 1979. 
Motion (by  Mr Sinclair)  proposed: 
That the House take note of the paper. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) to ( 5) See answer to question No. 1 794 (House of Representatives,  Hansard,  page 3389). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The Public Service Board, which is the approving authority for Departmental travel on Concorde flights, has advised all Departments that such approval will be given only in exceptional circumstances. Overseas travel by a Minister, including accompanying officials, is subject to the approval of the Prime Minister. 
) The current fare for a Concorde flight from New York to London is $1 15.00 above the normal first class fare for a New York- London flight. 
With the Prime Minister's approval two officers of my Department travelled on a Concorde aircraft with him from New York to London on 7 June 1 978. No other officers have sought approval to travel, or have been refused approval to travel, on Concorde aircraft, at any other time. 
On infrequent occasions safe hand couriers from my Department who would normally fly British Airways from New York to London have been upgraded to Concorde at no extra cost when their regular flight has been cancelled. 
Companies and Securities Regulation (Question No. 2951) .  Mr Jacobi  asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 22 November 1978: 
1) Is it a fact that (a) changes will be made soon to the existing scheme of companies and securities regulation, and (b) significant amendments will be made to the current companies and securities legislation. 
If so, will the Government table a white paper detailing the proposed changes so as to permit Parliament, the securities industry, businessmen and the community, to scrutinize and comment on the proposed laws, which will be of critical importance to both corporate and investment sectors. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
Not to my knowledge. The report is a document based on information supplied on a confidential basis to that organisation. The report is restricted to member Governments. The IAEA's maintenance of confidentiality of such information arises from its desire to maintain mutual confidence among nations in its operations. The IAEA's practice of confidentiality in such matters is of long-standing and has not been contested by successive Australian Governments. 
As stated in answer to (2) above it would be a matter for the IAEA to make the report public. 
, (5) and (6) See answer to (2) and (3) above. 
I have taken note of the questions that have been raised on both sides of the House, in particular by the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford).  In the absence of the Minister for Productivity  (Mr Macphee)  who is on his way to India I have asked his advisers to ensure that these matters are brought to his attention and answered. I am certain that the Minister will do so. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
-The short answer is that any examination of statements made by members of the Opposition on this issue over the past two months has shown that those statements have been totally contradictory, devoid of an examination of the facts and, I think, withdrawn from reality. The first fact to be borne in mind, which I pointed out the other day when I was making my statement - 
Speaking on the point of order,  Mr Speaker,  I listened carefully to the question and noted its content. It did not relate to the debate before the Parliament. It specifically referred to earlier statements made - 
The question specifically referred to a series of statements made by members of the Opposition which were made prior - 
No, they were made prior to that statement being made. 
-Honourable members will be aware of and will have noted reports that the 
Chinese Government announced that from 5 March all Chinese forces are withdrawing from Vietnamese territory. Chinese forces penetrated 30 to 40 kilometres into Vietnam, capturing a number of provincial centres of which Lang Son was the most important. It is too early at this stage to ascertain whether the Chinese have actually begun their withdrawal and what has been the Vietnamese military reaction. Nonetheless, substantial forces from both China and Vietnam are in close proximity to each other and further fighting obviously could break out again. It is to be hoped that neither side will take any precipitate action which would hamper the withdrawal of Chinese forces. Chinese public statements that their actions were confined to the border area and were limited in time to date have been adhered to. It is to be hoped that the proposed Chinese withdrawal will result in talks being held, leading to a lessening of tension in Indo-China. 
I should add, however, a cautionary note: The issue between China and Vietnam is not likely to be resolved permanently if the situation in Kampuchea remains unchanged. In the United Nations Security Council we have called for immediate ceasefires in the conflicts in Indo-China. We have also called on Vietnam and China to withdraw their forces from Kampuchea and Vietnam respectively. As recently as 2 March I wrote to the Secretary-General of the United Nations,  Dr Waldheim,  offering him the full support of the Australian Government in the use of his good offices with the parties involved. The Government will continue to search for and consider all possible means that may assist in restoring peace and stability to the South East Asian region. I might add that I expect to discuss the situation this afternoon with the visiting Chinese Vice-Premier during our consideration of both bilateral and international issues. 
-I have previously dealt with questions on the Organisasi Papua Merdeka and refugees from Irian Jaya. I have indicated that it is not normal practice to disclose the details of discussions that have taken place between Papua New Guinea and ourselves in this area and in relation to turning down, in consultation with the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, the request for asylum for those people who have now obtained asylum elsewhere. The resident of the New Hebrides,  Mr Stevens,  is visiting Australia at present. I understand that he has been involved in a plan to land Vietnamese refugees in the New Hebrides. He is reported in the Press to have claimed authority to speak on behalf of the islanders and on behalf of elements of the New Hebrides. In fact, he holds no position with the New Hebrides Government. He is  president  of small political party and I assume that he speaks on behalf of that political party. 
The British, the French and, more importantly, the New Hebrides Government do not recognise the claimed independence for which he is working for this particular island or his authority to speak for anyone other than members of his own party. I am advised that his offer to settle refugees on Maewo Island was made without consultation with the people of Maewo and has been condemned by the local council of chiefs on that island. Obviously, any proposal to resettle refugees in the New Hebrides is a matter for the Government of the New Hebrides. We have been particularly pleased that the divided factions there, the Vanua'aku Party and the Francophone elements, have come together in the Government of National Unity. It is for them to determine their future and those people who should be settled. It is not for Australia to dictate to them the manner in which they should implement any refugee policy. Certainly any proposal is a matter on which they should initially express a view. The Government of National Unity indicated on 1 March that  Mr Stevens's  continued attempts to bring Vietnamese refugees to the New Hebrides is against the wishes of the Government and the people of the New Hebrides, particularly those of Maewo Island and Santo Island where he wishes to settle them. 
A public relations officer for  Mr Stevens,  who is evidently doing a reasonable job in getting him some publicity, contacted me and asked me to see him. I stated to him what the Government's view would be. It is a view which I will continue to uphold as Foreign Minister. I will not go behind the backs of elected representatives, particularly at sensitive times in the development of communities in the South Pacific as they move towards independence, and listen to those who, firstly, would seek to divide the nation and secondly, are clearly operating against the express wishes of the Government of that country. 
-We have been kept informed by our own posts and, of course, by the parties directly involved in discussing this very important matter. As will be known to honourable members on both sides of the House, President Carter will arrive in Cairo on 8 March for talks with President Sadat and is scheduled to have talks in Israel on 10 March. The Australian Government hopes that President Carter's visit to the Middle East will successfully resolve the differences between Egypt and Israel which are currently impeding progress towards the signing of a peace treaty between the two countries. Honourable members will recall that Australia welcomed through a statement of the Prime Minister, joined as I recall by the Leader of the Opposition, the two agreements signed after the Camp David meeting as a constructive framework for resolution of the Middle East conflict based on the provisions and principles of the United Nations Security Council Resolution 242 and the legitimate rights of the Palestinian people. 
Of course, it is important to recognise that a peace treaty between Israel and Egypt not only would be significant in terms of the relationship between those two countries but also, more than any other single event, could create the momentum necessary to attain a comprehensive settlement in the Middle East which would, it is hoped, include those Arab countries and organisations currently opposed to the Egypt-Israel dialogue. 
The Government believes that settlement of the Middle East conflict between Israel and its Arab neighbours is of absolutely critical importance. Such a settlement would remove a major flash-point for global tensions. It would also assist in achieving a climate conducive to stability elsewhere in the Middle East region, such as in the Lebanon or in the Yemens. Such a settlement would be an important element in diminishing the volatility of the whole strategically critical south-west Asian region. 
I move: 
That the Bill be now read a second time. 
This Bill proposes a number of significant amendments and additions to the Passports Act 1938-73. It aims to update and modernise existing legislation and practice by clearly embodying in the Act the reasons for which a passport may properly be denied and by increasing the range of offences and penalties. Since the responsibility for the administration of the Passports Act was transferred to the Department of Foreign Affairs in March 1975, there has been a continuing review of the Passports Act and procedures which culminated in a report to Cabinet in February 1978. Honourable members may recall my statement in the House on 26 May 1978 on consular services, in which I foreshadowed the introduction of important amendments to the Passports Act. 
Legislation governing the issue of Australian passports has remained substantially unchanged since 1938. The significance of the legislation to the public is now considerable. An average of well over 1,000 passports is issued by my Department every working day of the year. Present legislation gives a general discretionary power to issue or refuse passports but provides no guidelines. In keeping with the Government's commitment to civil rights and administrative justice, this Bill seeks to provide a proper legislative basis for passport policy and a clear legislative framework for the exercise of ministerial discretion, which must continue to be an essential element in the administration of this difficult area. 
The right to travel- to leave and return to one's own country- is recognised as a basic human right. Australia has signified its recognition of this right by endorsement of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights of 1948. In the not too distant past, it was argued that the need to carry a passport was an infringement of basic rights. Nowadays the withholding of a passport is likely to bring allegations that a basic human right has been denied. A passport or recognised travel document, whilst not essential for overseas travel under Australian law, is now generally necessary for travel abroad. As well as its obligation to provide travel facilities to its own citizens, the Government, as a responsible member of the international community, has an obligation to those countries to which its citizens travel. Australian passports contain a message from the Governor-General requesting other countries to provide free passage, protection and assistance to the bearer. This imposes on the Government a responsibility to ensure, so far as it can, that passports are not issued to persons likely to threaten the national security and public order of another country or the rights and welfare of its citizens. Of particular concern are political extremists and terrorists, drug pedlars, and persons inclined to violent acts as a result of mental illness. This concern is also reflected in the Bill. 
For all the reasons I have mentioned, it has become necessary that the legislation spell out as clearly as possible the reasons for which a citizen may be refused a passport. In modern times the passport has become not only a very necessary document, but also an extremely valuable one. 
There is growing traffic in lost, stolen and forged passports for use in connection with criminal and terrorist activities. Complementary to the Government's intention to combat this traffic is its concern to preserve the international status of an Australian passport as a universally acceptable identity document. The Bill's provisions relating to offences and penalties are specifically directed towards protecting our passports against abuse and misuse. 
Before commenting in detail on specific provisions in the Bill, I want to mention in general terms a number of passport-related matters which I know are of interest to honourable members but which are not dealt with in the Bill. The present practice of requiring the consent of a spouse or former spouse to the issue of a passport has attracted increasing criticism from applicants for passports. I am aware that this policy has caused inconvenience and even distress on some occasions, but I have found it necessary to retain it as a practical means of protecting the financial rights of a spouse or former spouse. The existing procedure provides an opportunity for the other party to take legal action to prevent the applicant from leaving Australia, and thus possibly evading maintenance obligations or settlement of property matters. The need for the consent requirement, however, will be significantly reduced when Australia becomes a signatory to the International Convention on Recovery Abroad of Maintenance, and at that time the present practice will be discontinued. 
A number of people have expressed concern that their place of birth is shown in their passports, and the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence recommended in its 1976 report on dual nationality that consideration be given to deleting the 'place of birth' from Australian passports. The reasons for this concern are well known, and an interdepartmental committee set up to consider the recommendations of the Joint Committee has given the most careful study to the possibility of deleting 'Place of Birth' and substituting 'Place of Residence ' in its stead. However, omission of the place of birth would remove a significant item of personal information which enables ready identification. It is a requirement of most countries when considering applications for entry that the date and place of birth of the applicant be provided. A passport is internationally accepted as evidence on these points. A survey by Australian diplomatic missions in 1976 indicated that a number of countries would not accept passports which did not show the place of birth. The authorities of certain other countries advised that, although acceptable, the omission of the place of birth could cause difficulties for the passport holders. The omission of the place of birth from Australian passports could clearly inconvenience the large majority of Australian travellers and it is doubtful whether there would be any advantage for those persons who seek to have this information omitted from their passports, since the information would, in any event, need to be shown in visa applications. Place of Birth', however, need not include the country of birth, and this latter detail may be omitted from a passport at the applicant's request. 
I should also explain the position taken by the Government in this legislation in relation to withholding passports from persons generally known as 'white collar criminals' who are suspected of attempting to escape from justice. Honourable members will know that in the past, passports have been withheld and/or withdrawn from persons suspected of having committed a corporate offence. Such action was taken upon receipt of advice by my Department from state corporate affairs commissions, or companies offices advising that an investigation was in process. However, in recognition of the Government's policy relating to human rights and the view that the Passport Act should neither be used as an extension of the judicial system nor be expected to impose any more restraint on an individual than a court would be prepared to impose, this practice will be discontinued. Passports will, in future, only be withheld from such persons if a warrant for their arrest exists, or where the applicant is the subject of an Australian court order or condition of parole which restrains that person from obtaining a passport or from leaving Australia. 
I shall now refer expressly to the principal clauses of the Bill. Honourable members may recall that in a Press release issued jointly by the Attorney-General  (Senator Durack)  and me on 2 March 1978 we announced that the Government was to establish an inter-departmental committee to investigate and to recommend to Cabinet legislative or administrative changes necessary to reduce the incidence of children being removed from Australia by one parent without the knowledge, or against the wishes, of the other parent. The committee has concluded its investigations and will be submitting its report to Cabinet soon. This is not a problem which could be solved by new passport legislation alone, but insofar as it has proved possible, the relevant provisions have been strengthened and are set out in clause 8 of this Bill. Clause 6 inserts a new provision in the Act to the effect that an Australian passport remains the property of the Commonwealth. While this is considered to be the present position at law, it is desirable that the matter be put beyond doubt. Clause 7 empowers the Minister to issue passports. Currently the position is that only officers authorised by the Minister can issue passports. It is considered that, to retain an element of flexibility in dealing with the vast range of circumstances that surround passport applications, the Minister for Foreign Affairs should himself retain an unfettered discretion to issue passports. 
Clause 8 inserts a series of new provisions into the Act. These list a number of categories of persons to whom passports shall be refused by authorised officers. In brief, these are, with certain exceptions, persons who are not married and who have not reached the age of 18 years, unless the consent of persons having custodial rights has been obtained; persons in respect of whom the authorised officer has reason to believe that there is in force a warrant for arrest issued in Australia; persons whom the authorised officer has reason to believe are required to remain in Australia under a court order, or under a condition of parole or of recognisance, surety or bail bond; persons who owe money to the Commonwealth as a result of circumstances arising from previous overseas travel; persons whom the authorised officer believes already to be in possession or control of an Australian passport in force- unless there are special reasons- and persons in respect of whom the Minister has decided that issue of a passport would threaten security or welfare in another country. Most of these provisions including the last one, conform with existing practice and simply give legislative expression to precedents on which successive governments have acted. These restrictions, I should add, apply only to the issue of passports by authorised officers and do not, as mentioned above, affect the Minister's general discretionary power to issue passports. 
Clause 9 increases certain penalties in the Act and provides that passports may be cancelled in circumstances which, if they had existed immediately before the passport was issued, would have prevented the issue of the passport. Clause 10 establishes an obligation on a person to whom a passport is issued to report any loss or theft to the relevant authorities as soon as practicable. Clause 1 1 provides that an officer may demand the delivering up of a passport that has been obtained by means of the false or misleading statement, ar has been used in connection with the commission of any offence against the Act or regulations. Clause 12 establishes a series of new affences relating to the improper use or possession of an Australian passport, forgery and fabrication of passports and the wrongful issue of passports. Clause 13 establishes greater penalties than under the original Act for a series of offences relating to the making of false or misleading statements in relation to passports, renewals or endorsements. This clause also applies to non-Australian passports where the purpose of the statements is to defeat the provisions of a law of the Commonwealth or of a Territory. 
In conclusion, I wish to assure honourable members that substantial effort has been expended to produce a Bill which provides just and equitable treatment for Australians wishing to travel overseas; which provides the maximum protection for the welfare and convenience of those travellers; which nevertheless pays due regard to our responsibilities toward those countries to which they travel, and which brings passport legislation into line with the modern and liberal philosophies of this Government. It is fitting that, at a time when the administrative aspect of the passport function is being greatly modernised by the introduction of computerisation and other new techniques, the legislation governing it should also be reviewed and renewed. I commend the Bill to the House. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Lionel  Bowen) adjourned. 
-The House will be aware of reports of a raid by South African forces into Angola on 6 March. According to reports, the South African military authorities claimed that the raid was in response to SWAPO actions within Namibia and also a build-up of SWAPO forces in Angola on Namibia's northern border. The Government regrets all such actions by both sides, as these can only delay the implementation of the United Nations plan. In the negotiations for the plan difficulties still remain on the question of the regroupment of SWAPO forces within Namibia and on the composition of UNTAG, as it is called. 
The South African position is that all SWAPO regroupment centres should be in neighbouring countries, for example Angola and Zambia. SWAPO wants a number of centres, however, to be established within Namibia and the United Nations Secretary-General has been trying to devise a compromise arrangement, so far without success. The honourable member refers to the statements by SWAPO  President  Nujoma last week to the effect that Western countries, including Australia, would not be acceptable as members of UNTAG. This statement, of course, was at variance with all previous statements made by SWAPO leaders. It is being investigated, naturally, by the United Nations Secretariat. The UN force has to be a representative international force, and the Secretary-General will require assurances that the UN proposals on composition are accepted by SWAPO. Acceptance by SWAPO of the composition of UNTAG is particularly relevant to both the safety and security of Australian and other personnel deployed in Namibia. If this is not forthcoming, of course the plan cannot go ahead. However, it does appear that a very important meeting over the weekend between the front-line States and SWAPO has removed the objections that were voiced by Nujoma to Western countries contributing to the logistic side of UNTAG. When the Security Council will be able to meet to discuss final arrangements is not yet clear. After all, it does have many other matters before it at the present moment. It is hoped that the meeting will be as soon as possible. Mid-March was what we were working on but there may be some slippage in that regard. 
Finally, the Australian offer to contribute an engineering unit, in response to the informal approaches that were made in New York, is contingent upon the final agreement emerging between the parties to the implementation of the UN plan, as indeed is the establishment of the force itself. We hope that the outstanding issues can be speedily removed, but given the difficult and sensitive nature of the settlement process, time for further negotiations on all points of difficulty will be required. 
The answer to the honourable member's question, according to the information currently available, is as follows: 
(a) USSR, Mongolia, Poland, Czechoslovakia, Yugoslavia, Rumania, Hungary, Bulgaria, Albania, China, German Democratic Republic, Sudan, Central African Empire, Sri Lanka, Sierra Leone, Maldive Islands, Malta, Cameroon, Uganda, Senegal, Rwanda, Upper Volta, Guinea-Bissau, Nepal, Guyana, Laos, Jordan, Australia, Nigeria, Jamaica, Venezuela, Botswana, Austria, Switzerland, Vietnam, Algeria, Guinea, Cuba, Mali, South 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) During the present visit by Chinese Vice Premier Chen Muhua, a mutual desire by both countries to conclude a science and technology agreement was expressed. Officials will shortly be negotiating the draft text of this agreement 
(i) Australia has agreements for scientific and technological cooperation with the Federal Republic of Germany, India, the Soviet Union and the United States of America. (ii) Except for the proposed agreement with China, no other science agreements are at present under negotiation. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Records of international telephone calls by Branch Heads in either London or Washington are not readily available. Because of the scope and nature of the collation of the data required, the lack of staff resources and the Government's restraint on overtime expenditure it is not possible for the figures to be obtained unless it is at the expense of work of a higher priority. 
I am advised that the cost of international calls made by the Heads of Mission at the Australian Missions to the United Nations in New York and in Geneva are respectively: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Australia has resident diplomatic representation in Western Samoa, Solomon Islands, Nauru, Papua New Guinea, Fiji, New Zealand, the New Hebrides and New Caledonia, and non-resident diplomatic representation in Tonga and Tuvalu. In addition, the following posts have reporting and visiting responsibilities as indicated below: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The interdepartmental committee to which the honourable member referred considered, but did not make specific recommendations on, the departmental review of passport matters. The results of the departmental review and the IDC consideration of it are taken into account in the Passports Amendment Bill and were dealt with in my second reading speech on the Bill  (Hansard,  7 March 1979, page 707). 
During the passport review it became clear that the problems of child abduction went beyond the simple matters of passport issue, and a further interdepartmental committee was therefore established to investigate all aspects of this specific problem. 
That committee has now concluded its investigations. After Cabinet has considered its report an appropriate announcement will be made. 
-The short answer to both questions is yes. With regard to the second part of the question, that is being done. I will outline briefly what we are doing in conjunction with my colleague the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs in that regard. Australia, of course, attaches very great importance to co-operating with the countries of the region in this field of drug control and narcotics trafficking. Time and again I have warned Australians of the consequences of not abiding by the law of the countries that they are visiting. In October last the Government announced details of increased commitments to the United Nations Fund for Drug Abuse. The purpose of the fund is to develop programs, particularly in the form of crop replacement, that are designed to stem the spreading of drug abuse. It has assisted a number of countries, particularly Thailand, in this way and the results that have been achieved to date have been encouraging. 
The Government's contribution to the fund over the next three years will be $ 1 m. In addition to making such contributions to a United 
Nations fund, we have been instrumental in encouraging co-operation in the context of the Commonwealth Heads of Government Regional Meeting to combat illicit drug trafficking in the region. In addition, a number of initiatives have been taken between the Federal Bureau of Narcotics and the Thai narcotics enforcement authorities. These initiatives have included study tours and training for Thai enforcement officials and the provision of some communications equipment. The Federal Bureau of Narcotics, which is answerable to my colleague, is in conjunction with my Department now examining the possibility of funding a major equipment program for Thai narcotics authorities. 
In early 1978 the Narcotics Bureau opened a liaison office in the Australian Embassy in Bangkok. The office was further strengthened earlier this year. The opening of the office has proved, I think, to be an invaluable asset both in establishing and in maintaining close operational liaison with the Thai narcotics enforcement authorities. I need hardly add that these activities are fully consistent with the need to stamp out the pernicious, illicit drug trade. At present 16 Australians are in prison in Thailand on drug charges. As I said at the commencement of this answer, I have emphasised time and again that Australians overseas are subject to the laws of the country they are visiting. I cannot stress too strongly the necessity for Australian travellers to heed this warning. If they do not, then I have to say that, despite the requirements laid down under conventions for us to check on their welfare from time to time, the blunt reality is that they must bear the consequences of their own behaviour. 
Pursuant to section 10 of the Australian Development Assistance Agency (Repeal) Act 1977,I present the final report of the Australian Development Assistance Agency for the year ended 30 June 1977. The delay in presenting this report has been caused by technicalities that arose in the context of the change in status of the Agency to a bureau within the Department of Foreign Affairs. 
-Dealing with the latter part of the question, the unstable situation in IndoChina continues to cause concern. The easing of tensions which followed China's announcement that it would withdraw its troops from Vietnam has proved shortlived. In recent weeks both sides have warned of the possibility of renewed fighting. There were to be talks on 28 March between Vietnam and China. They did not proceed. The Vietnamese were not prepared to meet the Chinese in such talks. They are refusing to negotiate until, in their own terms, Chinese forces are withdrawn from Vietnamese territory. Chinese forces are thought to be occupying small areas of disputed territory, and the Chinese claim that the Vietnamese are committing armed provocations and incursions along the border. These developments therefore make it less likely that immediate negotiations between China and Vietnam will take place, although both sides earlier had agreed to negotiate. The war in Kampuchea to which the honourable member referred does continue. The Vietnamese-backed National Front has failed to gain control over large areas of Kampuchea, and there is little doubt that a protracted guerrilla war seems inevitable. 
As to the first part of the question, which related to Soviet vessels in Cam Ranh Bay, it is true, and honourable members will have read of this in the newspapers in the last few days, that American sources have expressed concern over the destabilising effect of the visit of three Soviet warships to the former United States naval base at Cam Ranh Bay. We have no evidence that their visit constitutes the beginning of long-term Soviet access to Cam Ranh Bay and, of course, it is too early to reach firm conclusions on possible Soviet or Vietnamese intentions in the area. However, one could be firm in saying that permanent Soviet access to the base would alter substantially the strategic balance in the Pacific. It would be of concern not only to Australia but also to other countries in the Asian-Pacific region and would be a further indication of the increased reliance of Vietnam on the Soviet Union. I think it would pay us to watch the situation over the course of the next few weeks before determining what the likely long-term consequences may be. 
This answer to the honourable member's question is in substitution of the answer provided on 20 March 1979  (Hansard,  page 936). 
Australia has resident diplomatic representation in Western Samoa, Solomon Islands, Nauru, Papua New Guinea, Fiji, New Zealand, the New Hebrides and New Caledonia. The Australian High Commissioner in Fiji is also accredited to Tonga and Tuvalu. In addition, the following posts have reporting and visiting responsibilities as indicated below: 
-I can say that, according to reports in the Pakistani Press this morning, Pakistan authorities have carried out the death sentence imposed on former Prime Minister Bhutto. This was the death sentence imposed by the Lahore High Court and confirmed by the Pakistan Supreme Court. Honourable members will be aware that on 6 February 1 979 the Pakistan Supreme Court, by a four to three majority, upheld the death sentence imposed on the former Prime Minister by the Lahore High Court decision in March 1978 for alleged complicity in the murder of the father of a political opponent. A petition to review the case was rejected by the Supreme Court on 24 March this year, and last minute appeals for clemency were not accepted by the Pakistan authorities. 
The Australian Government deeply regrets the execution of  Mr Bhutto.  Honourable members will recall that many countries and international organisations appealed to the Pakistan authorities to exercise clemency on humanitarian grounds. Australia was among the first to do so. The Government made further representations on  Mr Bhutto  's behalf in February of this year.  Mr Bhutto  will be remembered as a controversial figure. Whatever views may be held about his attainments during his terms as Prime Minister and Foreign Minister, it must be recognised that he was prominent internationally because of his energetic espousal of issues of concern, particularly to developing countries. We regret that representations and appeals for clemency were not accepted. 
-I understand that the parliamentary Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence is examining this matter. I advised senior officers of my Department who were to appear before the Committee to indicate to it that, should the Committee wish to send observers on behalf of that Committee or on behalf of the Parliament- not on behalf of the Government- they would go with my blessing. It would then be a matter for the Committee, in conjunction with the Minister for Administrative Services, to determine the size of the delegation and, in conjunction with my colleague the Minister for Finance, to determine the funding for the delegation. I see some benefit in a parliamentary delegation's observing the elections; but I lay stress on the fact that the members of the delegation would be going as representatives of the Parliament and not as a sign of the Government's endorsement of the elections. 
Yes, reports that the United States of America has increased its naval presence in the Indian Ocean and is considering various options relating to its overall military presence in the region as a response to developments in the Arabian Peninsula and elsewhere are correct. So far as United States-Soviet presence in the Indian Ocean is concerned, it is well known that in recent years the Soviet Union has had more ships, up to approximately 20 at any one time of which nearly half have been combatants. The United States, on the other hand, had three ships permanently in the Indian Ocean, supplemented several times a year by task forces, usually led by an aircraft carrier. 
This general pattern was broken at the beginning of 1978 when the Soviet Union, in response to its growing involvement in the Horn of Africa, particularly in Ethiopia, significantly increased its naval deployment in the region. In response the United States broke off talks with the Soviet Union which were aimed at stabilising their naval presence in the Indian Ocean. The United States maintained that the increased Soviet deployment in the Indian Ocean breached the unwritten agreement that both parties would maintain restraint for the duration of the limitation talks. 
More recent developments in Afghanistan and the Yemens have raised further concern about increased Soviet involvement in the region. The recent upheaval in Iran introduces a new element, of course, of turbulence to the region and opens up further possibilities for foreign interference. In the Middle East too, despite the Egypt-Israel peace treaty, the prospect of continuing tensions and conflict remains. The recent increase in the United States force levels in the Indian Ocean is naturally a direct response to these developments. In this connection honourable members will be aware of reports concerning the possible further development, referred to by the honourable member for the Northern Territory in his question, of the United States naval facility on the British Island of Diego Garcia. I have received advice that to date no firm decisions have been taken in this regard. 
Australia, of course, is on record as welcoming the talks on the United States-Soviet Union Arms Limitation Agreement in the Indian Ocean which, as I mentioned earlier, were suspended. We welcomed these talks, provided of course, that any agreement reached was balanced between the two super powers and was consistent with the security interests of ANZUS. It will be recalled in the latter connection that in 1977 I received a firm and unequivocal assurance from the United States Secretary of State that nothing entered into between the United States and the Soviet Union would qualify the operation of ANZUS. 
Finally, it needs to be recognised that a prerequisite for any agreement, such as talks between the Soviet Union and the United States that might be resumed, would be a degree of political stability in the region which is not there at the moment. Recent developments in the area make the possibility of such an agreement somewhat more remote. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The following facilities associated with the production of nuclear energy and the production and processing of nuclear materials are known to exist in South Africa: 
Fourteen uranium mills 
One uranium enrichment pilot plant at Valindaba 
A nuclear research establishment at Pelindaba, which includes the Safari I research reactor 
Two nuclear power reactors under construction at Koeberg. 
International safeguards are applied to the Safari I research reactor and to the two power reactors under construction at Koeberg. Uranium mills do not attract international safeguards. 
The safeguards for Safari I are provided for in the Safeguards Transfer Agreement among the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), South Africa and the United States of 26 July 1967 as amended on 20 June 1974 (IAEA document INFCIRC/98/Mod.I). This agreement requires that all nuclear materials, equipment and facilities supplied to South Africa by the United States whenever they may be located in South Africa should not be used for any military purpose. 
The two Koeberg nuclear reactors are also subject to international safeguards against military of explosive use under the terms of an agreement among the IAEA, France and South Africa of5 January 1977 (IAEA document INFCIRC/244). This agreement also covers nuclear fuel supplied by France, any other facility based on Frenchsupplied technology and all special fissionable and other nuclear material, including any subsequent generations thereof, produced in or by the use of the Koeberg facility or any other facility based on French-supplied technology. 
The countries on which I am able to supply information are the United States and France. The United States supplied the Safari I research reactor and its nuclear fuel. For details of the safeguards applying, see the answer to (2) above. France is supplying the Koeberg reactors. The fuel for these will be South African and it is planned that it should be enriched in the United States and fabricated in France. For details of the safeguards applying, see answer to 
above. Nuclear materials and technology supplied between states are normally the subject of agreements for cooperation in the peaceful uses of nuclear energy. 
The following are references to recent resolutions of the United Nations General Assembly: 
Resolution 3324E(XXIX) of 1974 requested all Governments 'to cease all cooperation with South Africa in nuclear and other modern technological research, particularly research with military applications'. 
Resolution 341 1G (XXX) of 1975 requests 'that the Security Council call upon the Governments concerned to prohibit any of their institutions, agencies or companies, within their national jurisdiction, from delivering to South Africa or placing at its disposal any equipment or fissionable material or technology that will enable the racist regime of South Africa to acquire nuclear-weapon capability'. Resolution 31/6D of 1976 contains similar wording. 
Resolution 31/61 of 1976 demanded 'the cessation of any form of military and nuclear cooperation with the racist regime of South Africa '. 
Resolution 32/105F of 1977 requested the Security Council to call upon all States 'to end all transfer of nuclear equipment or fissionable material or technology to South Africa'; and 'to prohibit companies, institutions or agencies within their jurisdiction from any cooperation with South Africa, directly or through participation in companies registered in South Africa, in its military build-up or nuclear development '. ' 
Resolution 33/183G of 1978 called upon 'all States which have not yet done so- in particular France, Federal Republic of Germany, Israel and the United States of America- to cease forthwith all collaboration with the racist regime of South Africa in the nuclear field and to take measures to prevent such collaboration by corporations, institutions and other bodies and individuals within their jurisdiction'. 
No resolutions of the Security Council have been adopted which specifically apply to the question of the transfer of nuclear materials or technology between South Africa and member countries. Security Council resolution 418 of 4 November 1977, which was adopted unanimously decided however that 'all states will refrain from any cooperation with South Africa in the manufacture and development of nuclear weapons '. 
Yes. I do not propose however to reveal the results of such assessments or of confidential exchanges which we have had with other governments on this question. 
The Government is opposed to the transfer of nuclear material or technology between Australia and South Africa. The Communique of the 1977 Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting, in which Australia participated, urged, that inter alia any Government which collaborates with South Africa in the development of its nuclear industry should desist from doing so. Australia has also supported United Nations resolutions along these lines. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) There are three types of passports issued in Australia: ordinary, diplomatic and official. 
The purpose of all three passports is to identify the bearer and to request other countries to provide free passage, protection and assistance. Additionally, diplomatic and official passports define the status of the bearer. 
Unlike ordinary passports which have a set period of validity, diplomatic and official passports are issued to enable the bearer to carry out a particular mission. They are therefore issued for varying periods of validity. For this reason, it would be difficult to determine the number currently valid. I can say, however, that 750 diplomatic and 3,700 official passports were issued during 1978. 
No. 
No foreign passport of itself gives exemption from Australian Immigration and Customs procedures. 
-There have been a number of recent instances of Kampuchean refugees being denied entry into Thailand. In addition, some tens of thousands crossed into Thailand from Kampuchea but subsequently re-entered Kampuchea to the south of the area of fighting. It is very important, however, to bear in mind that these developments and the other media reports that have referred to this situation should be seen after all against the background of Thailand's long and humanitarian record of granting sanctuary to Indo-Chinese refugees, and its close co-operation with the United 
Nations High Commission for Refugees and other international relief agencies. 
Since the communist victories in Indo-China, Thailand has borne a far greater share of the refugee burden than any other country. The number of refugees in camps supervised by the UNHCR in Thailand alone now exceeds 160,000. Many more have crossed into Thailand but have not been registered with the local authorities. The predicament faced particularly by' Thailand and Malaysia reinforces the need for greater internationalisation of the IndoChina refugee problem. 
That takes me to the second part of the honourable member's question, the proposal in January by the Foreign Ministers of the Association of South-East Asian Nations for the establishment of a special island processing centre for Indo-Chinese refugees. Indonesia has offered a site suitable for such a centre with a capacity of 5,000 to 10,000 refugees. This is a very positive step in the direction of settlement. At the invitation of .Indonesia interested governments, including Australia, will meet in Jakarta on 15 and 16 May to agree on practical details including the funding of such an island centre. The Australian Government firmly believes that, in addition to the responsibilities of the countries of first asylum, the international community as a whole has a responsibility to work towards a solution of this problem. The Government hopes that agreement can be reached at Jakarta to establish an island centre along the lines that have been predicated, namely, a processing centre. In relation to the last part of the honourable member's question, on a number of grounds I would certainly not favour the establishment of a permanent island settlement. On the proposition as put forward by the ASEAN Ministers, to which the Government is giving support, we will continue actively to encourage other countries to provide additional resettlement places and financial contributions to the United Nations High Commission for Refugees. 
For the information of honourable members I present the annual report of the Department of Foreign Affairs for the year ended 31 December 1978. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
(a) Australia was one of a number of OECD and Western countries which provided official development assistance to Vietnam prior to 25 December 1 978. Other donors in this category included: 
Belgium, Canada, Denmark, Finland, France, Italy, Japan, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Sweden, Switzerland, United Kingdom. 
China, the USSR and other countries with centrally planned economies are known to have also been providing aid to Vietnam. (China ceased to provide aid to Vietnam on 3 July 1978.) 
(b) (i) Australia, Romania; (ii) Belgium, Denmark, Italy, Norway. 
At the completion of their current aid programs, the Netherlands and the United Kindgom will provide only humanitarian aid to Vietnam. 
As the honourable member for Wilmot rightly points out in his question, there have been innumerable sessions of the Law of the Sea Conference. I am happy to say that real progress was made at the last session, the Eighth Session, which concluded last month. Whilst there have been a variety of sessions rolling on, it was one of the most significant conferences in that it endeavoured to find equitable solutions for both developed and developing countries. The session which has just concluded was one of considerable achievement. The conference decided to revise the current negotiating text. The revised text incorporates new formulations on a number of the most difficult outstanding issues before the conference. Therefore, in order to maintain momentum, the session will resume meeting in New York in two months' time. 
Important progress was made on the most complex issue facing the conference, namely, that of the regime for the exploration and exploitation of the deep sea bed beyond national jurisdiction. These negotiations are part of the ongoing north-south dialogue on resource issues. Certainly, there are now grounds for optimism that the revised formulations developed in Geneva will bring developing and developed countries closer to agreement. An issue of absolutely major and fundamental importance to Australia and one which has caused considerable difficulty at the conference in the past is the extent of a coastal state's jurisdiction over its continental shelf. The importance of this will be obvious to all honourable members. A significant achievement was to bring that issue closer to resolution by the incorporation of a text defining the extent and the limits of the continental shelf. 
I might add that the conference also completed informal negotiations in the area of the protection and preservation of the marine environment. This is a major step forward in the development of international environmenal law. So after many years of negotiation I am now more optimistic that these developments will bring the conference closer to a comprehensive and widely-accepted convention regulating all aspects of the use of the oceans and their resources. There are now better prospects that an agreement on the outstanding hard core issues may be within sight. Such an agreement would be a major step forward in reducing tensions and the risk of conflict in the oceans of the world. 
The answers to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) The British Phosphate Commissioners (BPC) made an ex gratia offer to the Banaban people, without admission of liability, of approximately $A10m in May 1977 following the failure of the Banabans to obtain a court order asking that they should receive further back-payments of royalties on phosphate mined by the BPC. The offer has not yet been taken up by the Banabans and is the subject of current negotiations. The British Government has also made a substantial offer to the Banabans for establishment and development costs on Rabi Island in Fiji, where the majority of the Banabans live. 
Provision is made in the Kiribati (i.e. Gilbert Islands) Independence Bill, at present before the British Parliament, for the Banabans to retain their freedom of access to Ocean Island. There is, however, no provision for repatriation at official expense and I am unaware of any discussions on this possibility. I would note, nevertheless, that numbers of Banaban people have recently travelled to Ocean Island by private charter. Although it remains unclear how many are likely to make it their permanent residence, the BPC has offered the Banabans approximately $A1.25m for replanting costs on Ocean Island. This is an amount far in excess of what was awarded by the English High Court in judgment on a replanting claim. 
There have been adequate consultations between representatives of the three governments associated with the phosphate operations. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs advises that 793,086 Australian citizens departed during 1975-76, 814.060 during 1976-77, and 836,586 during 1977-78. 
Australian passports reported lost numbered 2851 in 1975-76, 3843 during 1976-77 and 4467 during 1977-78. 
Australian passports reported recovered numbered 1 93 in 1975-76. 288 in 1976-77 and 35 1 in 1977-78. 
As Australian posts overseas are able to replace lost passports quickly it is not considered necessary to make an optional travel document available to Australian travellers. 
For the information of honourable members I present the report of the Australian delegation to the thirty-fifth session of  the United Nations Commission on Human Rights. 
-I have read the article and have had discussions with  Mr Justice  Fox. I am having the departments concerned also examine the matter and I will provide more detailed information later rather than express a personal view in the House at this juncture. 
-With respect to the honourable member, it would take about six hours to go into the full detail of what he has asked. I appreciate the interest that he shows in the matter. I certainly will not take the length of time that each part of his question would require for a detailed answer. 
-I do feel inhibited. I am aware of the Standing Orders as pursued by the  Speaker  and, of course, I will not canvass them in any way. We welcome the announcement made by the United States Secretary of State along the lines that basic agreement between the United States and the Soviet Union on a second Strategic Arms Limitation Treaty has been reached. Basic agreement' was the critical terminology used by the Secretary of State. We anticipate that a summit meeting between  President  Carter and  Mr Brezhnev  will be held in the near future, hopefully to sign the SALT II treaty. The SALT negotiating process, of course, is central to the maintenance of stability and the relaxation of tensions between the United States and the Soviet Union. Its essential aim is to limit as a first step and then to reduce the nuclear armaments of the two countries while preserving a stable strategic balance and maintaining international confidence. 
The question of verification and surveillance was raised by the honourable member.  President  Carter has described SALT as being based on the powerful common interests of the two superpowers in reducing the threat of nuclear war. He has assured the United States Congress that he would sign no agreement which could not be verified and that the United States nuclear deterrent would remain strong after the conclusion of SALT II. 
The Australian Government welcomes the reports of the achievement to date of basic agreement on SALT II. We regard it as an important step forward. It should, at least in theory, reduce the threat of a nuclear war and place limits on the strategic arsenals of both the United States and the Soviet Union. It should also place limits on the development of new strategic systems by these two countries and open the way to reductions in nuclear arsenals in the future. 
However, one element not covered by the actual text- this is implicit in the honourable member's question- is the bona fides of both sides. We have to look to the Soviet Union to honour the spirit as well as the letter of the agreement if and when it is signed. The honourable member asked me to speculate on the question of ratification by the Congress. Should the agreement be signed, of course it will have to be ratified by the Congress and, quite frankly, I am not prepared to enter into speculation regarding that well publicised and discussed agreement. 
-The current round of Chinese-Vietnamese negotiations which began in Hanoi on 1 8 April now seems unlikely to result in early progress towards a settlement. At the first session of the talks Vietnam put forward three major proposals which were rejected by China. On 27 April, the Chinese put forward eight proposals of their own, which in turn have been rejected by the Vietnamese. At a Press conference on 4 May, following the third session of negotiations, spokesmen for both sides laid the blame for lack of progress on the other. The nature of the Chinese proposals indicates that Peking is linking any improvement in its relations with Vietnam with the Vietnamese military presence in Kampuchea, and more indirectly with Vietnam's treaty relationship with the Soviet Union. In its initial position Vietnam, on the other hand, appears to be concentrating on bilateral issues which would exclude third country relationships. The two approaches, therefore, are vastly different and initial positions reflect the wide gulf which exists between them. 
In regard to the second and very important element of the honourable member's question concerning the possibility of further military force, I have to say that a further resort to military force by either Vietnam or China simply cannot be ruled out if a total breakdown in negotiations were to occur. The Australian Government has made clear to both China and Vietnam that it strongly supports the peaceful settlement of disputes in accordance with international principles. Accordingly, we welcome the initiation of the Sino-Vietnamese talks on the border, and other matters, in the hope that they might lead to a negotiated lasting settlement. The lack of progress is a cause for regret, but the Government continues to support negotiations in the hope that they will be instrumental in bringing about an eventual reduction of tension. But, in answer to that second part of the question, to put it simply, if there is a total breakdown in negotiations, we cannot rule out the possibility of military force. 
-I have already indicated-I think it was on 14 May- that the Government is absolutely opposed to this sort of resolution. It has been put into the World Health Organisation assembly by a group of Arab countries. It is a resolution to suspend Israel's voting rights and World Health Organisation services to Israel. If it were to be adopted by the committee, it would pass to the World Health Organisation plenary for further debate before being put to the vote. As indicated at the outset of the answer, this Government absolutely opposes this resolution. I said it last week and I reiterate it. Such resolutions introduce needless political questions and debate into specialised agencies. This Government is utterly opposed to the poll.ticalisation of these specialised agencies. We believe it is essential that the principle of universality of membership of the United Nations' organisations be maintained. After all, if we brook this sort of principle- expelling a nation state from the United Nations- I think that we will be taking a walk down a path which is perhaps endless. 
The Australian delegation at the Assembly, led by the Minister for Health, has also spoken out against the moves directed at Israel and will continue to do so. In regard to other questions posed to me by the honourable member, I state that in an attempt to highlight the serious implications of this draft resolution Australia cosponsored, along with Ghana and also Fiji, a procedural motion which will make the suspension of a member of WHO what is termed 'an important question' requiring a two-thirds majority of the votes. The passage of this resolution, which, I am pleased to say, was adopted in committee stage of the Assembly by a very significant majority, will reduce the prospects of the substantive resolution being adopted. The draft resolution on the suspension of Israel is expected to be voted on in the next day or so. We will continue to employ all appropriate measures to oppose the adoption of this draft resolution. 
-The first thing we would do, at a minimum, would be to walk out of the Assembly the moment it was passed. 
by leave- For the information of honourable members, I present the Agreement between the Government of Australia and the Government of the Republic of Korea concerning Co-operation in the Peaceful Uses of Nuclear Energy and the Transfer of Nuclear Material, together with the letter sent to the leader of the Republic of Korea delegation which negotiated the agreement. The agreement was signed in Canberra on 2 May 1979 by the  Deputy  Prime Minister and Minister for Trade and Resources,  Mr Anthony,  and the Ambassador of the Republic of Korea. The agreement entered into force on signature. 
Consistent with the practice that I adopted regarding previous nuclear safeguards agreements, namely with Finland and the Philippines, I have sought to present the agreement to Parliament as soon as possible after signature. The agreement is a further step in the establishment of a network of bilateral nuclear safeguards agreements between Australia and other countries. The purpose of these agreements is to ensure that when Australia supplies uranium for peaceful purposes it will not be diverted to non-peaceful or explosive uses. To this end the agreement incorporates stringent safeguards and controls on the use of the uranium we supply to the Republic of Korea for peaceful purposes. The agreement incorporates all the Government's nuclear safeguards requirements as announced by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  on 24 May 1977. These are: an undertaking that nuclear material supplied by Australia will not be diverted to military or explosive purposes; the application of International Atomic Energy Agency- IAEA- safeguards, which provide an international check against diversion of material; fall-back arrangements to ensure continued safeguarding of nuclear material should IAEA safeguards for any reason cease to apply; a requirement for Australia's prior consent to any retransfers, to ensure that uranium supplied by Australia cannot be re-exported unless we are satisfied as to the ultimate destination and as to the controls that would apply; a requirement for Australia's prior consent for high enrichment or reprocessing of material supplied by Australia. This ensures that these operations can only take place if Australia is fully satisfied about the arrangements and conditions. This effectively reserves our position on reprocessing, as we have said we wish to, pending the outcome of international studies, including- INFCE- the International Nuclear Fuel Cycle Evaluation; provisions ensuring that adequate physical security will be maintained, to guard against theft or other illegal use of nuclear material by groups or individuals; provisions for consultations to ensure the effective implementation of the Agreement; and all these safeguards and controls to cover nuclear material derived from Australian uranium so long as it remains in a form relevant from the point of view of safeguards. 
The agreement also contains: a sanctions Article acknowledging Australia's right to suspend supplies and to require return of material in the event of detonation of a nuclear device, failure to comply with IAEA safeguards or breach of the agreement; and arbitration procedures for the settlement of disputes. 
The agreement itself establishes safeguards obligations which the Republic of Korea and Australia have accepted; the accompanying letter concerns the practical application and implementation of these obligations. It does not change or dilute the agreement itself. 
The purpose of the letter is to provide a degree of reassurance to the Republic of Korea of the manner in which Australia intends to exercise its prior consent rights and to handle administrative problems that might arise from multiple labelling, that is the attachment of different national nuclear safeguards conditions to material as it is transferred internationally for processing purposes on its way to the end user. The letter also deals with the implementation of the noncompliance and fall-back safeguards provisions, and the intended scope of the administrative arrangements. The letter states Australia's intention of being a reliable supplier and its attitude towards a possible international convention on the physical protection of nuclear material. 
The Republic of Korea's nuclear program is a large one, and envisages over 40 reactors by the year 2000, at which time nuclear power would account for 60 per cent of electricity generation and 20 per cent of the Republic of Korea 's total energy requirements. One reactor is already operating, two are under construction and two are on order. Under present plans, work on two new reactors will start each year. The Republic of Korea estimates that its cumulative requirements for yellowcake between now and the year 2000 will be of the order of 80,000 tonnes, a very substantial quantity. The conclusion of this nuclear co-operation and safeguards agreement with the Republic of Korea provides a basis for shipments of Australian uranium to that country under commercial contracts. It therefore opens the way to an important new link between the two countries. Further nuclear safeguards agreements with other countries will follow. I assure the House that each agreement will be made public as it is signed. The Government's nuclear safeguards policy is a comprehensive, stringent and highly responsible policy aimed at contributing to the prevention of the proliferation of nuclear weapons. It is also an eminently practical and internationally workable policy. The willingness of potential customer countries to accept Australia's nuclear safeguards requirements, thorough and stringent as they are, is evidence of this. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Australia is undertaking about 1 60 projects in Oceania in 1978-79 and the anticipated expenditure for each is based on current estimates. Individual projects and expenditure in 1 978-79 are listed in Table A as is the number of Australian Nationals employed. The total allocation for Oceania (excluding Papua New Guinea) for 1978-79 is $22.9m. For each project the approximate maximum number of Australian nationals employed or expected to be employed at any time during the year is shown. These personnel are employed either: 
1 ) as aid experts or advisers appointed and paid directly by the Australian Development Assistance Bureau; 
by managing agents and consultants; 
by host governments with some funding provided by the Australian government. 
I have seen the reports referred to by the honourable member and the reports are incorrect in stating that such decisions were taken at that meeting. It is correct that  Sir Gordon  Freeth, our High Commissioner, attended this meeting and put the viewpoints of the Australian Government by referring to a statement authorised by me and made in the Senate by  Senator Carrick  who represents me in that chamber.  Sir Gordon  simply stated Australia's position. There has been no change in that position. That was the extent of his participation on that occasion. The meeting held on 18 May was of the Commonwealth Committee on Southern Africa. Incidentally, all members of the Commonwealth are members of that Committee. The Press incorrectly stated that a decision was taken at the meeting to the effect that the British Government should be warned that the credibility of the Commonwealth would be endangered if Britain recognised the new administration. No such decision was taken at that meeting. The Secretary-General has stated publicly, as I am advised, that this is an incorrect report, and I reiterate his words. 
The meeting determined that an eight-man delegation would meet with the British Foreign Secretary.  Sir Gordon  Freeth is a member of that delegation and he is to meet with the Foreign Secretary today. The  Chairman  will put to Lord Carrington the concerns that were expressed- a variety of views was expressed at that meetingabout the Rhodesian situation by the various Commonwealth members. The group will not put an agreed position. Individual members will be able to put their individual views. In deciding to approach Lord Carrington, the Commonwealth Committee is seeking to do no more than respond in a helpful way to the British Government's own expressed desire to consult with the Commonwealth and others. So, the decision to participate in the group reflects no change at all. The Press report referred to by the honourable member was incorrect. 
-Australia has always been concerned that the situation in Cyprus, which has led to so much suffering and human hardship for the Cypriot people, should be finally resolved. For this reason we have consistently stated in the United Nations and elsewhere that we believe that a lasting settlement will best be achieved by direct negotiations between the two communities. Accordingly we have supported moves to encourage the parties involved to get together. The Australian Government therefore welcomes the Secretary-General 's 10-point communique in which he records the agreement of the Cypriot leaders to resume talks on the basis of the Makarios-Denktash guidelines of February 1977 and the United Nations resolutions which are relevant to the Cyprus question. The communique envisages that the island will be demilitarised and that its independence, sovereignty, territorial integrity and non-alignment will be guaranteed. 
The Government hopes that the encouraging outcome of the recent discussions will lead to real progress towards a lasting settlement and that it will prove possible to overcome the hitherto intractable differences that have clearly separated the two communities. Australia has of course contributed to the preservation of peace in Cyprus through its contribution to United Nations peace-keeping operations on the island and through its assistance to displaced persons. 
The answers to the honourable member's questions are as follows: 
As at 30 June 1978 there were 95 Australian Missions overseas, consisting of 45 Embassies, 19 High Commissions, 2 Commissions, 16 ConsulatesGeneral, 8 Consulates, 1 Australian Government Trade Commission,1 Migration Office, 2 Permanent United Nations Missions and1 Permanent Delegation to the OECD. The Status and Location of these missions is shown in Table A. 
The answer to question (2 ) appears in Table B. 
Honourable members will recall that last week I expressed in this House the Government's firm opposition to the needless politicisation of specialised agencies, such as the World Health Organisation, and our support for the principle of universality of membership. I am pleased to be able to answer the honourable member's question by advising the House that attempts by some Arab countries to expel Israel from the World Health Organisation Assembly were successfully averted, principally through the adoption by an overwhelming majority of the assembly of a resolution put forward by Australia and co-sponsored by Fiji and Ghana. That was a resolution which indicated- I think I hinted at this last week- that the suspension of a member should be regarded as an important question, thereby requiring a two-thirds majority. 
Following the adoption of our procedural motion the Arab states concerned and the state of Israel came to what could be called a gentleman 's agreement that discussion on the question of the health conditions in the occupied territories and the associated resolution to suspend Israel from WHO would be postponed until the 33rd meeting of the World Health Assembly in 1980. This decision was adopted by the plenary. The Australian Government regards this outcome as quite satisfactory in the circumstances. As I indicated previously in the House, as I recall, in answer to an interjection by the honourable member for Robinson- if the motion to expel Israel had been successful my advice to the delegation was unequivocal- Australia was immediately to walk out of the assembly. That, fortunately, proved unnecessary. I was particularly encouraged by the overwhelming support given by World Health Organisation members to our resolution that the suspension of a member is an important question. 
-Do not throw them out for that,  Mr Acting Speaker.  The situation in Lebanon is actually a matter for very serious concern. If the honourable member for Melbourne, who has consistently asked questions on the migration issue, had a real intent of determining just how serious it was, I am sure that he would not have been leading the noise that was forthcoming then. Whilst the fighting is not on the scale of last year's fighting, the intermittent violence has continued on a scale that we would all deplore. There have been clashes in Beirut and Northern Lebanon between some Maronite militia forces and the mainly Syrian Arab deterrent force. There have also been inter-Maronite clashes. In Southern Lebanon the Maronite militia has declared the border enclave that it controls- as I recall, the honourable member referred specifically to this- a so-called independent state and has launched some artillery attacks on United Nations positions and Lebanese villages. Obviously, Israel would react strongly to the Palestinian actions which were taken against her. 
The short answer as to the Government's attitude is that it not only is very concerned at the continuing interfactional violence but also deeply regrets the loss of civilian lives resulting from Palestinian attacks in Israel and from Israeli incursions into Lebanon. Our record is particularly clear. We have not only supported the establishment of UNIFIL but also cosponsored resolutions in the United Nations seeking a peaceful settlement of this tragic dispute, and we will continue to do so. The continuing violence in Lebanon is a potential source of disruption in the wake of the recent welcome progress towards peace in the Middle East. The Government hopes that all concerned- that is, the Lebanese groups, the Palestinians and the Syrian and Israeli governments- will work for an end to tensions in the area. I am pleased to note, on that basis, that President Sarkis recently held talks with President Assad in Damascus about ways of achieving that. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to the answer given by myself to his question number 3032  (Hansard,  24 November 1978, pages 3582-3). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Yes. 
The Government is sympathetic to the objectives put forward by Prince Sihanouk and will continue to support international efforts to focus attention on the need for an independent and neutral Kampuchea, but sees no immediate prospects of an international conference on Kampuchea being convened. 
(a) I am not aware of any public comment by the United States on the proposal but in the United Nations Security Council debate on Indo-China in March the United States representative urged those who were considering the proposal for an international conference to elaborate their views how it might achieve its principal objectives. 
We have no information to the effect that the Soviet Union has opposed the proposal. China has not specifically rejected it but there have been press reports to the effect that Chinese leaders have rejected the idea of an international conference on Kampuchea outside the United Nations context. 1 am also aware of a press report that Vietnam is said to have rejected the proposal. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) No. 
See (I). 
The Rhodesia Information Centre question is a complex one. As a responsible member of the United Nations, the Australian Government has an international obligation in relation to mandatory UN Security Council resolutions which are binding on alf member states. Resolution 409 on Rhodesia Information Offices is one such resolution. 
The Government is continuing to give consideration to the action required to comply with the terms of this resolution. At the same time, the Government will ensure that any action taken is consistent with the various established freedoms in Australia. 
The answer to the honourable member's questions are as follows: 
1 ) The Government is aware of the emphasis placed by President Carter on human rights issues. 
The Government's views on the means by which Indonesia 's incorporation of East Timor was achieved and its support for the granting of access to East Timor to humanitarian agencies have been stated publicly on a number of occasions, and are well-known to the Indonesian Government. 
The Indonesian Red Cross has been active for some time in East Timor and Australia has given financial suppOrt to its relief work. The Indonesian Foreign Minister Professor Mochtar was reported in January to have stated that the Indonesian authorites had no objection to the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) visiting East Timor. Furthermore, I understand that the Indonesian Government has invited the United States Catholic Relief Services to visit East Timor to consider possible assistance to the province. Separately, a number of foreign journalists have been permitted to visit East Timor over the past year. 
The agreement between Indonesia and the Netherlands in 1962 to hold an act of free choice in Irian Jaya (West Irian) was put into effect in 1969 with United Nations participation. The General Assembly subsequently agreed to note the Secretary-General 's report on it. Following the act of free choice in 1969, successive Australian Governments, and indeed the international community, have regarded Irian Jaya as an integral part of Indonesia. 
The situation described is a hypothetical one concerning contacts between two independent  countries  which enjoy good relations. Comment along the lines suggested would therefore be inappropriate. 
Aborigines: Alleged Racism in Queensland (Question No. 3837) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
and (2) Diplomatic passport issues are recorded on' cards held by the Passports Office in Canberra. These cards are in alphabetical order and are not kept in a manner which would make identification of categories or yearly issues possible without an examination of each individual card. My Department does not have the resources to extract and compile this information. The great majority of diplomatic passport issues are made to Australian officials in the context of their accreditation to Australian missions in foreign countries. My answer to Question No. 975  (Hansard,  31 May 1978, page 2892 ) is also relevant to the honourable member's question. 
Diplomatic passports are issued for varying lengths of time not exceeding 5 years to enable the bearer to carry out a particular mission and it is therefore very difficult to determine the number currently valid. I can say, however, that approximately 940 were issued in 1975, approximately 810 in 1976, 780 in 1977 and 750 in 1978. A large number of these are passports re-issued to eligible officials. 
Governors-General and their wives are entitled to diplomatic passports. Ex Governors-General and their wives who require travel documents also receive diplomatic passports as a matter of courtesy. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The United States has passed legislation to establish a commercial corporation known as the American Institute in Taiwan to maintain commercial and other nongovernmental contacts with Taiwan, including the administration of procedures for the entry of Taiwanese visitors to the United States and the continued operation of commercial and other agreements. In this respect it will carry out some functions which formerly would have been carried out by the United States Embassy in Taiwan. 
Yes. 
The United States/Taiwan Mutual Defence Treaty will be allowed to lapse at the end of this year. Other agreements, which will remain in force, cover such subjects as commerce, including agreements restricting access to the United States market for certain Taiwanese products; agriculture; peaceful use of atomic energy; civil aviation; claims; navigation; customs; and economic and technical co-operation. 
The circumstances under which the United States conducts its relations with Taiwan are quite different from those relating to Australia. The arrangements applying in the case of the United States result from specific agreements and understandings reached between the United States and Chinese Governments when they entered into full diplomatic relations. The Chinese Government has not agreed to similar arrangements by any other country except Japan. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Warren Edward Fellows was found to be in possession of three passports on his arrest in Bangkok. 
Yes. 
(a) All were issued at Sydney, (b) Warren Edward Fellows, William Curwen Errington and Gregory Hastings Barker, (c) 15 August 1974, 17 February 1978 and 27 June 1978. 
Until Commonwealth Police have completed their investigations into the matter I cannot give definite details on the method used to obtain the passports. 
The answer to the first part of the question asked by the honourable member is yes; the answer to the second part of the question is no. 
Human Rights Detainee in Soviet Union:  Mr I.  Ogurtsov  (Question No. 3940) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) I am advised that a Soviet citizen,  Mr Igor  Vyacheslavovich Ogurtsov, a co-founder and leader of an organisation known as the All Russian Social Christian Union for the Liberation of the People, was sentenced in 1 968 to 1 5 years' imprisonment, to be followed by periods in a labour camp and internal exile. 

 Mr Ogurtsov is reported to be detained at prison camp Perm 36, Institution VS-389/36, Kuchino Settlement, Chusovoi District, 618263 Perm Region, USSR. I am aware of reports that  Mr Ogurtsov  is in poor health, but have no information to hand which would confirm or deny these reports. 
3 )  Mr Ogurtsov  along with a number of other Soviet citizens connected with the All Russian Christian Union were the subject of court proceedings in the USSR in 1968.  Mr Ogurtsov  was reportedly charged under Articles 64 (a), 70, and 72 of the USSR Criminal Code. 
These articles deal respectively with (a) the betrayal of the fatherland, (b) anti-Soviet agitation and propaganda, and ( c) the creation of an anti-Soviet organisation. Information is not available to me to indicate under which of these articles  Mr Ogurtsov  was convicted. I am not in a position to state it as a fact, but it does appear that  Mr Ogurtsov  's religious beliefs and activities were a significant factor in his detention, trial and conviction. I should add that representations have been received expressing concern over  Mr Ogurtsov  's continued detention and calling on the Government to intervene with the Soviet authorities on behalf of  Mr Ogurtsov.  These representations have been conveyed to the Soviet government. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
This Government has not issued an official passport to  Sir John  Pagan. 
Shooting of Man at Sydney International Airport  (Question No. 3970) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) (a) none (b) fifty-two. 
Poland, Hungary, USSR, Yugoslavia, Bulgaria, Romania, Czechoslovakia, South Africa, Singapore, Maldive Islands, Vietnam, Syria, India, FRG, Burma, France, Afghanistan, Indonesia, Sri Lanka, Finland, Iran, Thailand, Malaysia, Libya, Ethiopia, Bangladesh, Bolivia and Brazil. 
-There is considerable concern internationally that Pakistan is constructing a centrifuge uranium enrichment facility, outside of international safeguards, which would provide it with nuclear explosive capability. Australia shares that international concern. There can be no doubt that achievement of a nuclear explosive capability by any additional state would endanger not merely the security of the region concerned but also international stability generally. It would continue to increase the risk of further proliferation, while obviously international co-operation and trade in the peaceful uses of nuclear energy would be seriously jeopardised. Australia's concern has been made known to Pakistan. Pakistan has stated that its nuclear program is for peaceful purposes only. 
The Government considers that if there is evidence to indicate that a country is planning to develop a nuclear explosive capability, broadly based international pressure should be brought to bear to dissuade it from proceeding with those plans. Consequently, Australia has been in close and continuing contact with a number of concerned governments on the matter. We have also informed a wide cross section of states of our very deep interest and have sought their views. Adherence by all states to a treaty prohibiting nuclear weapons testing would obviously greatly assist international efforts to prevent the spread of nuclear weapons to additional countries. As a country with impeccable non-proliferation credentials, Australia will continue to urge that such a treaty be concluded as quickly as possible. 
For the information of honourable members I present the agreement between the Government of Australia and the Government of the United States of America concerning peaceful use of nuclear energy, together with an agreed minute, and the agreement between the Government of Australia and the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland concerning nuclear transfers between Australia and the United Kingdom, together with an agreed minute and an exchange of letters. I seek leave to make a statement relating to the agreements. 
Leave granted. 
-The agreement with the United States was signed in Canberra on 5 July. I signed on behalf of Australia and Secretary of State, Cyrus Vance, signed on behalf of the United States. The agreement with the United Kingdom was signed in London on 24 July. I signed on behalf of Australia and the Secretary of State for Foreign and Commonwealth Affairs, Lord Carrington, signed on behalf of the United Kingdom. Consistent with the practice I have adopted with previous nuclear safeguards agreements, the texts were published immediately upon signature and are now being presented to the Parliament early in the present session. The signature of these two agreements brings to five the number of nuclear safeguards agreements signed between Australia and other countries. Australia has now succeeded in building up a substantial body of law and practice giving effect to the policy announced by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  on 24 May 1977. I have previously presented the agreements which we have signed with Finland, the Philippines and the Republic of Korea. The two latest agreements represent further important steps in the establishment of that network of bilateral agreements between Australia and countries wishing to import Australian uranium which I referred to in the statements presenting the other safeguards agreements. 
Both the United Kingdom and the United States are nuclear weapons states and, in accordance with the policy announced by the Prime Minister on 24 May 1977, the primary purpose of these agreements will be to ensure that when Australia supplies uranium to them for peaceful purposes, this uranium will not be diverted to non-peaceful or explosive purposes. Both countries, with Australia, are in the forefront of efforts to promote a strong international nonproliferation regime. The signing of these agreements will enhance and strengthen Australia's co-operation with them in furthering nonproliferation objectives. The two agreements represent confirmation of the closeness of the views of the three governments on nuclear safeguards issues. Against the background of international energy and fuel problems, the agreements are of particular significance since both the United States and the United Kingdom are expected to be substantial markets for Australian uranium. The agreements are a tangible demonstration of the international recognition accorded to Australia's potential to supply uranium to an energy deficient world. 
Agreement with the United States of America 
The agreement with the United States is an important one. It provides a new framework for the nuclear co-operation between Australia and the United States which commenced well before 1956 when the two governments concluded an agreement concerning the civil use of atomic energy. That agreement, which was amended in 1960 and 1967, is superseded by the new agreement, which also supersedes an interim nuclear safeguards agreement of limited scope concluded between the two governments on 8 August 1978. The agreement reflects the shared non-proliferation objectives of Australia and the United States and is a further demonstration of the commitment by both Australia and the United States to stringent controls on the exports of nuclear material. Before this agreement can come into force it must first remain before the United States Congress for 60 days of continuous session. The agreement was presented to Congress on 27 July 1979. And allowing for the August recess, we expect the agreement to remain before Congress until late October. 
In transmitting the agreement to Congress,  President  Carter referred to Australia as a strong supporter of the Non-Proliferation Treaty and of international non-proliferation efforts generally'.  President  Carter said he was particularly pleased that the first peaceful nuclear co-operation agreement entered into since the enactment of the United States NonProliferation Act of 1978 should be with Australia. 'The proposed agreement', he noted, reflects the desire of the Government of the United States and the Government of Australia to update the framework for peaceful nuclear cooperation between our two countries in a manner which recognises both the shared nonproliferation objectives and the close relationship between the United States and Australia in the peaceful applications of nuclear energy'. 
I wish also to bring to the attention of the House the nuclear proliferation assessment statement on the Agreement prepared for  President  Carter by the United States Arms Control and Disarmament Agency. This statement has been submitted to the United States Congress. It acknowledges that 'Australia's active efforts on behalf of non-proliferation place it in a position of global leadership in this area'. It goes on to describe Australia's nuclear export policies as perhaps the most stringent of any country' and its requirement that a non-nuclear weapon recipient state be a party to the NPT as 'virtually unique and highly commendable'. 
The statement continues that Australia's efforts to halt the growth in existing nuclear weapon stockpiles have been no less intensive as it continues to emphasise the responsibility of the nuclear weapon states to engage in effective nuclear arms control through negotiations such as the Strategic Arms Limitation Talks and the Comprehensive Nuclear Test Ban Treaty. The statement says that Australia's 'serious and sustained efforts to promote nuclear arms control have earned Australia the respect of the international community'. The United States Arms Control and Disarmament Agency concludes that 'it is entirely fitting that the first agreement for co-operation to be submitted' to the United States Congress 'for approval since enactment of the United States Nuclear Non-Proliferation Act is with a state of such impeccable nonproliferation credentials'. Perhaps our critics could note that. 
The agreement with the United States incorporates all the Government's safeguards requirements as announced by the Prime Minister on 24 May 1977. These include: 
The basic undertaking that material and equipment transferred under the Agreement will not be diverted to military or explosive purposes. 
The application of International Atomic Energy Agency- IAEA- safeguards to Australian-origin nuclear material in the 
United States, Article 9. As a nuclear weapon state the United States is not required under the NPT to institute IAEA safeguards in its territory. It has however signed a voluntary safeguards agreement with the IAEA to provide for safeguards on its facilities 'not of national security interest'. This agreement has yet to be approved by the United States Senate preparatory to being brought into force. For this reason the Agreed Minute to the agreement provides that deliveries of Australian uranium under new contracts can only start upon entry into force of the US-IAEA agreement. 
Fallback arrangements to ensure continued safeguarding of nuclear material should IAEA safeguards for any reason cease to apply. 
Provisions on retransfer to ensure that uranium supplied by Australia is not reexported by the United States unless we are satisfied as to the ultimate destination and the controls that would apply. 
Provisions on high enrichment and reprocessing to ensure that these operations cannot take place unless Australia is fully satisfied about the arrangements and conditions. The requirement that these operations can only take place by agreement reserves our position on reprocessing, as we have said we wish to, pending the outcome of current international studies. 
Provisions ensuring that adequate physical security will be maintained, to guard against theft or other illegal use of nuclear material by groups or individuals. 
All these safeguards and controls to cover nuclear material derived from Australian uranium so long as it remains in a form relevant from the point of view of safeguards. 
Provisions for consultations to ensure effective implementation of the agreement. 
The format of this agreement differs from the safeguards agreements that Australia has previously signed. This is because of the elaborate co-operation provisions covering not only nuclear material but also other material, equipment and information, and the need to meet the provisions of United States nuclear safeguards policy as legislated in the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Act of 1978. This Act contains some provisions which are not among Australia's own requirements and reflects the involvement of the United States in a wide range of peaceful nuclear activities. The inclusion of such provisions in the agreement is fully consistent with the intent of Australia 's own stringent safeguards measures. 
Agreement with the United Kingdom 
The agreement with the United Kingdom is the first Australia has signed with a member state of the European Community. As with all of Australia's bilateral nuclear safeguards agreements, this agreement incorporates all of the Government's safeguards requirements as announced by the Prime Minister on 24 May 1977 and to which I have just referred in detail in connection with the United States agreement. 
Honourable members should be aware that in arriving at this agreement, Australia had to take into account the United Kingdom's obligations under the European Atomic Energy Community Treaty. In particular, the provision in the agreement on retransfers takes account of the EURATOM Treaty requirement for freedom of movement of material within EURATOM. The agreement provides that material transferred by Australia to the United Kingdom would not be retransferred to any country other than the member states of EURATOM without Australia's prior consent. Regarding possible retransfers to EURATOM countries, the agreement, Agreed Minute and Exchange of Letters envisage that, by the time deliveries of uranium to the United Kingdom take place, safeguards arrangements will be in force between Australia and EURATOM. 
The Exchange of Letters attached to the agreement specify that Australia and the United Kingdom have agreed to reconsider the agreement before the end of 1982 if there is no safeguards agreement between EURATOM and Australia by that time. Australia, of course, has a strong interest in concluding a safeguards agreement with EURATOM as soon as possible and we hope that the European Community governments will reach early agreement on a mandate to enable the European Commission to negotiate with Australia on behalf of EURATOM. Once safeguards arrangements are in place, the way will be open for exports of Australian uranium to meet the peaceful energy needs of the EURATOM member states. 
Sitting suspended from 12.59 to 2.15 p.m. 
-Before the suspension of the sitting for lunch I was making a statement on our nuclear safeguards policy. I will continue that statement. 
Control Arrangements on Uranium Concentrates- Yellowcake 
During the parliamentary recess, I announced on 18 July that in future the export of uranium will be permitted from Australia without a requirement that Australian ownership be retained until it is converted to a form suitable for fuel fabrication or enrichment. I undertook in my statement to inform the Parliament of the decision as soon as possible after the session resumed. 
Honourable members will recall that the Ranger Uranium Environmental Inquiry in its first report drew attention to the fact that yellowcake does not attract full International Atomic Energy Agency safeguards. The position is that the full intensity of International Atomic Energy Agency safeguards does not apply until the uranium is in a form suitable for fuel fabrication or enrichment, that is, in the form of UF6, uranium hexafluoride, U02 uranium dioxide or, for certain reactors, natural uranium metal. The processing of yellowcake into any of these forms must be done abroad while there are no conversion facilities in Australia. The only requirement under NPT safeguards is that when exports of yellowcake take place the transfer be notified to the International Atomic Energy Agency. 
The Ranger Uranium Environmental Inquiry saw this as providing opportunities for states to divert material to weapons production. As a result the Government in formulating its nuclear safeguards policy decided that any future sales arrangements for exports of Australian uranium should be such that the uranium will be in a form which attracts full International Atomic Energy Agency safeguards by the time it leaves Australian ownership. The Inquiry did not propose this measure. It saw the simplest means of dealing with the situation as being to require that no retransfers take place without Australian consent and this is of course one of the fundamental requirements of the Government's safeguards policy. It is included in the agreements which Australia has already negotiated and will be included in future agreements. 
The Government's decision was taken before an anti-trust suit by Westinghouse Electric Corporation for treble damages had proceeded to judgment in the United States against certain Australian companies. As a result of the judgment, the requirement that Australian uranium remain in Australian ownership would have placed shipments of uranium overseas by those Australian companies at risk of seizure in execution of the judgment. This requirement of the 
Government's safeguards policy had therefore created unnecessary difficulties unrelated to the field of safeguards. 
Honourable members will be aware from the remarks I have made beforehand in presenting the two most recent nuclear safeguards agreements to the House that, following negotiations on safeguards agreements with other governments, a practical framework for implementing the Government's policy as announced in 1977 has emerged. The Government is satisfied that assurances that yellowcake will not be diverted can be achieved. What is important is that there is an adequate framework of control and the question of where ownership lies does not assist materially. This framework of control will include: 
Australian Safeguards Office requirements governing physical protection during transport, storage and processing; 
Australian Safeguards Office requirements for notification of the movements of nuclear materials; inter-governmental arrangements or agreements with processor countries; bilaterial nuclear safeguards agreements with the country of the ultimate consignee. 
The Government is convinced that the framework of control will be fully effective and will maintain the integrity of Australia's stringent nuclear safeguards policy. 
To return to the primary purpose of this statement,  Mr Speaker,  the two agreements that I have tabled today are important achievements in giving effect to the Government's nuclear safeguards policy. They demonstrate that Australia is playing a responsible and constructive role in helping to prevent the proliferation of nuclear weapons. The agreements are tangible evidence that Australia's safeguards are a substantial contribution to the international network of nonproliferation arrangements. They also show that the policy is eminently practical and internationally workable. 
I conclude by restating elements of the statements that have been laid before the United States Congress by the United States Arms Control and Disarmament Agency. They lend full weight to what the Government has said about its safeguards policy. The House will recall the words I quoted earlier. The Agency said when laying its paper before the Congress that Australia's active efforts on behalf of nonproliferation place it in a position of global leadership in this area'. It went on to describe 
Australia's nuclear export policies as 'perhaps the most stringent of any country' and its requirement that a non-nuclear weapon recipient state be a party to the NPT as 'virtually unique and highly commendable'. I remind honourable members that the statement continued by saying that Australia 's efforts to halt the growth in existing nuclear weapon stockpiles have been no less intensive as it continues to emphasise the responsibility of the nuclear weapons states to engage in effective nuclear arms control through negotiations such as SALT and the Comprehensive Nuclear Test Ban Treaty. 
The statement says that Australia's 'serious and sustained efforts to promote nuclear arms control have earned Australia the respect of the international community'. The Agency concludes its paper by stating that 'it is entirely fitting that the first agreement for co-operation to be submitted' to the United States Congress 'for approval since enactment of the United States Nuclear Non-Proliferation Act is with a state of such impeccable non-proliferation credentials'. We could not have firmer supporting advice about the stringency and the adequacy of the Governments safeguards policies. That support shows, as I said a moment ago, that the policies are eminently practical and internationally workable. 

 Mr LIONEL BOWEN (KingsfordSmith) by leave- The statement that the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  has made relates to safeguards agreements with the United Kingdom and the United States of America on the supply by Australia of natural uranium. In his last few remarks the Minister told us how stringent and important these safeguards arrangements are. I place on record that at Question Time today he was asked a question about the danger to mankind if Pakistan were to engage in the enrichment of uranium which could lead to a nuclear device being exploded. He properly expressed the fear of the world that this could happen. The  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  was also asked a question about the state of the stock market in respect of minerals, including uranium. He was very buoyant in his reply. He said that the stock market was booming. 
Those answers indicate the fundamental problems of the Government at present. The  Deputy  Prime Minister is running the uranium policy. He is saying: 'We will sell natural uranium because we need to sell it. We need to get some money.' After it is sold, of course, the Minister for Foreign Affairs has to cope with the problems. It is then too late. Once it is sold and once it has left this country it undergoes the processes of enrichment and, when used, reprocessing, areas about which the Minister for Foreign Affairs expressed so much concern in his statement on safeguards arrangements. It is very significant that in all the safe countries in the world enrichment and reprocessing take place under government control. In Australia we have a government that will sell uranium to anybody. It has no idea what is going to happen, but it purports that it does because of a legal arrangement called a safeguards agreement. It has no idea what is going to happen to that uranium or who is going to be responsible for it because in the processes of enrichment and reprocessing the uranium becomes intermixed with other uranium from other suppliers. 
The Government has to rely on the honesty and integrity of governments throughout the world. That is its best safeguard. Our Government must accept that fact. It cannot just rely on a document which purports to control the fuel cycle but has no way to achieve that. As I said in the recess, Australia should own and control its own uranium. If other countries are able to own and control the process of enrichment and reprocessing, it is equally important that Australia have an opportunity also to own and control its uranium. The Labor Party's policy is very clear: The world has not yet developed satisfactory processes for handling this fuel to guarantee that mankind is not endangered. The answer given this morning to the Pakistan question is an adequate example. The problem of disposing of high level radio-active waste again illustrates the situation. These safeguards are not safeguards in any shape or form from Australia's point of view. 
The last time we heard a major statement on safeguards was in May 1977. We have not had any really comprehensive account of the Government's policy since that time. There have been previous bilateral agreements, to which the Minister referred- I think there are five- and they have been negotiated on this particular premise: 
Pending international acceptance of new international arrangements and institutions to provide more effective measures against the proliferation of nuclear weapons. 
That statement is a clear indication that the Government recognised that safeguards agreements are not effective. Australia has to do so much more in the development of these processes to guarantee safety. The statement reflects the fact that there are international discussions under way to improve non-proliferation regimes- these discussions are taking place in many places- in particular, the International Nuclear Fuel Cycle Evaluation and the Preparatory Committee of the 1980 Conference to Review the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty. In spite of the fact that Australian officials have been taking significant roles in these conferences overseas, we have not received any report in the Parliament on these issues. 
In April 1978 the Opposition asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs on several occasions to table the Model Bilateral Safeguards Agreement but those requests were refused. In June 1978 the Opposition noted that the Model Agreement was published in the  Sydney Morning Herald.  In August 1978 safeguards agreements with Finland and the Philippines were tabled. Then in November 1978 the Minister tabled the Model Safeguards Agreement but he has continued to refuse to say which countries have received it. Agreements were concluded with Korea in May and with the United States and the United Kingdom in July and August 1979. We know that the European Commission has not yet obtained a mandate from the European Council of Ministers to negotiate an agreement with Australia. We know now that the Government has negotiated with France but there is a doubt about whether France will accept either the terms of the Australian Model Safeguards Agreement or the authority of the European Atomic Energy Community. 
We know also that Australia has negotiated with Japan. Japan has no objection in principle to the terms of the Australian Model Safeguards Agreement but is firmly committed to accepting no agreement more onerous than any agreement with any European country. We also know that agreement was reached in 1978 between Australia and Iran on the text of a bilateral nuclear co-operation agreement. That agreement was not concluded because the then Iranian Government vanished. This event underlines the peculiar nature of the control exercisable by bilateral agreements. The Government has not mentioned anything about this. Nor has the Government told us, for example, that the Philippines has now decided not to proceed with the nuclear power reactor which it wanted to build and for which it wanted Australian uranium. The safeguards agreement with the Philippines, of course, offered no basis for control over the safety of reactor construction and operations in the Philippines. 
I recently had a chance to visit Korea, Japan, Great Britain, the United States and other countries where there have been nuclear power facilities. I also held discussions with EURATOM and the International Atomic Energy Agency in Vienna. I want to make it clear that the world recognises the problems of energy. It also recognises the great danger of the misuse of uranium, particularly when it comes to weapon proliferation. It is very obvious that with all the countries in the world the only real safeguard is international arrangements and international control. That applies to the enrichment position, the reprocessing position, the plutonium position and the waste disposal position. International control of international arrangements is the only effective safeguard. 
The first requirement is for the Government to discuss these matters in this Parliament. It is not appropriate for us to be told to wait until INFCE is finished. The results of INFCE could be limited. The fact that INFCE is taking place is no reason to prevent national discussion and effort by the Government to secure better arrangements for non-proliferation. We talk about what is happening in this country. It is very significant that, particularly in the State you represent,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  Pechiney, with the aid of the French Government, is exploring. I would say that it is able to find and develop uranium by itself. It is very significant that other governments in the world can move into this country and acquire natural yellowcake on that basis. There is no Government objection to that; but it is important, is it not, to talk about control of that fuel? As we encourage somebody to come into Australia and develop the uranium it is a bit limited to dictate to them what they may do with the uranium. 
I think you will find that France will not accept that sort of dictate for the simple reasons I gave earlier that France is not at all impressed with the controls of EURATOM. For the very same reason, if one goes to France and to the French nuclear research and development establishments and one looks at the processes there, one will see that they are actively engaged- quite fairly, from their point of view- in establishing France as the 'uranium OPEC of Europe'. That is important to France. The enrichment of uranium for export is going to be the major industry in Europe as far as France is concerned. It will be our uranium. I think the Government will find if difficult to dictate to the French as to what they may do with the uranium. The French want Australian control no more than EURATOM control. It is clear that governments can be dedicated to the pursuit of nuclear energy but it is important that we have a look at what sort of governments they are. There are other problems, such as the Three-Mile Island incident in the 
United States. It has caused no end of trouble to the United States Government, no end of difficulty to the United States people. Any person representing the area where that nuclear reactor failed to function is not going to allow that reactor to be re-opened. No representative of that area will be suggesting that that should happen. While you have the problems of nuclear proliferation, even when well-intentioned governments look at uranium for peaceful uses there are grave problems in the use of fuel from the point of view of management, and certainly from the point of view of waste disposal. 
It was put to me very clearly in the United States that if the US Presidential Commission of Inquiry into the Three Mile Island incident found that fundamental problems exist in operating all nuclear reactors then that will end the commissioning of new power reactors in the United States, at least for the time being. At present, the nuclear fuel cycle in the United States has been set back at least five years because they are not satisfied with the safety of the fuel. The minimum consequence in the United States is likely to be a general restructuring of the electric utility industry to provide greater management and technical depth. In the next year we may expect nuclear policy to be a continuing issue in West Germany and Sweden. Both countries are having elections and in both cases nuclear power generation is going to be the subject of a democratic process- the people agree with it or otherwise. The unknown factor is the danger of the fuel. 
The point I am trying to make is that we do not have to sell uranium at this stage. The world is not short of it. It has an oversupply of it. The  Deputy  Prime Minister is making a frantic effort to sell it in case the market drops. That is no way to handle this energy source. We should be formulating a policy for the Australian people. It is in the context of these wider problems of safety that we should look at the question of proliferation; that is, what we have to say about solving the proliferation problem will not solve these other problems. 
Let us look at what is wrong with the Government's safeguards agreement. The primary obligation imposed by the agreement is for the fuel cycles of recipient countries to be fully covered by safeguards. In the case of nuclear weapon states, Britain and the United States have established or are establishing safeguards arrangements for their non-military fuel cycles. France has declared its readiness to accept safeguards. The Soviet Union would like to buy Australian uranium, but the Government will not sell it. The 
Minister has said in the Parliament that no safeguards agreement will be concluded with the Soviet Union. That is an interesting aspect. We have a safeguards agreement with Finland. We supply the fuel to Finland and it will be enriched by the Soviet Union. Chinese delegations to Australia have indicated interest in Australian uranium. Whether this Government would export to China is not clear. 
The full fuel cycle safeguards arrangement is that required of parties to the Nuclear NonProliferation Treaty. Such an agreement is intended to detect any diversion of material to make an explosive device. In the event of the NPT safeguards agreement or of other full-scope International Atomic Energy Agency safeguards not applying, Australia would have the right to institute its own safeguards, but only in respect of material supplied by Australia or equivalent quantities. At no time has it been made clear by what mechanism this 'equivalent quantities' principle will be applied, but there are good reasons to doubt the effectiveness or relevance to non-proliferation of our safeguards under this principle. 
The Australian safeguards agreements, except the agreement with Britain, also include a right for Australia to exercise a veto on high enrichment, reprocessing or retransfer to another country of material of Australian origin. The capacity of Australia to do this is very doubtful indeed. It would seem to depend entirely upon the good will or good faith and application of the recipient country. Certainly, the IAEA, as the authority implementing the safeguards agreements, has no mechanism or authority under such agreements to track material by origin. Nor does the IAEA have an authority or obligation to inform Australia or any other supplier in the event of its being aware of the origin of the material. In other words, the real issue from the international point of view is non-diversion. This proposal to put obligations on countries in relation to enrichment or reprocessing will not be carried out. The whole issue revolves around the question of non-diversion. The question of accountability really does not arise. What we should be looking at when we talk about safeguards is the formulation of a proper policy. We have a Government that has an obsession about its policy. 
I wish to make several observations about the Government's policy. All the Government's other actions in relation to the uranium industry are dedicated to diminishing governmental control over it. The Government's actions tend to isolate the work on safeguards. As we have argued before, the work being done on safeguards is of limited relevance to nuclear nonproliferation. The efforts of other areas of government to isolate safeguards work diminish the prospect of making that work more comprehensive. Therefore, in no sense can it be said that non-proliferation and safeguards concerns dominate or have priority in the development of nuclear policy by the Government. Commercial considerations dominate the policy process. 
The ultimate objective of any nonproliferation regime is to enable countries to have access to nuclear material for energy or for medical or industrial uses, while keeping away from national control or use the material and equipment which can enable weapons to be made. I commend to the Minister the paper presented in 1978 by Australia's  Dr Alan  Wilson to a conference, which was convened by the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute on nuclear proliferation.  Dr Wilson  is the head of the External Relations and Regulatory Branch of the Australian Atomic Energy Commission and is currently the  chairman  of the key political working group of INFCE Working Group 3. In that article,  Dr Wilson  criticised the increasing burden of safeguards arrangements as being increasingly onerous, unworkable and of doubtful relevance to non-proliferation objectives. He called for the focussing of attention on sensitive areas of the fuel cycle and the establishment of an international co-operative to provide fuel supply assurance and to exercise control over the use of sensitive facilities and materials. 
The Minister has proved himself to be unable to take a substantive view of the proposition that international plutonium storage be established, as was proposed by  Mr Justice  Fox. I hesitate, therefore, to ask his opinion of  Dr Wilson's  proposal, but that is precisely the kind of proposal that the Government should be discussing and discussing openly in this Parliament. Instead, through the  Deputy  Prime Minister, the Government's activity is focussed on shedding as much control of the uranium industry as we can as rapidly as possible. Last January the Government encouraged mining companies to seek sales contracts before safeguards arrangements were concluded. Instead, it should have used the prospect of fuel assurance as an incentive to secure the agreement of other countries to nonproliferation arrangements. 
Last January the Government announced that it was proceeding further with a study of enrichment in Australia. Whilst the Deputy Prime Minister, in his statement at the time, said that other countries might join the venture, he failed to make clear whether an enrichment project would be confined to governmental participation. He ought also to have given some indication of whether the enrichment project would be used as part of an international arrangement for nonproliferation control. It has that potential, but the Deputy Prime Minister is more likely to try to ensure that the potential is not realised. We have the ridiculous situation whereby the Government is to sell its share in Ranger Uranium Mines Pty Ltd and it could well be that the purchasers of that share will be the British Government, through its instrumentalities, which are anxious to buy our uranium. In other words, the bidders for the Australian Government's share could be the British Government. It is important that it be the British Government from the point of view of safety control. But to think that we are shedding our share on the premise that it would be socialistic to retain it is utter nonsense. 
In July 1979 the Minister announced that the Government would not insist that safeguards apply before uranium leaves Australian control. That was a necessary conclusion to the policy announced in 1977, unless that policy were to be brought forward, brought up to date and given more effect in non-proliferation terms. However, the Government's overall policy has moved in the opposite direction. It is diminishing government control of the industry and is narrowing the effort on safeguards. Australia could have control of material until and while safeguards apply if agreement were reached with other countries on international control of the fuel cycle and if the Government were to acquire Australian uranium. I suggest that we acquire Australian uranium and control it all the way through the fuel cycle. That is the best safeguard for mankind. It is not a question of profit; it is not a question of socialism. It is a question of international safety. The Government acquires wheat. The Western Australian Government even acquires all the sheep in that State. There is no technical difficulty in the way of acquiring uranium. Such acquisition need not be seen by other countries as threatening supply. In fact, it could enhance it. 
This month the Government has shed itself of even more control of the industry by putting its 75 per cent share of the Ranger deposit on the market. I note that a British Government consortium representing British Nuclear Fuels Ltd and the Central Electricity Generating Board is reported to be a bidder. While I was in Britain, the Central Electricity Generating Board indicated to me its interest in buying Australian uranium. I say that there should be no problem about the price. In fact, I suggest to speculators on the stock market that it will even go as high as $80 per lb. The current price is $40 per lb. To rise to $80 per lb is really something. Why would it go to $80 per lb? On the basis that it could still be economical to pay that price for it as against having to use oil, with the escalating price of the Middle East producers, or having to use coal which has to be extracted from 5,000 feet under the ground. There is no problem about the future of the price of uranium. I fail to see the logic of the Government's position. Its decision - 
The only problem is that you will not sell it to them. 
I am only too well aware of the strong representations made by the honourable member, particularly on this matter. I am sure that the representations that he made to members of the United States Congress were made with his normal, yet individual, embellishment and strength of purpose. To that extent I am sure they played a major contributing role in the success of the efforts of others, including the Queensland Premier, my Department and, to a lesser extent, me in seeking to ensure that the consulate in Queensland remained open. Queensland's importance to Australia hardly needs underlining, although the honourable member felt so - 
-That should stand for its own pearly wisdom without response from me. Indeed, I was saying that Queensland's importance needs no underlining, though the honourable member obviously felt inclined to do so with the many and varied representations that he made to United States congressmen and senators. The fact is that a decision to close the consulate would, I think, have been a retrograde step. I am glad that the collective efforts of so many, from the Queensland Premier down, have been successful. 
-As usual there is a fair degree of confusion not merely in the assertions that are put forward but even in the nature of the questioning today. We have had discussions with American officials on this issue. We have not declined to discuss it further. Our attitude ought to be well known to those who are supposed to be following events in the area of foreign affairs. The honourable member will know that at the tenth meeting of the South Pacific Forum on 9-10 July, all South Pacific Forum countries, which, to elaborate further, include Australia, unanimously adopted a resolution opposing the use of the Pacific area as a place to dump nuclear waste. I reiterate that Australia supported the resolution which condemned such a move. So far as discussions with the United States are concerned, we have had discussions, and so have other countries in the Pacific area. 
There has been misapprehension in the minds of some people that the United States is seeking to dump its own waste. It is, in fact, under its own non-proliferation programs, seeking to examine areas whereby it could assist other countries in finding locations for their waste. We are prepared to talk to them about it but it is on the premise of the attitude that we took generally in the South Pacific Forum. First, I reiterate that our position has not only been stated here- but our safeguards policies are well known and have been favourably commented upon as the honourable member knows; secondly we have voted in support of resolutions that condemn waste being placed in the Pacific, not only because of our own understanding of problems of waste, but also out of sympathy for the concerns of those countries nearby which are being looked at. Thirdly, so far as discussions with United States officials are concerned, they have taken place and will continue to take place. Fourthly, I would suggest that more research should be done before such questions are asked. 
Goodness gracious me, I do not know what sort of research occurs in this place when questions of that nature come forward. Of course I recall that that legislation went through. I recall it only too well because, as a consequence of the legislation going through this Parliament, the Attorney-General instituted proceedings. An action was brought in the Federal Court of Australia. A decision was brought down by  Mr Justice  Smithers, I think on 7 August, to grantthe relevant injunctions which the Attorney-General had sought against the selfstyled charge- d'affaires. That fact is well known and yet the honourable member for Melbourne Ports asks me what action we are taking. That order of the Federal Court required  Mr Despoja  to refrain from continuing the activities with which the Act that the Government put through the Parliament is concerned. Naturally, the decision was welcomed by the Government. As I recall, a warrant was issued authorising the removal of the signs, the flags and the insignia at the premises. 
However, yesterday, as is his right under the law of this country,  Mr Despoja  lodged a notice of appeal against the judgment of  Mr Justice  Smithers. Under those circumstances, the Commonwealth naturally agreed to a stay of proceedings but on the condition that the appellant takes all possible steps to have the appeal heard by the Federal Court in the Canberra sittings commencing on 25 September. Therefore, so far as Australia's relations with Yugoslavia are concerned, its recognition of Yugoslavia as a sovereign state and the actions that it will take under the Diplomatic and Consular Missions Act, there can be no doubt whatsoever of the determination of the Government. At the same time let it be said that the Government's actions in the matter should not be regarded as a measure against the Croatian community in Australia. Honourable members will be aware that the legislation is not directed against any ethnic community or against its flying the flags of its homeland if it so chooses. What sort of a nation state does the honourable member desire? The Act is directed at false and misleading claims that particular persons have diplomatic or consular status or that particular premises house diplomatic or consular missions. That is the function of the Act. That is what is being executed and is at present being appealed against. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Until independence in 1973, Angola was an 'overseas province' of Portugal. Elections for the Portuguese National Assembly were held in 1963, 1969 and 1973. Angola elected seven members to the 1 30 member Assembly. 
There have been no general elections held in Angola since independence. 
No statistics or voting percentages for Angola for the Portuguese elections of 1965, 1969 and 1973 are available. 
Information as to the participation in Angola in the elections of parties other than the ruling Uniao Nacional is not available. 
Australia has not established diplomatic relations with Angola. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Until independence in 1975, Mozambique was an overseas province' of Portugal. Elections for the Portuguese National Assembly were held in 1965, 1969 and 1973. Mozambique elected seven members to the 130 member Assembly. 
Since independence, general elections have been held in Mozambique on one occasion, December 1 977. 
No statistics or voting percentages for Mozambique for the Portuguese elections of 1965, 1969 and 1973, or for the 1977 election, are available. 
Information as to the participation in Mozambique in the Portuguese elections of 1 965, 1 969 and 1 973 of parties other than the ruling Uniao Nacional is not available. 
All candidates for the 1977 elections came from the country's sole political party, FRELIMO. 
) Australia has not established diplomatic relations with Mozambique. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) General elections were held in the Republic of Kenya in 1969 and 1974 and are scheduled to be held later in 1979. In 1966 'Little General Elections' were held, consisting of byelections for 30 constituencies following the resignation from the Kenya African National Union of the then Deputy Leader of that party. Oginga Odinga. 
Forty-two per cent of the electorate voted in the 1969 elections, while the turnout in the 1974 elections reportedly varied, by constituency, from 40 to 65 per cent. 
The 1966 'Little General Elections' were contested by the Kenya African National Union and the Kenyan People's Union. The 1969 and the 1974 elections were contested only by the Kenyan African National Union, the Kenyan People's Union having been banned just prior to the 1969 elections. 
Australia established diplomatic relations with Kenya in 1965. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
A general election was held in the Kingdom of Lesotho in 1970. The election was declared null and void by the Lesotho Prime Minister, Chief Jonathan. 
The parties which contested the election were the Basotho National Party, Basotholand Congress Party, Marematlou Freedom Party and the United Democratic Party. 
Australia established diplomatic relations with Lesotho in 1973. 
-The Australian Cricket Board and the Indian Cricket Board of Control have been discussing the venue for the first match of the current tour of India, and yesterday the Australian Cricket Board announced that it had advised its Indian counterpart that the proposed match at Srinagar could proceed. As the honourable member has said, that match was scheduled for 1 to 3 September. The Australian Cricket Board took into account information received by my Department and relayed to it. This came from an organisation calling itself the Jammu and Kashmir Liberation Front, and suggested that the safety of the Australian cricketers would be endangered if the game went ahead at Srinagar as planned. 
Over the past few days we have been in contact with the Australian Cricket Board, with the team in India .and with the relevant Indian authorities in an attempt to help to resolve the matter. I have to say that the Indian authorities have been most forthcoming in giving firm undertakings concerning the security of our players. I understand that the players themselves were prepared to play at Srinagar on the understanding, of course, that adequate security arrangements would be made. The Australian Cricket Board naturally has sole control and sole responsibility for the Australian side- at least for the arrangements for the team's tour. It reexamined the matter and took into account all of these factors. It decided, as has been recently announced, to proceed with the game. Obviously the Australian Government hopes that the satisfactory arrangements now agreed to between the Indian and Australian cricket authorities will, as has been the case in the past, contribute to the strengthening of the close relationship between our two countries, provide good cricket and, if I may express the biased view-point from, I am sure, a bipartisan attitude, a successful tour for the Australian team. 
-There is little doubt that, if large scale humanitarian relief is not provided soon, famine and associated health problems will result in a major human tragedy in Kampuchea. In response to a recent approach from the World Food Program, the Government has approved the immediate provision of 3,500 tonnes of rice for distribution in Kampuchea by the World Food Program. Several international agencies are currently negotiating with the Kampuchean authorities with a. view to reaching agreements for the implementation of an international relief program. The actual value of Australia's contribution is approximately $ 1.7m. It will be taken, of course, from the bilateral reserves for emergencies. 
The decision to commit Australia to contribute to an international operation was taken on the understanding that every effort would be made to arrange for relief supplies to be distributed throughout Kampuchea, that no political strings would be attached by any side to the provision of assistance and that the distribution of supplies would be supervised and monitored by the relevant international agencies. It has been made clear also that the Australian contribution would carry with it no implication of recognition of the Heng Samrin regime. Australia also will consider making a further contribution to humanitarian relief efforts in Kampuchea when an international appeal is launched. 
The Government believes that with the imminent prospect, as the honourable member has indicated in his question, of a human disaster in Kampuchea it is vital that massive international relief reach the Khmer people at the earliest opportunity. It is because of the urgent need for food aid that the Government has approved the immediate provision of rice even though the relevant international agencies are still negotiating the modalities of distribution with the Kampuchean authorities. The Government hopes that, with the co-operation of all interested parties, mass starvation, death by disease and a renewed refugee exodus into Thailand can all be averted. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) General elections were held in the Republic of Botswana in 1969 and 1974. 
In the 1969 elections, 54 per cent of the electorate voted and in the 1974 elections 33 per cent. The parties which contested the elections were the Botswana People's Party and the Botswana National Front. 
Australia established diplomatic relations with Botswana in 1973. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
General elections were held in the Republic of The Gambia in 1972 and 1977. 
Details of voter turnout for the 1972 elections are not available. In the 1 977 elections, 2 1 5,000 people voted out of a population estimated at July 1 975 to number 524,000. 
The 1972 elections were contested by the People's Progressive Party and the United Party. The 1 977 elections were contested by the People's Progressive Party, the United Parry, the National Convention Party and the National Liberation Party. 
Australia has not established diplomatic relations with The Gambia. However, The Gambia is a member of the Commonwealth. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) General elections were held in the Federal Republic of Nigeria in 1964 and 1979. 
It is difficult to establish what proportion, nationally, of the electorate voted in the 1964 election, as the election was boycotted by the Opposition in some areas and part boycotted in others. In the Northern Region, where the boycott was least effective, an estimated 57 per cent of the electorate voted. In the mid-west, the estimated figure was 50-60 per cent. In the Western Region, the boycott was generally effective and, on official figures, only 23 per cent of the electorate voted. Elections in Lagos were effectively boycotted and also in Eastern Region where elections were deferred until March 1965. 
The following parties took pan in the 1964 election campaign: 
Nigerian National Alliance 
) United Progressive Grand Alliance 
Mid- West Democratic Front 
Minority parties- Socialist Workers and Farmers Party Labour Party and Dynamic Party 
In the various elections held in July-August 1979 the following parties took part: 
a ) National Party of Nigeria 
United Party of Nigeria 
Nigerian People's Party 
People's Redemption Party 
Greater Nigerian People's Party 
Full information on these elections has not yet been published. 
Australia established diplomatic relations with Nigeria in 1960. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
General elections were held in the Kingdom of Swaziland in 1972 and 1978. 
At the 1972 elections 74 per cent of registered voters are reported as having voted. The 1978 elections were conducted under a new system, described by Swazi authorities as 'at the tribal level'. It is impossible to determine what proportion of the electorate voted in these elections. 
The following parties contested the 1 972 elections: 
Inbokodvo National Movement, Ngwane National Liberation Congress (Zwane faction), Ngwane National Liberation Congress (Samketi faction), Swaziland Progressive Party and Swaziland United Front 
There were no formally constituted parties to contest the 1978 elections which, as mentioned above, were conducted at the tribal level'. 
Australia established diplomatic relations with Swaziland in 1973. 
Department of Social Security: North-eastern Corridor of Melbourne  (Question No. 4040) 
-Last week I had fairly extensive discussions with representatives of the Australian Council for Overseas Aid. I discussed with them the report that they brought down in regard to the severe privation in East Timor and matters relating to Australian aid in East Timor. The House will be aware that for a considerable time we have been pressing to get the International Red Cross into Timor. That has in fact occurred. On14 September, I think it was, I announced that Australia would provide 2,500 tonnes of corn valued at approximately $625,000 to help to relieve the severe food shortages in East Timor. The corn which has been offered to the Indonesian Government has been offered for distribution by the Indonesian Red Cross as part of its joint program with the International Committee of the Red Cross. It is additional to the 90 tonnes of vegetable oil and 25 tonnes of protein biscuits which were provided last month. It is a joint enterprise between the Indonesian Red Cross and the International Red Cross. Frankly, I would rather welcome the new relief program than cast aspersions on it. Besides welcoming it, I point out that the sorts of materials, the funds and the type of assistance being rendered are the sorts of things that are required. Those things are being distributed, as I say, under a joint project between the International Red Cross and the Indonesian Red Cross. 
I come to the thrust of the criticism of the nature of the programs within East Timor. Of course, it is very difficult to comment substantively on a report which ACFOA has brought down in regard to aid distribution in East Timor. I have indicated that I will examine further the matters its representatives raised with me last week. It is difficult because anonymous and unverifiable sources have put forward evidence in regard to this document. In regard to the aid which was purchased under the Australian grant that was announced in 1978 and delivered by barge, certainly Australian officials were satisfied that the storage and the distribution facilities used for the aid were quite satisfactory. They were also impressed with the arrangements they have seen for the distribution of relief material. I must be guided by what I am told by my officials who have travelled there and seen this aid being distributed. I must place that ahead of uncorroborated and seemingly unsubstantiated allegations from elsewhere. Furthermore, the New Zealand Red Cross drew similar conclusions when it visited East Timor last January. So I think it is time that we stood back and looked a little dispassionately, if that is possible in the midst of humanitarian relief and the suffering that has occurred, at the effort that Indonesia is making jointly with the International Red Cross. If I may say so, although it is difficult ever to expect it, we will perceive that the Australian Government is doing as much as it can to assist in the rehabilitation of that country. 
Pursuant to section 25 of the Australia- Japan Foundation Act 1976, 1 present the second annual report of the Australia-Japan Foundation 1978. 
For the information of honourable members I present the report of the Committee on Australia's Relations with the Third World and I seek leave to make a statement. 
Leave granted. 
The Government announced the establishment of this Committee in April 1978. In doing so it recognised that the concerted approach of Third World developing countries to a range of issues- global, regional and localrepresents an increasingly important factor in world affairs. In recent years these countries have successfully insisted that matters of importance to them be placed high on the international agenda. They have waged international political campaigns which have caused countries individually more powerful and wealthy than them to alter their stance on central issues. They have shown a capacity to impose serious political costs on some countries which they regard as opposed to them. The Third World is an object of strategic attention and competition on the part of the superpowers. The internal problems of some Third World countries are a major source of instability in the world, capable of compelling the involvement of others. 
Some Third World countries have the most rapidly developing economies in the world, and that development poses serious questions of adjustment for others. Some have little prospect of development and their poverty and hopless ness also present serious moral and political problems. The question of whether the future relationship between developed and developing countries will be one of confrontation or cooperation has loomed large during the 1 970s. It will continue to be a key question in the 1980s. As the meeting in Cuba of the Non-Aligned Movement has most recently demonstrated, the Third World countries are highly diverse and they have important differences among themselves. Nevertheless, there are powerful forces of unity operating among them which have enabled them to maintain an impressive degree of solidarity on a range of issues in their dealings with the developed countries. These forces are likely to be durable. 
All this is of unique concern to Australia. Unlike nearly all other developed countries, we live in a region of Third World countries. Our strategic environment is a Third World environment. Most of our exports and imports pass through Third World waters. Our most rapidly growing trade is with Third World countries. Our air routes pass over Third World countries. Refugees from Third World countries reach our shores. In our region, some Third World countries are currently experiencing an industrial revolution, the rapidity of which is unparalleled in human history. The development of others languishes dangerously behind the rate of population growth. The political systems, social structures, cultures and attitudes towards human rights of our Third World neighbours differ in important aspects from ours. We are conspicuously different within our regional environment. 
For all these reasons, it is crucial that we understand the phenomenon of the Third World and its implications for us. It is crucial that we understand the  forces of  change which are operating through it. It is crucial that we formulate sound and forward looking policies on the basis of that understanding. It is no exaggeration to say that our future as a nation depends on our so doing. It was for these reasons that I recommended to the Government the establishment of this Committee. The Committee was a strong, broad based one which included representatives from business, the trade union movement, the academic community and the Public Service. It was chaired by Professor Owen Harries of the University of New South Wales. Its members served, of course, in their individual capacities and the report represents their independent consensual judgment. The Committee's terms of reference called upon it to: 
Identify the salient features of the Third World as a factor in international affairs and to assess the ways in which these are likely to evolve; examine the relationships of the Third World with other countries and groups of countries and the way in which they are likely to evolve; identify and assess the possible impact of the Third World on existing international political and economic structures; identify what Australian national interests are, or are likely to be, affected by its relations with the Third World and to analyse the problems these relations present or are likely to present; and identify and assess the policy options available to Australia in relation to the Third 
World and, taking account of Australian interests and commitments, to formulate appropriate policy recommendations. 
The Committee presented its report to me earlier this year. It has since been considered by Cabinet and is now being put to detailed study. Cabinet also decided that the report should be tabled in Parliament and made available to the Australian public. In tabling it I would like to congratulate and thank Professor Harries and the Committee for the work they have done. I believe that they have produced an outstanding report which is a major contribution to the discussion of Australia's foreign policy. They were set a most formidable task, with very broad terms of reference. In a remarkably short period they produced a wide-ranging, comprehensive document on vital aspects of Australia's foreign relationships. It identifies and offers informed and considered views on a range of issues, problems and opportunities which will be central to Australia's foreign policy in the 1980s. It provides a conceptual framework which draws together and relates diverse aspects of that policy, aspects which, up to now, have usually been dealt with separately. 
So far as I know, no other developed country has available to it such a detailed study of its over-all relations with the Third World. I believe it will be an essential source of analysis, ideas and guidelines in the coming decade. As a public document it can also do one other thing which I regard as of the utmost importance: It can help raise public awareness of the challenges facing us and generate public discussion and debate on our foreign relations. This, as the report itself emphasises, is urgently needed. If they are to be successfully implemented, the decisions we face as a nation- particularly in relation to the industrial transformation of the West Pacificcannot be made by government alone; they will have to be made by the community as a whole and it is essential that they be made in an informed and considered way. 
The report provides essential information. It also provides thoughtful, informed and some very trenchant views on the policy options available to Australia on crucial matters: How we should adjust to the rapid economic growth now taking place to our north; how we should conduct our relations with the Association of South East Asian Nations; how far our interests coincide with general Western interests in relation to the Third World; what our posture should be in the United Nations and other international forums; what principles should inform our policies on such matters as aid, human rights, immigration and refugees. 
Given the wide range of conclusions and recommendations on inherently contentious issues contained in the report, it is unlikely that anyone will be in total agreement with what it has to say. That is as it should be. Only an anodyne document would receive universal consent. What this report requires is not uncritical endorsement and acceptance, but serious consideration and discussion, both by the Government and by the public. It is not about esoteric matters of concern only to foreign policy professionals. It identifies challenges and opportunities of concern to every Australian citizen. It discusses in very cogent terms the options facing us as a nation, matters on which we will have to make decisions sooner rather than later. Again, I thank the Committee on behalf of the Government and strongly commend the report to honourable members and to the Australian public. 
I certainly can confirm the details in the honourable member's question. 
The Government is, of course, gratified that the Council of European Communities yesterday adopted a mandate enabling the European Commission to negotiate a nuclear safeguards agreement with Australia on behalf of the European Atomic Energy Community; that is, Euratom. Clearly, we look forward to the early commencement of negotiations. It is no exaggeration to say that this is a development of major significance. Apart from the complexity of formulating a single negotiating mandate among nine countries on a very complicated subject there have been unresolved questions on the European side about the respective competence of Euratom on the one hand and the individual member states on the other in nuclear safeguards matters. 
The Deputy Leader of the Opposition has oft spoken with pessimism about how the Government would go about this form of negotiation. He has indicated that in his view it probably would not even get a mandate. Once again, he has been proved wrong. The Government has consistently emphasised the importance of concluding a nuclear safeguards agreement with Euratom as soon as possible. An agreement is necessary to open the way for the export of Australian uranium to meet the energy needs of the European Community. The Government has always considered that an agreement with Euratom is the most practical means of meeting Australia's nuclear safeguards requirements for the export of uranium to the European Community. I am pleased to say, therefore, that the mandate has been granted. I am pleased that the adoption of the mandate follows messages that I sent only a few weeks ago to all foreign ministers of the Community. It also follows the visit of a mission of officials to Community capitals in July. 
-It would depend upon which particular viewpoint was being put forward with regard to an international conference on Vietnam over and above the call by  Senator Edward  Kennedy. That call has been followed by other calls for international conferences. It would be a delinquent Foreign Minister who said that Australia would not support a conference which would bring about a political solution to the problems of Indo-China. Quite clearly, if a conference was constructed in such a manner that parties directly to the dispute and others who are more marginally but nevertheless importantly engaged were prepared to attend such a conference, then Australia naturally would be interested in either participating or at least giving support if the conference showed signs of a political solution. 
What flows, however, and is implicit in the latter part of the honourable member's question, and is implicit in a number of statements of members opposite- interestingly enough, not so much in the statement of the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition, more the statements of the Leader of the Opposition in the Senate- is that there is a trend or tendency to have a bias towards Vietnam in discussions of Indo-Chinese questions concerning the conflict between Vietnam and China. Reflected in this bias is the attitude that the West has isolated Vietnam. This is just not correct. The American Assistant Secretary of State,  Mr Holbrooke-  even if the Leader of the Opposition does not read the more detailed and literate journals and some of the more popular journals that have been circulating in this country- has said in a couple of interviews how close the United States was to normalising relations with Vietnam in the early part of October last year. Intensive negotiations had been held between officials of the Carter Administration and Vietnamese officials. It was very close indeed. 
It was Vietnam which chose to execute an agreement with the Soviet Union. It was Vietnam which chose, notwithstanding the proximity of normalisation with the United States, to invade Kampuchea. Whatever the determinant, it was Vietnam which took that decision. There was no pressure applied from the West for Vietnam to opt further into the Soviet camp or, in fact, to invade Kampuchea. For those who peddle the line that this was brought about by a form of isolation, I say to them that they are ignoring the facts. So, succinctly, the answer to the question is this: We would be most interested in a form of political settlement in Indo-China. If it were to be brought about by means of a conference we would do what we could to ensure the success of that conference but we would want to know in participating that people were well aware of the background to the current events in Indo-China and did not allude to specious material and thereby draw the wrong conclusion. 
-I thought it was well known to the Opposition that manufacturing exports were up by 30 per cent this year. That in itself is a sufficient answer to the question. The  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition is seeking to create a difference between the Prime Minister and me on this issue. There is no difference at all. Indeed, there is no difference between my views and those of the Government on this matter. My ministerial colleagues have already drawn attention to the conclusions drawn from the Crawford report, which have been adopted by the Cabinet. They have made perfectly clear the thrust of that report, which has been accepted, including the recommendation that after three years there will be some liberalisation of trade relations. This is innate in the recommendations and in the Government's policy. 
The Government has no intention of ejecting people from their jobs overnight. What I was seeking to do in my lecture on Monday night was to paint quite clearly the picture of complementarity that will be necessary in Australia 's trading relations with the Association of South East Asian Nations for their development and for ours. One would be deaf, dumb, blind and mentally deficient if one did not take account of the industrial revolution that is taking place in countries of North Asia and in some of the countries of South East Asia. I have referred to the minimum of 10 per cent growth since 1960 in Korea and in Taiwan and the 30 per cent increase in imports from this country in many Asian countries. That was set out in detail in my speech. I suggest to the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition that he align himself with the major elements in his party who are looking at this question. Then we might be able to determine whether on the other side of the House we have two sides of the same coin, or two coins. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) General elections were held in Zaire in 1977. 
Statistical information on the electoral turnout is not available. All candidates came from Zaire's sole legal political party le Mouvement Populaire pour la Revolution. 
Australia has not established diplomatic relations with Zaire. 
The answer to the honourable member 's question is as follows: 
General elections were held in Ghana in 1965, 1969 and 1979. 
In the 1965 elections, all 189 candidates were nominated by the Central Committee of the ruling Convention People's Parry and were declared 'elected' unopposed on polling day. 
No statistical information on the electoral turnout for the 1965 elections is available. At the 1969 elections, turnout was 63 per cent and at the 1 979 elections, under 50 per cent. 
The 1969 elections were contested by the Progress Party, National Alliance of Liberals, United Nationalist Party, People 's Nation Party and All People 's Republican Party. 
The 1979 elections were contested by the People's National Party, Popular Front Party, United National Convention, Action Congress Party, Third Force Party and Social Democratic Front. 
Australia established diplomatic relations with Ghana in 1957. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) General elections were held in the Republic of Zambia in 1968, 1973 and 1978. 
In 1968, 77 per cent of the electorate voted, in 1973 39 per cent and in 1 978 70 per cent. 
The 1968 elections were contested by the United National Independence Party and the African National Congress. In December 1 972, Zambia became a one-party state. The subsequent 1973 and 1978 elections were contested by Zambia's solelegal political party, the United National Independence Party. 
Australia established diplomatic relations with Zambia in 1972. 
-I am grateful for the honourable member's reference to the announcement last week of the Government's decision to provide 3,500 tonnes of rice for humanitarian relief in Kampuchea. What is not known is that the world food program asked for 2,000 tonnes towards their integrated program. The Government believed that it should do more and, consequently, an additional 1,500 tonnes will be made available as a first response. The problems in mounting a large scale relief operation in Kampuchea are obviously enormous. The country has been devastated and the almost total absence of an administrative infrastructure, including communications and transport facilities, makes it extremely difficult to set up a major relief program in a short period. The international relief agencies are doing a marvellous job. They are being well supported by voluntary organisations in Australia which are now seeking an appeal from Australians through the Australian Council for Overseas Aid. The International Red Cross and the United Nations International Children's Emergency Fund have been negotiating with Kampuchean authorities over the past weeks on the methods and conditions for a large scale relief operation. 
Unquestionably, international channels are the best approach for effectively distributing supplies to those in greatest need throughout the country. The Government has become concerned with the delay in getting the administrative framework into place. As a consequence, we have been holding discussions with the Thai Government to commence the delivery of supplies across the border with the assistance of that Government. I have decided that part of the initial rice contribution of 3,500 tonnes should be used immediately to replace rice obtained locally. It is to be distributed to approximately 100,000 starving people in the area adjacent to the Thai border. The Australian Embassy in Bangkok has been actively involved in efforts to mount this relief program. The Australian contribution will be among the first to reach Kampuchea. This operation will be one of the first practical steps towards what will need to be a much larger and comprehensive operation in seeking to alleviate the acute suffering of Khmer civilians in Kampuchea. I can assure the House that not only is the Australian Government deeply concerned, but it is also acting expeditiously. I can only trust that other nations will follow our lead. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) General elections were held in the Republic of Sierra Leone in 1973 and 1977. 
The Sierra Leone People's Party candidates boycotted the 1 973 elections and the House of Representatives became virtually a one-party House dominated by the All People's Congress. The other opposition party, the United Democratic Party, remained banned. At the 1977 elections the All People's Congress again predominated but with the Sierra Leone People 's Party gaining a number of seats. 
No statistics or voting precentages are available for the 1973 and 1 977 elections. 
Australia has not established diplomatic relations with Sierra Leone. However, Sierra Leone is a member of the Commonwealth. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Eight (8) officers are employed full time as diplomatic couriers shortly to be increased to nine (9). 
2 ) None. Staff from certain overseas missions are rostered to undertake connecting services. 
Estimated cost for 1979-80 is $1,391,000 (excluding salaries). 
The protection at all times and safe delivery to an authorised recipient of the classified matter under their control. 
All classified government material. 
The normal roster for a courier covers a period of twenty-eight (28) weeks during which time he would undertake twenty four (24) journeys varying between two (2) days and sixteen ( 16) days. 
International Year of the Child Unit  (Question No. 4382) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
) (a) Afghanistan- no resident mission in Canberra. 
Bulgaria- no resident mission in Canberra. 
Burma- Number of persons employed: homebased 5, locally engaged- 6, total- 1 1 . 
China- Number of persons employed: homebased 3 1 , locally engaged- nil, total- 3 1 . 
Czechoslovakia- no resident mission in Canberra. 
Finland- Number of persons employed: homebased 6, locally engaged- 6, total- 1 2. 
The German Democratic Republic- Number of persons employed: home-based- 9, locally engaged- nil, total- 9. 
Hungary- Number of persons employed: homebased 4, locally engaged- 5, total- 9. 
Mongolia- no resident mission in Canberra. 
Poland- Number of persons employed: homebased 6, locally engaged- nil, total- 6. 
Romania- Number of persons employed: homebased 3, locally engaged- nil, total- 3. 
The Union of Soviet Socialist Republics- Number of persons employed: home-based- 37, locally engaged- nil. total-37. 
Vietnam- Number of persons employed: homebased 8, locally engaged- nil, total- 8. 
The occupational designations of diplomatic staff of these Embassies appears in the Diplomatic List and are as follows as at 3 1 August, 1 979: 
Burma, Ambassador-1 second secretary and 1 third secretary. 
China, Ambassador- 3 counsellors, 2 first secretaries, 2 second secretaries, 3 third secretaries and 6 attaches. 
Finland, Ambassador- I second secretary. 
German Democratic Republic, Ambassador- 1 counsellor, 1 third secretary and 3 attaches. 
Hungary, Ambassador- I first secretary. 
Poland, Ambassador- 1 counsellor and 2 attaches. 
Romania, Charge d 'Affaires. 
Union of the Soviet Socialist Republics, Ambassador- 1 minister/counsellor, 1 trade representative, 3 counsellors, 3 first secretaries, 1 deputy trade representative, 4 second secretaries,1 third secretary and 2 attaches. 
Vietnam, Ambassador-1 first secretary, 1 third secretary and 1 attache. 
The duties of these officers and of non-diplomatic members of their staffs are a matter for the Embassies and their Governments alone. 
(a) Afghanistan- There is no resident representation. The Australian Ambassador in Islamabad, Pakistan is accredited to Afghanistan. 
Bulgaria- There is no resident representation. The Australian. Ambassador in Belgrade, Yugoslavia, is accredited to Bulgaria. 
Burma- Number of persons employed: Australiabased 9, locally-engaged- 22, total- 3 1. 
China- Number of persons employed: Australiabased 23, locally-engaged- 24, total- 47. 
Czechoslovakia- There is no resident representation. The Australian Ambassador in Warsaw, Poland, is accredited to Czechoslovakia. 
Finland- The Australian Ambassador in Stockholm, Sweden, is accredited to Finland. An Australian Information Office in Helsinki is staffed by one locally-engaged employee under the direction of the Ambassador, Stockholm. 
German Democratic Republic- Number of persons employed: 
Australia-based- 1 1, locally-engaged- 12, total- 23. 
Hungary- There is no resident representation. The Australian Ambassador in Vienna, Austria, is accredited to Hungary. 
Mongolia- There is no resident representation. The Australian Ambassador in Moscow, USSR, is accredited to Mongolia. 
Poland- Number of persons employed: Australiabased 1 5, locally-engaged- 2 1 , total- 36. 
Romania- There is no resident representation. The Australian Ambassador in Belgrade, Yugoslavia, is accredited to Romania. 
USSR- Number of persons employed: Australiabased 2 1 , locally-engaged- 1 8, total- 39. 
Vietnam- Number of persons employed: Australiabased 7, locally-engaged- 4, total- 1 1. 
4 ) ( a ) Afghanistan- not applicable. 
Bulgaria- not applicable. 
Burma- Occupational designations and duties 
Australia-based- Ambassador: 
First Secretary, Third Secretary- Promote Australia's views at appropriate levels with Foreign Ministry and other officials. Evaluate and review a range of issues of domestic and foreign policies for consideration in the formulation of Australia's policies. Arrange contacts and appointments for and liaise with visiting Ministers, Members of Parliament and Government officials. 
Second Secretary- (Consular and Administrative) 
Senior Administrative Officer. 
Attache- (Administrative) General administration. 
Building and Services Officer- Maintenance of buildings and equipment. 
Steno-secretary, Grade 2- Ambassador's secretary. 
Typist, Grade 2/3- Stenographic, typing and registry duties. 
Communicator- Communications and registry duties. 
Local Engaged Staff- 
Accountant, Administrative Assistant, Clerical Assistant, Clerk/Typist, Clerk/Typist, Driver/Messenger, Head Driver/ Messenger, Driver/Messenger, Driver/ Messenger, Driver/Messenger, Interpreter/Translator, Receptionist/Telephonist, Sweeper, Assistant Technical Maintenance Officer, Assistant Technical Maintenance Officer, Translator Information Assistant, Watchman, Watchman, Watchman, Messenger, Trade Officer and Steno/secretary. 
China- Occupational designations and duties. 
Australia-based- Ambassador: 
Minister, Counsellor, Second Secretary, Third Secretary, Third Secretary, Third Secretary- Promote Australia's views at appropriate levels with Foreign Ministry and other officials. Evaluate and review a range of issues of domestic and foreign policies for consideration in the formulation of Australia's policies. Arrange contacts and appointments for and liaise with visiting Ministers, Members of Parliament and Government officials. 
Counsellor- Cultural matters. 
First Secretary- (Consular and Administrative) 
Senior administrative officer. 
Second Secretary- (Consular and Administrative) 
General administration. 
Attache- (Consular) Consular duties. 
Attache- Archives. 
Building and Services Officer- Maintenance of buildings and equipment. 
Attache, Attache, Attache, Attache- Protection of Embassy premises and control of access to the Embassy. 
Steno-secretary, Grade 2- Ambassador's secretary. 
Steno-secretary, Grade 1 -Minister's secretary. 
Typist, Grade 2/3- Stenographic and typing duties. 
Communicator- Communications duties. 
Counsellor- (Commercial) Promotion of Australia. 
First Secretary- (Commercial ) trade. 
Senior Secretary- Secretary to Counsellor (Commercial). 
Local Engaged Staff- 
Assistant Archivist (expatriate), Cleaner, Cleaner, Chief  Clerk  Interpreter,  Clerk  Accounts (expatriate),  Clerk  Accounts assistant,  Clerk  property, Driver, Head Driver, Driver, Driver, Driver, Gardener, Language Tutor/Interpreter, Receptionist, Stenographer (expatriate), Teacher (expatriate), Messenger, Information Assistant, Research Officer, Stenographer, Assistant Archivist and Interpreter. 
Czechoslovakia- not applicable. 
Finland- Officer-in-charge. 
German Democratic Republic- Occupational designations and duties 
Australia-based staff- Ambassador: 
Second Secretary- Promote Australia's views at appropriate levels with Foreign Ministry and other officials. Evaluate and review a range of issues of domestic and foreign policies for consideration in the formulation of Australia's policies. Arrange contacts and appointments for and liaise with visiting Ministers, Members of Parliament and Government officials. 
Second Secretary- (Consular and Administrative)Senior Administrative Officer. 
Attache- (Administrative) General administration. 
Steno-secretary, Grade 2- Ambassador's secretary. 
Senior Technical Officer, Technical Officer, Technical Officer, Technical Officer- Protection of Embassy premises and control of access to the Embassy. 
Counsellor- (Commercial) Promotion of Australian trade. 
Steno-secretary, Grade1- Secretary to Counsellor (Commercial). 
Local Engaged Staff- 
Cleaner,  Clerk,  Accounts,  Clerk,  Driver, Head 
Driver, Driver/ Messenger, Interpreter/Translator, Receptionist/Telephonist, Stenographer Secretary (part time), Clerk/Interpreter, Marketing Officer. 
Hungary- Not applicable. 
Mongolia- Not applicable. 
) Poland- Occupational designations and duties. 
Australia-based staff- Ambassador: 
First Secretary, Second Secretary- Promote Australia's views at appropriate levels with Foreign Ministry and other officials, evaluate and review a range of issues of domestic and foreign policies for consideration in the formulation of Australia's policies. Arrange contacts and appointments for and liaise with visiting Ministers, Members of Parliament and Government officials. 
Second Secretary- (Consular and Administrative) 
Senior Administrative Officer. 
Attache- General administration. 
Building and Services Officer- Maintenance of buildings and equipment. 
Steno-Secretary, Grade 2- Ambassador's secretary. 
Typist, Grade 2/3- Stenographic, typing and registry duties. 
Communicator- Communications and registry duties. 
Senior Technical Officer, Technical Officer, Technical Officer, Technical Officer- Protection of Embassy premises and control of access to the Embassy. 
Counsellor, Second Secretary- (Commercial) Promotion of Australian trade (Commercial). 
Local Engaged staff- 
Administration Assistant, Cleaner part-time, cleaner  part-time,  Clerk,  Accountant,  Clerk,  Accounts, Clerk/ Typist, Driver, Head, Driver, Driver, Driver, Receptionist/Telephonist, Stoker/Sweeper, Translator/Interpreter, Maintenance Assistant,  Clerk  (Consular and Visas), Clerk/Typist, Translator/Interpreter, Marketing Officer, Clerk/Typist,  Clerk  /Interpreter and Stenographer. 
k ) Romania- Not applicable. 
USSR- Occupational designations and duties. 
Australia-based staff- Ambassador: 
Counsellor, First Secretary, Second Secretary, Third Secretary- Promote Australia's views at appropriate levels with Foreign Ministry and other officials. Evaluate and review a range of issues of domestic and foreign policies for consideration in the formulation of Australia 's policies. Arrange contacts and appointments for and liaise with visiting Ministers, Members of Parliament and Government officials. 
First Secretary- (Consular and Administrative)Senior Administrative Officer. 
Attache- (Administrative) general administration. 
Building and Services Officer- Maintenance of buildings and equipment. 
Steno-Secretary, Grade 2- Ambassador's secretary. 
Typist, Grade 2, Typist, Grade 2, Typist, Grade 2- Stenographic, typing and communications duties. 
Clerical Assistant, Grade 5- Archives. 
Senior Technical Officer, Technical Officer, Technical Officer, Technical Officer, Technical Officer- Protection of Embassy premises and control of access to the Embassy. 
Counsellor, First Secretary- (Commercial) Promotion of Australian trade (Commercial). 
Steno-Secretary, Grade1 -Counsellor's secretary. 
Local Engaged staff- 
Consular  Clerk  (expatriate),  Clerk,  Accounts (expatriate),  Clerk, Clerk,  Property,  Clerk,  Translator,  Clerk,  Translator, Driver, Driver, Driver/Mechanic, Driver/Mechanic, Driver/Mechanic, Driver/ Mechanic, Driver/Mechanic, Receptionist/ Telephonist, Messenger, Marketing Officer, Clerk/Interpreter and Stenographer (expatriate ). 
Vietnam- Occupational designations and duties. 
Australia-based staff- Ambassador: 
First Secretary, Third Secretary- Promote Australia 's views with Foreign Ministry and other officials. Evaluate and review a range of issues of domestic and foreign policies for consideration in the formulation of Australia 's policies. Arrange contacts and appointments for and liaise with visiting Ministers, Members of Parliament and Government officials. 
Second Secretary- (Consular and Administrative) Senior Administrative Officer. 
Attache- (Administrative) General administration. 
Steno-Secretary, Grade 2- Ambassador's secretary. 
Typist, Grade 2- Stenographic, typing and registry duties. 
Local Engaged staff- 
Cl erk /Typist, Driver, Driver and Interpreter/Translator. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The OECD as such is not a party to any multi-lateral international conventions. It has however negotiated a number of bilateral agreements with member countries ( for example, in relation to privileges and immunities) and with other international organisations. In addition, several international agreements have been drafted under OECD auspices and acceded to subsequently by individual member states in that capacity. 
Agreements for Scientific and Technical Co-operation  (Question No. 4413) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Australia has concluded agreements for scientific and technical co-operation with the Federal Republic of Germany, India, the Soviet Union and the United States. An agreement with the People's Republic of China was initialled on 6 June 1979 during my last visit to China. This agreement will be concluded in due course. No other science agreements are at present under negotiation. 
Agreements on Medical and Hospital Care  (Question No. 4415) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The position remains as described in my answer to question No. 129. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
None. 
2 ) to ( 7 ) Not applicable. 

 Mr Peter Noble and  Ms Cilia  Prior: Visas to Visit the United States (Question No.  4454) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Neither I nor my Department had any knowledge of any problem encountered by  Mr Peter  Noble or  Ms Cilia  Prior in obtaining visas to enter the United States of America. 
The only information on this matter which has been revealed by inquiries by my Department is contained in a report in the NQ  Message Stick  of July 1979. We have no information to suggest that speculations made in that report are correct. 
The matter of visa issue for entry to United States of America is entirely a matter for the US authorities and the Australian Government is unable to comment on the question. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows:  1977- 78- (1) 1.7.77-31.12.77 (pre quota), three (2) 1.1.78-30.6.78 (quota), nil. 1978- 79-1.7.78-30.6.79 (quota), two. 
Department of Education 1977- 78- Nil. 1978- 79-One. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The suggestion that, as a gesture of goodwill, Australia might consider providing appropriate trees for planting in Malta is an interesting one and warrants further examination. I have noted the honourable member's interest in this subject and shall keep him informed of any developments. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) As a result of a legislative requirement, the United States announced on 6 April that it was moving to suspend its $US40m annual development aid program to Pakistan. The United States has not suspended food aid and other assistance. 
I outlined, in response to a question in the House of Representatives on 23 August, the Government's concern about the possibility of Pakistan's acquiring a nuclear explosive capability. This concern has been made known to Pakistan. The Government is also in close and continuing contact with a number of concerned governments and has made its views known to a wide cross-section of states. The Government has not considered the suspension of Australia's aid to Pakistan, which is mainly in the form of food aid and project aid in agriculture. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
None. 
It is the Government's view that ratification of as many international conventions as possible is a desirable objective. Successive Australian Governments have, however, taken the responsible view that no such convention should be ratified until an exhaustive examination has shown that law and practice in all jurisdictions is completely in accord with the provisions of the convention. To this end, a full range of consultations takes place at up to and including Ministerial level, to ensure that compliance is put beyond doubt before ratification is proposed. The federal system in Australia thus means that progress towards ratification will be slower than in most centrally-governed states. 
A complete list of IMCO conventions, indicating those which have been ratified by Australia, can be found in the Department of Transport's Annual Report, Australian Transport, for 1 977-78. A similar list of the Brussels conventions can be found in that Department's Report for 1976-77. 
There are 23 ILO maritime conventions open to ratification which have not yet been ratified by Australia. These are conventions numbers 23, 53, 55, 56, 58, 68, 69, 70, 71, 73, 74, 91, 92, 108, 1 13, 1 14, 125, 126, 133, 134, 145, 146 and 147. The titles and other details of these conventions can be obtained from the ILO's latest Chart of Ratifications of International Labour Conventions, a copy of which is held by the Parliamentary Library. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Convention No. 144- Tripartite Consultation (International Labour Standards). 
I would refer the honourable member to the answer I have provided to the second pan of his immediately preceding question, as far as the general policy of the Government with regard to ratification of conventions is concerned. There are 72 non-maritime ILO conventions open to ratification which have not been ratified by Australia. These are conventions numbers1, 3, 4, 5, 6, 13, 14, 17, 20, 24, 25, 30, 31, 32, 43, 44, 46, 48, 49, 50, 51, 59, 60, 61, 62, 64, 65, 67, 77, 78, 79, 82, 84, 90, 94, 95, 96, 97, 101, 102, 103, 104, 106, 107, 110, 115, 117, 118, 119, 120, 121, 124, 127, 128, 129, 130, 132, 135, 136, 138, 140, 141, 142, 143, 148, 149, 150, 151, 1 52 and 153. The titles and other details of these conventions can be obtained from the ILO's latest Chan of Ratifications of International Labour Conventions, a copy of which is held by the Parliamentary Library. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
My attention has been drawn to the Official Report of the Australian Parliamentary Delegation to Japan, July 1978.I have studied it with interest and would like to compliment members of the Delegation on its wide-ranging and detailed nature. I am informed that no special governmental or parliamentary machinery exists for the handling of recommendations of Delegations such as this. It is usually a matter for individual Delegation members to follow up personally with the appropriate Ministers. The following however is a general response to each of the recommendations, which I hope will be helpful. 
Japanese and Asian Language Training 
Questions on the Government's policy towards Japanese and Asian language training in Australia might be more properly directed to my colleague the Minister for Education, although this issue is probably more one for the State Governments. The Delegation's recommendation concerning the teaching of the Japanese language is also relevant to the work of the Australia-Japan Foundation which was established by the Government in 1976. One of the objectives of the Foundation is to improve the facilities available in Australia for the study of the Japanese language. Towards this end, it has established an intensive Japanese language course, which is conducted annually at the Australian National University. 
Australia-Japan Parliamentarian Union 
I suggest that the question of the establishment of an Australia-Japan Parliamentarian Union might be taken up with the Parliamentary Presiding Officers. 
Japanese Art Exhibitions 
No inquiries have yet been made concerning the possibility of arranging an exhibition in Australia of Jomon and Yayoi pieces from the Tokyo National Museum. However, the Australian Gallery Directors' Council, in association with the Department of Foreign Affairs and the Australia Council, has been very active in arranging for various exhibitions from Japan to visit Australia. Currently touring Australia are The Art of the Japanese Package, and the Sodeisha Group Exhibition (i.e. pottery). In the reverse direction, an exhibition of contemporary Australian jewellery will tour Japan early in 1980. 
The Australian Gallery Directors' Council has almost finalised arrangements for an Australian tour in 198 1 of the Tokugawa Collection. This will be a major exhibition of material rarely viewed outside Japan. It will survey Japanese an in the period spanning the 12th to the 18th centuries and will be in the genre of such other overseas exhibitions to tour Australia as the Archaeological Exhibition in 1977, El Dorado Gold in 1978, Chinese Classical Paintings in 1980 and 5,000 Years of Korean An in 1983. 
Air Fares 
This recommendation might be more properly directed to my colleague the Minister for Transport. The Government shares the Delegation's view on the importance of a reduction of air fares between Australia and Japan. This question is at present being actively pursued. 
Export of Primary Products to Japan 
My colleague, the Minister for Trade and Resources, would be able to provide details of exports of Australian primary products to Japan since the time of the Delegation's recommendation. I am advised, however, that there are long-standing promotional activities in Japan in respect of Australian primary products, and that every effort is made to take advantage of any new opportunities that arise for increased sales in that country. 
The Role of Women in Japanese Society 
I am confident that future Australian parliamentary delegations to Japan will heed the Delegation's recommendation that they should endeavour to find out more about the role of women in Japanese society. 
Film and Television Exchange 
The Australian Film and Television School has been discussing an exchange of students and staff with Nihon University, Tokyo, since 1 977. The problem of language is considerable but it is hoped that the first exchange of one or two students each way may begin in the 1980-81 financial year. The exchanges will vary in length from three to twelve months. 
The Australian Film and Television School has also discussed with the Australia-Japan Foundation the prospects for further exchanges in the film and television fields. The Foundation's Media Support Program, as well as its program for travel and associated grants, provides opportunities for exchange of personnel in the Australian and Japanese media, including in the film and television industries. 
There are also a number of joint ventures in the feature film industry which have reached the scripting stage, but have not yet been finalised. 
Migration from Sicily  (Question No. 4529) 
The answers to the honourable member's questions are as follows: 
1 ) During the afternoon of Thursday 2 August my Department was asked by a journalist from the ABC program  Nationwide  what were the salaries being paid respectively to the High Commissioner to the United Kingdom,  Sir Gordon  Freeth, the Ambassador to the Netherlands,  Sir David  Fairbairn and the Consul-General in New York,  Sir Robert  Cotton. 
The journalist was informed that the salaries and other terms and conditions of employment of Australian Ambassadors and High Commissioners are determined by me under authority from the Executive Council. Before making the salaries of the three appointees public the Departmental Spokesman said the Department would wish, at least, to advise those concerned. The journalist did not accept an offer to provide the information after consulting those concerned because the information was required for an item going to air that night. 
The salaries currently paid to Australian Ambassadors, High Commissioners, the Commissioner in Hong Kong and the Consul-General in New York are shown in the following schedule. 
-I will answer the question briefly. As the honourable gentleman would be aware, I have just arrived back from the United Nations General Assembly. I had discussions with the Secretary of State and the Assistant Secretary of State. They were the only discussions that I had on this issue while I was there. I have yet to discuss the matter with officers of my Department, but I will be doing so. I regret that I have to leave the answer as brief as that at this juncture. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) General elections were held in the Republic of Malawi in 1978. 
) Voting took place in 42 constituencies out of 87, many candidates being unopposed. Voter turnout in the 42 constituencies was about 3 5 per cent. 
The elections were contested only by the Malawi Congress Party, Malawi's sole political party since 1966. 
Australia has not established diplomatic relations with Malawi. However, Malawi is a member of the Commonwealth. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) General elections were held in the United Republic of Tanzania in 1 965, 1 970 and 1 975. 
In the 1965 elections, voter turnout was 78 percent; in 1970, 70 per cent; and in 1975, 82 per cent All three elections were contested by the Tanganyika African National Union (the then sole party on mainland Tanzania) and the Afro-Shirazi Party (the then sole party in Zanzibar). In 1977 the Tanganyika African National Union and the AfroShirazi Party combined to form what is now the sole legal political party in Tanzania, the Chama Cha Mapinduzi 
Australia established diplomatic relations with Tanganyika in 1962. In 1964, Tanganyika united with Zanzibar to form the United Republic of Tanzania. 
-The short answer to both questions is yes. Honourable members will be aware that - 
-I will not sit down on this issue. It is one on which the public and the honourable member ought to be better informed. 
-I have not put the matter on the blue sheet. The honourable member for Bradfield was quite entitled to put it on the blue sheet. I have been asked a specific question. 
I am certainly not. 
-In accordance with the Charter of the United Nations, all member states have the right to pass a vote when draft resolutions or decisions are put to the vote in the General Assembly. Such resolutions are defined in the Charter as having the force of recommendations. They do not bind member states, but are recommendatory only. Australia decides upon its reactions to specific resolutions against the background to their adoption and taking account of their consistency with Australia's policies. We do not, therefore, see ourselves as being either legally or morally obliged to implement all General Assembly resolutions, but we take them into account as recommendations. The Security Council is different. With its complement of permanent and non-permanent members, it has the power to pass mandatory resolutions. But, of course, any of the five permanent members- the United States of America, Britain, France, the People's Republic of China and the Soviet Union- has the right of veto. 
-I am aware of the gathering of forces- not to the extent that was evident earlier this year- on both sides of the border by the People's Republic of China and Vietnam. The tragedy unfolding in Kampuchea itself would be answered if all external forces were to withdraw. The prime element behind what is transpiring in Indo-China is not restricted solely to the People's Republic of China and Vietnam, but in fact to the variants within the play of the four communist states- the Soviet Union, the People's Republic of China, Vietnam and, to a lesser extent because of its control by Vietnam, Kampuchea. 
-Laos as well, yes. The honourable member is quite right. I was thinking more in terms of four primary factors which I named earlier. The honourable member's question referred also to some solution. In answer to a question that was asked of me by the Leader of the Opposition some weeks ago I said that one should seek a political solution. I have spent some months discussing with other Foreign Ministers around the world how this could be achieved. The harsh reality which one comes back to is that it does require the withdrawal of the external forces from Kampuchea, their presence being seen as one of the primary ingredients of the disputes that are occurring in the region at the present moment. The Government will continue to work for some form of political solution. The withdrawal that I mentioned is a prerequisite, but it will require even more than the good will of western powers who are prepared to talk about political solutions. It will require honesty and the good will of the communist powers who are themselves the major disputants. 
-A unit of 45 Royal Australian Air Force and three Royal Australian Navy air and ground crew personnel, known as Austair, which has operated four Iroquois helicopters as part of the United Nations Emergency Force in the Middle East since June 1976, is being withdrawn to Australia this month. The Minister for Defence and I issued a statement on this issue the night before last. The withdrawal is part of the general withdrawal of UNEF, whose mandate lapsed on 24 July this year and which will be totally disbanded by the end of this year. There has been some suggestion that the United Nations Truce Supervision Organisation in the Middle East, known as UNTSO, may be expanded to assist in the arrangements at present being finalised to monitor the Israeli withdrawal from Sinai under the terms of the Israel-Egypt peace treaty signed in March this year. I had discussions on this matter last week. The possibility of involving UNTSO in this monitoring operation has met with considerable resistance from some quarters. It seems at this moment unlikely to be agreed to in the immediate future. However, if it were to be agreed to ask UNTSO to assist in monitoring the Israeli withdrawal, and if there were a request for Australian participation in the expanded force, the Government of course would be prepared to consider providing such a contribution. If the request were to come before Austair has completed its withdrawal from the Middle East, obviously consideration would be given to reviewing the decision for the unit to withdraw. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
With the exception of an approach from the authorities in the Cook Islands, the position remains as stated in my reply to question No. 122  (Hansard,  8 March 1978). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The position remains as described in my answer to question No. 1 24. 
In respect of question No. 993 (3) the Attorney-General has approved the negotiation of an amendment to the Australia/Israel Extradition Treaty. It is expected that discussions on this will commence shortly. 
The honourable member will be aware that  Mr Glickman  was extradited to Australia in December 1978 and is now on bail awaiting trial in the Supreme Court of Victoria. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question, according to information currently available, is as follows: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The following States became parties to the1961 Convention on the dates indicated: 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The South-East Asia Collective Defence Treaty (Manila Treaty) was signed in Manila on 8 September 1954 and entered into force on19 February 1955. While the Southeast Asia Treaty Organisation (SEATO) was disbanded on 30 June 1977, Australia remains a Party to the Manila Treaty. 
I refer the honourable member to Article IV of that Treaty which indicates certain contingencies in which a response would be required by the Parties. Depending on the contingency each Party would be required to 'act to meet the common danger in accordance with its constitutional processes' or to 'consult immediately in order to agree on the measures which should be taken for the common defence'. The Treaty does not bind the Parties to render any particular form of action or measures. 
Environmental Studies in Alligator River Region  (Question No. 4633) 
Yes, it was the first visit of an Australian Minister to Malta for a considerable period. I think it is fairly well known that the Australian Government has been concerned for some time about the relatively poor state of relations existing between Malta and Australia and has publicly stated its desire to see the relations restored to their former warmth. In this spirit and in response to an official request, we recently offered the Maltese Government training awards in veterinary science. More particularly and more recently, and at my request, the Treasurer during his visit to Malta for the Commonwealth Finance Ministers Conference met with the Maltese Prime Minister,  Mr Mintoff,  and his  deputy  to register at the highest level the Government's desire to see an improvement in the relationship. I am advised- this has been confirmed since the Treasurer's return- that the meeting was helpful, friendly and constructive. It dealt in general terms with trade, commercial and immigration matters. The Government believes that it was a very useful step in that it has paved the way for both countries to work to improve relations to our mutual advantage. One immediate direct result of the meeting is that we expect shortly to welcome to Australia the Maltese Minister of Labour, Culture and Welfare. 
I move: 
That the amendment be agreed to. 
This is purely a drafting amendment in relation to proposed new section 7E (2) which appears in clause 8 of the Bill at page 4, line 45. It reads: a  notification under sub-section (  1  ) given by the Minister to an authorized officer ceases to have effect upon the giving to the authorized officer of a notice stating that the notification under sub-section (  1  ) has ceased to have effect. 
The amendment proposes that the word 'notice' be replaced by 'notification by the Minister'. The Government agrees that there is no difference in meaning between 'notice' and 'notification' and accepts 'notification'. The Opposition's proposed addition of the words 'by the Minister', whilst not strictly legally necessary from the point of statutory interpretation, seems nonetheless desirable for the sake of clarity. We therefore accept the amendment. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Two men, who did not identify themselves, approached the Australian Embassy in Bonn on an afternoon in mid- June seeking a loan of a film  The Land My Mother  whose full title is  Walya Ngamardiki-The Land My Mother.  Because of staff cuts the film distribution clerk is unavailable for that work in the afternoons and consequently the inquiry was dealt with by a clerk unfamiliar with film registrations. Sas dealt with by a clerk unfamiliar with film registrations, he was therefore unaware that the film was registered under W', and as she did not find the film under 'T', 'L', or 'M', she informed the inquirers in good faith that the Embassy did not hold the film they had named. 
Subsequently, and as a quite separate approach, Miss Nina Gladitz requested a loan of the film from an officer familiar with its full title, and was issued with it. 
No. In November 1978, however, all posts were reminded that it was their responsibility to ensure that the films they distributed were suitable for prospective audiences. Posts were advised that when  Walya Ngamardiki  was lent, a short background could be issued with it if thought necessary. The suggested text was as follows: 
This film was made by Film Australia on behalf of the Department of Aboriginal Affairs to make known to all Australians the special relationship the Aboriginals have with the land. This affinity with the land is fundamental to the Aboriginal's sense of identity and characterises their traditional society. The Australian Government has recognised this special cultural identity of the Aboriginal people within the life and laws of Australian society in its Lands Rights Legislation and its minerals development policies. ' 
Miss Galditz was given a German translation of this statement. 
-In relation to the aid purchased under previous arrangements and to previous Australian grants, and delivered by barge to Dili, Australian officials, as I have said in this House in answer to a question from the honourable member for Fraser, were satisfied with the storage and distribution facilities used for the aid. They were impressed also with arrangements that they saw for distribution of relief material. Indonesian authorities have, for that aid for that particular area and for those particular grants, provided satisfactory accounting for the distribution of that aid. We believe that the record of the Indonesian Red Cross in relation to its relief effort in East Timor is reasonably satisfactory. Similar conclusions were, in fact, drawn by New Zealand Red Cross officials following a visit to East Timor last January. There has been with later consignments of aid a hold-up which I have been concerned about. I have asked the Australian Embassy in Jakarta to investigate this and have the matter expedited. When I receive the Ambassador's report on that matter, I will advise the honourable member. 
by leave- On 14 October 1976 the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  presented to the House on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence the Committee's report on The International Legal and Diplomatic Aspects of the Situation of Australians Possessing Dual or Plural Nationality'. This is a short statement on this matter. The report of the Joint Committee was presented on a realistic note by the honourable member with the comment that the problems of dual nationality are well nigh impossible of unilateral resolution by Australia. Further study has unfortunately confirmed that view. The difficulties that arise for Australian citizens from their dual nationality are however of continuing concern to the Government. 
The House will recall that in my statement of 26 May 1 978 on consular services I dealt with the problems of dual nationality. Briefly, I indicated at that time that many migrants who are naturalised Australians, or in some cases their children who are natural born Australians, may be regarded by their countries of birth, or of their parents' birth, still to be citizens of those countries. Such dual nationals can be subject to the laws of the country of their first citizenship, who may claim jurisdiction over them in such matters as military service or taxation. My Department and the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs attempt to make dual nationals aware of the problems they might encounter on return to their country of birth or ethnic origin. 
The requirement for assistance to dual nationals has inevitably grown as more foreignborn Australians return to visit their former homes. The problems of dual nationals cannot be overcome by citizens simply asserting that they do not accept their other citizenship. In some cases formal acts of renunciation are possible, but in other countries no such provisions exist; the requirements should be carefully established in advance. It is for the individual to ascertain and to bear the consequences of coming within the jurisdiction of another country which claims his or her citizenship, whether the individual or the Australian Government recognises that claim or not. I take this opportunity to repeat my earlier advice that consular officers can advise, but beyond a strict limit they cannot assist when in these circumstances the jurisdiction of another country is being asserted. My Department publishes a booklet called 'Hints for Australian Travellers', which is issued free with all Australian passports, and which is available from any office of the Department of Foreign Affairs in Australia and from any overseas Australian mission. This booklet contains information and advice on the problem of dual nationality. 
The report of the Joint Committee was referred to an interdepartmental committee drawn from the Departments of Foreign Affairs, the Attorney-General and Immigration and Ethnic Affairs. The interdepartmental committee's conclusions were endorsed by the three Ministers concerned. The committee's report and conclusions by departments have most recently been given consideration by the Government. 
The long-standing policy of the Australian Government of avoiding wherever possible the creation by its legislation of instances of dual nationality, while at the same time giving recognition to such status wherever it occurs, has been reaffirmed. The Government thus accepts the over-riding conclusion and recommendation of the committee. As I have indicated, responsible Ministers and departments are also active in disseminating information on dual nationality problems- another recommendation of the Joint Committee report. On the other hand, our conclusion is that there is no requirement as proposed in the report for new or additional machinery to investigate complaints by dual nationals. The recommendation that consideration should be given to replacing particulars of place of birth in Australian passports with particulars of place of residence has been dealt with in detail in my second reading speech on the Passports Amendment Bill. 
There remain two recommendations of the report calling for constructive action: That Australia should initiate relevant action in the United Nations and should give high priority to negotiating bilateral agreements to overcome dual nationality problems. Formidable difficulties of a political, legal and practical nature stand in the way of progress on dual nationality problems, either by way of bilateral or multilateral agreement. This cautious and, I might add, common assessment needs to be emphasised. 
Nevertheless the Government has decided, with respect to the report submitted by the Parliamentary Joint Committee, to study the prospects of negotiating bilateral agreements with certain countries. The Government also proposes to examine further the possibility of having the question of dual nationality examined in an appropriate forum of the United Nations. A further statement to the House will be made at a future time on this subject in the light of these studies. 
While speaking about this question of dual nationality I should mention that the Government is keenly aware of the concern felt by certain Australian citizens about the new Soviet law on citizenship which came into force on 1 July this year. The implications of this law are the subject of an urgent study in departments concerned, and the Australian Embassy in Moscow has formally sought clarification of certain points from the Soviet authorities. I hope that the Government will soon be in a position to provide guidance to those people who have made inquiries about this new law. In the meantime I can give an assurance that nobody will lose Australian citizenship through the operation of a law of another country. 
-I have indicated this very thing to the honourable member. We are receiving advice in regard to that matter so that we can give detailed information not only to the honourable members who have made representations to me, but also to various individuals who have corresponded directly with me. The Soviet Union introduced fairly all-embracing laws regarding its citizenship and the ramifications of these laws should be responded to, I believe, with the best of legal advice available, both at private international law and public international law. That is why I say that I will be advising honourable members in due course. 

 Mr LIONEL BOWEN (KingsfordSmith) by leave- It will be appreciated that I will be unable to refer to the Soviet law matter but I would like to make some other comments. We appreciate what the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  has done by making a statement. We are aware of the fact that there was a committee which reported some time ago as the Minister indicated. I am also aware of the conclusions and recommendations of that committee, which the Minister has suggested in good faith he will endeavour to implement if possible. 
We are aware of the situation in Australia. It is important that we try to get bilateral arrangements. If other countries are anxious to have us take their citizens- as many countries are because they are anxious to get the financial exchange which in many cases is remitted to them- it seems to be an appropriate time to suggest that those countries might enter into a bilateral arrangement whereby a citizen, on acceptance of nationality in Australia, is no longer obliged to be a dual national. I am aware of the international law which relates to the question of domicile of origin. It will be difficult to erase that law because the domicile of origin is related to birth. If one is born in another country there is going to be an issue always as to whether one is deemed to be originally a national of that country. Honourable members will notice that it is an accepted principle of international law that diplomatic protection may not be given by a state to a dual national of that state when he is in the country of the other nationality. So there are also problems in regard to international law. 
I am aware of what has been happening. The honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  is anxious to put certain matters before the Parliament,!^ Par and he is going to say a few words in a moment. We have made representations to other countries on the basis of those countries accepting passports which did not have the place of birth entered in them. From the answer given in the Senate on 1 1 October, it is pretty clear that many countries- such as Greece- are not prepared to accede to that request. We have the difficulty of countries not being prepared to accede to what I would say is a reasonable request. This will require further strong negotiation. The Opposition would give support to the Government in that area. We are also mindful of the recommendations of the Joint Parliamentary 
Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence that the Hague Convention was of the opinion that a person should have only one nationality. Obviously it would be the nationality of the resident's permanent domicile. If honourable members look at page 5 of the report of the Committee, they will see that only 20 countries ever became parties to that particular Convention. Australia is one of those countries, but the major countries from which we obtain migrants are not parties to the Convention. 
We appreciate the efforts made by the Committee and by the Minister, but there is a long way to go. It would seem appropriate that we should be using some of our monetary muscle to indicate clearly to these countries that when citizens leave them and come to Australia, by a bilateral arrangement which we should negotiate at the time, and if they adopt our citizenship, they should be accepted by other countries as having one nationality only, namely, that of Australia. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
The declaration in 1953 by sixteen countries which had contributed forces to the United Nations Command in Korea was made in the immediate aftermath of the cease-fire in Korea as a warning against any major breach of the cease-fire arrangements. The Declaration does not constitute a treaty, but Australia has continued to support efforts to bring about a lasting and equitable settlement on the Korean peninsula. Australia's response to any breach of the Korean armistice would be decided at the time in the light of all the circumstances. 
I am aware of the reference mentioned by the Leader of the Opposition. The seriousness of this matter has been referred to by me before in regard to other matters both directly affecting nuclear safeguards arrangements and affecting the policies that we have adopted on them. At the present moment, however, the matter is being handled by the AttorneyGeneral. I will refer the question to him and provide the Leader of the Opposition with a detailed answer on questions of law as well as fact. 
-I think the honourable member spoke at the outset of his question of the difficulties- there have been some difficultiesduring the negotiations to date in London. I think it is fair to say, and I think the House would agree, that the six-week-old conference has been characterised also by a spirit of goodwill and  compromise. In fact, the most serious difficulty so far encountered arose last week over Lord Carrington's understandable ruling that the parties had to accept the British constitutional proposal before going on to the second stage of the conference, to discuss arrangements for the interim period before independence. The Muzorewa delegation said that it accepted the proposal, subject to the lifting of sanctions and to agreement on the interim or transitional arrangements. After some consultations, the Patriotic Front announced that it had received the assurances it required on multilateral efforts to assist land, agricultural and development programs. Although it continued to have reservations- and stated them- about certain aspects of the constitution, it said that it accepted the British proposal, also subject to the satisfactory negotiation of interim arrangements, and it then rejoined the constitutional talks. Naturally, the Australian Government welcomes this development. 
Referring now to the discussions on interim arrangements, we have kept in contact with the British Government. I had discussions again with Lord Carrington while we were both at the United Nations and we have been in contact through our missions since then. Yesterday the British tabled a series of proposals for the transitional period, and the honourable member referred to them in his question. These proposals differ in many respects from the proposals put forward earlier by the Patriotic Front. Unquestionably there will be hard negotiations between all the parties to the conference before agreement can be reached. The provision to which the honourable member referred and which is part of the British proposal does relate to Commonwealth observers. Honourable members will be aware that this accords fully with the Lusaka agreement, which provided for Commonwealth observers to witness the election of the government which would take Zimbabwe into independence. At this point in the negotiations the stage has not yet been reached for decisions to be made on the particular matter. Nevertheless, the Australian Government remains ready to do whatever it appropriately can do to assist the process of the negotiations, if so required, or to help the establishment of a Zimbabwe government that can achieve wide international recognition. We welcome the constructive spirit with which all parties have approached the talks. The Government believes that the British Government and, I think it is fair to say, Lord 
Carrington personally are discharging their ultimate responsibility for Zimbabwe with tact, sensitivity and courage. Although many difficulties lie ahead, the Australian Government is hopeful that a peaceful negotiated settlement on Zimbabwe-Rhodesia will shortly be found. 
-The declaration referred to by the honourable member does not involve a 200-mile economic zone. I say that because the Leader of the Opposition made the same error at lunch-time today. There is an essential difference between an economic zone- exclusive or otherwise- and a fishing zone. It is a fishing zone which will come into effect on 1 November. I am well aware of the policies of and attitude taken by the United States in regard to highly migratory species, in particular tuna. In fact, I am so well aware of it that I spent at least 72 hours with the Prime Minister on the island of Niue last year discussing virtually nothing else but that. That was at the South Pacific Forum, at which the island nations represented put some very deeply held views about what they regarded as an inequitable application of the 200-mile fishing zone by the United States. We have had a series of negotiations and discussions with them on the way in which this fishing zone is implemented. We will continue to do that not only under the aegis of government to government relations but also through the fisheries agency which we have established in the South Pacific and which was also referred to at the luncheon today, because we believe that there have to be co-operative attitudes taken by the nations in the South Pacific as they declare and act upon their 200-mile fishing zones. As far as Australia is concerned, we have no problems other than those referred to on previous occasions by the Minister for Transport- in his capacity as Minister for Transport- so far as surveillance of the fishing zone is concerned, and added to by the Minister for Defence. The short answer is that I am well aware of the attitude of the United States. It concerns not only Australia but also others, but we are well prepared to survey our own fishery zone when it comes into effect on 1 November. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to the answer provided by the Minister for Administrative Services to Question No. 4299  (Hansard,  1 1 September 1979, pages 972-3). 
The answer to the honourable member 's question is as follows:- 
1 ) The High Commissioner for Malta in Australia was recalled in January 1978. 
The Australian High Commissioner left Malta in October 1978 on his retirement from Government service. 
No such discussions have taken place. My colleague the Treasurer did, however, at my request discuss the bilateral relationship with the Prime Minister of Malta, when he visited Malta recently to attend the Commonwealth Finance Ministers' Conference, and conveyed to him directly the Australian Government's desire for good relations with Malta. I hope that that initiative will prove to be the first step towards restoration of the relationship to its former warmth. In that process, consideration will of course be given to the level of our representation in Malta. 
Nursing Homes in Electoral Division of St George  (Question No. 4822) 
-I do not agree with all the imputations contained within the question of the honourable member. It is a fact that earlier this month the Leader of the Opposition and Leader of the New Democratic Party was expelled from the Republic of Korea National Assembly by a vote of the Government parties for his allegedly anti-nationalist attitude in calling on the United States to withdraw its support for the Government of the Republic of Korea and for publicly suggesting that the United States should exert direct and public pressure on  President  Park. 
-It shows that there is a variety of ways in which people can be left out of the Parliament. So far as this question is concerned, it was about eight or nine days after the occurrence of the event I was just describing that all members of Kim Young-San 's party, the NDP, submitted their resignations in protest. The degree of political uncertainty that has emerged in the Republic of Korea as a result of these events is clearly regrettable. There appears to be potential for further violent incidents. A number of them have occurred throughout the country in the period between the occurrence of these events and very recent days. The resolution of the political crisis involving National Assembly members is somewhat unclear. I have asked the Australian Embassy in Seoul to report on the situation in the clearest possible terms. To date I have not received any indication that these events will threaten the fundamental stability of the Republic of Korea. In a nutshell, I cannot accept all the imputations contained within the honourable member's question. 
Yes and yes. 
I have noted a number of the reports referred to by the honourable member. I feel absolutely bound to say that the trial and gaoling of Czechoslovak dissidents in Prague in the past week is the most recent manifestation of the denial of fundamental civil and political liberties officially practised and officially sanctioned in many parts of the world, including Czechoslovakia. It has drawn an outraged response, and properly so, from the international community. This sense of outrage is shared by the Australian Government and, I am sure, by the Australian Parliament and people. So I add the Government's and, I am sure, the Parliament's voice to the condemnation so widely expressed throughout the world. 
The Government of Czechoslovakia would claim, of course, that these matters are entirely domestic and that neither the Australian Government nor any other government has any direct standing in them at all. Strictly speaking, that is correct. But the fact is that they raise questions of fundamental concern to us all. We do not accept that men of goodwill do not have the right to speak out when they see normal human aspirations so ruthlessly swept aside as has occurred on this occasion. The irony of the matter for the oppressors is that the dissidents' cause seems likely to be reinforced by the very severity of the sentences which were handed down in Prague this week. 
The Austraiian Government has called on governments to abide by the important principles of human rights embodied in the United Nations instruments, including the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and the 1975 Helsinki Accords. I have noted earlier that Czechoslovakia is both a party to that Covenant and a signatory to the Helsinki Final Act. This latest action alone puts Czechoslovakia in clear breach of its obligations under those instruments. I very much hope that the Czechoslovak Government will take note of the very deep concern felt in this Parliament, and among Australians in general, concerning the current treatment of the Charter 77 dissidents and that it will not remain impervious to the moral force of international concern about its contempt for its responsibilities towards the people of Czechoslovakia in terms not only of international obligations but also of internationally acceptable standards of behaviour. 
-This Government opposes acts of oppression and suppression of civil liberties wherever they occur. I have said that time and again. The fact is that it was this Government that sought and obtained election to the Human Rights Commission, and that those who sit opposite who proclaimed their interest in these matters at no time when in government sought or obtained election to that body. Distance is not the determinant of our attitude at all; neither do we have selective morality on questions such as this, as do certain others who sit opposite. I reiterate what I said at the outset of this answer: We oppose acts of oppression and suppression of civil liberties wherever they occur, and we have said so time and again. 
I have seen today a report that Australian aid to Kampuchea is costing $250,000 more than is necessary, allegedly because of the refusal to use Royal Australian Air Force aircraft, for whatever reason. In this case, I think it was cited that this was because the authorities in Phnom Penh would not allow it to be transported in that sort of aircraft. In fact, the Government did not approach the authorities in Phnom Penh concerning the use of such aircraft in relief operations. It considered that unacceptable risks could be involved in sending an Australian military aircraft into a conflict zone. So partly- but partly only- for security reasons it was decided that the Government should charter civilian aircraft for the relief operations. It is true that the Royal Air Force aircraft which are being used at present for ferrying supplies from Bangkok to Phnom Penh are CI 30 aircraft, but they are on loan to the United Nations Children's Fund and the International Committee of the Red Cross and they carry international agency markings. 
More important, so far as the article is concerned, is the question of cost. The cost of the airlift of emergency relief supplies, whether by RAAF Hercules aircraft or commercial charter, would be paid and met from the aid vote. In fact, the use of RAAF Hercules aircraft is less cost effective than the charter of commercial aircraft. The Hercules aircraft has a maximum payload of 15 tonnes, compared with approximately 45 tonnes for the DC8 aircraft that we have chartered. The cost to the aid program of RAAF airlifts from Australia to Phnom Penh would have been of the order of $81,000 per flight, compared with an average of $86,000 for the commercial charter. Therefore, taking the amount to be airlifted and the cost factors into consideration, if supplies had been drawn from Australian sources nine Hercules aircraft would have been required to deliver the same volume of commodities as the three commercial flights can deliver. Those are the facts. 
For the information of honourable members I present a report by the Australian delegation to the 1979 session of the Committee on Disarmament and Australia's participation in the Committee and seek leave to make a statement. 
Leave granted. 
-This is the first time that a report on the work of the major international negotiating forum on disarmament has been presented to the Parliament. 
The Committee on Disarmament is a new body. Following a decision taken at the Special Session of the United Nations General Assembly devoted to disarmament, which was held in 1978, a 40-member Committee on Disarmament replaced the Conference of the Committee on Disarmament as the international community's principal negotiating body on disarmament. Australia succeeded in securing membership of the new body. The Committee began its work this year and held two sessions in Genevabetween January and April and between June and August. I addressed the Committee at its inaugural meeting on 24 January 1979. 
The success of our bid for membership of this most important Committee was the culmination of efforts by the Australian Government over a number of years. It is tangible evidence that this Government's active commitment to achieving substantive arms control measures is acknowledged internationally. 
The work of the Committee is of special relevance to the important Australian interest iri promoting the goal of the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons. When we announced in 1977 the Government's decisions to proceed with the mining and export of uranium, we emphasised Australia's concern to pursue a broad-based approach to non-proliferation issues. Proposals relating to the further control of nuclear weapons will be an important part of the Committee's work in the negotiation of international arms control measures. The Committee's predecessor, the Conference of the Committee on Disarmament, was responsible for the negotiation of a number of important instruments, including the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty, the Biological Weapons Convention and treaties regulating the placement of nuclear weapons on the seabed and in outer space. As a member of the Committee, Australia is now able to participate directly in the negotiation of new and further important measures. 
The Committee's agenda and program of work so far have reflected Australia's concerns. We have an overriding interest in seeing the early conclusion of a comprehensive nuclear test ban treaty as the most important next step forward in the process of nuclear arms control. Negotiation of such a treaty and adherence to it by a wide range of states would inhibit the further development of existing nuclear arsenals and act as an additional pillar of the international non-proliferation regime. A test ban treaty would create a new avenue through which governments could renounce the option of acquiring nuclear weapons. The Committee gave extensive consideration to the text ban question, but work on the drafting of a treaty awaits the conclusion of the discussions now under way among the United States, the Soviet Union and Britain. Australia is continuing to play an active part in international consultations, both bilateral and multilateral, to promote the early conclusion of a comprehensive test ban treaty. 
The Committee on Disarmament also addressed two other nuclear arms control issues which Australia regards as deserving of international action. The first was the question of assurances by the nuclear weapon states that they would not use nuclear weapons against nonnuclear weapon states which had themselves renounced the acquisition of nuclear weapons. The second was the need for an eventual international agreement which would prohibit the production of fissionable material for nuclear weapons purposes. This would be a most important step in the direction of nuclear disarmament. 
In addition to issues of nuclear arms control, the other principal area of activity in the Committee has been a proposed convention prohibiting the development, production and stockpiling of chemical weapons. This has been under consideration internationally for some time. Australia recently highlighted the importance of achieving such a convention. I was pleased to note that the Committee on Disarmament devoted considerable attention this year to this matter. Progress made has significantly enhanced the prospect of these weapons being brought within a regime of international control and supervision. The United States and the Soviet Union presented to the Committee a draft convention banning- radiological weapons. Whilst no country possesses such weapons, a convention would be useful in proscribing an area of possible weapons development. There are good prospects that this proposed treaty will be concluded without undue delay. 
The report of the Committee on Disarmament to the United Nations General Assembly has been issued as Document CD/53 and I have arranged for copies to be placed in the Parliamentary Library. There is significance in the timing of the presentation of the report by the Australian delegation to the Parliament. The Special Session of the General Assembly on Disarmament in 1 978 decided that the week commencing 24 October each year- namely, United Nations Day- should be designated as Disarmament Week. To mark Disarmament Week in 1978, I submitted to Parliament the report of the Australian delegation to the Special Session. In an effort to promote greater public awareness and understanding of disarmament issues, the Department of Foreign Affairs circulated copies of the report to educational institutions, libraries and interested non-governmental organisations. 
I propose to begin the practice of submitting to Parliament on an annual basis a report on Australia's participation in the Committee on Disarmament. It is my intention that annual reports about the work of the Committee on Disarmament should be submitted each year during Disarmament Week. Copies of these reports will be distributed widely in the community in order to enhance public interest in arms control and disarmament. The Government has also drawn to the attention of interested organisations the declaration by the United Nations of Disarmament Week. I am pleased to inform the House that one result of this effort is that the Canberra branches of the Australian Institute of International Affairs, the United Nations Association of Australia and the Human Rights Council will jointly sponsor a seminar in Canberra on disarmament issues on 30 October. 
The achievement of effective arms control and disarmament measures requires sustained effort by governments. The Australian Government has demonstrated its willingness to contribute to this process. As a major potential exporter of uranium, Australia has a special responsibility to work for measures to ensure that nuclear weapons do not put humanity at risk. This is one of the principal objectives which underlines our approach to participation in the international consideration of arms control and disarmament questions, including participation in the Committee on Disarmament. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
(a) and (b) No. Nuclear safety questions, including the safe disposal of radioactive waste, are important but separate matters from non-proliferation safeguards arrangements negotiated with foreign governments. Because the Government shares the widespread international concern to see effective arrangements in place for the safe disposal of nuclear waste, Australia participates in international activity in this area including in the International Nuclear Fuel Cycle Evaluation (INFCE) and the Nuclear Energy Agency (NEA) of the OECD. 
See answer to ( 1 ) above. 
In my 23 August statement to the House of Representatives, I mentioned the favourable references to Australia's high standing in non-proliferation matters which were made by  President  Carter and the United States Arms Control and Disarmament Agency, when the Australia/United States nuclear safeguards agreement was presented to Congress. 
These statements did not refer to Australia's attitude to waste disposal safety because the subject of waste disposal was not covered by that agreement. The United States is fully aware of Australia's position that there is no intention of Australia's storing the radioactive wastes of other countries. 
There is a distinction between the permanent disposal of radioactive waste and the interim storage of spent nuclear fuel. The United States is conducting a study of the feasibility of an interim facility for spent fuel storage on a Pacific island. Australia shares the concerns of South Pacific countries about the location of such a facility in the region. At the same time we acknowledge the non-proliferation arguments for providing safe interim storage of spent nuclear fuel in consultation with interested countries. Australia acknowledges the importance of international solutions for such questions and is participating in a study of international spent fuel management being carried out under the auspices of the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA). The Government looks to such studies, and to discussions with other governments, to develop proposals regarding spent fuel which will take full account of all relevant aspects, including safety, the environment and non-proliferation, as well as the concerns of all countries which might be affected by such proposals. 
(a), (b), (c) and (d) There has been a series of exchanges between officials through diplomatic channels. It is expected that these will continue. Furthermore I discussed the matter with Secretary of State Vance during the course of the Anzus Council Meeting this year. While the Government's view is that the responsibility for disposing, in an environmentally responsible manner of waste arising from nuclear power generation in countries abroad, is a matter for those countries which generate electricity by nuclear means, it is important that Australia remain fully informed of developments in this area. See also answers to (3 ) and (4) above. 
Yes. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No official passport has been issued to  Mr A.  Eggleton since December, 1975. 
Naval Deployments in the Indian Ocean  (Question No. 4776) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The Government has undertaken a number of activities to engender public awareness of the need for arms control and disarmament measures. Reports of relevant developments and of the activities of the Australian Government in these matters are regularly included in the "Backgrounder" and the "Australian Foreign Affairs Record " which are published by the Department of Foreign Affairs. To mark the first Disarmament Week in October 1978, 1 tabled in the Parliament the report of the Australian delegation on the first Special Session the United Nations General Assembly devoted to disarmament which was held in 1978. This included the text of the Final Document of the Special Session, the report of the Australian delegation on the first Special Session, details of the major statements and a comprehensive account of the principal issues discussed. Copies of the report to Parliament were circulated widely to educational institutions, libraries and non-governmental organisations. Further action to engender public interest is planned (see the answer to question (4) below). 
The circulation of relevant reports to Parliament and the regular distribution of other material serve the same end as would a disarmament kit similar to the Human Rights Kit. It is accordingly not proposed to publish a separate kit of disarmament material. 
To mark Disarmament Week in 1979, I propose to table in Parliament a report on the activities of the Committee on Disarmament and Australia's role in it during its first year of operation. (It was decided at the Special Session of the United Nations General Assembly on Disarmament in 1978 that the Committee on Disarmament replace the Conference of the Committee on Disarmament as the principal international disarmament negotiating body. Australia succeeded in securing membership of the new body which met for the first time early in 1979.) It is planned to give this report a wide distribution in the community. The practice of submission to Parliament of an annual report on the Committee and circulation of the report in the community will be followed in future. The Department of Foreign Affairs has also drawn to the attention of interested organisations the declaration by the United Nations of Disarmament Week. As a result, the Canberra branches of the Institute of International Affairs, the United Nations Association of Australia and the Human Rights Council will jointly sponsor on 30 October a seminar on disarmament issues to mark Disarmament Week. 
The Government does not have plans to establish a national advisory council to involve non-governmental organisations interested in promoting disarmament. The Government has regular contact with non-governmental organisations about disarmament questions and would welcome any action which those organisations might wish to take to promote public interest in and awareness of these questions. 
Employment Levels at Defence Installations  (Question No. 4806) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I am bound by the nature of the question to say that I have nothing to add to the answer I gave to the honourable member on 8 November 1977 in answer to Question No. 1474. 
Trade with Ethiopia  (Question No. 4398) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No change. 
Negotiations between Greece and Australia have reached the exchange of final texts. 
(a) Additional proposals offered by countries with which Australia has cultural agreements are: 
-In regard to the first part of the honourable member's question, the Government has made it perfectly clear that attempts to use either political or commercial blackmail as a tool of international relations are to be deplored. These views have been made clear in firm and unequivocal terms to the charge d'affaires of the Iranian Embassy in Canberra, who was asked to convey them to the Iranian authorities. The charge d 'affaires was told that such behaviour is in total breach of international law and conventions to which Iran is a party, including, of course, the Vienna Convention. Although not mentioned in the question, the situation obviously has disturbing implications for the world oil supply. We were advised ahead of  President  Carter's statement- as honourable members know- ordering the cessation of imports from Iran. One can well understand the concern that is being felt particularly in the United States, but it is a concern that is shared in this Parliament- I am sure on both sides- and throughout the Australian community. 
So far as Australians in Iran are concerned, we naturally have a concern for their safety and welfare. At present the Australian community in Iran is a small one comprising 31 Australians who are registered with the Australian Embassy, all of whom are resident in Tehran. The number of Australia-based Embassy staff and two dependants totals 12. That makes a total of 43 Australians. At present, although the situation in Tehran remains tense, I am advised that the Australians are not in any special difficulties. However, all possible measures for their safeguard and security are being taken. Prospective Australian visitors to Iran are being advised that unless they have an essential purpose they should simply not proceed with the visit at present. In summary, as I said at the outset, the attitude of the Government towards the demonstrators who have occupied the United States Embassy and hold United States personnel hostage there is that any attempt to use political or commercial blackmail as a tool for international relations is to be condemned. 
-I am grateful for the reference made by the honourable member to the additional aid that has been allocated to East Timor. It is over and above what we have been supplying and brings it to a total of nearly $4m in assistance to East Timor. I do confirm, of course, that we are deeply concerned with the serious humanitarian situation in East Timor. Australian assistance is being provided to the joint International Committee of the Red Cross and the Indonesian Red Cross relief program in response to an appeal launched by the International Committee of the Red Cross. It is important to recognise that they are the co-ordinators of this appeal. I am informed that a major element of that program is the provision already of medical care. Without going into the details- which I do not have right at hand- my recollection is, nevertheless, that at the present moment the program incorporates the utilisation of existing medical facilities and infrastructure, such as they are in Timor, supplemented by International Red Cross representatives and at least 34 personnel from the Indonesian Red Cross, including four doctors, five nurses and, I think, 20 voluntary workers, together with the training of Timorese for paramedical work. I am also informed that at the moment medical supplies sufficient for at least the next four months of the integrated International Red Cross and Indonesian Red Cross program have been flown to Dili. 
We have been providing assistance in response to the requirements made known to us by the International Red Cross and the Indonesian Red Cross. So far there has not been a request for medical personnel. The requests have been in other areas; requests for transportation, requests for food and requests for some forms of medicine. I assure the honourable member who raised this matter that there is no problem at all with my ensuring that my officials go back and say: Certainly, we can meet your requests in these particular areas from within the category of the $2m that we have undertaken to provide '. At this moment we are doing a breakup of the nature of the commodities which will be supplied. The mere fact that to date they have not asked, but have said 'We are covering the medical personnel reasonably', does not prevent our going back and saying: 'Would you wish us to approach doctors within Australia to see whether they would be prepared to be integrated within your own medical program1? I am certainly prepared to do that, in other words, approach the International Red Cross in particular to determine whether Australian doctors and nurses are required for the relief program. I say that I will do that. But the honourable member must recognise that to date we have given more in aid than any other country, with the exception of Indonesia. We have done this in response to what has been requested in this integrated program, and I see no problem in following the suggestion made by the honourable member. 
Pursuant to section 25 of the Australia- Japan Foundation Act 1976, 1 present the annual report of the Australia- Japan Foundation 1978-79. 
For the information of honourable members I present the 1977-78 annual review of Australia's development assistance programs. 
-It is probably wise that I elucidate this matter a little because some of the premises inherent in the honourable member's question are not ones that I accept. Firstly, in regard to the question of credentials in the United Nations, the reality is that if one does not accept the credentials of a given state one must, therefore, point to another state with better credentials which can be accepted. If it is alleged to me, or to this Government, that the representatives of the 200,000 Vietnamese troops in Kampuchea are the ones I should recognise and whose presence I should legitimise, that is an argument that I reject unhesitatingly. If it is put to me that the 
Heng Samrin regime is allegedly now in a position better to control the affairs of Kampuchea, I point out that it has little influence beyond the perimeter of Phnom Penh. Outside that area the control is Vietnamese or, in the given area where the so-called Pol Pot regime has influence over 800,000 to one million people, there is a contest between the Vietnamese and the Pol Pot regime. 
The recognition of the Pol Pot regime was not a move that was taken by this Government. It was a recognition bestowed by the previous Government in what can be described only as rather dubious circumstances. I well recall seeking from the Government of the day the circumstances in which that recognition was bestowed. I sought the rank, name and affiliation of the person with whom it had communicated in so bestowing the recognition. It was days before the Government of the day could give me any response. That belongs to history; that was in 1975. This Government came to power and inherited that recognition. However, it never allowed that recognition to connote support for that regime. 
In this Parliament, in the General Assembly and in the Human Rights Commission, the Government made perfectly clear its position as to what its attitude was to the excesses of the Pol Pot regime. Recognition does not connote support, and that ought be remembered at all times. The honourable member chides the Government for not supporting the Indian resolution in the United Nations. I am sorry to have to point out to the honourable member that we co-sponsored the Association of South East Asian Nations resolution for very good reasons. We co-sponsored and supported that resolution, as did 90 other countries in so voting for it, not merely because it addressed the humanitarian problem but also because it called for the withdrawal of the Vietnamese forces in Kampuchea. My recollection is that it was a vote of approximately 91 to 21, although I would have to check the figures. 
I well understand the motivation of the honourable member in asking about this question. There have been few, if any, more deplorable regimes than the Pol Pot regime. I do not resile one cubit from that statement and that observation. I have had this very question of recognition under examination. I said that we inherited it and I said that we continued it. We have trenchantly criticised it here and elsewhere, and I have the matter under consideration. In referring to the answer by  Senator Carrick  as Minister representing me in the Senate, the honourable member asks whether I am aware of the answer that was given by  Senator Carrick  yesterday. I am aware of the answer and of course I was associated with preparing advice to  Senator Carrick  on the manner in which that answer should be given. 
I share the concern of the honourable member regarding the Pol Pot regime. There are very legitimate reasons for the regime's credentials being accepted, and the majority of members of the United Nations agreed with that decision. That credentials element is a separate issue from recognition. I have indicated that we inherited that and at the present moment are continuing it, but I have that under constant review. I have it under review because of the concerns which I have with the nature of the regime and, more importantly, because that regime no longer has the overwhelming control that it seemingly had in 1975 to the previous Government. At this juncture, I am not prepared to recommend to the Government that it be changed, but I reiterate that it is constantly under review. 
-I have expressed the Government's concern, both through my Department to the charge-d 'affaires of the Iranian Embassy in Canberra and to the Secretary of State personally and in communications with him from our mission in Washington to the State Department. The statements I have made have also been noted and passed on by the United States Embassy in Canberra. It is pleasing to note that three of the hostages held at the United States Embassy in Iran have been released and that 10 more may soon be freed. However, it is important that these developments not be allowed to obscure the very much more significant fact that the great majority of the hostages are now entering their third week of captivity, apparently with very little prospect of early release. The holding of hostages at the United States Embassy in Tehran quite clearly is in total conflict with Iran's obligations under international law, and such action cannot be justified in any circumstances whatsoever. 
I am most disturbed, and the Government is disturbed, to hear reports that Ayatollah Khomeini and those occupying the Embassy have said that the hostages who are not to be released will be on so-called trial before Islamic revolutionary courts on charges of espionage. Under the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations, to which Iran is a party, a diplomatic agent is immune from the criminal jurisdiction of the receiving state, and if the threatened action were carried out it would compound what is already a serious violation of international law. I reiterate, although perhaps in different words, the feeling of the Australian Government that it and, I think, every other government which respects the accepted norms of international behaviour would strongly deplore such action. 
-As I have explained before, the first two phases of the talks in London have gone particularly well. The first phase resulted in agreement in principle on the constitution, and the second phase resulted in agreement on the transitional arrangements. It is the third and critical phase on the cease-fire itself which has still not yet resulted in agreement. Indeed, honourable members are aware from the reports that while talks are proceeding in London President Kaunda has announced a general mobilisation of Zambia's armed forces and reserves. In fact, it appears that President Kaunda 's announcement does not constitute, as was reported last night, a declaration of war on Rhodesia. Indeed, the Associated Press report expressly turned round its earlier report saying just that. 
It is my understanding that President Kaunda 's action is allegedly a defence measure taken in response to the escalation in the last fortnight of attacks by Rhodesian forces on important Zambian economic and communications targets. President Kaunda has always maintained that Zambia will resist with force any attacks against it or breaches of its sovereignty. So there has certainly been some escalation of tension in the border area between Zambia and Zimbabwe. This has been occasioned by the incursions of one party against the other. 
I well understand that there may well be concern about the the manner in which the talks will unfold. I have not yet had the opportunity to communicate with my counterpart, Lord Carrington, on the matter; but suffice to say that through the difficulties of the first and second phases, concerning both the constitution and the transitional arrangements, great credit has been due particularly to Lord Carrington and I suppose, also to all the participants. One would hope that all parties will remain somewhat cool in the circumstances of this announcement. It indicates particularly the need for the cease-fire, which in fact is being deliberated upon and worked for in London at the moment. One would hope that the discussions will lead to the aim, namely, a cease-fire, so that we can move to the implementation of what has been agreed upon to date. 
For the information of honourable members, I present the report of the Australian Delegation to the Third United Nations Conference on the Law of the Searesumed seventh session 1978. 
For the information of honourable members I present a statement in response to the report of the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence on the Middle East. 
For the information of honourable members I present a statement on the report of the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence on the Torres Strait Treaty. 
For the information of honourable members I present a statement on the report of the Senate Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence on Australia and the Indian Ocean Region. 
-For the information of honourable members I present a statement on the report of the Senate Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence on Australia and the South Pacific. 
by leave- I wish to make a statement to the House concerning developments at the London Constitutional Conference on Rhodesia, and concerning the nature and extent of Australian participation if the anticipated settlement is achieved at that Conference. The conflict in Rhodesia has for many years been a most serious international problem. The unilateral declaration of independence by the administration of  Mr Ian  Smith in 1965 sowed the seeds of a political struggle in Rhodesia between black nationalists and white settler parties that a few years later erupted into a bloody civil war. That war has brought great suffering to the peoples of Rhodesia and the surrounding countries, and has exacerbated racial tensions throughout the region. It has created dangerous opportunities for outside powers to expand their power and influence, and has jeopardised the peace and stability of the entire African continent. 
The Australian Government has over the years taken a closer interest in developments in Rhodesia. The internal elections this year, which resulted in the installation of Bishop Muzorewa as Prime Minister, were a step forward as far as the internal situation in Rhodesia was concerned, but they were held under an undemocratic Constitution, and they did not allow for the participation of all Rhodesian political elements. It was almost inevitable, therefore, that the war would continue unabated, with neighbouring countries continuing to support the Patriotic Front guerrilla forces against the Muzorewa Government. The Lusaka Commonwealth Heads of Government meeting, held in August of this year, took place against a most difficult and disturbing situation in southern Africa. It was a situation that was described by the Commonwealth Secretary-General,  Mr Ramphal,  as one of escalating conflict, with increasing military, economic and social pressures on the African front line states, and in the background a deepening intransigence on the part of Pretoria. The increasing sense of frustration and of anger of black African leaders and their people made it not unlikely that the Lusaka meeting would see a polarisation of the Commonwealth and a possible confrontation that could split the Commonwealth and threaten its very survival. 
The Government took the view that the situation then existing in southern Africa was morally wrong, and we believed that it would only enhance the interests and activities of hostile outside nations, including the Soviet Union and its supporters. The Government believed that, if a lasting peace was to be achieved, there was a need for a negotiated settlement between all the parties to the conflict, with the support of the front line states. We were aware of the very great difficulties and the failure of earlier attempts to achieve a settlement, but we saw the Commonwealth Heads of Government meeting as providing perhaps the last opportunity for a peaceful settlement. Because of this, and because we value the Commonwealth as a body, the Government worked vigorously to develop a consensus at Lusaka on principles that might allow a settlement to be made. At Lusaka, agreement was reached on six principles that might underlie a peaceful all-party settlement. Shortly thereafter, the British Government convened a conference in London of the opposing parties. 
The Conference has been a difficult exercise. Agreement has now been reached on an independence constitution, and on arrangements for the transitional period leading to the holding of free and fully democratic elections in Rhodesia. The Conference is now in its third and final phase- negotiation of arrangements for establishing and maintaing a ceasefire during the transitional period. Provided that this third phase can be successfully concluded, a British Governor will shortly thereafter arrive in Salisbury to assume control of the administration of the country in the transitional period. President Kaunda's call for a mobilisation of Zambian forces demonstrates the tensions that exist in the southern African region and underlines further the need for a prompt settlement to be reached in London to benefit not only the people of Rhodesia itself but also those in the neighbouring countries. 
In the hope and expectation that an all-parties package agreement may be achieved in London, the British Government has sought Australian assistance in the implementation of that agreement in two respects. Firstly, and as the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  announced on 9 November, the British Government has requested the Australian Government to contribute a contingent to a Commonwealth military ceasefire monitoring force. This request came at a difficult point in the negotiation of arrangement for the transitional period. The Australian Government agreed in principle to this request, subject to an all-parties settlement being reached in London and subject to satisfactory arrangements being worked out for the operation of the Australian contingent. We have since learned that our agreement, and that of the other Commonwealth countries asked to contribute contingents, greatly assisted the successful negotiation of arrangements for the transitional period. 
Discussions are proceeding with Britain on these matters, and planning for the Australian contingent is well advanced. The Australian Government has also agreed in principle to assist with the movement of a Fijian contingent from Fiji to Rhodesia, and has agreed to consult with Fiji about the extent to which Australia can provide in-country support to the Fijian contingent. The Commonwealth ceasefire monitoring force will include teams from Britain, Australia, Fiji, Kenya and New Zealand. It will not be physically involved in the maintenance of the ceasefire; nor will it have any responsibility for the maintenance of law and order during the transitional period. Its sole function will be to observe and to report that the agreed ceasefire is being correctly maintained. The safety of the 
Australian contingent- and also of the Australian election observers in Rhodesia, to whom I shall refer in a moment- is a matter of particular concern to the Australian Government. In the event of any serious breakdown of law and order in Rhodesia in which the lives of Australian personnel could be at risk, they would be immediately withdrawn after appropriate advice to the British Government. The Australian defence authorities are giving close consideration to all aspects of the physical security and legal protection of Australian soldiers taking part in a Commonwealth ceasefire monitoring force in Rhodesia. 
The anticipated duration of the assignment is governed by the length of the transitional period leading up to the elections. It has been agreed at the London Conference that this period would be limited to two months. Allowing time for the announcement of election results and the installation of the new Government, and travel between Australia and Rhodesia, the Australian contingent could be expected to be outside Australia for a maximum of  Vh  months. The  Deputy  Prime Minister indicated on 9 November that Britain had requested 10 teams of 1 1 men each-a total of 1 10 men. With a national headquarters staff, this could require a total Australian force of up to 135. It is possible that in the event, a smaller Australian contribution may be all that is needed, depending on the final assessment of the monitoring requirement. 
The second area in which Australia has been asked to assist is the sending of election observers. The Lusaka agreement provided for Commonwealth observers to be present during the elections. The British Government has now invited Australia to send a group of such observers to Rhodesia for the pre-election period and the elections. The Government has agreed to send eight persons, provided that a settlement is reached which is in accordance with our understanding of the Lusaka agreement. The composition of the group and its travel and financial arrrangements will be decided following consultations among interested Ministers. The main task of the group will be to report to the Australian Government and Parliament on the conduct of the elections. A small Australian liaison office will be established in Salisbury for the duration of the transitional period. It will maintain liaison with and provide political advice to the ceasefire monitoring contingent and assist the Australian election observers. It will also serve as a direct point of contact between the Australian 
Government and the British authorities in Salisbury. 
I also wish to state the Government's position on the removal of the sanctions that have been in force against Rhodesia since the unilateral declaration of independence in 1965. It is possible to engage in some fine legal distinctions about the obligations of United Nations members in regard to the lifting of sanctions. It seems clear to the Government, however, that when all the Rhodesian parties concerned and the British Government have freely agreed to an independence Constitution, freely agreed on arrangements for the holding of elections and the implementation of that Constitution, and when British authority has been re-established in Rhodesia for the purpose of instituting those arrangements, then the objectives for which sanctions were originally imposed will have been achieved. We recognise that for a number of reasons there may be some delay before the United Nations Security Council might be able to take the formal steps which may be thought necessary in respect of sanctions. We hope this process will not be long. For Australia, however, as we are likely to have Australian military and civilian personnel and an Australian liaison office in Rhodesia during the period leading up to independence and as we will, in the circumstances I have described, be satisfied that the objectives for which sanctions were imposed have been achieved, the Government considers- I believe all Members of the House will agree with this-that it would be inappropriate for it to maintain sanctions during that time. A further announcement will be made on this matter in due course. 
Finally, I wish to emphasise that the Government's intention in making this statement is to inform honourable members of the Government's present intentions and commitments regarding Australian involvement in a Rhodesian settlement, in the event that events at the London Conference proceed to a successful conclusion along the lines that we now hope for. 
However, I must end on a note of caution. While it is now reasonable to be generally optimistic about the London Conference's chances of achieving a final agreed settlement- bearing in mind that the Conference has made enormous progress against heavy odds already- we cannot be certain that it will do so. The agreements achieved so far in London are conditional on an agreed total package, and the discussion of ceasefire arrangements will throw up further difficulties. The Australian Government will therefore take into account developments in the final phase of the London Conference in determining its final position on participation in Rhodesian settlement arrangements. The success of the London Conference to date is most gratifying to the Australian Government. 
-Thank you, indeed. Thanks are also due to the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  It offers real hope that the hatreds and suspicions of the past decades may finally be overcome, in the spirit of the Lusaka agreement. If this can be achieved then the people of Rhodesia can look forward to a happier future that has been for so long denied to them. All Australians will, I am sure, share my hope that the settlement that is now in sight in London may be achieved. I present the following paper: 
Rhodesia- Anticipated Settlement- Ministerial Statement, 22 November 1979. 
Motion (by  Mr Ellicott)  proposed: 
That the House take note of the paper. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Since my answer to the honourable member's question none of the agreements then under negotiation has yet been concluded. The status of the various negotiations is currently under review by the Departments of Foreign Affairs and Defence. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
I refer the honourable member to the Minister for National Development's answer to the House of Representatives Question No. 4328  (Hansard,  6 November 1979, page 2657). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
A diplomatic conference was convened in Geneva in 1977 to adopt a Convention on Territorial Asylum but failed to complete its consideration of all the draft articles submitted. No decision has been taken on reconvening the conference. The United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees has continued his consultations with governments on thus matter and in his latest report to the General Assembly has stated that in the light of these consultations it would appear that the convening of a future session of the conference may be premature at the present. The matter is, however, being pursued by the High Commissioner who will report on further progress in due course. 
At its thirtieth session in 1975, the United Nations General Assembly debated the report of the SecretaryGeneral on the question of diplomatic asylum which had been prepared at the request of the General Assembly at its twenty-ninth session in 1974, and decided to give further consideration to this question at a future session of the General Assembly. Informal consultations indicate that more time may be needed before further consideration of this question should take place. The Government will continue to keep the matter under review, so that if and when it appears that the time is ripe for further consideration the question can be raised for consideration at a future session of the General Assembly. The Government believes that the discussion of the question at the General Assembly in 1974 and 1975 was both timely and valuable and it is confident that the discussion will bear fruit eventually in the form of a deeper international understanding of the humanitarian considerations behind the practice of diplomatic asylum. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Australia is not a party to the Convention on Registration of Objects Launched into Outer Space. The matter, however, is under consideration. 
The Treaty on Principles Governing the Activities of States in the Exploration and Use of Outer Space, including the Moon and Other Celestial Bodies was ratified by Australia on 10 October 1967 and it entered into force on that date. 
Article VI of the Treaty obliges States Parties to the Treaty to bear international responsibility for national activities in outer space, including the moon and other celestial bodies. The Treaty refers to the State on whose registry an object launched into space is carried, principally in Article VIII. 
Australia acceded to the Convention on International Liability for Damage Caused by Space Objects on 20 January 1975. 
Yes. 
The effectiveness of the Treaty on Principles Governing the Activities of States in the Exploration and Use of Outer Space, including the Moon and Other Celestial Bodies and the Convention on International Liability for Damage Caused by Space Objects is not entirely dependent on the establishment of a central register of objects launched into outer space as referred to in the 'Convention On Registration of Objects Launched into Outer Space' but it has been felt that as the number of space objects would progressively increase, it would become more necessary to have an adequate means of identifying different objects, such as a State Register and a central register maintained by the SecretaryGeneral of the United Nations, and that a mandatory system of registering objects would contribute to the application and development of international law governing the exploration and use of outer space. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
A number of positions has been allocated in my Depanment specifically for activities devoted to some aspect of the marketing, use, supervision, control and assessment of Australia's uranium ore and /or the products, services and activities derived from its existence. It is estimated that in a full year the salaries and other administrative expenses would represent 0.02 per cent of the costs of administration of the Depanment. 
Activities related to uranium matters have been undertaken by a number of officers of my Depanment from time to time as pan of their normal duties. It is not practicable to provide a satisfactory estimate of the costs of these activities. 
It is estimated that in 1979-80 the costs described above will represent 0.02 per cent of the costs of administration of my Depanment. 
These figures do not include the costs, met by my Department, in respect of the appointment of  Mr Justice  Fox as Ambassador-at-Large for Nuclear Non-Proliferation and Safeguards. Details of those costs were provided in my answer to  Senator Button's  question upon notice of 29 May 1979 (Question No. 1641) and appear in  Hansard  of 23 August 1979. 
Science and the Environment: Uranium  (Question No.  4450) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) The question refers to confidential advice to my Department regrettably leaked to the media. In carrying out their responsibilities to protect and advance Australian interests, Australia's representatives abroad are involved in the submission of advice which is considered but not necessarily followed. 
No. Statements on the matter were made by the Singapore and Western Australian Governments in December 1978 and were reported in the Press at the time. The Australian Government has not been approached by the Singapore Government on the matter. 
No. The Government has sought to keep informed about the facts of the matter which it hopes can be satisfactorily resolved between the Companies concerned in Australia and Singapore. 
Aboriginal Self -management: Barwon Community  (Question No.  4855) 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) Australia 's title in international law rests on acts of discovery and formal claims of title by British and Australian explorers, the formal transfer of the territory from Britain to Australia and Australian acceptance by legislation, and subsequent acts showing an intention by Australia to exercise sovereignty over the Territory. This intention is demonstrated, inter alia, by the application by Australia of legislation to the Territory, the negotiation and conclusion of Treaties affecting the Territory and by engagement in a degree of administrative activity there. Having regard to the particular physical conditions experienced in Antarctica, a principal form of Australian administrative activity is related to the presence of Australian scientific research bases and a program of exploration and scientific work in the Australian Antarctic Territory. 
I am not aware of any such reactions as were reported in the  Australian.  Nor were there any Third World observers at the Tenth Antarctic Treaty Consultative Meeting. Two Third World countries- Argentina and Chile- did participate as Antarctic Treaty Consultative Parties. Neither have ever expressed to us any displeasure about Australia's sovereignty claims. 
No such statements were made by United States officials to any Australian representatives at the Tenth Antarctic Treaty Consultative Meeting. Australia's position in relation to the Australian Antarctic Territory is well known to the United States authorities. 
I am not aware of any article on Antarctica in the  Washington Post  of 18 September 1979, but on 17 September 1 979 an article in the  Washington Post  reported comments made by the leader of the Australian delegation, Ambassador Brennan, in response to several questions directed to him at a press briefing seminar on 'Antarctic Resources and the Environment' held in Washington on 14 September 1979. Ambassador Brennan 's comments reflected Australia's official position. 
Australia already participates in an important international regime in Antarctica; that is, the regime established by the Antarctic Treaty. Our support for that regime is based in pan on the fact that one of its principal purposes is to ensure that Antarctica continues to be used only for peaceful purposes. In the twenty years since the Treaty was signed Australia and the other Antarctic Treaty Consultative Parties have adopted and implemented many measures in furtherance of the objectives of the Treaty, including measures for the protection and preservation of the Antarctic environment. The Parties have also turned their attention to the problems associated with issues relating to the living and non-living resources of Antarctica. Australia is thus not insensitive to developing international interest, including 
Third World interest, in Antarctica. As I said in a Foreign Policy statement in the House on IS March 1977, Australia sees the need to define its national interest in Antarctica in terms which recognise its potential importance to the whole of mankind. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (3)I have seen the Fourth Annual Report of the Commissioner for Community Relations. Relevant aspects of it, including the statement attributed to  Mr Alston,  are currently under study in my Department as well as in a number of other Departments including, of course, the Attorney-General 's Department 
Australia, as a State Party to the International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination, submits national reports to the Committee established under that Convention whose task it is to consider measures taken to give effect to the Convention. The Second Australian Report, which was prepared in close consultation with my Department, was considered by the Committee at its Twentieth Session in August this year and the Committee found it satisfactory. Australia takes its obligations under the Convention seriously and Departments are fully aware of the Government's determination to ensure that these obligations are met. 
The Commissioner's Report (on page 13) itself describes  Mr Alston  as the National  President  of the United Nations Association of Australia. He is also the  President  of the Liberal Party of Australia (Victorian Division). 
and (5) The question of the dissemination in Australia of ideas based on racial superiority or racial hatred is currently being studied by my colleague, the Attorney-General. 
It is not open to the Committee on the Elimination of Racial Discrimination to receive and consider communications from the Foundation for Aboriginal and Island Research Action in the matter mentioned in the question. 
and (8) No reports or requests concerning this fund have yet come to the notice of the Government. I should, however, note that legal defence for Australian aboriginals involved in both criminal and civil legal matters is provided by eleven independent Aboriginal legal services operating from nearly fifty offices in all States and the Northern Territory. $4.8m was appropriated by the Government for the support of these services in 1979-80. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
to (5) The Australian Government continues to recognise the Pol Pot regime of Democratic Kampuchea. The Government has maintained the recognition that was bestowed by the former Australian Government in 197S. The United States Government never recognised the Pol Pot regime. The Heng Samrin regime of the People's Republic of Kampuchea, which was installed in Phnom Penh following Vietnam's armed intervention in Kampuchea, does not appear to have superior claims to recognition. Only 23 countries, most of which are pro-Soviet, recognise the Heng Samrin regime. There is evidence to suggest that, without Vietnam's active military support and presence, the Heng Samrin regime could not survive. 
Australia and other like-minded countries in the region cannot condone Vietnam's use of force to overthrow the legitimate government in Kampuchea. De-recognition of the Pol Pot regime could be interpreted as tantamount to endorsing the right of Vietnam to intervene militarily in the affairs of other states in the region. 
The Government's policy towards Kampuchea is based on the belief that only a negotiated settlement, in which all interests are involved, can bring peace and stability to Kampuchea. A pre-requisite for the establishment of an independent, neutral and popular government in Kampuchea, free of Great Power rivalries, is the withdrawal of Vietnamese armed forces. The Government would be willing to support any international efforts to achieve these objectives. 
On 17 April the Australian Government announced its recognition of the new Government in Uganda headed then by  Dr Youssufu  Lule and now by  Mr Godfrey  Binaisa. The Australian Government upholds those general international principles which call for respect for international borders and the sovereign integrity of States, and the settlement of disputes by peaceful means. For this reason it cannot condone the Tanzanian incursion. There are, however, elements in this situation which make it a special case. The authority of the administration in Kampala extends throughout the country, whereas the Heng Samrin regime in Phnom Penh does not effectively control Kampuchea and would not in any case survive without the support of the Vietnamese armed forces. 
and (8) The situations in East Africa, East Timor and Indo-China are not comparable or analogous. 
No. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
The Government had evidence prior to May 1979 which accorded with  Mr Pickering's  statement 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
No. 
The guidelines of the Nuclear Suppliers Group require suppliers to exercise restraint in the transfer of sensitive technologies, such as enrichment plants, equipment or technology. They also require International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) safeguards to be applied to equipment, other than analytical instruments, especially designed or prepared for the separation of isotopes of uranium which is transferred. If such sensitive technologies are transferred, suppliers are also required to encourage recipients to accept supplier involvement and /or other appropriate multinational participation in facilities. The detailed obligations of suppliers concerning any transfer to a non-nuclear-weapon state of enrichment technology are set out in IAEA document INFCIRC/254. I believe that it would be fully consistent with the objectives of the guidelines to interpret those applying to the transfer of equipment and associated technology especially designed or prepared for the separation of isotopes of uranium, as including laser isotope separation. 
Laser isotope separation facilities were not specifically included on the trigger list because, at the time that it was compiled enrichment of uranium by laser techniques was at an early stage of research and development. 
The Government understands that, in addition to Australia, the following countries are conducting research and development on laser isotope separation of uranium: the Federal Republic of Germany, France, Israel, Italy, Japan, the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, the United Kingdom and the United States of America. There are indications that some additional countries have at some time carried out initial investigations on enrichment of uranium by laser isotope separation methods, but it is not clear whether they have carried these further. 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
Yes. 
No. I have seen various recent estimates given publicity in the news media but reliable statistics which would establish their accuracy are not available. I note that the Indonesian Foreign Minister,  Dr Mochtar  was quoted by the London  Financial Times  as saying on 15 November that about 60,000 people had died in East Timor since the withdrawal of the Portuguese authorities in August 1975, as a result either of civil war or starvation. He was also reported as saying that, in the absence of a proper census, it was not possible to give precise figures. 
I am aware of various allegations that the Indonesian authorities have practised genocide in East Timor. I am not aware of any evidence to substantiate these allegations. 
Yes. 
See answer to (4). 
The answer to the honourable member's question is as follows: 
1 ) and (2) The formal framework to promote relations between ASEAN and Australia is that described in paragraph one of the answer to Question No. 4568. The 'early warning system' is one component of the arrangements on trade and operates under the ASEAN-Australia Consultative Meetings. It provides for reasonable prior notification to ASEAN to allow for its effective consultation and representation in respect of items of trade interest. Details of the early warning system were announced by the Minister for Foreign Affairs on 13 November 1978 (copy available in Parliamentary Library). 
The Association of South East Asian Nations is not a party, as an Association, to any international agreement. While ASEAN may negotiate terms for its members as a group the agreements concluded between the members and other countries are bilateral. It is understood that the proposed agreement between ASEAN members and the Economic Community will, in practice, consist of five bilateral agreements. As noted in the answer to Question No. 4568 Australia already has several bilateral trade agreements with ASEAN countries. These now include a trade agreement with Thailand signed on 5 October 1 979. 
The eventual conclusion of a Cooperation Agreement between the European Communities and the ASEAN countries is not expected to disadvantage Australia's opportunities for industrial cooperation. It is considered that adequate opportunities for industrial cooperation exists between 
Australia and ASEAN members under the ASEANAustralia Economic Cooperation Program, Australia's bilateral economic agreements and, more generally, through arrangements in the private sector. Also, in this regard Australia already has agreements on double taxation avoidance with Singapore and the Philippines. Negotiations have recently concluded successfully with Malaysia and have begun with Thailand on similar agreements. Officials of ASEAN member countries and Australia have agreed to discuss on some future occasion the desirability of concluding investment guarantees. 
The answers to the honourable member's questions are as follows*. 
Yes. 
) and (3 ) The Australian Government has not discussed these matters with the Saudi Arabian Government The factors which contribute to Saudi Arabia's pricing policies are a matter for Saudi Arabia to determine for itself. 
So far as Australia is concerned the oil companies operate within the framework of oil pricing policies and taxation measures determined by the Government and clearly spelled out in the Prime Minister's Energy Statement of 27 June 1979 and in the Budget Statement of 21 August 1979. 
Throughout 1979- a year marked by serious disruptions in the international oil markets- Saudi Arabia has maintained moderate and responsible policies in regard to the pricing and supply of its crude oil. Naturally the Government hopes that Saudi Arabia will be willing to maintain its moderate pricing policies and the production levels on which they are based. We consider that the best way Australia can encourage Saudi Arabia in this matter is for us to take action both domestically and internationally to encourage exploration for oil, to conserve oil and to encourage the development of alternative energy sources. As is also clear from the Government's statements refered to above, Australia has appropriate policies in place to pursue these aims. 
