Is the Minister for External Territories aware that a considerable number of policemen of South African nationality are employed in the Territory of Papua and New Guinea Police Force? If so, how were they recruited, and is it the policy of the Government to employ policemen from a racist country with the object of keeping 'the natives' in check? 
I wish to speak on the subject of Aboriginal health and housing. 1 mention this matter this evening because although it was raised yesterday as a matter of urgency the debate was gagged and I did not have the opportunity to say a lot of things I would like to have said. I would like to mention that during that debate - a most important debate for about 140,000 Aboriginals in this country - the benches on the Government side of the House were almost empty. There were twenty to thirty members of the Opposition but only six or seven Government supporters present when the debate started. That should show the people of Australia just how interested the Government is in Aboriginals. Three honourable members on the Government side, the honourable members for Kennedy  (Mr Katter),  Gwydir  (Mr Hunt)  and the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder),  who represent electorates with a large population of Aboriginals, were present. I was pleased to see them in the chamber. 
Having listened to the reply of the Minister in Charge of Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Wentworth)  to the matters raised by the honourable member for Fremantle  (Mr Beazley)  yesterday, I would like to say that I was not impressed with his statement that he has no accurate figures relating to Aboriginal health. It seems to me that one of the first things that ought to have been done when the Minister took charge of Aboriginal affairs was immediately to have a survey taken to determine the exact situation. We need to know the exact state of health of Aboriginals throughout Australia, the types of disease they suffer, and how prevalent those diseases are. I ask the Minister: What steps is he taking now to see that comprehensive surveys are carried out? It is extremely difficult for any of us to analyse the situation unless we have proper statistics. Not only are honourable members on this side of the House lacking this information. I shall quote once again from what  Dr Coombs  said in his address to the Australasian College of Physicians. He said: 
Information about Aboriginal health is fragmentary. Since Aboriginals are not recorded separately it is impossible to make comprehensive comparisons of their health experience as compared with that of the community generally. We can rely therefore only on the result of surveys and studies of particular localities and communities and comparisons of areas with known predominantly Aboriginal population with others. 
The results of such surveys and comparisons are far from complete and have not been brought together by competent authorities in a systematic way. 
Nearly 3 years have elapsed since the Government was given the responsibility for Aboriginal welfare and still no accurate figures are available about almost any area that requires concentrated attention - health, education or housing. 
In his reply the Minister said that this was a complex problem. He does not have to remind honourable members on the Opposition side that it is a complex problem. We are well aware of this. We are well aware that all those areas are inter-related but the first step in making this matter less complex would have been to ascertain accurate statistics. What effort is the Minister making to ascertain these figures? One wonders what would happen if accurate statistics were required in one of the fields of primary industry. They soon would be ascertained. The pressure groups in the Country Party would make sure of this. 
We know that the Minister would like to do more. The problem is that he does not seem to be able to get any help from the Cabinet or from honourable members on the Government side. The honourable member for Fremantle outlined in detail various deficiencies in Aboriginal health and the appalling situation that prevails at the moment. In my maiden speech in this House 1 quoted also from the Australian Medical Journal and other sources. I do not intend to go into technical and medical details tonight because they have already been quoted twice in Hansard. Once again 1 want to quote a description of the health of Aboriginals given by  Dr Coombs.  I believe this sums up the situation perfectly. He said: 
If an Aboriginal baby is born today it has a much better than average chance of being dead within 2 years. If it does survive it has a much better than average chance of suffering from substandard nutrition to a degree likely permanently to handicap it in its physical and mental potential and in its resistance to disease. It is likely in its childhood years to suffer from a wide range of diseases but particularly ENT and respiratory infections, from gastroenteritis, from trachoma and other eye infections. If it reaches the teen ages it is likely to be ignorant of and lacking in sound hygienic habits, without vocational training, unemployed, maladjusted, and hostile to society. If it reaches adult age it is likely to be lethargic, irresponsible and, above all, poverty stricken - unable to break out of the iron circle of poverty, ignorance, malnutrition, ill-health, social isolation, and antagonism: If it lives in the north it has a good chance of being maimed by leprosy and, wherever, its search for affection and companionship may well end only in the misery of VD. If it happens to be a girl it is likely to conceive a baby at an age when her white contemporary is screaming innocent adulation at some 'pop' star and she will continue to bear babies every 12 or 18 months until she reaches double figures or dies of exhaustion.  1 detailed in my maiden speech the appalling conditions of housing in the north west of New South Wales and I said that if the Government were really fair dinkum on the question of Aboriginals it ought to get to the root cause of this ill-health and that is the housing conditions which exist within this country.  1  do not have a great deal of time left as  10  minutes pass much more quickly than  1  thought. I intended to quote from a report of the Royal Australian Institute of Architects. This report was compiled, as I am sure the Minister is aware, by one of Australia's leading architects,  Mr Ian  McKay, twice winner of the Sulman Award. He was recently appointed by the National Capital Development Commission to undertake some major projects in the Woden Valley. I do not have time to cite figures in detail but I am sure the Minister has seen them. In his report  Mr McKay  pointed out that in mid  1968  in New South Wales alone, where the housing survey was done,  2,520  homes were needed. If the population predictions were correct, by  1978  another  1,700  homes would be needed. I have been through all of the Minister's reports and I have been through all of the reports of the Office of Aboriginal Affairs. These reports disclose that in the year  1968-69,  the figures for which are the only ones available at the moment - I quote from the Office of Aboriginal Affairs booklet 'Kunmanggur' -  $525,000  was spent on housing in New South Wales out of a total of  52,297,000.  For this amount  65  homes were built in New South Wales. If  Mr McKay's  figures are correct and we need  2,520  homes now and another  1,700  within the next  10  years, we are falling behind at the rate of  65  homes per year. That is the situation as far as housing is concerned but I hope the Minister can prove that I am incorrect. 
The question of health as you know,  Sir. is  vital. As I look through recent publication No.  2  of 'Kanmanggur' from the Office of Aboriginal Affairs I see that of  550,000  spent in New South Wales,  $25,000  went to the Boomerang campaign appeal. For the provision of community nurses in various rural and outback areas the grand sum of  $1,500  was provided. I do not know what can be done with  $1,500  but if that is all that can be spent on rural nursing in outback areas, I think it is a joke. Another  $1,500  was spent on sessional fees to medical practitioners in various country areas. To me, that amount is in the same category. I am not condemning the Minister; I am condemning the Government. It is a disgrace that this situation has occurred. I do not think the Government is making any real effort. It is just window dressing. I hope that the Minister can show us that something real is being done. 
Is the Minister for External Affairs aware that the SecretaryGeneral of the United Nations, instructed by the General Assembly, has addressed letters to all member states requesting them to participate in activities for 1971 which the United Nations has designated International Year for Action to Combat Racism and Racial Discrimination? Will the Minister tell the House what answer has been given by the Government to this request and whether it proposes to undertake a programme of activities for the International Year? 
I address my question to the Postmaster-General. When a person makes a trunk call and is requested by the exchange to supply his connect number is it possible for him to give an incorrect charge number in breach of the law and remain undetected? 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Has the Development Bank made a loan to  'Mr Juicy',  a citrus products firm, for the&gt; establishment of a citrus juice factory in the electoral division of Robertson. 
If so, what was the amount of the loan. 
Firstly, let me compliment the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner)  on his speech. He always makes a worthwhile contribution, and as one of the newer members of this House I am highly impressed with his independence. He touched, briefly, on a subject about which 1 intend to speak, and that is the question of southern Africa. On 
Tuesday evening of this week the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  in his reply to the statement of the Minister for External Affairs  (Mr McMahon)  detailed the appalling record of this Government's support in the United Nations and at home for the white supremist regimes of South Africa, Rhodesia and Portugal. He demonstrated quite clearly our standing with neighbours in the near north, the newly emerging countries of Africa and almost all the other countries in the world. Through our consistent support we have become identified as a racist country. 1 heard of an experience of one of the new Government Ministers who, when on a tour of South East Asian countries recently, was shocked to find in what low esteem we are held in these countries. Those we call our allies are aware of our immigration policy that excludes most of those with coloured skin. They are aware of our treatment, or should I say lack of treatment, of the Aboriginal. They know of our desire to delay our departure from New Guinea because of our sympathy for expatriate business interests. All these black marks against our national record pale beside our support of these regimes. 
The Government has never bothered to explain why it has such an affinity for South Africa, Rhodesia and Portugal. What disturbs me, however, is that it has never repudiated publicly those members within its own ranks who go past the Government's official1 stance and actively campaign both at home and abroad for a closer relationship and who champion the cause of these regimes in every public or private forum available and who tend to confirm the view that Australia is a racist country. 
In my maiden speech 1 made mention of three members who are admirers of the white southern African dictatorship. Let me detail some of the recent statements by two of these honourable gentlemen. The honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay)  caused quite a stir, just prior to the opening session of this Parliament, when he appeared on Rhodesian television, and I quote from a text of the Salisbury interview that appeared in the 'Canberra Times' on 28th February 1970: 
Question: How similar do you think Australia and southern Africa are, both in climate and outlook and so on? 
Answer: Well we are very similar as far as climate and people and in outlook, but politically we're a little different, I think. You're much more advanced that we are. At the moment we're almost a communist state. 
Sounds incredible doesn't it? 
There was an unintelligible question and  Mr McLeay  continued: 
Answer: Oh I deplore it. And it's interesting to come and see the way that you've got on top of this problem. In fact, I'm taking home some of your pieces of legislation and I aim to introduce them as private member's Bills to see if we can do something about this. 
 The honourable member for Boothby. 
To the Liberal Party. Later in the interview he concluded: 
And I would like to see a much closer alliance between South Africa and ourselves. I'm disappointed to note that we don't even exchange attaches. It seems to me that this is crazy. 
Well I suppose that depends on who your psychiatrist is. 
Now, let us look at some of the more eloquent ramblings of the honourable member for Chisholm  (Sir Wilfrid Kent Hughes).  On page 419 of Hansard on 12th March of this year, when speaking on the defence statement, he said: 
The Communist attempt at world conquest today has two objectives. One is to capture the rice bowl of South East Asia and the other is to take over the Cape route . . . from the Atlantic into the Indian and Pacific Oceans. The Cape today, irrespective of whether you like the internal policies of South Africa, Rhodesia or Portugal- 
Then some unruly member on this side of the House - I believe it was I - exclaimed: We do not', and the honourable member continued: 
No I am not particularly in support of some of the things that are going on there and I agree with you, but they are their internal policies and as was said by the man whom I consider to be the best leader in Africa-  and I might mention that he does not name this person: 
If I co-operate with them I have more chance of changing what I dislike than of driving them more and more into the arms of the extreme right wing by ostracising them'. 
It is an interesting exercise in political gymnastics to classify  Mr Vorster  as anything other than extreme right wing. The honourable member continued: 
The pattern today is that Russia is steadily coming down the African continent in order to take over the Cape because the Cape is the Gibralter of the International situation today. 
What the honourable member is saying, in effect, is that the South Africans are not bad chaps really, that they are the bulwark against Communism and that we in Australia should overlooktheir little idiosyncrasies about not liking blacks and join with them in a defence pact as we are also threatened by the downward thrust of Communism through South East Asia. 
It is not my intention to examine this time the honourable member's 'downward thrust' theories or the graphic picture he paints of the so-called Communist influence on the newly emerging countries. There will be plenty of time in future debates to deal with that drivel. What I want to demonstrate is just what sort of allies the honourable members for Boothby and Chisholm suggest we align ourselves with. I ought to be able to demonstrate two things: Either they are abysmally ignorant of the true picture of the internal policies of the white supremists or, much worse, they are aware of, and do in fact agree with and sympathise with, their attitude and policies. 
It is important that this House be made aware of the true political philosophies of some of the honourable members on the Government side. For a party that is so used to fighting political campaigns with little else than the smear, one could be excused for quoting the old cliche about people in glass houses. One of the things that never ceases to amaze me is that so few people are really aware of what the real picture is, and I include politicians in this criticism. It is my belief that if every member in this House was fully aware of the situation rather than the glossy Kruger National Park image that South Africa presents to the world, then we would rip the veneer of respectability and acceptability that these members have from them. They would be shown for what they are - overt supporters of Totalitarian and Fascist regimes. 
The average Australian man in the street, when asked what he thinks about South Africa, would probably say he had a vague idea that apartheid in South Africa meant that the blacks were not paid quite as well as the whites, that they had to use separate public facilities and that they could not play in multi-racial sporting teams. He would have a vague disquiet about apartheid and probably say he did not support it. What he would not know is how completely apartheid has separated, segregated, humiliated, oppressed and suppressed the lives of the 16 million who are black or coloured, to the point where they have been reduced to little more than numerical units for the white man's labour force. They are treated little better than we treat our livestock. 
What I want to highlight is that the very evil that the members for Boothby and Chisholm and I believe the Minister for the Navy  (Mr Killen)  wish to save southern Africa from - Communism - could hardly be worse than the present ideology they now live under - Fascism. Playing cricket and rugby does not make people democrats. What one ought to do is trace the political history of the present clique that rules and has ruled South Africa since the Nationalists ousted General Smuts in 1948. Adolf Hitler had few greater admirers than  Dr Malan, Mr Strijdom, Dr Verwoerd  and  Mr Vorster.  They added to their racist doctrine, virulent anti-Semitism and formed an unholy alliance with Boerenasie - the Greyshirts an organisation that imitated in style and content the Blackshirts and Brownshirts of Nazi Germany. While the present regime has outlawed the Communist Party, the Pan African Congress, the African National Congress and the Congress of Democrats and has caused the total disintegration of the Liberal Party, openly Fascist and antiSemitic organisations and individuals are allowed to continue with their activities unchecked. World Nazi organisations have branches in South Africa where the political climate is regarded as being particularly favourable to them. The Mosleyites of Britain are constant visitors to South Africa. May I quote William Webster, an envoy of  Sir Oswald  Mosley who in 1962 had an audience with  Mr J.  W. F. Haak, a recent guest of the New South Wales Government, who at that time was  Deputy  Minister of Economic Affairs. He said: 
The Nationalists have the right idea. They are much shrewder than you think. They are following the same path as Hitler did, but they will not be as hasty as he was. They are going very slowly now, but they will smash their enemies in the end. 
In this sphere of politics South Africa has not unnaturally replaced Nazi Germany as the fountainhead of inspiration for the world's Fascist organisations. If the great struggle today is regarded as being not between Jew and Gentile, but between black and white, then it is understandable that in the eyes of Fascists the world over, Vorster and his predecessors should be seen to have assumed the tattered mantle once worn by Hitler. They have risen like a phoenix from the ashes of Nazi Germany. 
It is possible that some members will accuse me of being emotional so for the rest of this speech I intend to detail some of the more exquisite pieces of legislation that have been enacted during the 22 years of Nationalist rule. I hope those members on the other side who have legal1 experience - and I believe there are quite a number - will listen intently and appreciate the finesse with which successive South African governments have raised discrimination to a fine legislative art. The Acts brought down by successive South African governments - Acts that were introduced under the cloak of democracy - are such that they violate almost every single article of the United Nations Declaration of Human Rights. They have made a mockery of the word democracy' for they have created a society where 3± million white people have unprecedented power over the rights and freedom of 16 million black and coloured people. The label on the package is 'Apartheid', meaning separate development, but the contents and the reality are racial dicrimination, exploitation and degradation. The whole structure of South African society is based upon discrimination between the different racial groups. The essence of government policy is the separation of the people of different racial origins and the elimination, as far as possible, of contact between them. 
Racial classification was officially introduced in 1950 with the Population 
Registration Act. Under the Act the population was divided into three categories: white, Bantu or black, and coloured. The Government has power to proclaim subcategories for certain categories within the Bantu and coloured categories for certain purposes. The following sub-categories have been proclaimed for coloured persons: Cape Coloured, Malay, Griqua, Chinese, Indian, other Asian and other coloured. Japanese are classified as white - an interesting distinction, a distinction that our friends on the other side would appreciate as it blends in perfectly with their own philosophy of 'business above all'. Who says capitalism does not have a heart? 
Whatever one can accuse the South Africans of. one cannot accuse them of not being methodical. Having classified people into racial groups they then set about separating them. The Bantu Trust and Land Act 1936. the Rural Coloured Areas Act 1963 and the Group Areas Act 1 966 achieve this. These Acts of legal land piracy effectively maintain the ownership of 87% of the land in the hands of 20% of the population. Their avarice knows no bounds. What little they give to the 16 million nonEuropeans is invariably the least productive and least viable. How have they managed to maintain this permanent ascendancy? Quite simply by keeping the control of the Parliament completely in the hands of the white minority. Only Europeans are eligible for membership of the Parliament. A total of 160 members of the House of Assembly is elected by the European electorate of South Africa. The black man, the coloured man, the Asian - a total of 16 million people - have no say in the government of the country in which they live. 
The Bantustan system of internal selfgovernment for Africans makes a mockery of democracy and is a distortion of history. A step in this direction was taken with the Promotion of Bantu Self-government Act in 1959 which divided the African population into 8 national units. The Transkei Constitution Act 1963, established the first partially self-governing homeland or Bantustan in the Transkei. Now comes the crunch. Bills passed by the Transkei Legislative Assembly are subject to the assent of the State President. 
Now let us have a look at some of the other little pearls of legal restriction that will give honourable members a clearer picture of what is occurring in South Africa. In 1960 there existed 2 organisations that represented African political aspirations - the African National Congress and the Pan African Congress. After the massacre at Sharpeville, the Government enacted the Unlawful Organisation Act 1960 which enabled the head of State to declare any organisation unlawful if he was satisfied that the safety of the public or the maintenance of public order was, or was likely to be, seriously threatened as a consequence of their activities'. The Government thus had the power to place a blanket ban over all organisations that were in any way critical of its administration or policies. The Prohibition of Improper Interference Bill, published by the Government in September 1966 will prohibit, members of one racial group from taking part in the activities of political parties or organisation of another racial group. 
Having divided, separated, categorised and restricted the movement of and between the various racial groups, how do they shut them up? Quite simply, they introduce censorship, with the Suppression of Communism Act 1950 and the Publication and Entertainments Act 1963. The later Act relates to the publication, production, importation or distribution of any "undesirable" publication or object'. Undesirable is defined as any publication that 'brings any section of the inhabitants of the Republic into ridicule or contempt; is harmful to the relations between any sections of the Republic; is prejudicial to the safety of the State, the general welfare or the peace and good order'. So much for the freedom of the Press and freedom of speech. 
Having in mind the recent debate over  Mr Wilfred  Burchett, the Attorney-General  (Mr Hughes)  should take particular note of the South African Citizenship Act 1949, which empowers the Minister of the Interior to deprive a South African citizen of his nationality if convicted of high treason, sedition or public violence. If he leaves the country without a passport he is deprived of his nationality. An African - that means a black man - is regarded as an alien, a foreign migrant when resident in white South Africa. 
So far so good, but now let us look at one of the real gems. The Prohibition of Mixed Marriage Act 1949 bans all intermarriage between people of different races and the Immorality Amendment Act 1950 makes it an offence, punishable by 5 years imprisonment, for a male and 4 years for a female, for a European and a non-European, to have sexual intercourse. One might legitimately ask: Where do the 3.5 million Cape Coloureds come from? If the honourable member for Boothby is thinking of introducing some of the legislation he studied when in southern Africa he might try himself out on a few of the labour laws. I should be interested to hear Bob Hawke's remarks if the Government copied the South African industrial conciliation Act. Under these Acts, unions are separated on racial lines but the African unions are not recognised by law and they are denied the right to strike under the Bantu Labour (Settlement of Disputes) Act 1953. To instigate or take part in a strike is an offence punishable with a fine of up to $1,000 or imprisonment for 1 to 3 years, or both. Or perhaps the Bantu Labour Act 1964 would appeal more to the honourable member for Boothby. Under this Act it is a criminal offence for Africans: 
having signed a contract to refuse or fail to enter into service under it; 
without lawful cause to leave employment or to fail to carry out the terms of his contract; 
wilfully to do or omit to do anything which, or the omission of which, is likely to cause injury to persons or property; 
to neglect to perform his duty; 
to unfit himself for work through drink or drugs; 
to refuse to obey a lawful order of, or to use insulting or abusive language to, his employer or supervisor. 
These are the laws that honourable members opposite defend. The Act continues: 
to take steps to change his job before the expiry of his contract. 
Time is running out. Unfortunately I have not the time to go into detail on these matters. It is about time that honourable members opposite thought and read about what is going on in South Africa. They should read the South African laws. If they do they will find out that they are defending Fascism of the worst type. Just because the South Africans play cricket, look like us and dress like us does not make them gentlemen. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Fox)  adjourned. 
Sitting suspended from 5.57 to 8 p.m. 

 - Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes. The honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Jess)  referred to a speech that I made and said that I had spoken about 'The Boys in the Band'. I have not mentioned that at any time. 
As I follow the honourable member for Wimmera  (Mr King)  it is interesting to note that our friends on the other side, the Country Party, appear to have got permission from their colleagues in the Liberal Party, who are now quiet on their antiCommunist bogy, to devote their evening to attacking the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby),  a man who has won the hearts and minds of the Australian rural sector. They, in their death throes, are attempting to sabotage the excellent job he is doing, but I do not think they are going to have much success. We mauled them last night but they are coming back for another try. I want to speak about something that grieves me and other honourable members here very greatly. I picked up the 'Australian' this morning and saw an article headed 'Liberals says party fails to inspire youth'. It grieves honourable members on this side of the House to see the passing of this once great party. I want to quote the article which appeared in the Australian'. The article states: 
The Liberal Party was not inspiring young people in Australia,  Mr R.  Winnel, a 22-year-old party branch  president  said yesterday. 'People like Jess- 
I do not wish to be disrespectful,  Sir. I  am just quoting from the paper - can rave on about the red bogey, but young people won't swallow it', said  Mr Winnel. 
As a matter of interest I decided to get some of the speeches of the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Jess)  and read them. They are very interesting. 
Yes, I was tired after reading them. There is not much in them. 
Of the 11 speeches the honourable member for La Trobe has made so far he has devoted 10 to attacking the Communist influence in the Australian Labor Party. He has attacked  Mr Burchett  twice. He then must have had some sort of mental aberration because he got on to airport noise. He then spoke about  Mr Burchett  again. Then he was on Labor's membership of the Foreign Affairs Committee and the Communist smear. He then spoke about law and order and I might say that when he was talking about the Labor Party being unparliamentary he referred to the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  and the honourable member for Lalor  (Dr J. F. Cairns)  as looking like apes. This was said by the man who was telling us how to behave in Parliament. Then he got the prize from one of the local papers for the most tasteless speech in years in which he attacked the honourable member for Lalor. If the honourable members care to read this one on 10th April they will know what I mean. The honourable member for La Trobe then spoke on the Vietnam Moratorium Campaign and the days and hours of meeting in which he referred to everyone as a pack of Corns. 
Young members on this side of the House expected to hear some contribution from honourable members on the other side. Apart from their front bench, all we have heard has been ravings and rantings and practically no contribution has been made to the problems that face the people of Australia. The honourable member for La 
Trobe is a classic example of this. Let me continue with the article because it is well worth reading. It is a classic. The article states: 

 Mr Winnel is  president  of the Liberal Party branch at Kingsgrove, a Sydney suburb, and  president  of the Earlwood Young Liberals. 
 Mr Winnel  has an impeccable background - in the St George electorate. The article continues: 

 Mr Winnel has attacked the Liberal leadership in the latest issue of The Australian Liberal, the official organ of the New South Wales division of the Party. 
He said in this article: 
Some months have passed since the tiresome ramblings at State Council about the Federal election. Yet even after such recent events as the wrangle between the Premiers and  Mr Gorton,  there still seems to be an air of uncertainty about the direction in which the Liberal Party is heading. "The question of leadership in the Federal Party has been properly resolved, for the present at least. 
Nevertheless, there is still a burning question in my mind as to what leadership the Liberal Party as an entity itself is providing. 
Since Menzies time, Australian politics seem to have lacked authentic leadership, in that it lacks both inspiration and dignity. 
In the last election swinging voters were prepared to vole against a government which seemed apathetic to their own particular problem. Voters were becoming more discerning not only about candidates, but also about policies. 
Now, listen to this - 
The Liberal Party can afford 'neither the extravagance of members with no new ideas or enthusiasm, nor the rashness of members more interested in writing Se autobiographies than in pursuing the interests of the people and the Party they represent. 
It gets better - 
We don't have enough divergence of opinion. By the time somebody gets into a position of power he is likely to favour the status quo. Recently young Liberals put up 10 ideas - and only one got as far as State Council, and that was watered down. It was all right for the Liberal Party to rely on the red peril in the time of Stalin, but people who have grown up in the 60s are too wise to swallow it,'  Mr Winnel  said. 
He said it was absurd to suggest that the Vietnam moratorium was a gigantic communist plot. Young Liberals won't accept the idea that there is a communist under every cabbage', he said. 
He is a very wise young man,  Mr Speaker.  There should be more of them. The article continued: 
Instead of relying on the red bogey, the Party would be better off producing candidates with enthusiasm, idealism and dignity and with a sensitivity towards people's needs as well as an awareness of social, economic and political forces. 
 I think he probably will. Quite a lot of them are coming over. A former President of the Young Liberals is now a member of the branch to which I used to belong. The article continues: 
There is no moral fibre in many of the expressions of our Government',  Mr Winnel  said. They lack a certain purpose as far as the young are concerned. They conscript young people for war but they are not pushing people into a peace corps.' 
I suggest that the honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay),  the honourable member for Chisholm  (Sir Wilfrid Kent Hughes),  the honourable member for La Trobe and the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  would do well to get that article, read it, absorb it and lake notice of what it states. 
Yes, and then retire. The Liberal Party was a great party in the time of  Sir Robert  Menzies. As to the Country Party, one has only to pick up a newspaper and read what the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr McEwen)  has had to say. He is reported to have said at Warrnambool the other day that the farmers should not cut the supply main which has fed them. He went on: 
You will get nowhere toy shooting down your front line troops from behind. 
This is beautiful stuff. I wish everybody in the cities would read the article from which I am quoting, which appeared in the 'Sunday Observer' of 19th April. It states: 
With the contempt of a self-made man for those who had it easier,  Mr McEwen  told them what he had given them in the past 20 years: 'I got a thousand million out of the Commonwealth Treasury into your pockets.' 
He boasted about it. in today's issue of the Bulletin', a half brother to the paper you can trust, a wonderful photo appeared of the honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fairbairn)  dressed as Captain Cook in a saluting pose. He looks like a potential leader of the Liberal Party. The article, written by Peter Samuel, states: 
The last few weeks have seen almost continuous bitter argument in the parliamentary Liberal Party over  Mr Gorton's  altitudes toward policy.  His  capacity for making enemies in what is supposed to be his base of support is being demonstrated as vividly as ever. The Liberal Party, before Gorton, hardly met for more than an hour each parliamentary week and hardly got beyond discussing procedural issues. Any substantive discussions on policy were a rarity. Now the party is meeting repeatedly, for as many as eight hours per parliamentary week. There is little give and take at these meetings. It is angry polemics and cool efforts at political assassination. 
This is lovely stuff. The article continues: 
Walkouts are common. The Liberal Party room has become a battleground of the most serious kind. Last week, for example, some of the most talented Liberals were devoting almost all their political energies to anti-Gorton projects. They were against him on the health scheme, against him on the Industrial Development Corporation, against him for excessive gagging on debates in the House and against him for his treatment of mc States in the offshore minerals legislation . . . Former Minister David Fairbairn is the most formidable rebel and carries probably most authority. 
Later in the article the writer in referring to rebels mentions the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns),  that great democrat the honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Jeff Bate),  the honourable member for Casey  (Mr Howson)  and the honourable member for Ballaarat  (Mr Erwin). 
That is right, you are all in it. The article goes on: 
All these mcn would deny they arc rebels. They would claim, with some justification, that they represent the traditions of the Liberal Parly and that it is  Mr Gorton  who is the rebel. 'The root cause of the trouble is that  Mr Gorton  is at heart a socialist. He is breaking every single principle that the Liberal Party stands for.' lt grieves us on this side of the House to see this once great Party disintegrate. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Is he able to say whether a firm known as Kitchens of Sara Lee' is to open a factory in Lisarow, New South Wales. 
If so, has he any information as to whether the company has any Australian shareholding or is it totally made up of American shareholders. 
Has the company received any assistance from the Development Bank. 
If so, how much. 
asked the Minister for Repatriation, upon notice: 
How many ex-servicemen or women are receiving assistance in the electoral division of Robertson. 
What proportion are they of the total population of this electoral division. 
How docs this compare with the national average. 
Is he able to say whether the New South Wales State Planning Authority has forecast a projected growth to 500,000 by the year 2000 for the shires of Gosford and Wyong, an area that approximates that of the electoral division. 
Has he ever considered opening an office of his department in the electoral division of Robertson. 
asked the Minister for External Affairs upon notice: 
What was the date and text of the United Nations General Assembly resolution on racial discrimination which he assured me on 7 April (Hansard, page 736) the Government would do all it could to implement. 
What was the voting and the Australian vote on this resolution. 
I rise today because of the concerted attacks by. honourable members on the other side of the House over the last couple of days on the Labor Party by trying to associate its members with the Communist Party. I am pleased to see that the honourable members for Boothby  (Mr McLeay)  and La Trobe  (Mr Jess)  have gone to their seats so that they can interject. We listened last night to the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  give one of his magnificent contributions and someone asked why he was not over there in Vietnam fighting - he was just the right age. I had a vision of a young man, fit and strong and a first class example of Australian manhood who ought to be in uniform. My vision was that the honourable member looked excellent. I could see the headlines in the Press: 'When 
Donnie goes off to war' and then 'When Donnie comes marching home again'. What a basis that would be for his political career in the future. 
We heard the honourable member for La Trobe give his thirteenth or fourteenth anti-Communist diatribe. It would be interesting to know whether he could talk about any other subject, for example, pollution, environment, pensions, health or any other 1 of the tremendous issues that the people of Australia are concerned about other than the anti-Communist tactic. This is just about par for the course. We do not expect much in the way of contribution from those honourable members. But again, again and again we have heard them talk about us for not criticising North Vietnam. There has never been one of you who has ever criticised your own Government. In the United States of America the whole Senate is completely divided. One after another senators have come out against American involvement. There is not 1 of you who will ever come out against it.  Senator Fulbright, Senator Mansfield, Senator Hughes  and  Senator Percy  have come out ] after the other in opposition to the involvement. They not only have questioned American involvement but are straight out opposed to it. 
Well, over 50 have come out against it and they are talking about impeaching the  President  of the United States. The honourable member for Griffith said that he wanted to know where the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  stood. It is an old business to say: 'You cannot trust Gough - he does not know where he stands'. If you read his statements and if you had gone to the front of Parliament House and listened to what he said yesterday, you would know damn well where he stood and where he has stood all the time. He is totally and completely opposed to you and your involvement in Vietnam. 
Guilt by association is one of the great tactics you use. Out in front of Parliament House yesterday it was members of the Nazi Party who were suporting the Government's position. That means, of course, that you are all Nazis if you use the same tactic or the same implication as you have with us in regard to some of the other associations. Today the honourable member for Boothby has given 1 of his few contributions since his return from Rhodesia. We have been waiting for him to get up and say what legislation he was going to introduce from Rhodesia - legislation which he admired, and what he thought would be applicable to Australian conditions. But he has not brought down some of these private members' Bills yet. What about the Ustashi that so many of your colleagues are associated with? A previous Minister for Immigration stood on a platform and behind him was a picture of a famous Nazi Party leader. When he was asked about it he said: 'Oh, I thought he was the  President  of the club'. That former Minister for Immigration is now somewhere else. What about the League of Rights? Other honourable members in this House have told me privately that this has riddled branches of the Liberal Party. The Minister for the Navy  (Mr Killen)  is such an admirer of Eric Butler. If you ever feel that you are democrats and support the League of Rights, get hold of some of Eric Butler's earlier contributions to Australian literature and read works such as 'Voices of Hate'. Then you will be enlightened about the sort of people who support you and the sort of people you support. 
You suddenly found that you were interested about Vietnam in 1960. Most of you did not know where it was. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
Has the Department of Civil Aviation ever considered the area north of The Entrance to Toukley as a site for a second international airport. 
If not, has the Department ever considered any other areas in the electoral division of Robertson. 
If so, what were they. 

 - Mr Speaker, this evening I wish to talk about something that has happened in my electorate in the last couple of days. This is disturbing many, many thousands of my constituents. Briefly, the history of events is that just prior to the commencement of the election campaign I heard a rumour that the site for the second international airport for Sydney was to be in the electorate of Robertson. I heard that this airport was to be in the area north of The Entrance with which,  Mr Speaker,  1 know you are familiar, and that you admire and love. I managed to get one of the local newspapers to print this story. Immediately there was a rush of heated telegrams and phone calls between the then Minister for Civil Aviation, who is now Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz),  and the local newspapers. These charges of mine were heatedly denied.' 
Soon after I came to this House I sought an opportunity to ask a question without notice on this subject. But, in desperation, I placed, a short while ago, the following question on notice. I asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation upon notice: 
Has the Department of Civil Aviation ever considered the area north of The Entrance to Toukley as a site for a second international airport? 
If not, has the Department ever considered any other areas in the electoral division of Robertson? 
If so, what were they? ' 
Without giving all the details of the answer given by the Minister to my question, I point out briefly that the Minister said in part: 
One such site is located in the general area south of Toukley. 
The Minister said that this site was being considered for the airport by the interdepartmental Committee set up by the Department of Civil Aviation. 
This information caused a considerable concern and distress to the people who live in the electorate of Robertson and, specifically, to those people who live in the area north of The Entrance and south of Toukley. 
I have, noticed that the honourable member for Grayndler has been interjecting during my speech. 1 am most upset that he should be doing this. He spoke last night on the problem of aircraft noise. Most of the people in his electorate are leaving that electorate - for many reasons - and are coming to live in my electorate. No sooner have they arrived there - and I am sure that the honourable member for Grayndler is part of the plot - than they find they are to have an airport literally right on top of them. Having just moved away from aircraft noise they now find themselves faced with the same problem again. 1 would ask the honourable member and the House to listen to and to sympathise with the problem that we face in Robertson. Let me make it perfectly clear that we are not totally opposed to having an airport in the area, but 1 am totally opposed to the airport being constructed on a site such as the one that has been mentioned. I am hoping that the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  and his Department will reconsider this site. We hope that, as far as an airport is concerned, this site will disappear right off the map'. 1 wish to describe the site to the House. The area proposed is approximately 7 miles long, it is about half a mile wide. At the moment, this site has a most magnificent, and unique red gum forest. This forest is one of the few of this type left in Australia. At the southern end, according to the electoral roll, some 8,000 electors live. When we add to that figure the number of children in that area, its total population would be between 11,000 and 12,000. At the northern end, the electoral enrolment is 4,000. If we add another 1,500 children we find that the approximate population residing in the 2 areas is between 15,000 and 16,000. But what is more important is that many thousands of people have weekenders there. On one side is a large lake; on the other side is the beach; and in the middle is the red gum forest. 
People have come to this area because of its unique beauty, its peacefulness and its tranquility. It has attracted specifically people who are of retirement age, like many honourable members on the other side of the House. They have come there to live out their last years in an atmosphere of peace and tranquility and away from the industrial smog and filth that is found in an electorate such as Grayndler. They have the opportunity to get away from that. Now this area is being considered by the Department of Civil Aviation as a possible airport site. 
I want the House to consider also the hundreds of thousands of people - I am not exaggerating, because it is estimated that at Christmas time 100,000 people come to The Entrance for their holidays - who come to this area for their Christmas holidays, school holidays or weekends in order to take advantage of the natural benefits. If this development should come about, it will mean the end of that. No-one will have a fishing holiday or peace and rest in a place with screaming jumbo jets flying in over the top of them. I am told by the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones),  who is probably the foremost expert on aviation and transport generally in Australia, that at least 13 miles is required for an airport - 3 miles for the actual airport itself and 5 miles on each end - and that beyond that limit the aircraft noise is tolerable but inside that limit it is quite impossible. 
I mentioned before that I had had conversations with most of the civic leaders in the area, including the Wyong shire councillors. This afternoon I spoke to Councillor Barrett, who is the  President  of the Wyong Shire, and members of the Chamber of Commerce. As such, they are not opposed to an airport. Their attitude is quite unique. Nearly all honourable members in this chamber oppose having any airport in their electorates. The honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Irwin)  becomes hysterical if anyone suggests that an airport be developed within 100 miles of Mitchell. But in my electorate we see advantages in having an airport in the electorate. 
Because of the low price of land many thousands of people have come to live there. Ours is one of the few places in New South Wales or Australia today that have a large number of unemployed people. If we look at the unemployment figures we find that, after Sydney, Newcastle and Wollongong, Gosford has the next highest figures. We also know that many thousands of people do not register for employment becuse they are retired, but they would like some casual employment. This development would bring to our area a large amount of employment and it would bring industry. For those reasons I intend to support the principle of the establishment of an airport in the Robertson electorate. But, as the honourable member for Grayndler is saying, where I would put it is the important question. 
Honourable members who are familiar with New South Wales will know that the State Planning Authority has projected growth in the electorate of Robertson - in the Gosford and Wyong shire council areas - to half a million people by the year 2000. So it is essential that we have industry and that we have development. But the State Planning Authority, in its outline plan released in about July 1968, said that the area in which it suggested an airport should go was north of Wyong in the area known as Wyee or Warnervale. That area is about 6 or 7 miles north of Wyong. An airport there would disturb a few people, but only a very few. Quite obviously, no matter where an airport is placed someone will be disturbed. But it this airport were placed in the area north of Wyong only a few hundred people, at the most, would be distressed. If it were placed in the area north of The Entrance and south of Toukley 1.6,000 permanent residents, as well as another 100,000 people who come for their holidays and many thousands of people who have weekenders, would have to put up with the suffering now experienced by the constituents represented by the honourable members for St George  (Mr Morrison),  Kingsford-Smith  (Mr Lionel Bowen)  and Grayndler. I ask the Minister whom I did invite here tonight that for the sake of the people in the area of Robertson he immediately suggest to this interdepartmental committee that it should wipe this site out of its mind. I am going to continue to pursue this matter until we get a definite answer that this site has been completely dismissed as a site for a second airport for Sydney. 
Is the Prime Minister aware that 22nd April was celebrated by millions of Americans as Earth Day and that this massive protest was against the poisoning of the atmosphere, pollution of rivers and streams, destruction of wildlife and the total rape of man's environment? Is he aware that vast numbers of Australians are similarly concerned with the growing evidence of despoliation of Australia's environment? Would he support such a demonstration by a protest movement or a moratorium if one were to be organised in Australia, or does he agree with the delegate at the Continental Congress of the Daughters of the American Revolution who said: 'Subversive elements plan to make American children live in an environment that is good for them'? 
asked the Minister for the the Interior, upon notice: 
ls it a fact that the voting population of the Australian Capital Territory will soon approximate the quota necessary for two seats in the House of Representatives: if so, will- he consider the division of the present electorate into two seats prior to the next general election. 
If consideration is given to the creation of another seat, will he, in view of the unique position that the late  Mr Jim  Fraser held in the hearts of the people of Canberra consider naming the seat 'Fraser'. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
When was the last increase granted to chemists for dispensing national health service prescriptions. 
What was the percentage increase. 
What was the basis for the calculation of the increased costs. 
What has been the overage annual cost increase of dispensing prescriptions since the last rise. 
Does the Government propose a further increase soon. 
If not, why not. 
Like other honourable members, I shall be brief. I must say that it is rather unique to be able to agree with the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Jess).  I thought his contribution this afternoon was the best I have heard from him since I entered the Parliament. 1 intend to speak to his bank manager with a view to keeping the honourable member here, at least until the end of his present term. I want to refer to one or two matters touched on by the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman).  These are matters that have caused me some con cern since 1 came to Canberra. I do not object to working about 120 hours a week, as I now am. I started with nothing and built up a fairly successful business before entering Parliament. 1 thought I was working fairly hard; I was making a fairly good income. But since entering Parliament my hours have been 3 times as long as they were in private business. To cap it all, I notice that the 'Daily Mirror' recently accused parliamentarians of spine bashing. 
support what other honourable members have said today. I have never worked as hard as I do now that I am in Parliament, and I think I worked fairly hard before t came here. Now I am considered  -  1 hope that you will excuse the term - a bludger, whereas before 1 was considered to bc a hard-working business man. I know that you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  have tried to restrict the debate to the matter of allowances, but it is hard to differentiate between salaries and allowances because they overlap a great deal. I think that the salary and allowance of a member of Parliament amounts to about $13,000. 
In my case it is a little more than $12,500. An executive - say a sales executive or the manager of a reasonably large company - is provided with a car and an allowance for operating costs. A member of Parliament has to provide his own car and pay for his petrol. In the 18 months since I purchased my present car 1 have travelled 45,000 miles. About 98% of that travelling was on electoral business. This is about double the milage 1 was doing when I was a business man. At my present rale I estimate that I will give about $1000 a year in donations. A further $1000 goes in superannuation and about $2000 in tax. In private business the car, the donations and many of the other expenses would be paid for by the company. Nobody asks a business executive to run his own car or to make donations from his own pocket. His golf club expenses and entertainment expences are provided by the company, but we have to pay such expenses out of our own pockets. The public has an erroneous impression of the amount of money we get. 
We are reminded that we have a gold pass. Big deal. So far I have used mine 3 times to see Sheffield Shield cricket matches, it has saved me about $3.50. I will not get wealthy at that rate. The Minister for the Army  (Mr Peacock)  never needs to use his gold pass. He does not cross a bridge in his travels and so does not need to show his pass to save the toll. He never needs to use his pass to see a cricket match or a football match. He is a member of the Melbourne Cricket Club, so his gold pass does not save him one cent. We have travel warrant books. We can go all over Australia, having a magnificent time. So far I have used my travel warrants only to travel between my electorate and Canberra. I have never used them for any other purpose. It does not look as if I will get an opportunity to use them except on parliamentary business. 
Recently I visited the electorate of Gwydir. In my view anybody who represents some of our outback country places should have his salary doubled. When I saw the roads with which the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt)  has to contend I said to him: 'When I get an opportunity 1 will support you in a move to get further Commonwealth assistance for country roads'. Country roads are shocking. They are a scandal. I recently travelled through the electorate of Darling. The honourable member for Darling  (Mr Fitzpatrick)  should have his allowance trebled and his salary doubled for having to represent such a large electorate. I took my car on a trip with a committee on Aboriginal Affairs and did about 2.000 miles. I ripped the insides out of it; it took me 3 weeks to get the dust out of it. We get not a cent for that sort of thing. We toured Walgett, Collarenabri Brewarrina, Bourke, Lightning Ridge, most of it in the electorates of the honourable member for Darling  (Mr Fitzpatrick)  and the honourable member for Gwyder  (Mr Hunt).  In the electorate of Darling we travelled -400 miles between villages. The allowance is quite insufficient. I am not in the situation of the honourable members 1 have mentioned. I am fortunate; my electorate is a semi-country and semimetropolitan electorate and runs about 80 miles from one end to the other. There does not seem to be any consideration for honourable members such as those I have mentioned. In my opinion they are entitled to a much larger allowance for the type of electorate they represent. 
The final point 1 want to make - I did promise the Minister I would be brief - is not on the question of allowances. It concerns the point that the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  made. He does not make many good points but this is one of them. The worst feature I find here is that we are provided only with a private secretary. We on this side are supposed to be preparing to run the country; honourable members on the other side are supposed to be running the country. I will not enter into the rights and wrongs of that. This is the role we are supposed to be playing and we are given a secretary. [ do not know what work one could prepare or what research one could do with one private secretary. 
 I rise this evening to bring to the attention of the House an event which is of some significance in view of what has been happening in England over the past few weeks. There has not been one Australian newspaper of note that has not in the past 15 or 21 days contained headlines such as Government acts on cricket tour'. I am referring to threats to cancel the English cricket tour by the South Africans. This subject has been -hotly debated in England. Probably it is the most contentious issue being discussed there at this time. I think this matter is significant because of prospective tours of Australia by South African teams in the near future. I refer to the proposed tour by the Springboks in 1971 and the South African cricketers in the season 1971-72. 
T do not think there is any need for me to remind the House of my interest in and opposition to apartheid. I am sure all honourable members are aware of it by now. I mention this matter tonight because of an interview on this subject I had last night. A report of the interview was distributed to the Press gallery last night. This morning it was published intact on the centre page of the 'Australian'. It was an interview with 4 members of last year's Wallaby team - Bruce Taafe. Jim Roxburgh, Paul Darveniza and Barry McDonald. 
I shall give a bit of information about the background of these 4 nien. They are not known for their radical views on politics. I understand they have never yet become involved in politics. They come from backgrounds that probably are more akin to those of honourable members on the Government side of the chamber than to members of the Opposition, f believe that three of them went to Cranbrook College and the other went to The Kings School. The significant thing is that, having gone to South Africa without any political views about apartheid, they have on their return made a stand which probably has never before been made in Australian sporting circles. They have stated that they will not now or in the future play sport against South Africa. The report of this interview was distributed to all other newspapers. Some saw fit to write it up. The 'Canberra Times' gave it a good run and I or 2 other newspapers gave it a small paragraph. 
I am afriad that unless Australian sporting officials face up to the question of future visits to Australia by South African sporting teams we will have the same sort of controversy raging here next year. That is why 1 am glad this interview took place - so that people may examine this question now and we will not have threats of violence and of disrupting cricket and football matches when they are about to take place. There ought to be public debate and discussion now about whether we want South Africans visiting Australia in a sporting capacity and not 3 weeks before a tour commences. I am sure honourable members are aware that in recent months or years South Africa has been expelled from the Davis Cup, the Olympic Games, world boxing, basketball, soccer, fencing, volley ball, judo, weight lifting and table tennis. Cricket and rugby are now the only 2 sports played on an international basis with South Africa. 
I had invited the honourable member for Chisholm  (Sir Wilfrid Kent Hughes)  to attend the interview last night, as he has been an opponent of my attitude on this question. 
The honourable member for Boothby has not made any statement on the question of multi-racial sports, so 1 see no reason for having a shot at him. 
If the honourable member wants to be in it then I will be quite happy to have him brought in. I wilt say that the honourable member for Chisholm has been consistent in his attitude that we should not mix politics with sport. He has applied the same rule to Communist countries that he has to South Africa. I hope that what I have to say and the quotations I present will illustrate that this attitude is wrong. First I will quote what Bruce Taafe said when asked about his attitude to apartheid after being selected for the tour. He said: 
As far as 1 was concerned we had been selected to play sport, and politics just didn't come into it. Before we left, the South African Embassy sent me a wad of tourist literature which was pretty impressive and made me feel that apartheid was a workable policy. 
Barry Macdonalds reply, when questioned about an appeal by the Students Representative Council to withdraw, was: 
It's no secret that Anthony Abrahams had a few qualms - he had studied the subject pretty carefully. But he decided against pulling out - which would have been pointless without support from other team members. At that stage I had no idea bow unjust Apartheid is and the Australian Rugby officials had warned us against discussing it during the tour. 
Bruce Taafe's remarks, when requested to give specific instances of apartheid, were: 
My worst experience in the early day? of the tour was a walk through Sharpeville with the local police chief. What came out was his utter contempt for blacks. 1 disliked the way he tossed a few coins into huddles of cowering natives, and stood back as they fought among themselves for possession of them. I was amazed that he really thought this would entertain us, by demonstrating the natives' humility. 
All 4 then illustrated their disgust with the way Africans were treated at the grounds the team played at - -including the worst positions on the ground and an incident where, after the Australians took the lead in an exciting match, the blacks, roaring with excitement, edged on to the ground. Jim Roxburgh said this: 
That was the signal for the police waggons to arrive, and for police to club several Africans. Police with alsatians patrolled the black sections for the rest of the match. 
Probably the most damning part of the transcript is that part where Paul Darveniza describes his friendship with an Indian girl and a visit to her home. On returning to Cape Town he was handed a message, through the team management, that stated that his activities in relation to this girl had not passed unnoticed. The team manager carpeted him and told him that this sort of thing was to cease forthwith otherwise there would be a lot of trouble. The inference was that the South African secret police bad followed him, reported to the Government, from there to the South African Rugby Union Board and from there to the Australian team manager who thought- 
 Mr Speaker,  would you ask the honourable gentleman to be quiet? He has not stopped interjecting ail the time I have been speaking. 
The team manager thought that it was a shocking thing to happen in a civilised country but was forced to warn  Dr Darveniza  for the welfare of the team as a whole. There was also a continual harassment by the police of Tony Abrahams. Jim Roxburgh gave the lie to those who cry that you should not mix sport with politics. He said: 
Everywhere we went we were given civic receptions, and each time the local mayor would remark how South Africa and Australia were 2 great countries with so much in common, and how alike our ideas and policies were. 
There is no doubt at all that South African officials made use of the tour on this propaganda level, and of course the infuriating thing was that we had lo stand mum. We were guests in the country, accepting its hospitality, so our tongues were tied. 
As time is running out I want to conclude by mentioning one incident that makes me very proud of our. Austral ian team. It gives me great faith in humanity and in the basic decency of Australians. Jim Roxburgh said: 
We went on a coach tour of Sharpeville, and after driving through' native slums the bus pulled up outside a couple of much better, European-style homes, probably given to influential Bantus and used as display pieces for tourists. The officials hopped out, and the idea was that we should just walk right through their homes, without asking their owners' permission. Well, out of 28 blokes on that bus,  ib  sat tight. We just were not going to degrade the occupants by barging through their home. 
I am proud of these 4 men and the fifth, Tony Abrahams, who did not take part in the interview because he was in England. I think that the Australian sporting officials have to face up to this fact now and heed the warning bells that are sounding in England. If we do not, we will be faced with disruption. I will regret that because I am a lover of both rugby and cricket and a continual attender at games. I do not agree with the policy of spoiling cricket matches, but I am not sure that everybody else in Australia feels the same way. 
In supporting the amendment I want to make a few points about the Bill. While we welcome the Bill because it is a move in the right direction, what disturbs me is that the B il is a continuation of the Government's policy of subsidising private charities. It seems to me that we have reached the situation where the Government rarely accepts full responsibility with regard to any field of social welfare. This seems to me to be in line with the traditional Liberal philosophy that your place in life is determined at the moment of conception. If you happen to be lucky enough to be born with money that is good and you will continue as an affluent member of society, but if you are unfortunate enough to be mentally retarded that is just the way the cards tumble and you will continue in that unfortunate position without much assistance from the community. 
I want to question tonight - and I hope in the future - the whole system of charity in Australia. It seems to me that charity as it is given operates unfairly in favour of those who have the best fund raising systems. This means that needy cases are often neglected. We can see this in many fields. It is easier to raise funds in affluent areas than it is in areas where there is poverty. It is much more difficult to raise funds in areas of poverty for the charity that one is trying to support. We have again a continuation of the squabble about whose responsibility it is to give this assistance. The honourable member for Bendigo  (Mr Kennedy)  mentioned this aspect. He said he did not care whose responsibility it was - whether it was State, Federal or local government responsibility - so long as it was someone's responsibility to find the money to do something about it. I remember some years ago hearing the Minister for Slipping and Transport  (Mr Sinclair),  who was then Minister for Social Services, say in a 'Four Corners' television programme that it was not the responsibility of a government to look after the needy;  it was up to the community to do so. He- suggested that it was up to each little group of people to take into its fold those who were deprived. He implied that the Government could not be expected to accept responsibility for those in need. 
This is the philosophy of members of the Government Parties. They, want to opt out as much as possible in this field because if the community accepts full responsibility there must be an increase- in taxes. This is something they do not want because the extra taxes will be levied from those who have the most, and they are the people who support the Government. So the Government throws the responsibility on the community. The Government says: Let the community look after them, we will give a little here and there. That salves the Government's conscience and makes it look good. We should get our priorities right. The first and fundamental need in any society is to take care of those who are physically and mentally handicapped. Surely this is fundamental, notwithstanding other needs that may exist. I forget who said that a society should be judged by the way it takes care of its physically and mentally handicapped members, but this is true. It is a condemnation of our affluent society that we do not accept full responsibility in this regard. 
I want to question the whole concept of charity in Australia. Today we have in this country thousands of organisations raising funds. The honourable member tor Bendigo said that the Government seems terrified lest it upset all those wonderful souls in the community who are raising money for charity. They have button days, they conduct fetes, they hold balls, barbecues and other social functions. You name it, they do it. They conduct walkathons, swingathons, swimathons and talkathons to raise money. The Government suggests that if it accepts full responsibility in this field these wonderful souls will have nothing to do. This is patently absurd. There is so much to be done in the community. If these people no longer had to raise money for the physically and mentally handicapped there would still be an enormous amount of work for them to do. Let me refer to only  a  few organisations in the area in which 1 live that could do with the support and help of these well-meaning people. Take, for instance, the volunteer bush fire brigade. What a good cause that is. Then there are the Royal Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals and the Surf Life Saying Association. If care of the physically and mentally handicapped were removed from the realm of community involvement, fund raising activities could be channelled into the areas where they are sorely needed. The people who engage in these activities have tremendous goodwill and capability and are immensely energetic. 
In a community there is a basis of need. People say: T will give to those who need it most'. At the top of the list are subnormal children, spastic children, autistic children and so on. Other needy organisations, such as the surf life saving movement and the bush fire brigade, have to go to the bottom of the list and people say that they cannot afford to give to those organisations. We must accept the fact that if the Government were to accept responsibility for caring for the physically and mentally handicapped there still would be plenty for the community service organisations to do. There still would be plenty for those good souls in the community - God bless them - to do. One of the difficulties in discussing charitable activities is to gather statistics not only on the areas of need but also on. whether fund raising activities are economic. Let me expand this theme a little. I have tried to get some figures on these matters. I have placed on notice questions seeking information as to the amount of money raised by charity in Australia. I have been told that no figures are available. No estimates have been made of the amounts raised by charity fund raising organisations. I . have been informed by the Parliamentary Library that surveys indicate that the amount raised annually is between Si 00m and $200m. 1 have not been told how this money is raised and how the estimate is made of the amount raised but it seems to be generally accepted that this is the figure. 1 suspect thai the amount is considerably higher than the figure I have been given because 1 think the figure given takes into account only "the large fund raising organisations. lt does not pay regard, nor could it, to the hundreds and thousands of small fund raising activities in every community - the bottle drives, the barbecues, the rallies. How could anybody estimate the number of dollars and cents raised in those activities? The point 1 am trying to make is that this type of fund raising activity is immensely wasteful. I have been to a number of seminars dealing with fund raising and I have examined the subject fairly thoroughly. Even the most efficient form of fund raising- the eyeball to eyeball technique in which you go to somebody and say. T want you to give me $100 for a certain charity' - has a . wastage rate of between 10% and 12%. But when you take into account activities such as balls and barbecues the net wastage can bc 50% or 60% of gross turnover. 
Take, for example, the Black and White Ball held in Sydney. I do not know the exact figures relating to this activity, but we all know the spectacle created. We see 700 or 800 people bedecked in the most glamorous gowns, with hairdos costing $10, $15 or $20 - for the women that is - and thousands of dollars spent on alcohol during the evening, lt is an extravaganza. One could estimate that the cost of the function might be as high as $30,000. Tickets for such a function cost $10 or $15 a head. To raise for charity between $2,000 and $4,000 necessitates an expenditure of $30,000. This is perhaps an extreme example. 
 A very nice social evening, but not very productive in terms of a net return to a charity. I could give other examples of waste of this kind. One, details of which have been supplied by the 
Library, concerns the British Oxfam organisation, which conducted a much publicised walkathon: The target was £215,000. The amount raised was £52,664. Expenses amounted to between £28,000 and £32,000, leaving a net gain of between £20,664 and £24,664. The point I am trying to make is that expenses absorbed 55% to 60% of the total money raised. Even the very best fund raising organisations expend between 10% and 20% of the funds raised. I should think that that is a fairly conservative estimate. If $200m is raised annually by charitable organisations throughout Australia this means that at least $30m annually is expended on just raising the money. This $30m is completely wasted, unless one thinks that employing fund raisers is a profitable pastime. I want now to quote from an article in the 'Age' of Tuesday, 28th April 1970, concerning  Mr David  Scott, who is an executive director of the Brotherhood of St Lawrence. The article was written by Leonard Radic and' it reads: 
We are still working to an antiquated system of personal-tare service. Fifty years ago it was not accepted that the Government had the responsibility of helping people who could not help themselves. So there arose groups of volunteers who took it upon themselves to help the socially handicapped. 
Over the years governments have relaxed this policy slightly by giving such groups a 'modest subsidy, but without ever being prepared to accept responsibility for the organising, financing and running of the whole range of welfare services. 
The dividing lines of responsibility between State and Federal governments, municipalities and the volunteer organisations have never been clearly defined. 
The Federal Government has become the policy controller, as well as the financial provider. It wants the maximum amount qf control but the minimum amount of responsibility. 
Its policy is a piecemeal one, lacking coherence and co-ordination,  Mr Scott  claims. 
In England rand other countries the government's social welfare policies are constantly under review. In Australia we almost never do this. In the past 25 years there has been only one major review of any social welfare policy. That was the Nimmo report- 
Later the article states: 
Public support can be drummed up for causes that touch the heartstrings - sick or handicapped children, for example. 
It is much more difficult to raise money for children who are mentally handicapped, or for an organisation such as the Hanover Centre, which works for derelict men, or  for alcoholics,'  Mr Scott  says. 
It is also very difficult to raise funds for family counselling services using professional social workers because you can't show touching pictures of children before and after service, or pictures of huge buildings which are monuments to the money that has been raised. 
All you can show is two people seated on either side of a desk in an interview room, which moves nobody.' 
I will not dwell on the question of charity but I should l:ke to. expand my remarks at a later date.. In the time that is left to me I should like to talk briefly about an Organisation in my own electorate - the Fairhaven School. I am sure that the Minister is aware of this school, lt is a branch of the Sub-Normal Children's Association. It was started in 1961 by a group of parents and friends. It commenced operations in the Kincumber School of Arts and in February 1962 was transferred to the Baptist church hall. In 1963, when it was given a grant of land by the New South Wales State Labor Government, work was commenced on a permanent home in the Point Clare district. With the help of voluntary labour, and once again depending on that good old stand-by, the community service organisations - in this case the Gosford Lions, Apex and Rotary Clubs - the organisation was able to build on the 3-acre grant of land its first permanent home. The school was opened in February 1964 by the Governor,  Sir Eric  Woodward. It had 20 pupils, 3 classrooms, a kitchen, washroom and toilet. Later on an activity centre was added in which was taught handicrafts, including cooking, to postschool age children. I have been out to inspect the school. One of its present activities is collecting bulk paper, wrapping it and parcelling it and selling it overseas. This is a means of raising money to help the organisation. The school now has 2 buses and is looking after 52 pupils. According to figures that are available to me we can expect that about 1 person in every 1,000 will be sub-normal, but in this area, which has a population of about 87,000, the school has only 52 pupils. At least 13 children are on the waiting list, but they cannot be accepted. It is possible that there are quite a number of children who have not applied for admission to the school and even if they did apply they would be unable to attend it. The school draws from Um:na Somersby, Warnervale, The Entrance and Terrigal - from an area within a 25-mile radius of the school. The school has 4 Association teachers, 1 departmental teacher and 2 employees who work in the day school section and who help wrap the bulk papers. 
One honourable member suggested that the term 'children' is rather a misnomer because the term applies at this school, as it does in many other similar schools, to adults who could be 50 years of age but who, because they must be looked after like children, are regarded as children. I hope that when' the Minister administers this legislation he will do so with flexibility. I have talked to officers of the Fairhaven School and they have been rather frustrated. I. understand that for the last 2 years they have been seeking assistance for the school through the sheltered workshops legislation. However, the type of activity in which they want to engage does not meet the requirements of the legislation or of the Government's policy. 1 believe they are considering submitting another application for assistance for their activity centre and for other projects that they have in mind. One of their ultimate aims is to provide residential accommodation. I am not aware that they have any immediate plans but this is a long term aim. 
In his second reading speech the Minister said that he- will use flexibility in his approach to this legislation, and 1 hope he will do so when the time arises. I pay a tribute to the officers of the Fairhaven School. As- is the case with other organisations mentioned by honourable members, the major problem at Fairhaven is not in respect of capital buildings, although the school will ' have needs in that direction shortly.- Its major problem concerns running costs. 1 did have figures with me, but I seem to have mislaid them. My memory is that the school's running expenses exceed by some $4,000 annually the amount it receives by way of government subsidies. These are rather expensive ways of raising money. 
In the time that is left to me I would like to talk about one. aspect of handicapped children that has not been dealt with specifically by any honourable member this evening, as far as f know, and that is the problem of autistic children, f want to draw the attention of the House to a form of illness suffered by children which until recently was not known widely in Australia, or for that matter around the world. My first introduction to autism was 2 or 3 years ago when I witnessed a television programme known as 'Seven Days'. It described the plight of the autistic child and also the suffering of all those associated with it, primarily the parents, brothers and sisters of autistic children. Autism was first described by Professor Kanner of the Johns Hopkins University in 1943. He referred to it as infantile autism because he meant it occurred mainly in children under 3 years of age. The word 'autism' is derived from .........: meaning self-involved or cutoff. Very little was known about autism until recently and a great deal more is still to be learnt. The cause of it is still a mystery; the symptoms of the illness are many and varied and not always applicable to all children. 
I have been amazed when 1 have spoken about autism to a few honourable members - and I am just as guilty as anyone - to learn just how little people know of this particular disease. The size of the problem is difficult to define and is closely dependent upon fairly calculated guesswork. Research in England has shown that there are approximately 4.5 autistic children per 10,000. However, it is not known whether these figures are applicable here, lt may well be that climatic conditions or ethnic differences may create a higher incidence of autism in children in England than in Australia. But again a great many of these unknown questions will remain unanswered until effective research has been done. Most of the information that is available has resulted from extensive research or from voluntary organisations directly associated with the illness, such as the Autistic Childrens Association of New South Wales and other similar State bodies. 
I would like to define as best 1 can as a layman what is meant by autism. As I said before, it is extremely difficult to diagnose because there are no set symptoms but a pattern of symptoms that exists and it can only be recognised in a child when a conglomeration of these symptoms occurs. It appears that there are about 14 major manifestations of infantile autism and it is generally accepted that if a child shows 7 or more of these symptoms he is likely to be austistic. Taken out of context these symptoms can occur in other diseases or in perfectly normal children. I want to outline briefly the symptoms that do occur in an autistic child. The child is not as cuddly as a baby and tends to hold itself, stiff or alternatively hangs rather limply. It often has a stand-offish manner and finds it difficult to communicate with people. One of the great problems with the autistic child is its inability to communicate. This seems to be one of the most notable features of autism. They have great difficulty in playing with other children and they also look past or away from the person to whom they are talking or who is talking to them. They are physically over-active and can' go without sleep for incredibly long periods. They may remain awake nearly all night, yet have tremendous energy the next day. 
They are restless children, rushing from one thing to another ali the time and they often act as if deaf. Noise seems to upset them and they will frequently hold their hands over their ears to cut out sound. They rarely speak before 5 or 6 years of ace and mostly indicate (heir needs by gestures. They develop attachments for particular objects and will' play with them for hours at a time without becoming boret!. They have a passion for spinning objects and can develop extraordinary skill at spinning some unusual object which will keep them facinii ted for long periods. They show strong resistance to change in their routine and will become extremely upset if any attempt is made to change particular clothes they like or introduce a new type of food. They will resist learning new skills or behaviour and will show a complete lack of fear of danger. This final aspect is a great worry to parents who have to watch the children constantly as they may run out onto a street and under a car where there is heavy traffic passing. There are many other dangers of which the child is not aware and with which it will become involved. This very, often causes loss of life. 
One other symptom of an autistic child is the swaying or rocking that occurs very often during the evening- for teng periods. lt can be very unnerving for those in close association with it. 1 am not aware whether autism has been mentioned in this House' before. It has had a great deal more publicity in the last few years than it had previously. I pay tribute to the organisations in Australia that have brought autism to the fore. 
That is right. 1 am aware that this Bill will help these autistic bodies. One of the reasons I have brought this matter forward is that my very dear old friend,  Dr Andrew  Vern-Barnett, is the New South Wales  President  of the body. He was most anxious that this matter should be aired in the Federal Parliament. If in any way we have learnt something this evening about this tragic disease, if we are at least aware that 300 children in Australia suffer from it, raising the matter has been worthwhile. Finally, I hope the Minister will give consideration in the future to enlarging the scope of this Bill so that not only will capital1 funds be available for physically and ' mentally handicapped children but also assistance will be given to relevant organisations to help them with their running costs. 
Is the Prime Minister aware that the basic reasons for the introduction of Australia's excellent immigration policy by the Chifley Labor Government in 1946 and continued by successive Liberal governments, are considered by many people to be no longer applicable to Australia in the 1970s? Does he realise that vast population increase, once considered highly desirable, is now being questioned due to the pressures it places on education, health and social welfare services, housing and land prices and the consequent diminution in the quality of life that over-crowded cities have on our environment? Will his Government bring down a white paper on immigration so that a cost-benefit evaluation of assisted immigration, now estimated at being between $500m and SI, 000m. can be made? 
asked the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that frequency modulation broadcasting is superior to amplitude modulation broadcasting. 
Has he requested a report from (he Australian Broadcasting Control Board regarding the desirability of introducing frequency modulation. 
If the report has been received, what are the Board's recommendations. 
Can he say whether F.M. broadcasting has been a success in overseas countries. 
Has he been requested to prepare plans for F.M. broadcasting in Australia. 
If so, what are they. 
Is the Australian Broadcasting Control Board conducting research to ascertain the most economical methods of providing F.M. broadcasting in Australia. 
What is the estimated cost of installing F.M. transmitters at A.B.C. television sites to supply A.B.C. radio programmes. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to the present controversy raging in England over the cancellation of the proposed tour of the South African cricket team. 
Has his attention also been drawn to proposed visits to Australia by the South African rugby union team in 1971 and the South African cricket team in 1971-72. 
In view of the possibility that controversy, similar to that in England, could break out in Australia with the consequent threat of unpleasant incidents at sporting fixtures which might necessitate Government involvement, will he use his influence to arrange meetings between those with differing views on Australia's sporting relations with South Africa with the object of averting such incidents. 
1 do not want to take up too much time of the House but 1 thought, being one of the newer members, a few comments might be in order. I think that the honourable member for Canning  (Mr Hallett)  was being a little unfair on the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones).  Those who know him know that he is one of the most dedicated members of this House and one of the hardest working and most consciencious members in his own electorate. Having met his charming wife, I am not surprised that he wants to get home as quickly as he possibly can. I was rather astonished when I came here to find that 1 seemed to be travelling all day and every day. I estimated that at least I day in each week was a complete and utter write-off. I found also that my life was very disjointed. No sooner did I get to the House, start to settle in and learn some of the format and start to think that I was prepared to make a speech or make a statement on some subject, than I found that I was flying home again. This went on, and I could not settle down in the very short stay. But I found in the last few weeks of the last session that the longer sittings enabled me to concentrate better, to prepare work and to make better speeches. 
I represent a seat just outside Sydney, but I felt sorry all the time for members like the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder),  the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt),  the honourable member for Kalgoorlie  (Mr Collard)  and the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter)  who had to travel for such an enormous amount of time. If 1 was spending half a day getting here and getting back then they must have been spending a full day or 2 full days a week in travelling. To me this seemed an onerous task that should not be placed on anyone. That is one of the reasons why I am supporting the proposal. I think it is wrong that parliamentarians, particularly in marginal 
20734/70-  R.3 
seats such as mine, have to dash back to their electorates and go to the Bandiwallop picnic races or some such thing because it is going to win a few votes. I believe, as the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  and the right honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Calwell)  stated, that we have a responsibility to be here even if it means losing a few votes because we could not go to this fete or that ball. I think that Parliament takes precedence over these functions, much as we know their importance to us in getting elected. I think we ought to spend more time here. 
I would like to say a few words about one of my favourite subjects. We ought to inform the people of Australia what sort of role we play while we are here. There is an appalling ignorance throughout this country of what a parliamentarian does. I said this before during the debate on the Parliamentary Allowances Bill. 1 have never seen the gallery of the House as full as it is tonight except at Question Time or during a Budget speech. For a normal Bill one might see 15 or 20 people there. They sit up there and then they go home to their friends and say: 'I walked in and 1 saw that there were a dozen of them, and one of them was asleep'. We ail know who that would be - the honourable member for Wave Hill. Those people do not understand what is going on here. They do not understand that we are at Committee meetings, out talking to constituents, preparing speeches or in the library doing research. They do not understand that we do not stop from the minute we walk in at 9 o'clock in the morning until 1 o'clock the next morning. They expect us to be here. It is important that the House at a later stage considers educating the people of Australia as to the role of a parliamentarian, not only here but also in his electorate. 
I am going to support the proposal for two 4-day weeks mainly on the basis that I think it is only fair for those members of Parliament who have to travel from outlying country areas. 
asked the Postmaster-General,  upon notice: 
How many hours per week are taken up by Parliamentary broadcasts from Australian Broadcasting Commission stations when Parliament is in session. 
Is there a need for three separate ABC radio programmes when Parliament is in session. 
1 cannot help but comment on the endeavour of the honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Bonnett)  to have two bob each way. For the benefit of his electorate he has expressed sympathy for the pensioners, but he will oppose the amendment moved by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam).  In supporting the amendment I wish to make a few observations on behalf of the people who sent me to this place. The electorate of Robertson contains a higher proportion of people more than 60 years of age than any other electorate in Australia. Approximately 25,000 voters in Robertson are 60 years of age or older. More than one-third of that number are in receipt of full pensions This week they are participating in a wild spending spree in anticipation of the extra 50c a week they will get in October. They have asked me to pass on to the Treasurer  (Mr Bury)  their heartfelt thanks for his extravagant gesture last week. Low income earners and young working class families - they constitute a large proportion of the balance of my constituents - who are forced to live 40 or 50 miles from Sydney by the rising price of land near Sydney also have been deeply moved by the Treasurer's generosity in granting them tax concessions amounting to 75c or $1 a week. Many are planning world tours on the amount they will save. 
Some may be confused as to what to do with what is left after they pay the higher charges for cigarettes, petrol and telephones. I hope that 1 get an opportunity in the debate on the Estimates to expand those messages. 
I wish to concentrate in these remarks on an area of the Government's activity which in recent years I have questioned privately and in recent months publicly. 1 have always been struck by the contradictions between the policy of this Government and its predecessors, which showed complete inability and unwillingness to provide an adequate standard of living and quality of life for the less fortunate in the community and those on lower and middle incomes, and its enthusiasm for our policy of assisting large numbers of people from Europe to migrate to Australia to share these inadequacies. During the last days of the previous session I asked the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  whether he would call for a re-evaluation of our immigration policy in the light of doubts expressed across the broad spectrum of public opinion as to its efficacy. Naturally when 1 asked the question I realised that I would leave myself open to criticism, misinterpretation and misrepresentation. I had a very real fear that my question would be interpreted as anti-immigrant. 1 am greatly relieved to find that the vast majority of comments have been favourable and that most people with whom I have been in contact have not reacted adversely to the questions I asked or the answers I sought. 
However, one extraordinary response came from an unexpected quarter in an article which appeared in the 'Bulletin' of 8th August under the heading The Great Immigration Cave-in'. This incredibly illinformed, unresearched, deliberately misleading and mischievous article, the author of which not surprisingly preferred to remain anonymous, referred to questioners of the sacred cow of immigration as 'a melange of academics, commentators and low ranking politicians'. The article implied that there is something subversive, sinister or tin-Australian in such questioning by referring to the 'low ranking politicians' as a 'kind of underground movement'. This unknown author dismissed our fears of overcrowded cities, pollution, lack of conservation, inadequate social services and shortage of schools and hospitals as just a matter of planning and priorities, entirely ignoring the fact that had there been this sort of planning and priorities the debate about immigration may never have commenced. 
The most despicable part of the article, however, was the implication that all the talk about environment is really a front for old fashioned racism and a desire to return to 'Australian dreams of isolation and primitivism'. The article concluded by quoting representatives of migrant organisations who publicly welcome the inquiry announced recently by the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Lynch)  but who in private are said to be 'incredulous, scornful, angry and disgusted' by what they regard as an attack on immigrants. Having by now spoken to some dozens of these 'underground' critics, I can assure this apology for a journalist that he could not be further from the mark. 1 hope that what I have to say now will assuage his fears. 1 have been greatly heartened by the announcement by the Minister for Immigration that he proposes a comprehensive investigation into the effects of immigration, ils aims and objects. This happened since the last session after I had asked a question and spoken to the Minister. This is precisely what I asked for. I understand that the survey proposed by the Department will include a cost benefit analysis of immigration, desirable populations levels for Australia and the effect that increased immigration will have on our environment and urban problems. The Minister is to be complimented on his response to recent public disquiet over the effect of immigration, lt is a measure of his flexibility and sensitivity that he has been prepared to initiate such a comprehensive inquiry. I would also like to thank him for the courtesy he has shown me by inviting me to discuss with him privately my reservations about immigration. Some of his more senior colleagues would do well to take a leaf out of his book. This is particularly true of the Prime Minister, whose arrogant dismissal of my question showed a complete lack of awareness of the issues involved. One wonders why the Press has not picked up this obvious about-face. 1 have reservations about the survey in that it will primarily be done by the Department. 1 have a strong suspicion that it may be not as objective an analysis as it should be but an attempt to prove that increased immigration is desirable, lt would have been better, in my view, if the analysis were done by a body of experts outside the Department. Ardent advocates of increased immigration have been quick to rush to the defence of the present policy and have actually called for the Government to up the ante. Organisations such as the Chambers of Manufactures, which have never been known for their humanitarian concern for the plight of the under-priviliged, nor for that matter for anything but their own profits, have been in the forefront of those urging increased immigration. One could easily gain the impression that they see a continual flow of unskilled migrant workers as a means of providing their factories with a never ending supply of industrial fodder. 
I also think that they are not exactly adverse to the continual increase in their domestic consumer market that nearly 200,000 extra migrants per annum provide. Without this guaranteed increase they would have to get off their 'proverbials' to make the same sales and subsequent profits. The hysterica] outbursts of late by the traditional supporters of the Liberal Party - the employers' organisations - against unions, blaming them, together with over-full employment, for the inflationary spiral, is hardly conducive to an objective assessment of our immigration policy. 
Nevertheless, I have great faith in the personal integrity of the Minister and 1 am confident that he will overcome any pressures that may be exerted by outside organisations such as those I have just mentioned. I hope that this survey will allow us lo examine more closely the cost of immigration. Estimates, outside the direct cost of $77m that the Department of Immigration has budgeted for, are so varied as to make any effective analysis or final evaluation little more than guesswork. They vary from S400m per year to SI. 000m per year in hidden costs, as the Minister said in his announcement, because they cannot be readily dissected from total community spending on facilities such as education, social welfare, provision of water, sewerage, roads, hospitals, etc. lt is probable that this cost benefit analysis will be the basis on which future governments will assess the value of immi gration. It should ascertain whether or not we are spending many hundreds of millions of dollars per annum to create an even greater demand for already overstrained facilities. With the exception of Israel, Australia and Canada the rest of the world believes that its present population has almost reached its optimum and in some cases has already passed it. It took us millions of years to reach the first 1 billion people by 1850; the second billion was reached by 1930 - a period of SO years. In the 40 years since then we have passed the 3i billion mark. The world population is snowballing at an ever increasing rate. 
Australia is one of the few countries that lacks this problem of over population. I need more convincing reasons than have presently been advanced to support our present policy. In 1945 there were humanitarian reasons apart from the economic and cultural advantages to Australia. Europe was in a mess. Millions of people were in a desperate plight and we had an obligation to share in helping to alleviate the suffering and the misery. Today, however, the standard of living in most of Europe is as high or higher than it is in Australia. Our reasons for bringing immigrants from Europe are said to be for Australia's economic self interest. Let us be sure that they are accurate reasons. 
I believe most Australians would be prepared to make sacrifices in their standard of living on humanitarian grounds if there was suffering in any part of the world - in Europe, Asia, Africa or the Americas - whether it be by famine, war or an act of God. I take the view that Australia should do its share by taking a proportion of the people who need to be re-settled. At this moment many Kenyan Indians are desirous of settling in Australia. If ever there was peace in Vietnam it may well be that many South Vietnamese would want to migrate to Australia. In view of our role in (he Vietnam war wc of all nations should be prepared to accept a sizeable proportion of these unfortunate people. These are valid reasons for making sacrifices; many of the others are not. 
In 1945 when the then Minister for Immigration, the Honourable Arthur Calwell, introduced a programme to bring migrants to Australia in vast numbers the population of Australia was a little over 7 million. Today our population is approximately 12.5 million - almost double what it was in 1945. Demographers have estimated that by the turn of the century it will approach 25 million or 30 million. On the past rate of growth these figures seem a reasonable estimate. 
To fully understand my reasons for seeking a review of the immigration policy 1 think we need to examine the basic philosophies behind the present policies to see if they are still valid for Australia of the 1970s. Let me say at the outset that I believe that in the light of the circumstances and the information available in 1945, the decision made by the Labor Government of the day, implemented by the then Minister and continued by successive Liberal governments, was the right one. 
As a small boy of 10 in 1945 I can recall the insular, arrogant and bigoted attitudes prevalent amongst a sizeable section of the Australian community. 1 can recall the intolerance of those who referred to anyone who spoke in a foreign tongue as a 'bloody Reffo' and similar distasteful terms. From personal experience I can remember the hurt that can be inflicted by the unthinking and the prejudiced who, through their fear and ignorance of other people's customs, culture and religion, can make life unbearable for those whose origins and backgrounds are different from their own. 
Today, through the influence and impact of over 2 million migrants, Australia has become a mini melting pot. Today, the prejudices that existed 25 years ago have been greatly dissipated. As one whose prime motivation in entering politics was to try to break down the prejudices between peoples of different race, religion, class, colour, culture and nationalities, 1 regard the new broadening of the Australian's attitude towards people who are different as the greatest single contribution by the immigration policy. One need hardly add - for it has been said so often - that the migrant population has made an enormous contribution to Australia through the influx of their culture, music, food and literature. 

 Mr Arthur Calwell was never Prime Minister of this country but he may well be remembered as the man who had the greatest single influence on its development and its prosperity.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  you may well ask: If I am so enamoured of our past programme of immigration why then am 1 now questioning that same policy? As 1 said earlier, we should return to the original premises upon which the policy was based and upon which the programme was introduced and continued to this day. We should ask ourselves whether they are still as valid for the next 25 years as they were for the past 25 years. There were 3 basic reasons. 
Australia had just been involved in a terrifying land war in South East Asia with Japan. Australians had experienced for the first time something they had believed would eventually occur - a war with an Asian power in which they would be vastly outnumbered in manpower. It was felt then, and not without some justification, that Australia could best cope with any future threats from an Asian power by building up her population. This, it was felt, would assist in stopping 'the Asian hordes' from over-running Australia. I do not think anyone seriously holds this view today. The changing pattern of modern warfare, terrifying as it is, has shown that countries depend no longer on large standing armies but on the sophisticated quality of their logistics brought about by advances in science and technology. One could also add the morale, education and determination of the people themselves. 
Past a certain point manpower is irrelevant. No better evidence of this is needed than the history of the Middle East during the past 25 years. Two and a half million Israelies have adequately defended themselves against 100.000.000 Arabs. Certainly, if we are looking to numbers of people as a measure of our ability to defend ourselves against military expansionism of any Asian power, we are beaten before we start. The population of Asia is near 2,000,000,000 and that of the largest Asian power, China, in excess of 700 million. Indonesia and Japan are nearing 150 million. At best Australia would be outnumbered by at least 10 to 1 and at worst by approximately 70 to I. The population growth that would be essential to bridge that gap would cause such poverty, misery and dislocation as to weaken rather than strengthen this country. The Minister for 
Immigration would probably argue that the Government no longer puts forward this theory as one of the reasons for continued and expanded immigration. But I am sure that he would concede that it was and still is one of the shibboleths that sustains acceptance by the Australian people of the present policies. 
The second myth that sustains our policy is that increased population will help fill our vast open spaces, increase growth in the rural areas and give us some justifica tion for holding on to such a large continent while the rest of the world struggles with problems of overpopulation. In  1947  the urban population constituted  68.86%  and the rural population  31.14%  of total population.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  ( have a table prepared by the Commonwealth Parliamentary Library which sets out statistics of urban and rural population from  1947  to  1966.  With the concurrence of honourable members I incorporate this table in Hansard. 

<graphic href="069131197008274_30_2.jpg"></graphic>

Today the urban population has increased to  84%  and the rural population has declined to  16%.  So much for the myth of 'filling up our open spaces'. People are coming to the cities in ever increasing numbers. They come for obvious reasons. Cities offer employment. The rural sector through declining demand for its products is suffering a recession, possibly a permanent depression. Present indications are that this is likely to continue. While Australia's mineral resources will create a new pattern of rural growth and new towns and cities will spring up in areas never before considered, it is unlikely that this will significantly alter the continual pattern of urbanisation. 
While employment is the major factor in determining the demographic shape of our nation, there are many others. With the exception of Canberra, all of Australia's capital cities are on or near the coast. Australians like living near the sea - and who can blame them? Areas near the sea offer excellent climatic conditions and the lush coastal vegetation creates pleasant surroundings and first class recreational facilities. In a society that is one of the most highly mobile in the world, there is an ever increasing usage of these available recreational attractions. Invariably the cities also have better educational, employment, cultural and sporting opportunities for a wide variety of people. 
Migrant communities are following the same pattern as in the United Stales, that is, in the early years in a new and foreign environment they tend to gather together and live in close proximity of people of their own nationalities. This is a natural result of their low economic status, home sickness, yearning for a cultural affinity and identity of their own and a general lack of confidence when commencing such a profound change in their life style. Second, third and subsequent generations of Italians, Greeks, Germans, Yugoslavs and so on will merge into the Australian main stream in the same way as their American cousins have done during the past  100  years in the biggest melting pot of them all. In the meantime, however, continuing waves of immigrants will nurture these European cultural communities in the major capital cities of Australia for the reasons I have just stated. 
There are many who say: 'We can disperse the population by decentralisation,' but there are few throughout the 5 Liberal State governments and the Liberal Federal Government who seem to be able to offer an effective programme that can contain the drift to the city. The recent plan of selective decentralisation outlined by the New South Wales Government in 1968-69 has yet to be put into effect and is bogged down by the parochialism of various country politicians who are in favour of selective decentralisation provided their bailiwick is the one selected. As Labor's proposals to build new cities has been poo-pooed by the Liberals it is unlikely that any effective decentralisation will occur inside 5 to 10 years. This, of course, excludes the few mineral townships such as Nhullumby on the Gove Peninsular that are likely to spring up. 
In the meantime, what is the situation in the present cities, the areas where most Australians choose to live? Despite the vastness of the Australian continent, a small eastern coastal strip from Brisbane to Adelaide contains over 80% of the Australian population. Almost half of Australia's population live in the NewcastleSydneyWollongong complex or in the Melbourne-Geelong area. Many town planning experts consider that Melbourne and Sydney have almost reached their optimum size and that the 5 million predicted by the demographers as the Sydney population by the year 2,000 would be a disaster, recreating the enormous urban problems now facing the burgeoning metropolises of the United States such as New York, Los Angeles, Chicago and others. The problems of over crowded cities are numerous and well documented. We know of the problems of pollution, urban sprawl, traffic chaos, shortage of open space and recreational facilities, the high cost of urban renewal, etc. 
It would certainly be a disaster if these figures are reached while we continue to ignore the necessity for providing effective town planning. It would certainly be a disaster until we have found proper ways of controlling and combating air and water pollution. It would certainly be a disaster if the present urban sprawl were allowed to continue and the next  2i  million people in each of these major cities of Sydney and Melbourne took up an equivalent amount of space to the present population. One can imagine driving 100 miles in any direction out of Sydney or Melbourne before one could see a glimpse of a tree or a green field. One need hardly add the present deficiencies that exist in the field of education, social welfare and health, coupled with the spiralling cost of land and housing - and we have just had an example of how little is being done for people such as pensioners - to know that a continually increasing population has created a gap for many millions of Australians between the myth of the affluent society and the reality of the deficiencies they are facing in almost: every facet of their day to day existence. 
The final argument against any slowdown or cut back in immigration is based on the 'economies of scale of production theory'. Put simply this means the larger domestic market produces a lower unit cost of production creating lower prices for Australians and a more competitive market for Australia's export. Many economists argue that for the great majority of industries we have already reached the point where a larger domestic consumption will not radically reduce the cost of production and that most of the remaining very large industries such as the aircraft building industry, computer manufacturing, chemical and very heavy engineering industries need far larger markets than Australia's migrant boosted population is ever likely to supply. What those who ask for a re-examination want is not necessarily an end to immigration but an end to open ended programmes without goals or objectives. We want an answer to a whole series of questions and problems that have never been denned or sought in the past. We want to know how many people Australia needs to create a prosperous, secure and happy nation with an acceptable minimum standard of living and a quality of life available to all. We want to know not only how many but by when. We all know that if we follow unthinkingly the present programme we will reach almost any figure that one cares to name  -  25 million, 50 million, 100 million, 200 million and so on. But the question is when? Will it be by the year 2000, 2050, 2100, 2200, or 2300? We want to be convinced with indisputable facts and not with politicians' rhetoric that there are concrete advantages to Australia and Australians, including those we have already brought here, in aiming at a particular goal by a particular date. I am not convinced that, past a certain point, population for the sake of population is a tremendously desirable objective. The wealth of a country should be the total sum of the happiness and prosperity of each individual. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The Petition of the undersigned citizens of New South Wales respectfully showeth. 
That due to the higher living cost, persons on Social Service Pensions are, finding it extremely difficult to live in even the most frugal way. 
We therefore call upon she Commonwealth Government to increase the base pension rate to 30 per cent of the Average Weekly Male Earnings for all States, as ascertained by the Commonwealth Statistician, plus supplementary assistance and allowances in accordance with A.C.T.U. policy and adopted as the policy of the Australian Commonwealth Pensioners' Federation, and by doing so give a reasonably moderate pension. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to bring about the wishes expressed in our Petition: so that our citizens receiving the Social Service Pensions may live their lives in dignity. 
And your petitioners as in duty bound will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled: The Humble Petition of electors of Robertson respectfully showeth - 
That they are gravely concerned at what they consider to be the adverse' effect on moral standards in the Australian community of the increasing portrayal and description of obscenity, sexual licence, promiscuity and violence in films, books, magazines, plays and, to a lesser extent, television and radio programmes; 
That their concern arises partly from the fact that historians, such as J. D. Unwin and Arnold Toynbee, have shown that nearly all nations which have perished have done so because of internal moral decay; and partly because obscenity and indecency are contrary to the teachings of Christianity which is the acknowledged religion of more than 80 per cent of Australians, besides being part and parcel of the law of the land' (Quick and Garran in 'Commentaries on the Australian Constitution', page 951); and 
That, in accordance with the findings of the Australian Gallup Poll, published in the Melbourne Herald on 14th November 1969, the majority of Australian citizens want censorship either maintained or increased - 
Your petitioners therefore humbly pray that honourable members of the House of Representatives will seek to ensure that Commonwealth legislation bearing on censorship of films, literature and radio and television programmes is so framed and so administered as to preserve sound moral standards in the community. And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
ls the Minister for Trade and Industry aware that the only basic industrial pharmaceutical research organisation, Riker Laboratories Ply Ltd, has been closed down after being taken over by Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing (Aust.) Pty Ltd thus placing 30 highly qualified Australian scientists out of work? ls he also aware that this company has received over $500,000 in research grants since 1967? ls it proposed that this company refund these moneys to the Commonwealth? 
I wish to raise tonight a matter which I believe has made a laughing stock of this country throughout the world. This is a very black day for us because the Government has seen fit to ban one of the most significant Negro public figures in the United States from entering Australia. We have heard a lot about people being banned over the years. We have heard about Marxists, Socialists and anyone who does not agree with the point of view of members of Liberal Party. But today they have banned a comedian. We have to think about that. We know that they are frightened of a lot of things, but I did not think they had reached the stage where they were frightened of humour. We know that Hitler was frightened of books, but I did not think members of the Liberal Party would be frightened of a joke. 
However, unfortunately for them, the joke is backfiring because already the newspapers have started to give them a rough time. Those newspapers include ones that do not traditionally support this side of the House. I quote the following from the editorial in today's Melbourne 'Herald', which is headlined 'Again, stupidity in our name': 
The Federal Government refuses to say why it banned Dick Gregory, the American negro entertainer and civil rights leader, from entering Australia. So Australians, once again, are left to draw their own conclusions. Most will see it as another example of a stupid misuse of power. What have we to fear from him? 
Gregory is now able to exploit fully, with the widest possible publicity, this refusal of an Australian visa, sought in New York after he was invited here to speak on university campuses and at Vietnam moratorium rallies later this month. 
As of now, there is no indication that  Mr Gregory  intended coming here to burn, incite riot, loot or shoot. Whether one likes or dislikes Dick Gregory's views is not at issue here. The objection to this ban is that the Federal Government has again made Australia look stupid and illiberal in the eyes of the world. 
The case could have merit only if it forced a review of the absurd rules of secrecy which now cloak such Federal Government decisions. Ideas cannot be overcome by banning their spokesman. 
I quote once again from the Melbourne Herald'. It reported the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Lynch)  as saying: 
The Australian Government will not giant any visa to anyone who promotes the rule of the streets and the power of the mob. 
That might not be exactly what the Minister said. But I have his text here and he certainly said that this would give encouragement to those who seek to promote the rule of the streets and the power of the mob. One extract was a quotation from the Melbourne 'Herald' and the other was a direct quotation from the text given to me by the Minister. 
The Minister refers to the 'rule of the streets and the power of the mob'. How does he equate this with Dick Gregory? It is almost unbelievable that this speech could have been made by this Minister in referring to this man. I wish to quote very briefly from an editorial in 'Nation' of 29th April 1968, It had the headline: Shoot to Kill!'- Daley'. This editorial, in referring to another matter, states: 
On April 15, Dick Gregory called  a  news conference in Chicago  to  announce that he was dropping plans for demonstrations  at  the Democratic National Convention, because in view of the temper of the Negroes and the 'ethnic' groups there  was  no  way to  insure against civil violence on  a  scale heretofore unknown in this country. Gregory,  a  man  of  proved personal courage, wanted none of this blood on his conscience. His action  was  that  of a  responsible public citizen. 
I am at a loss to know why the Government has sought to ban this man from entering Australia. I am a little perplexed. 1 think thar. the Government must have mixed him up with somebody else. I know that all negroes look alike, but I think that the Government has carried it a bit far. It must have mistaken him for H. Rap Brown or Eldridge Cleaver, men who are known to have praised violence. But I am at a loss to know why Dick Gregory should be singled out for this insult. 1 cannot believe that this is the action of the Minister for Immigration, a man whom, in the short time I have been here, 1 have grown to respect, a man whom I believe to be a small '1' liberal and a man whom I have praised on other matters in the House. I can believe only that this action represents the result of a majority vote of the Cabinet. Some of the old fire eaters have seen an opportunity to smash down a bit of freedom to try to quieten those voices which wish to dissent. The Minister has been out-voted and he has put up, in his answer to the question asked by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  today, a brave front. 1 cannot believe that this action represents his view. I can believe only that it is the view of the majority of the Cabinet. 
What we are finding is that anybody who wishes to visit Australia now must support our policy in Vietnam or must not open his mouth while he is here. The Pope will be visiting Australia very shortly. I understand that he is opposed to war. Will his visa be revoked? I doubt it. I can tell the House of many people who have come to Australia and who oppose the war in Vietnam- Peter, Paul and Mary are close personal friends of mine. They come here every year. They play to crowds of thousands. There would be no 3 people more opposed to the war in Vietnam. They say so publicly every time they play in a concert in Australia. Does the Government propose to stop Peter, Paul and Mary from coming to Australia? 
Who is Dick Gregory? He is a 38 year old negro comic. He spent 2 years in the United States Army. He was an outstanding athlete who, in 1952, was ranked third in the United States as a half miler. He is a man who has tremendous qualifications and who is admired by his own race. I wish to quote what was said of Dick Gregory by Jack Parr, a prominent television compere in the United States. He said: 
He is the first of his race to come on as an intelligent comedian without any of the stereotypes long associated with negro comedy. 
He is known as the black Mort Saw. but as Dick Gregory once said: "In the Congo they call Sahl the white Dick Gregory.' 1 will now give honourable members a brief background of the gentleman about whom we are talking, using for the purpose 'Current Biography' of 1962. Gregory was born at St Louis, Missouri, in 1932 at the depth of the depression. He knew the meaning of abrasive poverty through all his years of growing. The publication goes on: 
The second of six children, he is the son of a father who disappeared for a time at the birth of each new baby and who finally deserted the family permanently when Gregory was a small boy, leaving his wife and children destitute. 'I was on relief from 1932 to 1950', Gregory has told his affluent audiences. "No matter how rich  1  get I can always kid the poor. Rockefeller can't.' He has also informed them that 'When you came into my house you didn't have to knock the snow off your shoes, lt wasn't going to melt anyway.' His  mother,  from whom he seems to have inherited his sense of humour, was the one bright centre of security and warmth in his childhood. We're not poor', she used to tell her children, We're just broke', and she taught her children the difference. When the relief truck drew up before the door she would ask, 'Aren't we lucky to get such service?' 
That is a brief background which may help to explain this great comedian. He is a great credit to his race. He was to have visited this country and would have contributed to discussions on the issue of Vietnam. Australia has insulted him by banning him from this country and it has made us the laughing stock of the whole world. I hope the Government will reverse this ridiculous, stupid and insulting decision so that Gregory will be made welcome in Australia. We should give him the hospitality that a great country can offer. 
Shortly after I came to this place I spoke in the adjournement debate about the proposed Springbok tour of Australia next year. I quoted from an article in the 'Australian', which stated that 4 members of the previous Wallaby team which toured South Africa had made a detailed statement opposing the proposed tour. I delivered copies of that particular statement to every honourable member and to the Press. The original 4 players who came out in opposition to the tour were  Dr Paul  Darvenzia, Barry McDonald, Jim Roxburgh and Bruce Taafe. Those 4 have been joined by 2 more members of that Wallaby team, Anthony Abrahams and Terry Forman, and by Jim Boyce, a member of the previous team. 
Since then a most significant thing happened. This week in New South Wales one of the most distinguished members of the rugby union fraternity,  Mr Brian  Palmer, a former coach of the Australian team, came out in opposition to the tour. This is significant because this man is held in high esteem by the rugby union community. He is a man in his early 70s and he is a life member of the New South Wales Rugby Union. This is what he said: 
I am against the tour. For years I have been preaching to kids all over Australia about this great game of ours. I have told them they will not make a cent out of playing it but they will join the greatest brotherhood in the world where everybody is the same and colour, class and creed do not exist. I cannot go back on what I have told them. I could not watch the Springboks. It would be against my principles. 
I do not know Brian Palmer but I know of him. I am sure you would know him also,  Mr Speaker,  because I understand you are a follower of the game, as are many people in New South Wales. Brian Palmer would be known to anybody who follows rugby union. 
I am trying to approach this question, as are all those who are opposed to the tour, in the most rational possible way. We do not support violence. We do not want to demonstrate. We have tried to prevent the tour by writing letters and taking part in discussions. Quite a number of other people who oppose the tour have tried to create dialogue and I understand that the rugby union organisation is calling a special meeting to discuss the matter. One of the reasons for questioning the advisability of the tour is the possibility of demonstrations and violence. I want to put my own view forward. I would not demonstrate at any sporting match. Possibly I would protest but I would certainly not do what was threatened on the occasion of the last cricket tour of England by South Africa. I would oppose those who seek to ruin a game of football or cricket. I want an intelligent discussion about this matter before it gets to the stage reached on similar tours in other countries. Most of the people who oppose this tour are intelligent and rational human beings. We do not want to see the stage reached where more radical elements will join, for motives of their own, those who oppose the tour and will seek to break up cricket and football matches. There are many genuine people in this group but there may be a few who may go too far. 
I have been involved in sporting activities for too long to want to see this sort of thing happen. For many years before becoming a member of this place I was involved in semi-professional and professional sport. I played rugby union, cricket, squash, golf and other sports. I do not want to see the great game of rugby union spoiled by demonstrations of this nature. I feel that the rugby union officials should take the opportunity to talk with those who have expressed opposition. More and more rugby union players are expressing their opposition to the tour taking place. These fellows are not radicals. They belong to what we term the establishment. Rugby union is a game for people who belong to the establishment; it is not a game for the general working class, as is rugby league and that funny game they play in Victoria. It is a game which is mainly played and fostered in the private schools of New South Wales. However, I admit that many people who play it are not members of the establishment. 
As I said earlier, we ought to take this opportunity to have a rational discussion about the proposed tour of Australia by the Springboks. Those who argue against stopping the tour say that sport should not be mixed with politics. I do not know how they can come to such double thinking, but it is absolutely incredible that they can. I shall read from a pamphlet which I have in front of me on this subject. I want to see a member of the Liberal-Country Party coalition express his opposition to the tour. The reason why it is thought that the tour should be cancelled is set out by the  9  players I have named in the pamphlet I have in front of me. Everyone is asked to sign the pamphlet in support of the request for cancellation of the tour. I understand that  Mr Palmer  will sign it. The Premier of South Australia and the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  have already signed it. I shall sign it. Quite a number of the honourable members on this side of the chamber - almost all of them - will sign it, too. I would like to see some honourable members opposite expressing their attitude to democracy by signing this document.I shall quote from it in the time I have left to me. It is headed 'An Appeal to Rugby Players, Officials and Supporters'. The pamphlet states: 
We have all played football for Australia and there are 2 things that we have in common. 
We have all toured South Africa with a Wallaby rugby union team. 
As a result of what we saw in South Africa, we would not play against South Africa again, under present conditions. 
Under the Sub-heading of 'Apartheid and Sport' it states: 
Apartheid sets out to divide and humiliate nonwhite people in South Africa, and apartheid policies are rigidly applied in sport This means: 
Non-whites in South Africa can only compete against other non-whites. 
Non-white spectators are segregated - in severely limited sub-standard wired enclosures. 
Under the sub-heading of 'Australia and South Africa' it states: 
Australia, by sending teams to South Africa and welcoming all-white Springbok teams here, is strengthening the hand of the supporters of apartheid. 
The next sub-heading is 'Non-White Rugby in South Africa'. The pamphlet states: 
The  President  of the Cape Coloured Rugby Union, in 1969 expressed the desire of his nonwhite union to play against Australia. He regretted that this was not possible in his own country. 
And so it goes on. I would be happy to provide any honourable member on the other side of the chamber with a copy of this pamphlet if he wishes to read it. I would like to see members of the LiberalCountry Party coalition sign it and show that they are sincere when they talk about democracy and freedom. Australia has sent troops to Vietnam to defend the democracy of the South Vietnamese people. On the other hand, we constantly hear honourable members on the other side of the House singing the praises of the South Africans and the Rhodesians. We heard one honourable member do so tonight. Once again it was the honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay).  He is always praising the South Africans. In a speech on defence I outlined in detail the oppressive laws which exist in South Africa. Almost every single right which is supposedly available to humanity as a result of the United Nations Declaration of Human Rights has been denied to certain people in South Africa. Let us hear the views of an honourable member opposite on this subject. I am not trying to score a political point. There is no point in trying to do so because my remarks will not be reported in the Press. I would be delighted if just one honourable member opposite would express his support on the subject. I have asked privately one or two honourable members opposite - I will not mention any names - who have at some stage expressed views against the policy of the South African Government and against this tour, to sign it but they were not prepared to do so. I would like to see just one honourable member sign it to prove that not only are the Australian Labor Party and a few other people concerned but also the whole nation is concerned about the proposed tour of Australia by the Springboks. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I address my question to the Attorney-General. In view of the Minister's frankness as to why he has not prosecuted for breaches of the National Service Act, will he tell the House why neither he nor his predecessors have prosecuted members, possibly including himself, for the multitudinous and continuing breaches of that portion of the Commonwealth Electoral Act that prescribes $500 as the maximum amount that can be spent by candidates on election campaigns? ls this a case for the Minister to show his consistency with the law and order theme now being parrotted so hysterically by Liberals throughout Australia? 
I rise to support the amendment moved by the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  not only because I believe in the amendment fervently but because I happen to represent an electorate which has more people who are concerned with social welfare than any other electorate in Australia. Some honourable members may dispute that, but let me just quote a few figures. For honourable members who do not know where the electorate of Robertson is, I point out that the electorate is located between the 2 cities of Sydney and Newcastle. It is an area of great beauty. It is an area which many people select to live in retirement when they reach the age of retirement. The 1966 census figures reveal that the number of people over the age of 60 in the area of the electorate of Robertson totalled 23,000. That was out of a population of approximately 80,000. As a proportion of the voting population, that is over 40 per cent. 
Since 1966, this figure has grown considerably. I think that it would be fair to say that the total number of persons over the age of 60 years in my electorate now would be approaching 30,000. Well over possibly half the voting population of the area of the central coast of New South Wales is in that age group. Honourable members looked surprised when I said that I represented more aged people than any other member in this House. I think that the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentwortb),  who is at the table, will probably agree that that statement is so with respect to my electorate. 
Yes, quite a considerable number. When the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  took over the reins of leadership, he promised to abolish poverty. In 2 years, he has abolished poverty by increasing the base pension rate for single pensioners by $1.50 per week and for married pensioners by $1.25 per week. Some abolition! One wonders whether he considers himself to be Prime Minister of Australia or Prime Minister of India. At this rate of increase, it will be some 200 to 300 years before poverty is abolished. 
I have heard a lot of talk from the other side of the House about the Chifley Labor Government and how the present Liberal Party-Country Party rule, which has continued for over 20 years, has improved upon what Labor did when it was in power. I agree with the honourable member for Stirling  (Mr Webb)  when he says: T am not concerned with what Labor did'. 1 have looked at some figures. I am quite shocked. Where honourable members opposite obtained their figures, I do not know. I have here copies of 2 documents - the Minister has been supplied with them - which I will seek to have incorporated in Hansard. The first document shows the pension as a proportion of average weekly earnings. The other document sets out some figures illustrating the average increase of the pension with the increases that have been granted. The latter document is the one which I hold in my hand. Does the Minister have it? 
With the concurrence of honourable members, I incorporate in Hansard the document setting out the age and invalid pensions from 1949 to 1970 showing the percentage increase over the pension rate for the previous year. 

<graphic href="069131197009173_41_0.jpg"></graphic>

To show how unprejudiced I am, 1 will quote not only the figures for the last years of the Chifley Labor Government but also the figures for the first few years of the Menzies Government. In 1945, the pension rate was, to use today's currency, $2.70 per week. In 1946, an increase of 50c per week was granted. That represented an increase of 20.4 per cent. In 1948, a further increase of 50c was granted. This was an increase of 15.4 per cent. When  Sir Robert  Menzies -  Mr Menzies  as he then was - came into power, he increased the pension rate by 75c per week. In 1951, the pension was increased by $1 per week. In 1952, the increase was 75c. Increases ranging between 15 per cent and 20 per cent on the previous year's pension were being granted. But, as time progressed, through the 1950s and the 1960s, we saw the rate of increase decline. It is difficult to calculate these figures because occasionally we miss a year because no increase was granted. We see that the rate gradually slides. Increases of the same size - 50c, 75c and $1 per week - were being granted but, as a proportional increase, these were considerably smaller than previous increases. In the 1960s, we see increases ranging from 6 per cent to 4.8 per cent and 6.4 per cent to 6 per cent. That is until this financial year when pension increases hit rock bottom. The increase this year is the lowest for 25 years. It is 3.8 per cent. 
Of course, 50c was a considerable amount in 1946 and 1947 when the pension rate was $2.70 per week. The increase this year in comparison with the increase in the years I have mentioned is the equivalent of approximately 8c. How honourable members on the Government side would have screamed if they were here in opposition in 1945 or 1947 and the Prime Minister of the day,  Mr Chifley,  had announced that his government would grant pensioners an increase of 8c, or 9d, in the pension rate. There would have been riots and screams of laughter. But that is what the Government has given pensioners this year. 
Never in history have we had a Budget that has enhanced the position of the privileged at the expense of the underprivileged as this Budget does. In the words of the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam),  this is a classic high Tory Budget. The policy of the Labor Party is quite clear. It is to increase the pension to what it was under the Chifley Labor Government, that is, approximately 25 per cent of average weekly earnings. With the concurrence of honourable members, I incorporate in Hansard the second of the 2 documents to which I referred. It is a comparison of single age and invalid pension benefits to average weekly earnings in Australia for the period 1944-45 to 1970-71. 

<graphic href="069131197009173_42_1.jpg"></graphic>

As honourable members will see, the table shows that in 1947-48, the pension rate as a proportion of average weekly earnings was 24 per cent. Unfortunately, the Legislative Research Service of the Parliamentary Library was not able to calculate the exact details of earlier years because of some statistical complications. But this proportion, taking into account the recent increase proposed in the Budget, has dropped to 19.1 per cent 
I have tried to make head or tail of the cost of living index. I have spent quite some time studying it. It seems to me that it is no longer relevant and that the only real basis of comparison is average weekly earnings because the basis upon which the consumer price index is being restructured continually. I feel - and I think most honourable members honestly feel - that the only way to assess the value of the pension is as a proportion of average weekly earnings. Surely poverty is a relative thing - this has been said many times here - and the only way in which we can assess the position of pensioners is to compare it with the standard of living which is enjoyed by the community. 
I for one, together with members on this side of the House - and I am sure this might be said of honourable members opposite - would like to see social services taken out of the realm of politics. It is morally wrong for a government each year to offer people bribes with their own money. I believe that it was in 1943 that the pension was geared to the consumer price index. It was adjusted quarterly. I think that that is the correct procedure to be followed with pension rates. But the consumer price index dropped. The Prime Minister of the day adjusted the pension downwards. There was a scream from the voter. I believe that the then Prime Minister made a mistake. I think that it was a mistake which all of us have lived to rue. The present Government has had 20 years in which to correct that mistake. 
The pension rate should be geared to some price index and average weekly earnings. As I stated before, it should not be a question of a government being able to grant a pension increase because an election for the Senate or the House of Representatives is coming up. I for one would hate to see a Labor government using this power so cynically to buy votes. I believe that the Australian people and the pensioners of our country see through this practice so clearly. I doubt whether, once the pension was set at a reasonable rate, any harm would be caused to the Government of the day in any way. I believe that the Government that made such a move would be deserving of great credit. 
I have listened to, and have studied the Hansard reports of, speeches by Government members. I wish to refer to the hypocritical statements that they make as to how they would like to have seen something more done for pensioners in the Budget. I have heard them, one after the other, say that the fact that pensions have not been increased is a terrible thing. Of course this is one for the benefit of the electorate so that members can go home and say: 'Look, here is my speech.' They will hand out a few copies and say: 'I attacked the Budget. I did not take it lying down'. But when the time comes for a vote and the members are being counted we can be sure that none of those supporters of the pensioners will come over to this side of the House and vote with the Opposition. 
I did not know that the honourable member was awake. I have quoted just a few honourable members. The honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Bonnett)  made these remarks. The honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)  said the same thing. The honourable member for Deakin  (Mr Jarman)  said that he was terribly disappointed with the Budget, but of course he will support it. The honourable member for Isaacs  (Mr Hamer)  said: 
I am sure there is widespread disappointment that it has not been possible to make a larger increase in pension rates. But the situation must be seen in perspective. Under Liberal governments the rate of pension increase over the years has been substantially higher than the rise in the cost of living. The trouble has been that the starting point in this process, namely the pension rate under the last unlamented Labor . government, was far too low. The real value of pensions has steadily improved under Liberal rule and will continue to do so as the economic situation permits. 
Those are the crocodile tears that we heard from the honourable member for Isaacs, and one could go on. There is hardly one of them who has not criticised the Government on this issue. Continually quoting how things are better than they were under Labor I regard as a complete and deliberate falsity. When people make these statements in the House they should back them up. 
Let me sum up. I promised the Whip that I would keep my speech inside the limit. I believe that both sides of this House ought to try to stop scoring political points on the question of social welfare. There is plenty of room in other areas to do so. I want to see political bribery and political gimmickry removed from the question of social services. We want to find out the causes of poverty. Firstly we should look at the situation in Canada and 
Great Britain. I want to quote from "Britain 1970', an official handbook that has been distributed to all members. It states that the Government of Great Britain is now granting supplementary benefits and the basis for these grants is need - nothing else but need. The handbook states: 
Every person in Great Britain aged 16 or over who is not in full-time work, attending school or involved in a trade dispute and whose resources are insufficient to meet his requirements is entitled to a supplementary benefit . . . 
The benefit is the amount by which a person's requirements exceed his available resources, both being defined by rules laid down by the Act. The calculation of requirements is based on different amounts for single people and family groups (for blind people there are special higher amounts) with, in each case, an addition for rent. For the old and most other long-terra cases a special addition is made. Available resources include certain income and capital; the main national insurance and industrial injury benefits, family allowances and maintenance payments from a husband on the father of the claimant's children are taken into account in full but some part of all other resources is disregarded. 
Put simply, that means that a person's pension or a person's requirements are granted on the basis of need. 1 am always interviewing pensioners and people who are unable to cope financially in today's society. All day I am interviewing people like this in an electorate such as mine and I find there are dozens of cases of people who just do not fit into the standard rules that are made. We have to create a situation in which a person can come to a social services officer and say: 'I cannot manage.' The officer can look at the case and examine it a thousand different ways and say: 'You need another $3.50 or $5.70 to make up your requirements.' Then we will have a Social Services Act and a social services set-up that is administered with some feeling and humanity. I will not quote individual cases but I am sure that the Minister knows how often this must happen. Let me quote again from 'Health and Welfare in Canada 1969*. On 1st April Canada introduced the Canada Assistance Plan to replace the Unemployment Assistance Act 1956. This publication states: 
It extends federal sharing to include the following costs, which were not shared under the Unemployment Assistance Act: The cost of assistance to needy mothers with dependent children, maintenance of children in the care of provincially approved child welfare agencies, health care services to needy persons, and the extension of welfare services to prevent or remove causes of  dependency or to assist recipients in achieving self-support. Health care services may include medical, surgical, obstetrical, optical, dental, and nursing services, drugs, dressings, prosthetic appliances; and other items associated with the provision of such services. Welfare services may include rehabilitation services; casework; counselling and assessment services; adoption services and homemaker, day-care and similar services supplied to persons in need or  to  persons to whom the service is essential if they are to remain selfsupporting. 
The only eligibility requirement specified in the Canada Assistance Plan is that of need, which is to be determined through an assessment of budgetary requirements as well as of income and resources. A Province must not require previous residence as a condition of eligibility for assistance or for continued assistance. Rates of assistance and eligibility requirements are set by the Province, that is, the equivalent of an Australian State. The Plan thus enables the Provinces to adjust their rates to local conditions and to take into account the needs of special groups. 
I conclude by saying that I would like to see a different philosophical approach to the question of poverty;. I am sure that the Minister and those on the other side are aware of what creates poverty. People are not poor because they do not work hard. They are not poor because they have an occasional beer or bet on an occasional race. They are poor because they are products of an environment that they were born into. We are all products of that environment. Anyone who has done any sort of social research will be aware of the continuing process and the way people remain within the same economic grouping right throughout their life. If you are born as the son or daughter of a carpenter, a miner or a street cleaner, the chances are that you will in later life have an occupation like that. If you are born the son or daughter of a stock or sharebroker, a doctor, dentist or lawyer, the chances are you will remain in that stratum of life right throughout your whole career. 
How much different is the atmosphere in the environment of the poor working class homes compared with that in the homes of the affluent and the middle and upper class sections of our community? I only have to take my own experience. I quote it often as an example. My father was a dentist; my mother was a school teacher. From the time I was born I was encouraged, urged and motivated to better myself. I was continually and constantly bombarded with educational books and toys and a hundred and one other things that enabled me to bumble through to where I am today. But this does not exist a great deal. The motivation and cooperation are lacking in a great number of working class families. This is not the fault of the child; it is not the fault of the parents. It is the fault of the life that creates this environment. Until we get to the root cause of it, until we eliminate a great deal of that in our society, we will continue to have this stratification right the way through. I hope that one day I will be in this House when we see the Government - and I will probably have to wait until this side of the House is the Government - approach the question of social services and of abolishing poverty in the way I have suggested. 
Recently in this House and in this country we have seen arise the frightening specture of government by fear. We had hoped that we had seen the end of government by political gimmickry in this country. When  Sir Robert  Menzies decided to resign from this Parliament we thought that we had seen the end of government by gimmickry, but unfortunately that is not so. During the 1950s the Communist bogy was raised at every possible opportunity. There were imaginary threats from Russia and the bogus Petrov affair. In 1963 we were told that we were about to be invaded by Indonesia. In 1966 we heard about the downward thrust of China and the domino theory. So now, with the Liberals facing defeat and political oblivion, we have the issue of law and order. 
Unfortunately when liberals fight on issues they go down to inglorious defeat. They can succeed only with gimmicks. The loss of 17 seats at the last general election set the Liberal Party experts in the back rooms looking for an issue. We have seen the internecine strife between both partners of the coalition; the fratricidal struggle to oust the Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton)  earlier this year; the revolt in rural Australia; the off-shore mineral debacle that occurred in this chamber not so long ago; and the Budget that was for the few by the many. We have seen this Government wallowing around in a whirlpool of uncertainty and discontent. The old guard and disappointingly the new guard, or the new Turks as they are so often described, look around for a way to get the monkey of political defeat and political oblivion off their back. 
Somebody in the Liberal Party read a book - a most dangerous habit for Liberals - and it has acted on them like a drug. They are like drug addicts trying to dry out, but they cannot kick the habit. So they are on a law and order trip, Unfortunately. like drug addicts, their judgment has gone astray. They have not judged the pulse or tempo of contemporary Australia. I heard the honourable member for Hume  (Mr Pettitt)  in one of his more brilliant moods a few moments ago refer to the Chisholm by-election. I suggest to the honourable member that he should have another look at the figures for the Chisholm by-election and ask himself how the combined Australian Democratic Labor Party and Liberal vote, which represented approximately 61 per cent of the total votes cast in Chisholm 9 months ago, has dissipated to 53 per cent in a very short time. If the Government loses the DLP support to that extent in future elections, the honourable member for Hume and the rest of his colleagues will not be here. 
To return to the theme I was developing, the chief pusher, the Attorney-General  (Mr Hughes),  has convinced his country cousin, the clown prince of politics,  Mr Askin,  to go on the same trip. The analogy, unfortunately, which so many speakers draw between the United States of America and Australia just will not wash. To try to compare the situation in Australia with the position in the United States is bordering on the absurd. In the United States there were race riots at Watts and Newark, racial murders, the burning of towns and portions of towns, massive civil disobedience and' civil rights riots in Chicago at the Democratic Convention. There were repeated marches on Washington in which hundreds of thousands of people were involved. There has been an unprecedented crime wave in the United States which has no relation to civil disorder. The law and order debate has continued in the United States for some time. 
I do not intend to debate the rights and wrongs of what is happening in the United States. I simply make the statement that to compare what is happening in the United States with what is happening in Australia is bordering on the absurd. What has happened in Australia with regard to civil disorder and civil disobedience? The first Vietnam Moratorium demonstration was hardly comparable with, say, the riots in Watts in California. The Vietnam Moratorium was fairly peaceful. A few people were injured and I understand there were a few sore heads in Adelaide, caused  mostly by a few members of the armed forces. Then there was the Budget strike, that memorable strike which was condemned as the most dreadful thing that had ever happened  in  Australia.  In  that strike a couple of hundred thousand workers were absent from work for  2  hours. There have been a number of sit-ins which usually involved no more than a couple of hundred people. There was the attack on the Attorney-General's home. Not one person on this side of the chamber whom I have heard, either inside or outside this Parliament, has supported that action. Each and everyone of us deplored the al tack by these people. I repeat that I. have not heard one person either privately or publicly condone the action of the people who disturbed the Attorney-General at his home. I regard it as a deplorable breach and action should have been and I hope will be taken against the people involved. 
If there is lawlessness and disorder in Australia, whose fault is it? After all, there has been  20  years of Liberal Government. At present there is a Federal Liberal Government and  5  State Liberal-Country Party governments. The law and order issue usually is raised by those in opposition, but we have the unique situation in which it is the Government that is raising the issue now. If the Government cannot handle law and order in this country, why does it not resign and let somebody else govern? Honourable members opposite are censuring their own administration by this campaign about law and order. 
The hypocrisy of the Government's situation is outlined by a comparison of the increase in crime with the increases in the numbers of offences for civil disorder. I shall quote very briefly from the speech which the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  made on 17  September when opening the debate on the estimates for the 
Attorney-General's Department. TTc  said: 
The incidence of crime for every 100,000 of Australia's population has increased since 1964 by 23 per cent, lt has increased in the case of Victoria by 16.9 per cent, of New South Wales by 20.7 per cent, of South Australia by 26.5 per cent, of Queensland by 34.8 per cent, of Western Australia by 53.4 per cent, of the Australian Capital Territory by 65.2 per cent, of Tasmania by 89 per cent and of the Northern Territory by 148.3 per cent. 
This to me and I think to most Australian people makes a laughing stock of this campaign about law and order. As I mentioned previously, the Premier of New South Wales,  Mr Askin,  asked for a mandate on the law and order legislation which he proposes to introduce into the New South Wales Parliament. He received it on Saturday when the vote for the Liberal candidate in the New South Wales by-election dropped by some 6,000  votes. If people feel threatened it is not because of a few demonstrators: it is because of the vast increase in criminal activity. As  1  asked before: Who is responsible for that situation?  1  shall quote something that I read recently in the newspaper which you can trust, because  1  think it highlights what I believe is a deliberate attempt by the Attorney-General to provoke and promote disturbance within our universities. The Daily Telegraph' of Tuesday. 8th September  1970,  under the headline 'Hughes lini. Visit Today Cancelled', contained the following article: 
Canberra, Mon. - The Federal Attorney-General  (Mr Hughes)  said yesterday he would not visit the University of Sydney until assured that the campus is free from 'organised violence.' 

 Mr Hughes was due to address a meeting of students at the university tomorrow. 
He has already attended one meeting at the university which resulted in a near riot. 
Today  Mr Hughes  received a telegram from the  president  of the University's Student Representative Council  (Mr Barry Robinson). 
The telegram said: 
Request that you postpone your visit to University of Sydney due to current feelings on campus on conscription issue. 
I would be only too pleased to extend an invitation on behalf of the SRC at  a  later dale in third term. 1 strongly urge you to consider the seriousness of situation as well as the lateness in the academic year and the bearing any disruption would have on many students' academic careers. 
The university should always be open to guests presenting their point of view however the academic timetable should surely be a consideration.' 
I regard that as a very moderate telegram warning the Attorney-General of the various aspects of his proposed visit. The reply to that telegram was a most incredible, provocative and aggressive attempt by the Attorney-General to capitalise on what I think was a very sensible attitude adopted by the  President  of the University's SRC. The reply was: 
I regret that the SRC should find it necessary to make this request on the ground, as emerges from your telegram, that 'current feelings on campus' and 'the seriousness of the situation' lead to a reasonable apprehension that there would be a violent demonstration. 
I put it to honourable members that that is what the Attorney-General has read into the telegram sent by the  President  of the SRC. The Attorney-General's reply went on to state: 
While 1 welcome your statement that 'the university should always be open to guests presenting their point of view' it is regrettable that this very sound principle is being undermined by threatened violence on the part of an unrepresentative minority of the student body, fomented by at least 1 person who is not a student. 
Any form of stifling legitimate freedom of discussion is objectionable. 
But to stifle such freedom by threats of violence in inexcusable. 
There was no mention of that in the President's telegram. The Attorney-General's reply went on to say: 
In all the circumstances, and after consulting the Sydney University Liberal Club as convenors of the proposed meeting and conveying your request to them, I have decided with their concurrence that I ought to comply with your request 
I remain ready and willing, however, to speak at the university when the university authorities and you on behalf of the SRC consider that- 
I emphasise this final line. freedom from organised violence on the campus can be reasonably assured. 
If ever there has been a provocative attempt by the Attorney-General to stir up trouble, this is the classic example. 
The Minister will not be laughing when the Government is defeated on this issue at the next general election. I want to give an example of this Government's attitude. It permitted the First Secretary of the South Vietnam Embassy,  Mr Luu  Tuong Quang, to speak at the Democratic Club, University of Queensland, but denied entry to this country to a distinguished negro comic,  Mr Dick  Gregory. I wonder whether the Government can see some conflict in its attitude to these 2 persons. The Government permitted a representative from the Embassy of South Vietnam to go to a university. It is obvious that a man who holds political views such as those held by this gentleman will finish up causing a disturbance and possible riots at a university. Yet a man who has an opposing point of view is prevented from entering this country. 
I want to conclude my remarks on this note: While we hear all this nonsense about law and order practically every member of this House has committed a bad breach of the Commonwealth Electoral Act which states that honourable members shall not spend more than $500 on a political campaign. What nonsense! Every member of this House knows that to get into this place one has to spend thousands of dollars. The Attorney-General knows full well that an average campaign would cost about $4,000, $5,000 or $6,000. 
I spent well in excess of the limit- close on $6,000. If the Attorney-General wants to prosecute me he may do so. What happened recently when 200 members of the Navy decided to mutiny? I can recall the days when mutineers were hung from the yard-arm but in this case the Minister - possibly quite rightly - increased Navy pay and thereafter the matter disappeared off the front pages of the Press.  But when a few students demonstrate or take part in a sit-in everybody wants to have them locked up in gaol. Everybody wants to crack down on these people who occasionally commit a minor breach of the law. 
I have been very worried while you have been in this place. I have to keep an eye on you to see whether you are always sitting there. I conclude with this comment: The law and order campaign is a complete and utter failure. 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
Are Commonwealth offices to be constructed on the corner of Watt and Erina Streets, Gosford, New South Wales. 
If so, when. 
Will these offices provide accommodation for all Commonwealth agencies in the electoral division of Robertson. 
If not, which agencies will be excluded. 
Will provision also be made in the same building for State Government agencies sothat people requiring assistance from both the Federal and the State Governments will not be forced to make numerous and often tedious visits to different parts of the town of Gosford. 
asked the Postmaster-General, upon notice: 
Did he, in answer  to  representations from Members of Parliament on behalf of the Rats  of  Tobruk Association requesting the issue of the issue of a stamp commemorating the 30th anniversary of the siege of Tobruk, state that stamps were not normally issued for anniversaries unless they celebrated traditional anniversary periods, such as 25, 50, 100, 200 years, etc., and therefore he could not accede to the request. 
Is it a fact that the 20th anniversary  of  Anzac in 1935 and the 30th anniversary of the first Tasman flight in 1958 were two issues which breached this rule. 
If so, will he reconsider his decision and accede to the wishes of the Association so that many thousands of Tobruk veterans, while still alive, will gain recognition for their heroic victory. 
asked  the Minister for the 
Interior, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to the projected increase in population in the GosfordWyong district to half a million people as outlined in the New South Wales States Planning Authority's outline plan for the Sydney region for 1970-2000 A.D. 
Has he received a request from the Gosford Shire Council for assistance from the 
National Capital Development Commission in the planning of  the  Centre of Gosford. 
Is he able  to  say whether,  in  common with most local councils, Gosford lacks  the  large trained skilled  staff  required to cope with urban development proposals of the magnitude projected. 
If so, will  he  give favourable consideration to assisting the Gosford Council as requested. 
 Is the Minister for Trade and Industry aware of the continuing growth and the enormous potential for growth in the tourist industry in Australia? Will this assist in. earning valuable foreign currency and offsetting the decline in earnings in the rural sector of the economy? If so, will the Government upgrade the tourist industry by appointing a separate Minister for Tourism, by low interest loans through the Australian Industry Development Corporation for the building of accommodation and by grants or loans to bodies such as the National Trust and private organisations which will develop tourist attractions of a distinctly Australian character? 
Before I commence I want to commend the honourable "member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner)  on his excellent speech, embarrassing though this may be to him. On 9th May 1961, during the Presidency of the late John F. Kennedy, in an historic address to the National Association df Broadcasters the  Chairman  of the Federal Communications Commission of the United States of America,  Mr Newton  N. Minow, had the following to say: 
I have confidence in your health, hut not in your product. When television is good, nothing - not the theatre, not the magazines or newspaper - nothing is better. But when television is bad, nothing is worse. I invite you to  sit  down in front of your television set when your station goes on the air and stay there without a book, magazine, newspaper, profit and loss sheet or rating book to distract you and keep your .eyes glued to that set until the station goes off. I can assure you that you will observe a vast wasteland. 
You will see a procession of game shows, violence, audience participation shows, formula comedies about totally unbelievable families, blood and thunder, mayhem, private eyes, gangsters; more violence and cartoons. And, endlessly, commercials - many screaming, cajoling and offending. And most of all, boredom. True, you will see a few things you will enjoy. But they will be very, very few. And if you think I exaggerate, try it. 
Why is so much of television so bacl* I have heard many answers: Demands of your advertisers; competition for ever higher ratings; the need always to attract a mass audience; the high cost of television programmes; the insatiable appetite for programming materials- these are some of them. Unquestionably these are tough problems not susceptible to easy answers. But I am not convinced that yon have tried hurd enough to solve them. 
He went on: 
We all know that people would more often prefer to be entertained than stimulated or informed. But your obligations arc not satisfied if you look only to popularity as a te«t of what to broadcast. You are not only in show business; you are free to communicate ideas us well as relaxation. You must provide a wider range of choices, more diversity, more alternatives, lt is not enough to cater to the nation's whims - you must also serve the nation's needs. 
That speech was made in the United States almost a decade ago. It could well be made in Australia by an Australian, if we had an Australian such as  Mr Newton  N. Minow in a position of power and with the intestinal fortitude and intellectual insight to make such a speech. Allowing for the passage of time and minor changes in trends and tastes it could equally apply to the mediocre and often appallingly low grade fare being dished up to Australia's millions of television viewers. 
However, this speech will be about not only the quality but the content of Australian television. At least the Americans were receiving American fare.  Mr Minow  could appeal to the producers to amend their ways. In Australia, the same appeal for a lifting of quality would have to be made across many thousands of miles of ocean, to the places where the great bulk of the drama, music and variety programmes shown on Australian television are produced. During the next few weeks I hope that an important decision, which will vitally affect the lives of present day Australians and future generations of Australians, will emanate from the office of the Postmaster-General  (Mr Hulme).  Ii will determine the outlook, characters and personalities of many millions of young Australians. It will have a profound effect on whether Australia is to retain a cultural identity and heritage that are distinctly Australian, or be swallowed completely in a morass of imported cultures. That decision is one that will determine the Australian content in local television programming on a commercial television. 
The long term effect of this momentous decision may not be realised for many years, lt may well be that it will not be realised until it is too late. However, one group of Australians, the most creative and talented section of our community, is going to feel the immediate effect of this decision. These are  the  television  writers,  technicians, artists and musicians who, in past years, have helped to produce Australian drama, Australian music, Australian variety shows and Australian comment on current affairs. These are the people who, due to a change in policy by the major Australian commercial television stations, are now either out of work or have bad their opportunities drastically reduced. In a country where there have been complaints about over-employment these are the new unemployed. - In recent months we have seen a mounting attack by television's work force spokesmen such as Bobby Limb, Barry Crocker, Bo Bo Faulkner and Lance Peters,  President  .of the Australian Writers Guild, and a counter attack by the television industry's powerful propaganda machines. Briefly, what has happened is this: In an effort to increase profits the major television stations have gradually replaced what little Australian drama, music, variety and current affairs programmes, which by overseas standards are reasonably cheap, with football, fights, panel shows, quiz shows and amateur hours which are considerably cheaper to produce. While they have kept to the letter of the law relating to 50 per cent Australian content they have treated with contempt the spirit of the law. For example, in the past 12 months the number of drama series in production has dropped from 11 to 5, and 3 of these are Australian Broadcasting Commission productions. 
Regular current affairs programmes have all but disappeared and Australian music and variety shows have been cut to a bare minimum. Despite the fact that, as my colleague the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Sherry)  said, 33 out of 42 commercial television stations are showing a profit and there has been a jump in total net profits from $9.5m in 1966-67 to $15.5m in 1968-69, there is an increasing tendency by the major networks to wriggle out of their national responsibilities by cutting back on Australian productions and buying more and more imported programmes. The reasons are fairly obvious. A top hour programme from the United States costing $150,000 to produce is dumped on the Australian market for $8,000 per hour. The commercial stations buy as a pool and the overseas networks throw in cheap daytime programmes and repeats of old shows as filler programmes as a bonus for buying the expensive modern new ones. It is impossible for Australian shows to be produced for $8,000. The minimum cost to produce a quality one-hour drama programme is $20,000. I might add while talking of repeat programmes that Australian writers are not paid for repeats as are their United States, United Kingdom and Canadian counterparts. 
Since 1963 commercial television has spent over $100m on the Channel 7 revolution. As Lance Peters said, this makes it more expensive than the Russian revolution and probably less desirable. In return for this Australia earned approximately $2m from the sale of Australian produced television programmes, and most of this was from 'Skippy'. The television stations have argued that they will give the public what they want and will not offer inferior productions just because they are Australian. Yet, of the top 10 programmes - I quote from the recently released publication of the Federation of Australian Commercial Television Stations titled 'Facts of Australian Content in TV Schedules' - 6 of the top 10 programmes are Australian. The top 10 are: 
'Homicide' (A) 
'Division 4' (A) 
'Julia' (USA) 
'Skippy' (A) 
'Disneyland' (USA) 
'Showcase 69' (A) 
'Pick-a-Box' (A) 
'Dick van Dyke' (USA) 
'Barry Crocker's Sound of Music' (A) 
'Bewitched' (USA) 
What better proof could there be that Australians, given the choice, prefer Australian programmes? This is an incredible performance given that so little money is expended on Australian productions.I hope that everyone notes that the top 2 are Australian drama series. Frankly, most of these are not my particular taste nor, I imagine, will many of us be overly impressed by the American alternatives. What is obvious, however, is that given the choice between mediocre Australian shows and mediocre American shows, Australians prefer Australian shows. 
I am disappointed that honourable members have only 10 minutes in which to speak in this debate. I thought we had15 minutes. It has been stated often that the introduction of a third commercial station in the major capital cities has placed undue strain on the existing channels and that the third channel is unable to operate at a profit. It may well be that it was an error to introduce a third channel so early. ThereforeI suggest that the Government purchase this channel and convert it to an educational channel to be run by the Australian Broadcasting Commission. In perhaps 10 or 15 years when our population has increased by some millions we could then give further consideration to reallocating an extra commerical station. 
asked the Minister for  Immigration, upon  notice: 
How many nominations have been received by his Department for the admission of Soviet citizens of Jewish faith? 
In how many of these cases have unexplained delays occurred in securing the consent of the Soviet authorities for the nominees to leave the Soviet Union? 
Before I go on to what I was speaking about last evening I want to compliment the Postmaster-General  (Mr Hulme)  and his Department for the very co-operative attitude they have taken in dealing with anything f have had to raise with them. Every time I have written a letter to the Minister or asked for action I have received extremely prompt replies and extremely satisfactory solutions have been found to almost all the problems I have asked him about. I would also agree with the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Turnbull)'  when he complimented the local officers of the Postmaster-General's Department on the tremendous assistance they give. 1 only wish that 1 could say the same about a lot of other departments. Last evening I was referring to a number of matters concerning . television and honourable members may recall that 1 quoted from a speech from  Mr Newton  N. Minow,  Chairman  of the Federal Communications Commission of the United States of America. I talked about the profitability of television stations and referred to the ratings which showed that Australian produced television was highly rated and that it had 6 out of the top 10 shows according to the Australian ratings. 1 hope that the Postmaster-General  (Mr Hulme)  will find time soon to announce what the new quota content will be. A couple of thousand artists are most anxiously awaiting the results of the inquiry as to whether or not there are to beincreased quotas. 
It is interesting to note that the Australian television commercials industry, given complete protection by the banning of imported commercials, has thrived and is highly profitable and ranked in the top 3 in the world. A few of our television commercials have won world awards. Unless drastic action is taken in the near future to protect Australian television shows, particularly drama, it is unlikely that anything remotely resembling an award will be won by Australian writers, Australian artists and Australian producers. If they do win them they will have won them for their work on English television, for that is where most, of them are working now. The complaint that I make on behalf of these people is not that the television stations do not fulfil their quotas hut that the quotas are too low, particular for drama. If the television stations had their own way there would be no quotas and consequently no Australian television industry. Only quotas have prevented the industry's complete annihilation. 
In recent weeks we have seen the dangerous situation that has arisen through the granting of licences to newspaper proprietors who now have almost complete control over the dissemination of nearly all news, information and editorial comment. In the current debate that has raged over Australian content, the Press, particularly the Packer Press, has been able to distort or misrepresent the arguments of one side while publishing misleading and exaggerated claims in support of their own side. One needs only to read the pontificating pomposity of a  Mr Nigel  Dick, General Manager of GTV 9, on 21st August when he attempted to hand down from the mount his view or should I say  Sir Frank  Packer's view, of what television is all about. If there is anything more sick making than a business executive trying to explain that his company's actions are motivated entirely by the public interest and not good old fashioned profits, I should like to know what it is. 
It is highly unlikely that any of my speech will be reported in the newspapers where there is this conflict of interest. I might add that it is the opinion of those who have visited the United States - and I cannot count myself among them - and have made a close study of television, that this is the reason for the vast difference between the amount of news, news editorial and current affairs that is broadcast on Australian television and the amount that is broadcast on American television. The major networks in the United States have li hours of news and editorial comment from 6 p.m. to 7.30 p.m., another  i  hour at 9 p.m. and again at 11 p.m. As well as this there are numerous quality panel and discussion shows that delve deeply into every aspect of American social and political life. This is in stark contrast to Australian television where what few current affairs and discussion programmes there were have almost ceased to exist. The Australian Broadcasting Commission provides This Day Tonight' and 'Four Corners* as the only continuous current affairs programme. The reasons for this are obvious. Too many of these programmes would lead to a drop in newspaper sales, and  a  well-informed public would not be in the interests of the political party that most newspapers support. One needs only to have studied the deliberate attempt by certain government backbenchers to eliminate the last vestige of political and current affairs discussion on the ABC to understand why the commercial stations have sought to stifle public debate and awareness. 
I mentioned earlier that the television stations, through their organisation, the Federation of Australian Commercial Television Stations, had waged an elaborate, expensive and factually inaccurate campaign which culminated in the production of a glossy magazine that purported to answer the critics' charges that they were not fulfilling their moral obligations to Australia's cultural heritage. The publication, called 'FACTS', was historic in that it probably contained more prejudiced, subjective and deliberately misleading and meaningless statements than any document it has been my misfortune to read. The brevity of this debate does not allow me time to mention more than a few, but let me quote a couple of examples. It stated: 
The existing quota has achieved an excellent programme balance between imported and local programmes, making for a good blend of programme variety sufficient to appeal to the Australian public. 
What arrant nonsense! Have honourable members ever heard a more selfcongratulatory view of one's own work? It must be very convenient when a person can write his own critiques. This brings to mind  a  recent statement by  Sir Frank  Packer, when commenting on the disqualification of 'Gretel' in the Americas Cup, about appealing to your mother-in-law about your wife. This is like a mother giving a reference for her daughter to a prospective husband. 
I was going to quote another extract from this publication but the honourable member for Melbourne Ports  (Mr Crean)  has mentioned the number of people who watch television. I think that what is needed are the following requirements: We need increased quotas for Australian content - we should aim, like the Canadians, for 60 per cent; we need special emphasis to be placed on drama and the present 2-hour quota should be increased to 4 hours a week; Australian drama should  be  defined as that written, acted and produced by Australians; repeats should not be allowed to qualify as part of the quota and the clause that allows British Commonwealth productions to qualify" for 50 per cent of their time value as Australian content should be removed. We should introduce tariff protection with a 50 per cent loading on imported shows With the revenue directed towards subsidising Australian film production.  1 hope that the, Government and the Opposition can get together to review the matter of the 10-minute time limit during the Estimates debate. I think that all of us  have agreed that we should cut the time limit on major speeches on Bills and state-  ments but during the Estimates debate it is absolutely impossible to say anything at all profound or anything that has involved research in 10 minutes. 
We have heard the usual psalm-singing patriotism we hear from the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt)  sitting over there in Gunn's Gully. It is pretty normal procedure for him and his colleagues to get up and criticise the Government, but when the real test comes they are sitting there firmly stuck to their seats. I want to talk about something of significance that is happening. At this moment a very dramatic event of international significance that will have everlasting effects upon this country is being played on the world stage. We in this Parliament stand in the wings, not wanting to play any role in the drama that is unfolding. We are abdicating our responsibility. I am referring to the distinct possibility of the break-up of the Commonwealth of Nations brought about by the proposed sale of naval equipment to South Africa by the recently elected Conservative 
Government  iD  Great Britain. What is amazing  is  that those in this House who are the most ardent Empire loyalists and the most dedicated to past memories of Victorian colonial conquests are those who privately espouse these proposals and publicly cry that we should not interfere in the domestic affairs of another country. Oh. what a change there has been since Vietnam. These are the people who seem to be almost pleased that the black countries are on the verge of leaving the Commonwealth. In recent months a growing number of Commonwealth countries have denounced the proposed sale of arms to South Africa and many have threatened to withdraw from the Commonwealth. They include Kenya. Uganda, Tanzania, Zambia, Ghana, Nigeria, India, Canada and many others. Even  Mr Holyoake,  an arch-Conservative if ever there was one, is less than happy with Britain's proposals. 
I am amazed that after the recent Commonwealth Parliamentary Association Conference where delegates from the Australian Parliament were able to meet with delegates from over 50 Commonwealth countries and Territories, the majority of whom are coloured and are extremely sensitive to the recent past history of colonialism and exploitation, the delegates from the LiberalCountry Party side of the House are still as myopic and insensitive to the feelings of these people. To these people, South Africa with its vicious and inhuman policies of apartheid is the arch enemy. Honourable members should try, if they can, to imagine the feelings of the Jews about Nazi Germany and Hitler for over 20 years and they will have an understanding of the way these people feel about South Africa and Rhodesia. 
I would like to quote from a speech by the honourable B. K. Adama, the Minister of State for Parliamentary Affairs of Ghana when he spoke in this House on 3rd October at the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association conference. He said: 
The Government of Ghana would regard such action by the British Government as a racist alignment with South Africa and an  unfortunate  disregard for the susceptibilities of so many African States in Africa whose goodwill and friendship towards Britain have sustained the British presence in Africa over many years. Whatever the short term advantages the British Government might hope to derive from the resumption of sale of arms to South Africa or from any such conciliatory posture in its dealings with the present racist regimes in Southern Africa  could  nol be compared with the long-term benefits which the British people might gain in their relations wilh so many other African States. 
Despite all that the delegates heard at this conference they still return to this chamber muttering all sorts of hackneyed cliches such as 'non-interference', 'the Russians are just as bad', and 'if it is wrong to trade with Rhodesia it is wrong to trade with China'. What they fail to understand is that while most of these countries have no love for Russia or China or their political systems, these countries do not persecute, suppress or exploit people on the basis of the colour of their skin. This is the fundamental difference. A man can change or suppress his political views but he cannot change the colour of his skin. 
I want to quote from a speech -made by the honourable member for Deakin  (Mr Jarman)  in October at the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association conference. I informed the honourable member that I was going to drop the bucket on him tonight but he has not seen lit to come into the chamber. In his speech the honourable member inadvertently let slip his racist attitudes of superiority when he stated: 
The sanctions against Rhodesia have not succeeded in breaking (hat cOUntry. An invasion of that country would only result in  Englishmen  killing Englishmen-- 
And then he quickly added -  and many dark Rhodesians. 
Nothing better confirms to coloured people the dormant racism which they believe lies beneath the surface of many Europeans than statements such as the honourable member for Deakin made. What horrified him was that Englishmen would be killing Englishmen. It is all right for Englishmen to kill black Africans; it is all right for Australians to kill coloured yellow Vietnamese; but heaven forbid that Englishmen should kill Englishmen. What do our neighbours whom we seek to impress at every opportunity think when they see how closely so many members on the Government side of the House feel for the racist regimes of South Africa and Rhodesia? Do they take us for fools or do we take them for fools? Do not honourable members on the other side of the House realise that they can see right through every aspect of our foreign policy: 
The basis of Britain's argument is that the Soviet presence in the Indian Ocean is  a  threat to Britain's vital trade routes. Let me quote from a speech made in the House of Commons on 22nd July of this year by the British Foreign Secretary,  Sir Alec  Douglas-Home, that great intellect who has been resurrected since the recent election of the Conservative Government.  Sir Alec  said: 
Trie Soviet Union wants to penetrate in strength and deeply into the Indian Ocean. 
This was a profound speculation by the Minister. He went on to say:  1 should not like to be an East African country, for example, if the Indian Ocean became a completely Communist-dominated sea. 
One can imagine the warmth with which the honourable members for Boothby  (Mr McLeay),  Deakin, and La Trobe  (Mr Jess)  and the honourable Minister for the Navy  (Mr Killen),  who I am delighted to see sitting at the table, would have embraced  Sir Alec's  statements. No-one has yet been able to explain to me how, short of a world war III this will interfere with British or Australian trade. In a world war no ocean will be safe. There are vague innuendoes and sinister suggestions that a Soviet fleet will somehow impinge upon our freedom or rights. This is a far cry from the warm welcome that  Mr Gordon  Freeth, a previous Minister for External Affairs, gave to the Russians just prior to the last general election. 
Let us face the facts. The Government has changed its policy through pressure from its own extreme right wing and the threat of the removal of support by the Australian Democratic Labor Party. It is good sabre rattling, but it bears little resemblance to reality. If the Russians propose to sail within 200 miles of the Australian coast, what does the Australian Navy propose to do? Does it propose to sink them? The Minister for the Navy is not listening so I do not suppose he has heard what I have said. Of course the Navy will not sink Russian ships if they come within 200 or 300 miles of our coastline. 
In the few minutes remaining to me I would like to quote from the same speech by  Sir Alec  Douglas-Home in which he said: 
Members must face this. There are $2,142,900,000 investments by this country in South Africa, and there is $642,870,000 of trade each way. 
The question I put to right honourable gentlemen opposite is this. Do they think that that does not strengthen South Africa? Of course, increasing trade with South Africa strengthens South Africa. One of the arguments against the sale of arms to South Africa is that it strengthens the South African nation, giving more power against its neighbours. 
There is the nub of Britain's desire to ingratiate itself with the South African racist regime. It is good old-fashioned naked capitalism. 
There are those who argue that France is equally guilty. But France does not have a Commonwealth. France's former colonies are not as close to South Africa as are Britain's colonies and are dependent on France for aid and trade. Many of the colonies of France could not survive without her. Let me conclude by saying that we are witnessing the beginning of the end of the British Commonwealth of Nations. There will no longer be any valid reasons for the majority of the coloured nations to remain as partners in an association where its titular head is prepared to court a nation- 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Corbett)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 

 Mr Jess (La Trobe) (9.7)- It has been most interesting to listen to the speech of the young Messiah from Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  who has just spoken on the defence estimates. Indeed, it was interesting to listen to the remarks of other honourable members from the other side of the House. I would like to refer only to 3 of them because the debate has not been worth while replying to in great detail. The honourable member for Forrest  (Mr Kirwan)  referred to national servicemen who had been sent to Vietnam as having been turned into criminals. The honourable member for St George  (Mr Morrison)  in referring to a booklet put out for the troops in Vietnam referred to political commissars directing the policy of soldiers. The honourable member who just resumed his seat talked about psalm-singing patriotism. I do not know whether there is anything necessarily wrong with patriotism. Perhaps it would be a good thing if a few people in this country spent a little more time thinking about it. 
When I spoke to the Defence estimates yesterday I said that the time was coming when we should review our defence structure. I said that the time could be coming when we would have to look at the mainland defence of Australia. What I did not have time to say and what I say now is that those who have enjoyed the spirit of protest and those who have enjoyed the great fight for civil liberties against law, order and any responsibility in this country may well be reaping the reward sometime in the near future. Whereas I said that Malaysia and Singapore and other nations may well be revising their outlook and their treaties and where they will place their confidence, I did not have time to say, but I say now, that I would not blame these countries for changing their outlook because they know that should there be a change of government in Australia the alliances and treaties would be worth nothing. Indeed, the speeches of members of the Opposition have had their effect on those with whom we would wish to have friendship and alliance. I would like to take honourable members on the other side of the chamber back to what a member of of the Labor Party said some time ago because I believe this is relevant to the conditions of today. Honourable members on the other side of the House are always telling us how they won the last war. The honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Daly)  frequently tells us this. On 2nd November 1938, as reported on page 1093 of Hansard,  Mr Curtin  said: 
The international crisis has passed. The threatened danger is no longer as great as it was, for it must be apparent to everybody that the Munich pact has lessened the possibility of a European war. . . . 
That was 12 months before the war. He went on to say, as reported at page 1094 of Hansard: 
The Government, as  a  matter of fact, has brought the country to the verge of war hysteria . . . 
Honourable members can read the whole record of what members of the Australian Labor Party said in 1938. They are saying exactly the same now. They are saying that there is no threat and that there is no need to do anything in the way of defence. The honourable member for St George said that he would prefer to put the money spent on defence into social services. But I do not wish to use the 10 minutes allowed to me in this debate in discussing this matter. 
I wish to talk, as others have, about the terms and conditions of service. It may be remembered that this morning I asked the Minister for Defence  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  about certain pay revisions for the Citizen Military Forces. As I understand it, senior officers in the CMF are paid on the basis of so many days service a year and that their pay is based on the pay of a Regular Army officer of equivalent rank. I believe that the present pay is assessed on the basis that officers serve about 60 days a year. But these officers are at present serving for 100 to 150 days a year. This matter concerns me. I agree with what the Minister for Defence said about an inquiry into the pay code of the Services. If an inquiry will mean that those benefits which are in the pipeline and those allowances and other conditions in respect of which decisions are about to be made will be impeded by Treasury or by a mass of clerks sitting in some office and who have no relationship with the serviceman and never, in my opinion, seem to have any knowledge of his terms and conditions, I am against it. I hope that the Minister for Defence and the junior Service Ministers will see that this is not so. 
The Minister for the Navy  (Mr Killen)  said last night that he and the other Ministers would see that this did not occur. I suggest that even if they sleep in Sheridan sheets it is time they got out of them and took action on some of the things from which the Services are suffering. I do not have time to go through them all. But the question of disturbance allowance has never been fully realised or understood by the Treasury and those who are advising in respect of this matter. It is all very well to say that an inquiry is being conducted into turbulence, but if we are 500 middle class officers short we cannot replace them with recruits. We have to use seasoned officers. This means that officers are being moved from one post to another on an average of every 16 or 18 months. 
I was pleased to see the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)  get up to speak because until he rose we had heard only from our esteemed friend the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Turnbull).  I was surprised to see him rise, knowing the Country Party as I do, and talk on Aboriginal affairs. He has no right to do this because he is not an Aboriginal. Whenever we of the Labor Party talk on rural matters we are told to sit down because we are not farmers. Why did he get up and talk on Aboriginal affairs; he is not an Aboriginal? 
 He misrepresents them, just as you do. We have had a disgraceful performance from the Government tonight We know we can always get the honourable member for Mallee up when we say no-one from the Government side has spoken. He got up just to make sure there was a name from that side of the House. The only man who spoke with any sincerity was the honourable member for Maranoa, who has a genuine interest in the subject. Until then there had been the honourable member for Hughes  (Mr Les Johnson),  the honourable member for Kalgoorlie  (Mr Collard)  the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant),  the honourable member for Brisbane  (Mr Cross),  the honourable member for Grey  (Mr Wallis)  and the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby).  Then we saw the honourable member for Mallee get up just to make sure the Government had its name on the sheet. 
Let us get back to a few fundamentals on this subject of Aboriginals. Tonight most of my colleagues have covered the subject so well that I do not intend to go over it as I have done in previous speeches in this Parliament. My colleagues have talked this evening about why Aboriginals are such a depressed minority. They have asked the Government what it is going to do about it. We know from previous speakers - and it has been said so often in this House - that the problem starts primarily from the day the Aboriginals are born. Children up to 6 months or until they are no longer breast fed are fairly equal with their white contemporaries. It is after that stage when they are living under such shocking housing conditions that their health starts to deteriorate because of their continual reinfection. If they happen to survive to the age of 4, which is the danger period, they have been sick so often that they are not only physically retarded but also mentally retarded. If they manage to survive through early childhood they come up against all sorts of problems such as social deprivation at the age of puberty. So we have this continual evolutionary process which is unfortunately  creating  a  situation  where  by  the time  Aboriginal children  are 15  or  16  years  of age  they  are so fat  behind their white  contemporaries that they have no  possible  hope of  catching  up. 
The honourable member for Kalgoorlie mentioned the question of the definition of an Aboriginal. He gave a very good description when he said there is too much generalisation when we talk about Aboriginals. We hear this so often from , people who talk about the Aboriginal. We know quite well there is not just one type  of  Aboriginal for there is the city dweller - the Aboriginal who comes perhaps from  Victoria.  These are people like Lionel Rose and Eric Simms from .Sydney, who are part Aboriginals. We cannot possibly talk about them in the same way as we can about the bush dwellers, the fringe dwellers, the Arnhem Land dwellers or however many groups we like to divide them into. There are distinct groups with distinct social problems. It is a misnomer to talk about an Aboriginal. I am sure the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  understands this problem well. I will not go over all the problems  of  housing. I think it has been said by every speaker tonight that the housing situation is the one that will be the rock upon which we will build the answer to the Aboriginal problem. Until we have them  off  these filthy revolting rubbish tips and out of these disgusting shanty towns, we have no hope of making any progress. We have to find a means  of  providing them with a way of surviving in our competitive capitalist society. This is what concerns me. 
I want to mention a few things about the trip some honourable members had through the Northern Territory during the recess. I was impressed with some things and I will compliment the Minister on them. But I will not compliment him on the fact that he is always running around calling anyone who does not agree with him a Communist. This is the one thing that stops the Minister getting the complete respect to which he is entitled. We have all said many times in this House that he has a very far reaching knowledge of the problem. We have complimented him but if we criticise him we are Communists, do-gooders, stirrers or something like that. I object very strongly to those sort of terms being levelled at anybody who criticises the Government. It is a pity he spoils his reputation in this regard. Having said those nasty things about him I want to compliment him on what I saw at Alice Springs on my way to join a committee. With my family I drove to Jay Creek outside the Standley Chasm which is a famous tourist resort and saw there some appalling living conditions. I was quite shocked. My wife fortunately had not witnessed anything of this nature before. I had seen it on previous trips. There were children with torn singlets, filthy, dirty, matted hair, eyes covered with pus, running around almost naked. On a river bank I saw 2 pieces of corrugated iron making up what was a house. 
However, I did see some things that gave me some pleasure. I noted that the Aboriginals had formed a co-operative progress association at Jay Creek. At the entrance to Standley Chasm they have built, with the help of money provided by the Aboriginal Enterprises Fund, a first class, kiosk which provides food, including sandwiches, steaks and all manner of amenities for the thousands of tourists who visit Jay Creek or Standley Chasm. This is providing employment for Aboriginals. The kiosk also' contains a wide range of native artefacts which are for sale. About 4 or 5 Aboriginals are employed - 3 or 4 girls who are beautifully dressed and groomed and a chef. Some 8 or 10 Aboriginals are employed in another enterprise near the kiosk. This is a trail ride enterprise which takes tourists on rides throughout the area. I understand that also they have a cattle co-operative with 100-odd head of cattle. I regard this as a first-class enterprise which the Aboriginals have established with some help from a European gentleman named, I think Herb Adams, who has been appointed by the progress association to help them run the business and to teach them saddlery and a few other skills. I understand that they are making great progress and that they are managing to function as a viable business. The sort of activity that is proceeding at lay Creek is a means by which the Aboriginals will, in some respects, be helped to establish themselves economically. However, at Jay Creek something should be done quickly to provide decent housing, because the present housing conditions are absolutely appalling. 
On this trip we visited 2 or 3 other places. I want, particularly to mention Groote Eylandt because if ever I saw a set of conditions where Aboriginals are thriving it was at Groote Eylandt. The Opposition has not been noted for the compliments it pays the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd, but I think this company deserves to be congratulated for the modern, progressive and enlightened approach that it has taken towards the Aboriginals on Groote Eylandt; not all of it, perhaps, because of its great humanitarianism. The point is that what we saw was extremely good. I think this has much to do with the fact that the Rev. Taylor foresaw the great manganese deposits that existed on Groote Eylandt and took out .a lease on the resources for the Aboriginals, and instead of the usual situation where 2 royalties are paid, one to the Government and one to the combined Aboriginal Trust Fund in the Northern Territory, a third royalty is being paid to the Aboriginals on Groote Eylandt. This means that the local community of about 900 Aboriginals is receiving some $150,000 annually at present. I understand that they expect to receive about $200,000 by next year or the year after. By this means they are receiving some direct compensation for the activities that are going on right in their neck of the woods. 
As a general rule 1 believe in the philosophy that certain groups of Aboriginals should not be wealthy because they happen to have mining resources on their particular plots of land. I agree with the former Minister for the Interior  (Mr Anthony)  who advocated the policy that the money from royalties should go into a general fund. However, in the peculiar circumstances that exist with these resources, 1 believe that, the idea of the third royalty being paid because of the leasing conditions at Groote Eylandt should be applied throughout the whole area. There is a similar situation at Gove, but the third royalty is not being paid because the lease was not taken up on behalf of the Aboriginals. I imagine that the same situation will occur at Oenpelli where a uranium deposit has been located. I would advocate, and I hope that when the Labor Party becomes the government in 1972 it will do this - the introduction of a system whereby a third royalty is paid wherever a big mineral find is made on an Aboriginal reserve or wherever Aboriginals are ensconced so that they can see some direct benefit from those vast enterprises that dislocate their lives. 
Other benefits accrue' from such enterprises. I must compliment the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd. for its attempt to employ as many Aboriginals as possible in its enterprise. On Groote Eylandt some 28 are working for the company, and doing extremely well. This may sound to be a small proportion of the 900 local Aboriginals but when one realises that 500 of them are children, 200 are women and about a further 100 are too old to work or otherwise incapable of working, it leaves only about 100 males of whom one-third are being trained by the company. This is a commendable effort. The attitude has been adopted that wherever the interests of the Aboriginals and the Europeans conflict, the Europeans must give way. We heard of incidents between Aboriginal women and European women. Whenever these occurred the company had the good sense to sack the Europeans, get them off the island and out of the area. This is what we were told. I might mention that we sat around talking to the Groote Eylandt Aboriginals for some time. Eventually we asked them whether they had any complaints and it took almost half an hour before we heard a complaint. I had to lean forward to hear what the Aboriginal man said. He said that there was too much taxation. This is a complaint that is not restricted to the Aboriginals on Groote Eylandt. 
I should like to see a special attempt being made to ensure that royalties are paid to Aboriginals where a mining enterprise dislocates their traditional cultural and tribal way of life. I hope that in  the  near future - and when we become the government - we will take up the point that the honourable member for Grey  (Mr Wallis)  mentioned about racial discrimination. I should like to see racial discrimination illegal in Australia. I should like to see it outlawed. I should like the Parliament to examine some of the legislation which has been introduced in the United Kingdom for the Race Relations Board. I should like also to examine what has happened in Canada with respect to hate literature, but I think this is something that must be considered in the future. 
I conclude on this note: I know that the Government wants to move on to other business, but on the question of land rights I am most critical of the Government. I think that the Government is reacting to situations and is not acting. We saw wherever we went - at Gove, Groote Eylandt and at Wave Hill particularly - much activity. I believe there was a good reason for this. Apart from the attitude of the Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd, on which I have already commented, I believe that the Government and the companies were sensitive to public opinion because all of these areas had been in the public media - on television and in the Press - and had been given much publicity; therefore there was activity. I was absolutely shocked to see the amount of money that was being spent at Wave Hill and not being spent at places like Jay Creek or areas we saw earlier this year. 
If ever I saw a reason for the students who have been criticised for stirring to get out and do some more stirring it is this Government's reaction to pressures from the public media. Right throughout our trip we were constantly aware of the sensitivy of the companies to criticism. The criticism had come about only because the Press, the television media and the students had sought to demonstrate and highlight these inefficiencies. I was getting to the stage where I felt that demonstrations were losing their impact, but after seeing this attitude of the Government I can only say that, if that is the way the Government reacts, these people should demonstrate in a lot more places. I understand that the same thing is happening at Roper River. The Aboriginals there went on strike. A protest occurred. What happened? The Minister for the Interior  (Mr Nixon)  flew up there, and things are now to start happening at Roper River. All I can say to the students is: 'Get out and get the names of a lot more of these places. Get the names of a hundred different places and get them in the headlines'. If they do they will get the Government to do something about them. 
I have listened with interest to our country cousins this evening. They may be surprised to see me rising to speak on a wool debate. 
I thought the honourable members would come in like a pack of sheep. I am equally qualified, and probably more qualified, to talk about wool than any of them because I have been selling wool for 12 years. It has been my livelihood and I have done fairly well out of it. I thought I should express a few views on woollen garments just to break the monotony of the baas we have heard from members opposite. Members of the Australian Country Party would not know the difference between a tweed, worsted or melange if it fell on them from a great height, and that is not the only thing they would not know about it if it fell on them from a great height. They could not sell a woollen garment at half the price. Just look at how drab they are. Most of them wear the same suit every day. Most of them are not even dressed in wool. They are a disgrace to the fashion trade. Why do they not get out and promote the product - wear some smart clothes and look as though they have something to promote and not something of which to be ashamed. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Cope)Order! 

I will not be any more provocative,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  but I think they know my views and what I think of them. It has always been a mystery to me why Australia does not market and manufacture more of the world's woollen products. Why does a country, which produces more than half the world's wool, remains such a back number in terms of production of textile goods? What attempts have been made to make Australia one of the world's fashion centres? There is no reason why most of the fashion centres should be in Europe. At the moment, France, Italy, Great Britain and the United States of America would be the top 4 fashion countries. Britain, of course, became a fashion centre during the socalled swinging 60s. At one time Britain was not regarded as a setter of fashions, but it has promoted the fashions that have come out of Britain in recent years. There is no reason why we could not do this. If we cannot get into the high price field of manufacturing, why cannot we get into the medium priced field? As Japan and China now manufacture most of the cheaper goods, there is no reason why we could not capture a large percentage of the medium and, I believe, the high priced fashion garments sales in the world's markets. Australia, I understand, uses only about 6 per cent of its own clip in domestic, secondary and tertiary fields. What attempts have been made to assist the Australian textile industries which are producing yarn and finished garments? 
I looked through the Australian Wool Board's interim annual report and when I saw the names of Board members I checked with experts to ascertain how many of those members were from outside the woolgrowing area or the Public Service field. I was told that practically none of them has had any experience in the manufacturing, designing or retailing fields. It may be that they have done a fair job, but they are not getting many results. 1 should like to see at the top level of the wool industry those who have had the practical experience of having to manufacture, design and sell the goods. Despite the growth of man-made fibres I understand that almost 80 per cent of all the fibres used in the textile industry are natural fibres and that only 20 per cent are synthetic fibres. 1 heard the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt)  say that wool is still the best fibre, and I agree with him from the practical experience that 1 have had io selling garments day in and day out for nigh on 12 years. I have yet to see anything that is as good as wool in certain fields, but it has some limitations. Anyone who goes about saying: 'Wool is the best and 1 am going to wear wool irrespective is a fool. He should realise that wool is not satisfactory for some garments. It is not a practical exercise to produce woollen shirts, because they itch a person to death. lt is not practical to use wool in some garments for children because at present wool has not been made shrinkproof in a large number of products. Mothers will prefer to buy garments containing synthetic material because they have to be washed over and over again. Some garments are far better when made of a mixture. Socks and lightweight summer suits fit ideally into this category. But there are some woollen garments that cannot be replaced by a synthetic. Winter suits and knitwear garments are still on their own in terms of wear, quality and every other aspect at which one can look. So I support the honourable member for Gwydir on this rare occasion when he said that wool is still, in 90 per cent of cases, the best product on the market. 
Why is it that the demand for wool is declining? I can only recount some of the experiences that I have had as a retailer. At the opening of every season we have a fortnight of wool promotion. I might add that in my store I will not stock any garment of synthetic origin in a field where J think that wool is superior. I believe that Australians should get behind their own product and sell it, not just give lip service to these things. Every year my manager or I communicate with the Wool Bureau and ask for what assistance it can give us. Quite frankly we have given away ringing the Bureau because of the almost useless material it forwards us. This year, because 1 knew that an opportunity would present itself for me to speak on this Bill, I asked my manager to ring the Bureau early. We received from the Bureau 5 posters. I have a menswear store. I realise that there should not be any commercials in this chamber so I will not give the address. However, the posters that I now show to honourable members were what I received. The first is a charming little piece.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  Can I have these posters incorporated in Hansard? 
 I am not trying to be funny. I hope that honourable members will take some interest in these matters. The next poster gives details of woollen family garments. It is quite an attractive poster. The next poster is also suitable for displaying in a store that sells men's woollen garments, but the remaining 2 posters are quite useless for a men's store. These posters represent the total assistance that the Wool Bureau could give me. 
I do not know which honourable member interjected 'Oh'. I am not trying to score any cheap political points, but to tell what happens. This is the best effort we have ever had from the Bureau. In previous years we got one or two posters about 18 inches by 12 inches. The Bureau just was not interested in what we had to say. The honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt)  knows my store. He has shopped there to his everlasting credit. He knows it is a good store in a very high class area on Sydney's North Shore. It has a huge frontage of 37 feet. A wool promotion feature would be seen by some 20,000 people over a period of a fortnight. Yet this is the best material we have had for 10 years. I am trying to be serious and not trying to score points. 
I have more wool on me than has the honourable member. That is the sort of stupid statement we get from members of the Country Party. There are areas in which certain garments cannot be produced well. I have woollen ties but the tie field is one which we should not worry about. The amount of wool used in the tie field is absolutely infinitesimal. To try to score a point in that way is not worthy of him. People talk about the wearability and serviceability of wool. These features do not determine sales of woollen garments these days. What determines sales of woollens is fashion. The plain facts of the matter are that in the last couple of years allwool garments, such as knitwear garments, have not been in high demand. I could go into a long dissertation as to why it is that the knitwear garment trade is depressed at the moment. I could show the House my own figures, which have dropped. I am as interested in selling knitwear garments as anyone, probably more interested. It is at least 3 years since a garment in the knitwear trade has had fashion appeal. Since the polo neck sweater became popular about 3 years ago there has been nothing new to promote. I could detail every year for the last 12 years what the latest promotion has been. It could have been black; it could have been olive, green or red; it could have been bulky knit sweaters, Como cardigans or the ordinary cardigan. Each year we have had something new to promote and something to sell. There has been some gimmick. Over these last 3 years we have had nothing. I am hopeful that next year we will have some new garments. Although I have given away managing the business, I did the buying this year with my manager. Next year what is known as the skinny rib will be promoted. It does not have particular appeal to me because I do not fit skinny ribs very well or skinny anything these days. This is a new promotion and one hopes it will take off and create a demand. 
I could give the House figures for the last 3 years to show that sales of knitwear garments have dropped by 20 per cent to 25 per cent. I have talked to my colleagues in this industry and they have all told me the same thing: It is purely and simply a fashion demand. The young people are the ones who create demand and the sort of garments being sold are not woollen garments. They are buying suede, leather and a whole range of other fabrics. 
I believe that the Wool Bureau and the wool promotion section of the Wool Board should be getting to the person who makes the final sale. I have seen a lot of the promotional work on television. A lot of it is very good. I have seen some of the things that the International Wool Secretariat has done. For instance, it has had Prince Michael of Kent in the London to Mexico World Cup car rally dressed in specially designed pure wool garments and his car upholstered in wool. There is a whole list of these things and I think they have some merit. One can never tell in advertising what the answer is. People can laugh and say: This is not the way it should be done'. Quite frankly, one does not know in advertising what the answer is until one has advertised. 
One thing should be done. The Wool Board should get in touch with the man who makes the sale - the young man of 20 or 21 in the shops of the big retailers such as Myers and David Jones, and in the small stores - and say to him: 'You have a vested interest in selling woollen garments'. We should be taking them to training schools and teaching them the various qualities of wool - the fact that it does not burn, that it is warm and the whole range of good qualities the garment has. Perhaps we should give awards to the man who sells the most garments. Time and again I have been in stores and seen a customer walk in and say: "Which one is the best?' The salesman says: Take the orion one, it does not shrink'. I admit some of these synthetic garments do not shrink but the salesman has not bothered to describe the virtues of the woollen garment. If I was given garments to sell I could sell any one of them. One does not tell the people the weaknesses of a garment Every fabric has a weakness. I can tell the House the weaknesses of orion or cashmilon. One does not emphasise the weaknesses, one emphasises the good points. I do not think it is being dishonest; it is part and parcel of selling. I feel the Wool Board, particularly the promotional and merchandising side of it, can do a great deal more by getting to the man who is making the final contact with the customer and educating him in the aspects of selling wool. 
I saw a rather interesting letter to the editor of the 'Sydney Morning Herald' a couple of weeks ago. It was from a woman by the name of Janet M. McPhee. 1 will read it because it backs up my personal experience. The letter in part says: 
For years I've worked closely with Madame Vera Fels, the governing director of Germaine Rocher (French house of haute couture in Australia) and being an Australian myself was amazed to find that only imported woollen piecegoods from France, England and Italy were used in the making up of our exclusive women's wear. It seemed we had nothing of comparable quality, nor the range of colours, available on the local Australian market. 
Being 'all for Australia' I called in a representative of one of our largest manufacturers of textiles and an offshoot of an overseas textile company and asked him to bring us the full range of woolen fabrics suitable for exclusive women's wear. I spent a tot of time going through the samples submitted, but without bias was forced to admit there was not one colour in the entire range, nor a texture, which would have tempted me to buy even one length. 
On asking the representative why this firm still carried a range of colours of die 1920s which lacked the subtlety of the soft colours and the excitement of the glorious sharp colours the overseas mills were able to produce, I was told 'Well, we can sell all we need in this range so why should we bother our heads to change?'! This awful apathy still appears to prevail - if the woollen materials displayed for the making of women's wear are any guide. 
I agree wholeheartedly with Janet M. McPhee because this is the same sort of experience I have had. Some time ago the Wool Board each year was promoting a series of colours. In a speech one cannot describe colours but the monotony and boredom of the colours brought forward year by year by the Woo! Board were unbelievable. One would see the top 10 or 12 ranges of knitwear garments and they would all be made in the same wool. The navy would be the same; the bone would be the same; the olive would be the same. There was none of the subtlety, nuances and brilliancy we get in the variety from overseas countries. It was not that the garments from London, Japan and Hong Kong were better. They were simply different and they gave variety. I am sorry that I went longer than I said I would but I hope that what I have said will introduce a few new thoughts on what I think is a very vital question for this country. 
Debate interrupted. 
I  present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The bumble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully sheweth. 
That the Australian Education Council's report on the needs of State education services has established serious deficiencies in education. 
That these can be summarised as lack of classroom accommodation, desperate teacher shortage, oversized classes and inadequate teaching aids. 
That the additional sum  of  one thousand million dollars is required over the next five years by the States for these needs. 
That without massive additional Federal finance the State school system will disintegrate. 
That the provisions of the Handicapped Children's Assistance Act 1970 should be amended to include all the country's physically and mentally handicapped children. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to - 
Ensure that emergency finance from the Commonwealth will be given to the States for their public education services which provide schooling for 78 per cent of Australia's children. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received and read. 
asked the Minister for External Affairs, upon notice: 
Will the Government - 
Formally proclaim 1971 to be the International Year for Action to Combat Racism and Racial Discrimination and observe it as such. 
Issue, during the Year, special messages affirming this country's faith in the dignity and worth of the human person and its dedication to the implementation of the United Nations Declaration on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination. 
Take steps to arrange a special meeting of the Parliament on 21st March 1971, the International Day for the Elimination of Racial Discrimination. 
Sign and ratify the International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial discrimination. 
Give moral and material assistance to peoples struggling against alt forms of racial discrimination. 
Promote the widest and most intensive possible dissemination of United Nations Declaration on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination and the International Convention on the elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination. 
Ratify or accede to, if it has not yet done so, other conventions having a bearing upon the elimination of racial discrimination, including the Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide, the Slavery Convention of 1956 on the Abolition of Slavery, the Slave Trade, and Institutions and Practices Similar to Slavery, the UNESCO Convention against Discrimination in Education, the ILO Convention of 1958 concerning Discrimination in respect of Employment and Occupation, the International Covenants on Human Rights, and the Optional Protocol to the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights. 
Ensure that the curricula of schools under its control and of other educational institutions include teaching of the scientific facts about race, that invidious distinctions about peoples are not made in textbooks and in classrooms, that all material susceptible of leading to racial discrimination and prejudice is eliminated from textbooks and that instructors are taught the value of principles of equality and dignity of all men. 
Promote publication of books, pamphlets, reports and other publications, both learned and popular, assist in the organisation of radio and television broadcasts on subjects connected with the Year and in the distribution of films and the utilisation of other appropriate information media and arrange for the holding of competitions if that is considered expedient. 
Encourage cultural exchanges between countries of different races, hospitality programmes, opening of homes to students and visitors of different races. 
Encourage sports, athletic and other similar organisations to contribute to the establishment of harmonious relations among the peoples of different races. 
Issue postage stamps and first-day covers on 21st March 1971, and arrange for special cancellations during 1971. 
Inform the Secretary-General of the United Nations of the programmes and activities undertaken during the Year.' 
I ask the Minister for Shipping and Transport whether his attention has been drawn to predictions by John A. Volpe, Secretary of the United States Department of Transportation, that there will be a 50 per cent reduction in highway deaths in the next 7 years and a reduction of 10,000 deaths in the next 2 years. Is he also aware of the statement by Douglas V. Toms, Director of the United States Federal Highway Safety Bureau that within the next decade cars will be built which will be so safe that it will be extremely difficult to kill oneself in a car? What further action can the Federal Government take to ensure that Australians can look forward to similar prospects? 
I should like to say a few words on behalf of the new members who came into this Parliament at the beginning of this year. When I was a young boy I remember seeing John McEwen stride across the political stage. I think that all of the newcomers to this Parliament feel a sense of privilege at having served, if only for a very short time, in the same House as the right honourable member. I am rather glad that it has been for only a year, because I can recall in one of the great debates that have taken place in this Parliament since I have been here - the off-shore oil debate or the Vietnam Moratorium debate - when he was thundering forth I almost slipped under the bench because of th: power of his oratory and the damage which I believed he was doing to the Parliament. 
He is one of the few men to stride across the political stage who has risen almost above party politics, not in our eyes but certainly in the eyes of the Australian people. I have often been embarrassed at the number of times I hear, even at Labor Party meetings, of the high respect in which the right honourable member is held. On behalf of the newer members in this House, I thought that I should wish him well in his retirement. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Is he able to say how many registered charities there are in (a) New South Wales, (b) Victoria, (c) South Australia, (d) Western Australia, (e) Tasmania, (f) Queensland, (g) the Northern Territory and (b) the Australian Capital Territory. 
Are they categorised into different groups. 
If so, what are these groupings. 
Are they required to file annual returns of Income and expenditure. 
If so, what was their (a) total gross income, (b) total gross expenditure and (c) total net excess of income over expenditure in (i) New South Wales, (ii) Victoria (iii) South Australia, (iv) Western Australia, (v) Tasmania, (vi) Queensland, (vii) the Northern Territory and (viii) the A.C.T. during the latest period for which figures are available. 
My question to the Minister for Shipping and Transport relates to the design rules for motor vehicle safety drafted by the Advisory Committee for Safety in Vehicle Design and supervised by the Vehicle Structures Branch of the Department of Shipping and Transport, ls it a fact that the officer who is responsible for inspecting the automotive industry's implementation of these safety rules for vehicle design has only the individual company's verbal assurance and that no government controlled testing laboratory exists to verify whether these vehicle design changes meet required standards? 
I want to raise a matter this evening in a general sense. I am concerned about the fact that this House is almost going to sleep. Since we have been here for the last 8 days we have discussed some of the most incredible trivia and we seem to have bypassed some of the most tremendously important issues that are facing this nation today. When I look at the notice paper and see some of the widely exciting topics which we will be debating in the future my concern grows with every hour. We have discussed the important state of our economy but now that has been put to one side. Despite the fact that the Press throughout Australia and the news media continue to report the state of our economy from day to day. we debated it for one day. We dealt with the Sugar Agreement Bill which is obviously of some importance. We had before us the Broadcasting and Television Bill, the Australian National University Bill and the Bills of Exchange Bill. We have some wild ones coming up. One is ihe Australian War Memorial Bill. That one should set the world aflame. Another is the Overseas Telecommunications Bill. The Cellulose Acetate Flake Bounty Bill ought to be an earth shattering one. 
One can go on and still find that the programme for this House is such that we will all be put to sleep. What concerns me is that so many vital issues have not and will not be debated. 
I understand already that because there is not enough business before the House we are to rise at 4 o'clock on Thursday and that we are to go back to our electorates. I have even heard talk in the lobbies that the House may not run its full time, that the House will rise for the winter adjournment earlier than expected because we have not enough business. We have been away from this place for 3i to 4 months. Now we come back, with none of the important issues being discussed. It is my belief that because we have not had debates such as an address-in-reply debate or a Budget debate, which allow honourable members to range over a wide number of topics. Ministers should have made statements on important issues that face the nation. In the time that I have been in this Parliament there have been no debates of any consequence on the question of urban development. There has been no real discussion on the question of pollution. There has been no real discussion in any depth - perhaps there has been very brief mention - of the question of conservation. As far as I oan see there will be no discussion this session on education or on the subject of road safety, which is very dear to my heart. I have tried to raise the subject of road safety on which I have had a speech written, on 3 occasions. On a previous occasion when I hopped up to talk on this subject I was gagged. On the last occasion I wished to speak I was told that I would be ruled out of order so I did not waste my time in getting up. 
No mention has been made in this place of transport. There is one of the most vital questions facing this nation. We should know the shape our transport will take and what are our transport needs. Such matters as rapid transport and interstate highways and so on should be discussed in this place. But there has been no mention of it at all. No debate has been listed on the question of social services. We have had a brief debate on this matter when it was raised by the Opposition by way of an urgency motion. But it appears that we will not have a deep inquiry into this subject. I know that many honourable mem bers on this side of the House want to raise the question of social services. I will admit that there has' ' been ari urgency motion but a debate of this nature is not enough to cover the. whole range that social services- embraces.  
What about the rural .community? We would have expected the honourable members over here in Gunn's. Gully to raise the subject of rural problems. But practically nothing has been said. The whole of the rural countryside is in' a crisis. We can see the way that the voters of Australia are swinging away from their traditional members and going in large numbers to the Australian Labor Party. Yet, no real debate will take place on rural problems. The question of tariffs has been on the lips of everyone in all media. We have the Cellulose Acetate Flake, but I do not think that we will be able to 'get' right through the whole of the problems of tariffs in that Bill. Such a subject cannot 'be covered in such a short Bill. : '&lt; 
Immigration is a subject which 1 have raised in the House. .This is a subject which has been discussed, and debated in the community in the ,last '6,. months. Immigration was a subject which was discussed in a seminar conducted by the Institute of Political Science in January. Yet there has been no real discussion . of the question of immigration. Even the question of drugs has not been discussed. Honourable members are able to raise these matters only in the grievance or adjournment debates. We have even seen the ridiculous situation of honourable members on this side of the House trying to get around the Standing Orders or the rules of the Parliament by trying to discuss these matters during the debate on the Advance fo the Treasurer. For hours I tried to wangle a way to bring up a matter on this debate tonight. This is where the Parliament has, got to. It has become a farce. As Bills are not being presented Ministers ought to be making statements on all sorts of matters so that we can debate them. It. is a damn disgrace that after 4 months of recess the Whips and the  Deputy  Whips have to run around and say: 'You get up and speak; can you get up and fill in the time?' Honourable members are asked to fill in the time when all of these important matters ought to be discussed. This is disgraceful. I hope that someone else will get tip and support me in this matter so that we can get on to discuss some of these very important issues that need to be discussed. Many of these issues were avoided last year. I accept the fact that the Government had important legislation and other things had to be pushed aside. However, if (here is no important legislation before the House now let the Ministers make statements on these matters and let these matters be debated. 
Is the Minister for the Interior aware that a survey of Commonwealth drivers will reveal that 90 per cent of Ministers and members fail to use the seat belts provided in Commonwealth cars? Is this an example to the Australian motoring public who are constantly being urged and, in some instances, compelled to utilise the undoubted safety value in safety belts? 
asked the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
Has the Australian Transport Advisory Council investigated the recent decision of the United States Government to introduce governors on cars to restrict the maximum speed to 95 mph. 
If so, with what result. 
asked the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
Is documented evidence available showing the relationship between heart attacks and road accidents. 
asked the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
Has any survey been made to ascertain what proportion of hospital beds are occupied by the victims of road accidents. 
asked  the  Minister for Shipping and Transport,  upon  notice: 
Are fully imported cars subject to Australian safety rules. 
asked the Minister  for  Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
Will he consider having recorded and published each year with respect to each of the Commonwealth Territories: 
the make of vehicles involved in injury or fatality producing accidents, 
the kinds and severity of injuries sustained, 
the kinds of structural damage suffered by the vehicles, 
whether or not the consumption of alcohol and/or drugs was a factor in the accident, and 
whether or not seat belts were being worn by the occupants at the time of the accident. 
Would this information be a valuable aid to the evaluation of driver and vehicle performance prior to and during an accident. 
asked the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
Can he give the number of fatal and injuryproducing accidents which have occurred on each of our major roads connecting the capital cities, but not including those which occurred on that portion of the road within the metropolitan areas. 
asked the Minister for 
Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
Has consideration been given to widening the representation of the Australian Transport 
Advisory Council to include the six State Leaders of the Opposition. 
asked the Minister for 
Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
What attempts have been made to gain voluntary adherence by all Australian States to a uniform highway code. 
What factors have prevented the attainment of uniformity to date. 
Does he anticipate that uniformity will be achieved in the future. 
asked the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
How many people were killed or injured in road accidents in each State during the past 10 years. 
Can he say what is the mortality rate per 100,000 vehicles and per 10,000 miles in overseas countries. 
asked the Minister for the 
Interior, upon notice: 
Has recent legislation been passed enforcing manufacturers to provide safety belts in the back seats of cars as well as the front seats; if so, why has the Commonwealth failed to provide seat belts in the back seats of Commonwealth cars. 
asked the Minister for Ship  ping and Transport, upon notice: 
What assessment has been made of the economic cost to Australia per year of the thousands killed and injured and the proportionate damage sustained through road accidents. 
asked the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
What amount was spent by the Commonwealth in attempting to reduce the road toll during the past 10 years. 
How was this sum expended. 
Last evening I had been prepared to speak on the question of the maiden performance by the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  as the new leader of the country and to mention the incredible reaction of the Sydney Press. However, just prior to my turn to speak, the honourable member for Lyne  (Mr Lucock),  made a bitter attack on a friend of mine, Bishop Crowther, because of his recent outspoken criticism of apartheid and the proposed cricket and rugby tours of Australia by the South African teams. He said that Bishop Crowther had shown a complete lack of appreciation of the total situation'. Bishop Crowther is a former Anglican Bishop of Kimberley and is at present Assistant Bishop of California and Professor of African Studies at the Berkeley University in the United States. I wonder who is better qualified to comment on the State of South Africa and apartheid - Bishop Crowther or the honourable member for Lyne. 
What was amazing was that the honourable gentleman should so misconstrue, either deliberately or through stupidity, the Bishop's statements made in the Press or on television. The honourable member implied that Bishop Crowther had advocated violent protest against the visiting Springbok team and that his expression of solidarity with the Black Power movement was an endorsement of violence. I should like to deal with his first point about violence. I refer to this morning's issue of the 'Australian' which, in referring to Bishop Crowther's visit, said: 
He advocated any legal means to protest against the Springbok tour, but emphasised his personal opposition to violence. 
I have no intention of leading a children's crusade to the barricades where they will be wiped out - I use that metaphorically. I think that protests do become a bore, but oppression becomes a bore too. I have never regarded doing nothing or saying nothing as the Christian way of doing things. I don't accept violence as a means of achieving social protest, but I think demonstrations need not be violent.' 
The honourable member's comment equating Black Power with violence is a testimony to his ignorance of the Black Power movement. I can only assume that he has become somewhat confused with the terms Black Power' and 'Black Panther'. I want to quote from a book entitled 'The Black Power Revolt', edited by Floyd B. Barbour. I shall quote specifically an article entitled The National Conference on Black Power' written by Chuck Stone. I want to inform the honourable member for Lyne of these things because he appears not to have done any study whatsoever of the question of black power. This article reads: 
A week later SNICK's chairman, Stokely Carmichael, marched through Greenville, Mississippi, leading the marchers in a new, militant chant, 'We want black power, we want black power.' It scared the hell out of white people and that fear, voiced in shocked editorials and public denunciations from both white and black leaders, nevertheless ushered in the era of black power. 
Thirteen months later, on July 20, 1967, the black power movement was formally legitimatized by the National Conference on Black Power in Newark. New Jersey. 
From 26 States, 126 cities. 286 different black or predominantly black organizations and institutions and two foreign countries . . . over 1,000 black people converged to write a glorious new chapter in black history. 
I wish now to refer to the sort of programme that was undertaken at the National Conference on Black Power. Delegates were given their choice of 14 workshops and were asked to indicate second choices should some of the workshops be filled. These 14 workshops were divided into 6 sessions. At each session a different paper was delivered which dealt with a particular aspect of that workshop topic. For example, in the workshop on economic development, there were presented papers entitled 'Economics of Poverty; We Do Not Control Black Money'; 'Which Businesses for Black People?'; 'Black Cooperatives and the Capitalist System'; Why Buy Black?'; 'Research Marketing, Advertising and Production'; and Economic Control of Urban Rebuilding'. This is real anarchist stuff, is it not? 
What the honourable member for Lyne does not understand is that black power means the use of the right to vote, the use of the legal rights of Negroes to gain their just rights and their human rights. The honourable member did. however, show one saving grace that gives one just the faintest glimmer of hope. He is the first member of the Country Party since I have been in this Parliament who has expressed any opposition to apartheid. It is a great pity that the honourable gentleman did not take advantage of the opportunity offered to him by the invitation I forwarded to him, and to other honourable members and honourable senators, to attend a meeting in committee Room No. 2 last Wednesday to listen to Bishop Crowther and to cross-examine him regarding his views on apartheid. The meeting was a repetition of the previous occasion when 1 invited members to attend a similar meeting to talk to and to debate with 3 members of the Australian Rugby Union team who have visited South Africa and whohave come out in opposition to the proposed South African tours. Not one member of the Liberal Party-Country Party coalition bothered to attend either of these meetings, although in fairness to the honourable member for Isaacs  (Mr Hamer),  the honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Bonnett)  and the Minister for the Army  (Mr Peacock)  I must add that they sent their apologies. I want that to appear in the record Each of these meetings was attended by approximately 20 members of the Labor Party. 
Let me assure the House that people such as Bishop Crowther and members associated with the campaign to stop the tour have sought over a long period to deal with this question in a rational, reasonable way. All of the people involved in the campaign, including the young students, in my view have taken a very logical approach in trying to get debate on the subject. Where were honourable members opposite when we tried to raise this matter last year? Not a word was heard from members on the Government side. Four times 1 stood in the House to raise this question. Not a word was heard from honourable members opposite. But now when we preach non-violence the honourable member for Lyne rises to try to accuse us of trying to ferment violence. The same people who deplore violence over apartheid applaud violence in Vietnam. I ask the honourable member for Lyne: Is it non-violent to banish a man to the wilderness or to detain him without trial indefinitely? Is is non-violent to deny a human being the right to vote, the right to free choice of employment or the rights to equal wages, equal justice, education, health and social welfare, freedom of assembly, freedom of association, equal participation in cultural activities, freedom to choose his own spouse, the right to strike, freedom of movement, of religion, of political views, and the hundred other rights enshrined in the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights? Are these non-violent measures? Do not talk to me about building bridges towards apartheid. What evidence have we to show that in the last 60 or 70 years there has been any diminuation in the amount of apartheid practised? From 1910 when the republic was formed until 1948 when the Nationalists took over and until now it has got worse and worse and worse. Show me one bit of evidence to suggest that aparheid has started to diminish and I will go along with the honourable member. Talk this sort of hogwash to the 6 million Jews who listened to it back in 1933 and 1939. Talk to relatives of mine who listened to it and finished up in the gas chambers of Auschwitz and the rubble of the Warsaw ghetto. They believed in this nonsense. 
The honourable member thinks this is different because the South Africans play rugby and cricket and they talk English. Do not believe it. It is the same mob dressed differently. It is the same Aryan master race. This evening we heard about the sort of action which I believe was responsible for the bombing of the home of Senator-elect Gietzelt. He is the one who said: 'We will not have the South Africans on the beaches of our district'. It is my view that is where the bomb came from. 
Sympathisers of South Africa, yes. I may be wrong; I hope I am but I do not believe I am. Look at the people we support. Go home and tell your RSL clubs how Prime Minister Vorster spent all the war in an internment camp. Tell them how his brother, the moderator of the Dutch Reform Church, was sentenced to death for sending radio messages to Nazi Germany. The honourable member should do a bit of reading about apartheid and find out about the history of the Nazis and Fascists who run the country. 
I believe that the South African tour will take place, unfortunately, but I have news that later in the year the South Africans will be expelled from the Big Eight Rugby Conference and that Argentina or Fiji will take their place. I heard this on fairly good authority when I visited Fiji recently. I was fortunate on that occasion to meet the manager of the Fijian team which visited Britain recently. 
asked the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
How many schools in each State in Australia have introduced the driver education or road safety education programmes in the curricula as recommended by the Senate Select Committee on Road Safely. 
What amount has the Commonwealth contributed to these programmes. 
asked the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
In view of the acknowledged role that safety belts play in saving lives, will he urge the Government to make it compulsory for all Commonwealth public servants, members of the Armed Forces and passengers using Commonwealth cars, to use safely bells while on duty. 
asked the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
Has there been any analysis to ascertain the makes of vehicles involved in fatal motor vehicle accidents in the last 5 years. 
If so, what were the results. 
asked the Minister for  Shipping  and Transport, upon notice: 
What are the names and addresses of (he laboratories approved by the Austraiian Motor Vehicle Certification Board for the testing of the safety features recommended by the Australian Transport Advisory Council. 
Are any of these laboratories affiliated with a particular section of the automotive industry. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Is he able to say what profits were made by each of the top ten Australian automobile manufacturers or assemblers during the years 1961 to 1970, inclusive, 
What amount was devoted to road safety research by each of these companies during the same period. 
A lot of what I had intended to say has already been said by the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass).  Although not as eloquently as the honourable member has asked I want to know when debates on social welfare will get out of the level of We gave them more than you gave them when you were in office'. I could not care less about who gave the pensioners such and such. I was 11 or 12 years old and in short pants when Chifley was the Prime Minister of this country. Quite frankly [ do not think that the people of Australia care about what the Australian Labor Party has done in the past. It is not important any longer. I will not go over what the honourable member for Maribyrnong has said but I totally agree with his comments. How often have we heard in this House how much we have progressed under 22 years of Liberal-Country Party rule? If we have progressed so much surely our hopes and aspirations with regard to social welfare should also have risen. 1 believe, as the honourable member for Maribyrnong does, that we should have a national inquiry into social welfare and we should genuinely try to remove social services from the realm of politics. I have said this before and it may sound hollow to honourable members on the other side but I sincerely mean what I say. I will be quite frank about this. I think it is in the interests of all political parties to get this matter out of the political arena. 1 cannot recall - I am sure that the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  will agree - one Budget when the Press, the television stations and the people of this country have universally said 'What a wonderful Budget for the people of this country' or 'What a wonderful welfare Budget this is'. I cannot recall when the Liberal Party of Australia won votes on this issue, so for its sake, if not for ours, the best political interests would be served if social services were removed from what appears to be an area of political bribery from time to time. I am putting it to the Government that its own interests would best bc served in the long run by doing this. 
I was quite stunned when this 50c increase in pensions was announced because only a few weeks before the announcement the Government had scornfully rejected a move by the Labor Party to have pensions increased by $1. This 50c increase was quite cynically introduced. 1 do not think there has been a precedent in history for the way in which the Labor Party's motion of no confidence was replied to. All honourable members were present to hear the debate on the Labor Parly's motion and we all witnessed what happened at the conclusion of the debate. The announcement made headlines in the Press the following day. The Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  suddenly announced that there will be a 50c increase in pensions. That must have been the most expensive piece of advertising in history, lt will cost the Government §5.500,000. Has a no confidence motion ever been replied to in such a way? 
The honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden),  the Labor Party shadow Minister for Social Services and a man whom I regard as one of the most sensitive human beings with whom I have had the good fortune to serve, highlighted the issue of the failure of the Government to include in ils pension increase any of the increase in productivity- the productivity that is so lovingly urged on all workers to struggle for. In my speech on the Budget last year 1 quoted facts and figures to indicate the extent of inflation and the relation of pensions to average weekly earnings. 1 do not want to make this evening a speech full of facts, figures and statistics, because one can get bogged down in that way. I wish to quote a brief excerpt from the speech made last night by the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden).  He said: 
In 1946 the standard rate of pension was 25.5 per  cent  of average weekly earnings. By the late 1950s it was down to 22.2 per cent; by the late 1960s it was down to 20.2 per cent; and *'e entered the 1970s with it falling away quickly to 19.6 per cent, lt is now 18.4 per cent, only a few months after entering the 1970s. 
I want to keep away from statistics in my speech tonight because people become bored with them. The statistics on social services have been given many times in this chamber, as has been the case in thi; debate. 1 wish to refer to cases that have come to my notice as the honourable member for Robertson. Just before I came here my attention was drawn to a very important case of a lady in my electorate who is living in a tent. She has 6 children. 4 of whom are living with her. A daughter of about 16 or 17 years is an unmarried mother. This lady pays rent of SI 5 a week for the tent which is located in a camping ground in the central coast area of New South Wales.  Her  son has been paying the rent because she has had no income.  Her  husband deserted her 6 months ago. She is not the cleverest woman in the world. She is not familiar with the procedures and forms necessary to gain a pension. She cannot find a home for herself and her family because the family's record of payment of rent is poor. That is not necessarily her fault. None of the real estate people in the area will accept the family for a home. I do not blame them, because they are acting on behalf of clients. 
This case came to my notice through officers of the St Vincent de Paul Society. They came to me because they did not know where to turn to find help for the family.  Mr Sheridan,  the officer at Wyong of the State Department of Social Welfare, had been handling the case. He is an excellent officer and has done wonderful work in the area. In helping this woman he went as far as the State Department of Social Welfare can go. The Housing Commission people would not give the family a home because they found on visiting them that they did not meet the standards required by the Commission. 1 am not being critical of the Commonwealth Department of Social Services as I have only just made an approach to that office to see whether a way can be found to help this woman. Such cases exist all around Australia, fortunately not in hundreds of thousands, but there are plenty of them. 
Another case that came to my notice a few weeks ago concerns a gentleman of about 28 or 30 years. Not so long ago it was discovered that he is a dyslectic. He has difficulty in reading. After suffering from rheumatic fever he was found to have slight heart trouble. He has bad finger manipulation and for most of the time since he has been old enough to work he has been an invalid pensioner. I have spoken to him on a number of occasions and have found him to be extremely intelligent. It is almost incredible that his vocabulary is as large and varied as it is as he has had practically no education. He cannot read but can recognise a few signs and can write his own name. He cannot undertake hard physical work because of his bad finger manipulation and heart .condition. Each time he goes to Mount Wilga attempts are made to rehabilitate him. He is sent to a job requiring physical duties but loses it after a few days. He gets the sack and returns to Mount Wilga. So the process continues. He could live the rest of his life as an invalid pensioner but as an intelligent human being he wants to learn to read and write and to undertake work of which he feels he is capable. For some unknown reason he does not fit into a slot in the legislation. 
We need a social welfare system with flexibility, one that does not require a person to fit into section A sub-section (1.), as it were. In a proper social welfare system the basis for assistance would be need and no other qualification should be necessary. It is not possible to legislate for every possible exigency. In cases such as I have mentioned the people concerned should be interviewed and counselled by a social worker. Every aspect of their lives should be examined, together with their individual and family needs. They should then be given educational, housing or financial assistance so that they can be rehabilitated. It should not be a case of 'You will get $6.75 and $2 for this or that'. The district officer should have flexible standards to work by. He should be able to say to the Department: 'Here is the case of an individual or a family. This is what is required. I desire your approval,  Mr Minister.'  Once approval is given and the requirements are met by the Department the people concerned can start to be rehabilitated. Otherwise they will continue as they are, outside the mainstream of society and travelling on a decline into social deprivation and degradation. The inevitable cycle of poverty will continue. Poverty begets poverty. People remain with the same economic status that their parents had. 
In the time left to me I wish to speak about the specific problems of the Robertson electorate. I hope that I have not been too parochial in the time that I have been here. Robertson is an area with problems peculiar to it. I have spoken to the Minister and he has invited me to talk with him about those problems because there is a unique situation in my electorate. The previous member for Robertson,  Mr Bill  Maxwell, has been in the House today. He is very much aware of these problems. About 83,000 people live in the shires of Gosford and Wyong which make up the Robertson electorate. Using a little guesswork and projecting the 1966 census figures forward, about 30,000 people in the electorate are over the age of 60 years. Assuming that about 13.000 children are of school age. it means that about 43 per cent  -  30.000 out of 70,000 people - are in the over 60 years age group. About 4-3 per cent of the local population rely upon pensions or superannuation Many superannuitants are little better off than pensioners because they do not receive fringe benefits. If my figure of 43 per cent is correct. 57 per cent of the people are receiving salaries and wages which are adjusted upwards from time to time. 
The Robertson electorate has twice the national average of aged people. Most electorates have about 22 per cent of their population in the over 60 years group, leaving about 78 per cent as wage earners or members of wage earning families. In the Robertson' electorate a smaller group of people are available to assist in sustaining the people who need help. That might sound rather complicated, but I am sure the Minister is aware of what I am saying. In any community the lower income group and the less affluent sections of the community are assisted by the more affluent. We get a balance in 101 ways. 
If in my electorate we have double the national average of aged people we must have a smaller proportion of people who are able to assist. We have twice the average amount of poverty; we have half the number of people who can assist in solving the problems of poverty. This responsibility now falls upon a very willing band of people such as the Lions clubs, Apex clubs. Rotary clubs, the Country Women's Association, Legacy, Civilian Widows associations, the Returned Services League, Leagues clubs, Meals on Wheels, Red Cross, War Widows associations and the Australian Birthright 
Movement. The place abounds in organisations which are being flooded night and day with requests to do the necessary charitable work, lt is impossible in- a situation like this for them to solve even a quarter of the problems with which they are faced. They cannot provide all the needs. They cannot provide the aged persons units or senior citizens clubs that are needed. There is not one senior citizens club on the whole central coast functioning as we know them in the rest of new South Wales. We need nursing homes and social workers. 
I put it to the Minister, through you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that there ought to be some way in which areas such as the one I represent can be designated areas of special need. We do it with rural areas that have special problems. For example, if there is a drought in the west, we declare it a drought area and agree that it needs special attention. There must be other areas similar to the electorate of Robertson. I do not know whether a real analysis of these sorts of problems has been done but surely one cannot compare the problems of, say, the electorate of Bradfield, the Minister's own electorate of Mackellar, Wentworth or Bennelong with the problems of Robertson, Grayndler, Sydney and so on. I think there is a very real need to look at what one might call the social disaster areas of our society. 
On top of al) its problems associated with a bad balance between different age groups, the Gosford-Wyong area has another unique problem. It has an area of about 750 square miles and is being designated as one of the major growth areas of New South Wales. The State Planning Authority has said that this area will have a population of half a million by the year 2000. Next to the electorate of Mitchell, which takes in the Richmond-Windsor area, it is the fastest growing electorate in New South Wales and one of the fastest growing in Australia. Its population is building up at the rate of 6,000 or 7,000 a year. The people who are coming to live in this area are primarily people on low incomes. They come because land is cheap. Once again this imposes strains on the local councils, charitable organisations and community service organisations. The 2 councils of the Gosford and Wyong shires have to satisfy all the needs of these new residents for roads, sewerage, water and electricity. With an area of 750 square miles this district is almost the size of Sydney. We have about 95 small communities, some bigger than others, some of 200 people, some of 1,000, some of 5,000, and the local government councils have to provide all the necessary planning, roads, sewerage and so on over such a wide area. 
On top of that they are expected to assist in meeting the welfare needs of the community. 1 put it to the Minister that this is an impossibility. I have made approaches to the councils in my electorate on many occasions. I might add that they are very willing to listen, but 1 feel guilty, because I know the strains that are being placed on them, when I go to them and say: 'You have to come in on the senior citizens clubs. You have to come in and assist, with land for nursing homes.' Through you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I ask the Minister whether, party politics aside, he will investigate this problem so we can find a way to tackle it. 
asked the Minister for Labour and National Service, upon notice: 
What was the number of unemployed (a) male and (b) 'female workers in the Gosford District in each of the past 24 months. 
asked the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
ls he able to say whether safety bells are required to meet the specific standards set down by the Australian Standards Association. 
If so, how are they tested. 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
Has the Department of Shipping and Transport suggested to his Department for consideration the introduction of compulsory seat belt legislation in the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory in view of the overwhelming evidence that seat belts save lives. 
I ask the Attorney-General a question. Is he aware that the Parliamentary Refreshment Rooms have been informed by Drug Houses of Australia that they will no longer be able to purchase the tablet 'Disprin' as it is designated a chemist only' line, despite the fact that for years this line has been available in the House for honourable members who do not wish to have their kidneys poisoned by other pain relieving tablets that contain the drug phenacetin? Is he also aware that this restrictive trade practice is practised widely throughout Australia by many com panies? Will he take action in the proposed legislation to outlaw such practices? 
asked the Minister for Trade and Industry, upon notice: 
What grants have been made to automobile companies for road safety research under the industrial Research and Development Grants Act 1967 during the last 4 years. 
What research is at present being undertaken. 
What research reports have been received by him in the last 4 years. 
asked the Minister for the Interior, upon notice: 
Do certain road junctions and localities in the Australian Capital Territory come to the attention of the officers in his Department as being the scene of frequent motor accidents. 
If so, are investigations made to establish the causes of these accidents. 
Are certain junctions and localities under consideration for redesign or modification with a view to reducing the accident rate. 
asked the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
What committees and panels exist to advise the Australian Transport Advisory Council. 
What are the functions of each body. 
Who are the members of each body and what arc their qualifications in each case. 
What members are employees of or advisers to automobile manufacturers or affiliated industries. 
The impossibility of covering in 10 minutes the failure of the Commonwealth Government to initiate a national policy to reduce Australia's tragic road toll must be patently obvious to anyone who has given the problem even the most cursory glance. The honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  has already demonstrated how Australia lies in relation to the rest of the world with regard to mortality and morbidity statistics. Whether one accepts these damning figures as firm evidence of Government neglect can be debated for hours with the weight of evidence heavily in favour of the statistics. What is clear, however, is that since the Senate Select Committee on Road Safety brought down its recommendations in 1961 31,812 people have been killed and 669,075 people injured in road accidents in Australia. What is also clear is that the Australian Government has learnt nothing from the automotive revolution that is occurring in the rest of the world, particularly the United States. 
Federal and State Transport Ministers still content themselves with hand-wringing pleas to motorists to behave themselves before each holiday weekend and then pour out a tirade of abuse at the 'nut behind the wheel' when the inevitable carnage begins to mount with monotonous and sickening regularity day by day. It ought to be obvious to even the most dull-witted among us that appeals to motorists have failed and that a vastly different approach is necessary. Anyone who takes time and trouble to do an in-depth study of road accidents, as I have done over the past 6 months, will see unfold before him an incredible picture of governmental indifference, apathy and ignorance that borders on criminal neglect and corruption on a grand scale. 
In 1965 in the United States a bombshell by the name of Ralph Nader exploded on the American automobile industry that for years had managed to avoid any form of governmental direction or control.  His  book Unsafe at any Speed' and the subsequent Senate investigation into the industry were instrumental in a completely new and revolutionary approach towards cutting the road toll. In 1966 the United States National Traffic and Motor Vehicle Safety Act and the Highway Safety Act were passed setting up the National Highway Safety Bureau under the control of the Department of Transportation. These Acts supplemented the national system of interstate highways introduced by  President  Eisenhower to construct 41,000 miles of interstate multi-lane expressways at a cost of $50,000m - the largest and the least controversial public works programme in history and now almost three-quarters completed. The approach of the United States Government is probably best summed up by Douglas V. Toms, present head of the Safety Bureau, when he says: 
I don't think that just because a person makes a mistake he ought to die for it. 
The United States of America has recognised that there is a 3-pronged approach to cutting the road toll - the driver, the environment (that is the road) and the vehicle. The United States has geared its programme accordingly. Despite the increase in vehicle miles driven, the number of drivers and the number of vehicles in the United States, there was an actual drop in the road toll in 1970 from 56,400 to 55,300, a total of 1,100 lives saved. Toms states bluntly: 
Our goal is to cut highway deaths in half by 1980. We think we can do it ... We will  see a day in our lifetime when people are not killed in auto crashes. 
What a difference this is to the pious platitudes and cliches that have emanated from the lips of a succession of weak kneed Federal Ministers for Shipping and Transport who are too ignorant, too lazy or too much under the influence of the discredited automobile industry to attack the problem in the same manner as the United States. 
Because of the limited time available to me I intend to list only the sequence of events that I believe ought to take place in Australia so that we can belatedly start a programme which will match that of the United States. We should immediately send a competent ream of highly skilled technicians to the United States to study its legislation, administration and implementation of its programme. This would be coupled with a full and open  inquiry into  every aspect of highway and motor vehicle safety, defining areas of Federal, State and local government responsibility. There should be an acceptance of the fact that the mounting road toll is a national problem ;md can be attacked only at a national level by a Federal government with the intestinal fortitude and the will to introduce legislation that will have some teeth and not have road safety at the mercy and the whim of the automobile industry and the immovable States which, incidentally, have still not been able to agree on a uniform road code after 10 years. A person who is killed on the road has little interest in the fact that he has been able to safeguard States' rights. 
The Federal Government should set up a national highway and traffic safety bureau as a separate section of the Department of Shipping and Transport to implement a national programme to cut the road toil. The bureau would recommend to the Government legislation for vehicle safety regulations for new automobiles and see that an independent testing laboratory supervises the industry's compliance. Such a system would replace the present ludicrous situation which permits the United States manufacturers operating in Australia to dictate as they do now what regulations will be adhered to and when. What happens now is that a model being sold in Australia - say, a Ford Fairlane - is the same model which was sold in the United 
States 3 years ago. This enables the manufacturers to save money by amortising the initial tooling-up expense at Australia's expense in lives lost. That is why safety measures introduced in the United States 3 years ago are only now being introduced in Australia. 
Time does not permit me to list the dozens of pending vehicle safety regulations in the United States which will not be introduced in Australia until 3 years after they are standard in the United States, and even then they will be introduced only when their Australian subsidiaries inform the Australian Transport Advisory Council that they are prepared to do so. The ballyhoo that surrounded the announcement of most of the present vehicle safety features in Australia is a load of nonsense. Some 90 per cent of these features were already standard equipment. We merely followed the policy of the United States of 4 years ago and incorporated it in our regulations. One can imagine the laughter in the United States that would greet the knowledge that the testing laboratories for vehicle safety regulations are owned and controlled by the same automobile manufacturers that produce the cars. The Minister himself listed such manufacturers. They include the Ford Motor Co. of Australia Ltd, British Leyland Motors Corporation of Australia Ltd and Smith Industries. 
Legislation should be introduced to compel manufacturers to institute a recall system for faulty new vehicles and report the results of any such recall campaigns to the bureau. The Government has a lot of explaining to do as to why the United States Government regards this as a vital feature of its safety programme but the Australian Government does not. No such legislation has been considered necessary here. Further, a study similar to the one conducted in the United States should be commenced as to the best methods of ensuring the safety of used vehicles that are now subject to ageing and deterioration from the moment they go on the road. A research unit would carry out independent studies that would closely watch overseas trends and research in road safety, both highway and vehicle, and, through the bureau, recommend to the Government appropriate programmes and legislation. It should also do specialist research into aspects of road safety that are peculiar to Australian roads, climate and conditions. I say this because I believe a tremendous amount of expense in-depth research is being done both in the United States and Europe. For Australia to do the same would be costly, repetitive and unnecessary. The research unit would also supervise the testing of all vehicle safety regulations. 
The bureau would have two further roles. Firstly, it would plan a national programme, in conjunction with the States and local government, that would cover all other aspects' of road safety, including periodic motor vehicle inspection and registration, motor cycle safety, driver education, uniform licensing and traffic code and legislation and records, traffic courts, pedestrian safety, emergency medical services, and alcohol which is the factor found in over SO per cent of fatal accidents. Such a programme would have Federal finance available - and I stress this - provided the States implemented the Federal recommendation. That is the answer to getting the States into line. 
Finally, the bureau should commence a feasibility study to evaluate the need and cost of an interstate multi-lane expressway system linking the major capital cities of Australia - Adelaide, Melbourne, Canberra, Sydney initially and Perth at a later stage and whether such a proposal could be funded in the same manner as the United States interstate highway system. The single, most effective way of cutting the road toll has been proven overseas on the autobahn, autostrada and expressways, and the multi-lane divided highway. Irrefutable evidence exists to show that the road toll is reduced by 80 per cent when compared with similar routes. 
I am sorry,  Mr Speaker,  that in order to say all that, I have tended to gabble a bit, but it is impossible to deal with such a vitally important issue as this in 10 minutes. I hope that when the House resumes after the winter recess I will be able to deal with this subject in a great deal more detail. 
It is always a very difficult task to follow a powerful speech from the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  because usually by the time he finishes the House is empty. Now, I do want to refer to the matter of the cricket tour by South Africa and apartheid. The most fascinating aspect of the proposed South African cricket and rugby tour controversy is the new tack now being taken by those who support the tour. Until the South African Government's action in dictating to their cricket association that they would not be permitted to select coloured players in the team, the proponents had always allowed their case to rest on the standard cliche: Do not mix politics with sport'. Then comes a quick about turn and it is 'we must not interfere in the internal affairs of another country'. Emotive terms such as long haired demonstrators', 'organised hooligans', 'opportunistic politicians', are now emanating from a plethora of sports writers, radio commentators, sporting officials, some newspaper editors and many writers of letters to the editor. My greatest fear, that the debate would degenerate into a left wing versus right wing, labor versus liberal, protest versus anti-protest squabble, appears to have been realised. 
One prominent sports writer accused some politicians of 'hopping on the bandwagon' and others have suggested that it was 'this year's issue' for protesters who didn't really know very much about apartheid anyhow'. I can only suggest to those who believe this to be true that they take the time to read Hansard over the past few years. The tragedy of the situation is that rational debate may soon be out of the question while both sides polarise and content themselves with hurling insulting epithets at one another. A considerable number of red herrings have been dragged into the debate, such as: 'Why do you not protest against the Russian Soccer team and the Moscow Circus because of the treatment of Soviet Jewry?' My only reply to that is I am not aware of Jews being excluded from soccer, ballet or the circus simply because they are Jews. The same Liberal-Country Party politicians who attended a meeting I helped to organise on the question of Soviet Jewry enthusiastically looked forward to the opportunity to do some Soviet bashing, but were less than enthusiastic when invited to hear the Australian Wallabies, and at a later date Bishop Crowther, give their reasons why the tour should not take place. Not one Government supporter bothered to attend these two meetings. I should add that there seems to be some confusion as to whether they received invitations to the second meeting. 
Perhaps it would be best to restate the argument against the tours taking place so that those who want to try to understand our position can do so. We believe that Australia's national reputation has been damaged because many of its policies are interpreted as racist - I refer to those on immigration, Aboriginals and New Guinea, just to name a few - but primarily we believe that it is wrong to play sport against a team which deliberately excludes players of a different colour. Almost the entire world condemns South Africa and its policies. AH major political parties - the Labor Party, the Liberal Party, the Country Party and Democratic Labor Party - say they are opposed to these policies, but with the exception of the Labor Party none of them is prepared to make even a token gesture towards helping to change them. One can take the fatalistic view and wait for the predicted bloody revolution or one can exert pressure in an attempt to effect change. Pious platitudes about deploring apartheid have a hollow ring of insincerity about them unless they can be supported with some action, even if that action is as insignificant as asking the Australian sporting organisations not to play sport with South Africa while its sporting teams are segregated. 
It is not difficult to understand the cricketers' and footballers' argument that all they want to do is play cricket and rugby. As a cricket enthusiast for the past 25 years, I can understand their feelings. What we are asking is that they understand our feelings and the feelings of the 16£ million black and coloured people who have to suffer under apartheid every hour of the day, every day of the week, for the whole of their lives. It is simply that in our order of priorities cricket and rugby come second. 
I have had discussions with one or two cricketers who have close contact with the cricketing hierarcy and I have been impressed with their genuine abhorrence of apartheid and their desire to see change. However, they claim that they cannot see how anything they can do will bring about change, and that bridge building or dialogue is the best way to effect change. This is an incredibly myopic way of looking at the history of change, small as it is in South Africa. South Africa has now been expelled from 14 world sporting organisations including the Olympic Games and the Davis Cup. However, in South Africa the most popular sports would be rugby union and cricket. 
The Olympic Games would be an event in which South Africa would dearly love to participate. In 1964 South Africa was expelled and for the following Games in 1968 South Africa offered to send a multiracial team. The offer was rejected because the Olympic Games Committee rightly objected to the fact that South Africa would not select its team from integrated sport at home. Nevertheless, the offer by the Government to allow a multi-racial team to be selected was a significant breakthrough. 
The 3 most important things in South Africa, we are told, are 'politics, religion and rugby and not necessarily in that order'. When the 2 greatest rugby countries - South Africa, the Springboks, and New Zealand, the All Blacks - meet, up to 70,000 people attend. Until recently the South African Government always rejected the suggestion that Maoris would be included in a New Zealand side that toured South Africa. The New Zealand Rugby Union weakly acceded to its demands until 1967, when it jacked up, to use a colloquial term, and called off the tour. Presto; the 1970 tour included 2 Maoris and a Samoan. Evonne Goolagong, the outstanding part-Aboriginal tennis player, is now touring South Africa as part of a public relations attempt by South Africa to get back into the Davis Cup and to assuage world opinion. Such a tour, however, would have been unthinkable a few years ago. 
Finally we come to cricket and the controversy that at the moment of speaking is generating the most heat. MCC tours of South Africa have been called off until such time as cricket in South Africa is multi-racial. The D'Oliviera affair was the beginning of the end of cricket relations between England and South Africa. The West Indies, India and Pakistan do not play against South Africa because of South Africa's racial policies. This leaves Australia and New Zealand - which, with apologies to my Kiwi friends, I must say is a second rate cricket country - as the sole remaining countries to play against South Africa. The only country of cricketing stature available to play against South Africa is Australia. 
Previously the loss of South Africa from the cricketing arena would have scarcely caused a ripple owing to its low ranking as a cricketing nation. However, since the earlier 1960s and the advent of the Pollocks - Peter and Graeme - Eddie Barlow, Mike Procter and more recently Barry Richards, the Springbok side, under the captaincy of  Dr Ali  Bacher, has emerged as probably the best side in the world. Naturally, cricket enthusiasts the world over, including people like the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  and myself, are anxious to see this team in action against other nations and none more so than the South Africans themselves who have taken a renowed interest in cricket almost akin to their fanatacism for rugby. The cricketers themselves see a situation arising when they will be completely isolated from test cricket. 
This brings us to the present situation that has culminated in the South African Cricket Association's request for two coloured players to be included in the team, rejection by the Government of multiracial touring teams and the subsequent dramatic walk-off by white South African cricketers. Our own cricket officials now argue that the South African cricketers have shown their opposition to apartheid, therefore Australians should not protest against a team of fine sportsmen who have done their best. Our officials say: The South African Government is to blame, not the players and nothing can be done to change their mind. We are only cricketers and it's not our concern what happens in South Africa nor could we do anything about it, if we wanted to. The cricketers have completely overlooked the day to day change and current climate in South Africa and that firm support for the stand taken by the South African Cricket Association and their cricketers may be just the sort of pressure that needs to be exerted to end racial discrimination in cricket and permit South Africa to tour not only Australia but the rest of the cricketing nations of the world. 
After the walk-off at Newlands,  Mr Waring,  the South African Minister for Sport - don't mix politics with sport - accused the cricketers of hypocrisy and challenged them to state that they wanted integrated cricket at all levels, right down to local club cricket. He added that if this was the wish of the vast majority of the provincial cricket associations he was prepared to submit the matter to Cabinet. In the interim, three public opinion polls showed an overwhelming majority of South Africans in favour of integrated cricket. A number of provincial associations have intimated that they would be happy to integrate and the general consensus appears to be that  Mr Waring,  the South African Minister for Sport, may well have the challenge flung back in his face. Opponents of the tour prefer to see integrated sport in South Africa rather than two coloured players selected as a sop to world opinion. If one argues that the only basis for selection should be ability, then there would be no objection to no coloured players being in the touring team provided they had equal opportunities to play against those selected, enabling them to lift their standard and show their worth. In 1961 the last time that a non- white team played against the Springboks the non-white team won by 30 runs. Since then, some 20,000 coloured cricketers play in week-end competitions in the most appalling conditions. 
Another specious argument is that we should attack every form of injustice and discrimination that exists in every country in the world at the same time. Like my colleague the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant)  there are very few countries that I would regard as beyond criticism and a considerable number who are on my short list of those who ought to be severely censured - Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, Pakistan, Ceylon, Nigeria, Greece, Spain, Portugal, United States of America; most of the Arab countries to name a few. This is a red herring by our opponents and well they know it. There is a difference between a government, sponsored, policy of discrimination, segregation, oppression and cruelty based on the colour of a man's skin and discrimination against a man's political views. There is no way of adapting to apartheid if you are coloured. I suppose my opponents will now say that I condone political discrimination. I do not. I just think that racial discrimination as practised by South Africa is worse. 1 want to deal now with the role that I would like to see opponents of the tour play. Firstly, I think there is a growing awareness amongst us that there is an enormous gap between the intimate knowledge of apartheid of a small informed section of the community and the ignorance of it of the great majority of Australians. I have been appalled at the general ignorance of apartheid in this Parliament. If one were to ask the man in the street what he thought apartheid was, he would probably reply that he thought it meant the blacks and whites had to use separate toilets and that there was segregated sport and so on. He would be shocked if you told him that 900,000 blacks were arrested for not having their passes on them, or that a person could be detained in gaol indefinitely without trial, or that striking or even absence from work was a criminal offence. What would our Returned Services League clubs and ex-servicemen say if they knew how many of the governing Nationalist members were formerly members of the South African Nazi Party and that the Prime Minister,  Mr Vorster,  was interned during the war for his Nazi activities? 
Unquestionably there is an urgency, for those who want to see Australians take a stand against apartheid, to embark on a massive education programme. Unfortunately we have seen the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  in recent weeks exploiting this massive information gap by resorting to the worst sort of gutter politics reminiscent of the Menzian era when the best form of electioneering was hysteria that played on every prejudice circulating in the community. History will show that this opportunist of a Prime Minister is not half the man his predecessor was. 
I would like to see Australians follow the lead given by the Leader of the Opposition and the Premiers of South Australia and Western Australia and boycott the matches. I would like them to urge others to do the same and peacefully protest against the tours. I am completely opposed to attempts to disrupt the matches because although I do not want people to watch the matches I would defend their right to do so. I would also like to say that at the moment I have grave misgivings about the trade unions' proposal to stop the tour by withdrawing the work force. I believe in civil rights and the freedom of the individual to follow his conscience and choose his own method of protest. I am delighted to see the Australian Council of Trade Unions take a stand on this issue. I shall ask the unions however to reconsider thoughtfully the full implication of their proposals. I am inclined to want to see them follow the lead given by the Australian World Council of Churches and the Labor leaders and educate, demonstrate and activate. 
What happens next is anyone's guess but it appears obvious that the South African Government and the South African Cricket Association may well be heading for a confrontation. I would take the view and I realise that it is difficult to assess from so far away, that if the cricketers informed the South African Government that they intended to integrate cricket at all levels and to select the best players for overseas tours irrespective of their colour, the Government would back off and the greatest breakthrough in apartheid would have occurred since 1948, the year the Nationalists came to power. Once it was over it would be only a matter of time before all South African sport was integrated. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr MacKellar)  adjourned. 
The honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Irwin)  unfortunately is discredited when he talks on this issue because it is well known that he talks out of his pocket, that he was a developer and the only reason he carried out this tirade of abuse against the State Planning Authority plan was because it cost him hundreds of thousands of dollars. 
Otherwise he would probably be in favour of town planning. 
In town planning circles he is regarded as a joke because of his attitude- 
Very well, I will withdraw any aspersions that have been cast upon the honourable member. But let me say that in my electorate of Robertson in the 2 years since I have been involved in politicking I have seen the price of land rise from $2,500 a block to $7,000, and this is in an area where people have come to get cheaper land. Today, 50 miles from Sydney, they are paying almost the same price as the average price in Sydney. But let me say that the essence of the amendment moved by the Australian Labor Party is to highlight the complete lack of awareness of the Federal Government's approach to housing. To view the problem of housing out of context with the other elements and ingredients that determine the quality of life and the quality of the environment is one of the great tragedies of the postwar period. Governments in Australia are, to a degree, still prisoners of their own and the community's lack of imagination and vision. What we ought to be examining are not houses, homes, flats, home units, etc, but every facet, every ingredient and every influence that affect the total shape and pattern of tomorrow's communities. 
As one drives through mile upon mile of the urban wasteland of today's metropolises one cannot but help being appalled by the incredible ugliness, monotony, loneliness and aimlessness of the monster that, through our lack of vision, our politicians and bureaucrats have created. We have created this monster of an urban sprawl. In recent years an ever growing number of concerned citizens have echoed their concern and lamented the lack of initiative by governments in their approach to this ever increasing and snowballing problem. We must make up our minds once and for all if we want to provide homes or create communities. If it is the former then we should proceed as we are now and continue to build mile upon mile of houses all built of ticky tacky with all the concomitant results. Social scientists throughout the world have studied the effect that these burgeoning metropolises have upon the unfortunate residents. Due to the size and sprawl there tends to be a lack of identification with the community within which they live. People become lost in the maze of suburbia. There is a sense of not belonging to anything, of not having an involvement with the community in which one lives, of not being aware of one's neighbours and of not even being familiar with or known to one's neighbours. 
I can recall as a young boy in the New South Wales country town of Griffith the identification and pride I had in being part of the town; of belonging to that town. To be able to walk down the street and to recognise and be recognised by friends and associates gave one a sense of belonging, of being part of something and of being secure. People took and still do take pride in the achievements of their community simply because they can identify with that community. They belong to it and it belongs to them. This sort of identification is impossible in today's suburban sprawl. One house sits on top of another, one street runs into another and one suburb is indistinguishable from its neighbouring suburb. The next step is alienation from society itself. Loneliness, boredom, lack of identity, a feeling of insignificance and being a tiny fish in a massive pool leads to psychiatric disorders, juvenile delinquency, family disintegration and alcohol and drugs, and in some instances to crime. The present pattern of urban development is a perfect pattern for a total disintegration of our society. Perhaps these words are a little strong but I am sure that honourable members will agree that we are bent on creating a society that is only one-tenth of what it could be. 
What I hope to do this evening is to relate 2 factors that determine the shape and pattern of our towns and cities and to attack the custom of treating these factors in isolation. They are housing and transport. I do not wish to delve too deeply into the history of the interdependency of transport and town and city development. Most members will be aware that urban growth of earlier periods developed primarily through the availability of different modes of transport. Initially towns and cities grew along rivers and near rivers. Later on they grew along railway lines. This is particularly true when one examines intra-urban growth. The electrification of rail was a deciding factor in the pattern of suburban growth. Whilst this is still true to a great degree, rail is not as major a determinant in our growth as it once was. It has been succeeded -by the automobile. Since the war we have had a vast number of new suburbs appear even though they have practically no access to rail facilities. In fact, upward trends in car ownership have been paralleled by a sharp decline in the level of public transit patronage. 
The number of people using public transport declines annually. The results are only too obvious. The commuter is subjected to the daily rush from the suburb to the city on crowded buses, choked streets and late trains. He is the victim of &lt;polluted air, blighted street sides and the incredibly urban ugliness and chaos of an asphalt environment. In the words of Wilfred Owen: 
Expressways are disrupting neighbourhoods, displacing people and converting communities into garages. A nation intent on making it .easier tq move has made it increasingly difficult to live. 
Grossly inadequate housing and poor transportation are closely inter-related problems. Each one helps to make the other worse. The poverty of close-in living conditions compels those who have automobiles to escape to the suburbs, creating massive traffic jams for commuters and making public transport increasingly inefficient. I want to quote from a recent editorial in the 'Daily Mirror'. It was headlined 'Servant or master?' and it stated: 
In the beginning, hurtling over the countryside at four miles an hour, it was condemned and persecuted by the horse-loving gentry as an instrument of the devil. 
But the car brought advantages that softened antagonism - better roads, new inventions, new industries and better-paid jobs for thousands. 
It brought rural communities within reach of the towns and gave townspeople the freedom of the country. The car, in short, became a servant of the people. 
That is no longer true. Yet the influence of the car continues to grow. Town and city planners battle hopelessly to cope with its needs; huge sections of the economy are fashioned to its demands. 
One way and another, the car today is probably the world's biggest single employer. It is also the world's biggest single killer. No war has claimed as many victims. 
And though the car is allowed to jam the streets of the cities and fill the air with poisonous fumes and gases, its internal combustion engine  is  still, mechanically speaking, an extraordinarily inefficient piece of machinery. 
After two hundred years, it is surely pertinent to ask if the car should not be replaced with another form of personal transport. One that does not make servants of its users. 
Strong words indeed. Perhaps they are a bit too strong, but nevertheless strong enough to make those of us who have the role of legislators take heed and listen to those who are pointing out to us our negligence, our apathy and our indifference. 
While we continue to plan our communities around the automobile instead of vice versa we are going .to perpetuate and accentuate the present situation that I have described. Why must we design them as we have in the past? Are we so hidebound by our traditional clumsy and inefficient methods of town planning that we cannot break away? What happens now? Along comes a developer who buys SO acres of land and he divides it into a couple of hundred building blocks for which he must provide kerbing and guttering. Gradually, over a couple of years', a wide variety of houses, all with designs screaming at one another, are built. Probably the residents receive electricity; they may receive water, at some time hi the future they will receive telephones; but they certainly will not have much likelihood of receiving sewerage. Then the Department of Education will build a school, probably 2 or 3 miles away, requiring buses to transport the children or, if their parents are a little more affluent, they may be driven by their parents in cars. 
Two miles away in another direction some other bright developer will decide: Here is a good focal point for a shopping centre', as another couple of developers are in the process of building more houses. Suddenly some industrialists realise that there is a labour force available, so they build a few factories a few miles further out, and eventually we have what passes for a suburb. This process continues in a leap-frogging movement, onwards, ever onwards. Father cannot get to work without a car; so mother has to have a car as well to take the children to school and to do the shopping because public transport is not available or efficient enough for convenience or comfort. So it goes on, with cars and buses tearing up and down the streets, highways and byways, maiming, murdering and polluting, when all of it could have been avoided if only the government authorities had the money, vision and power to bring all these components together so that a proper civic design could be planned, obviating the necessity to have such unplanned chaos. 
Let me ask a series of questions. Why do we have to have every house fronting on to the street? Why, for that matter, does every house have to be built on a block of land X feet by X feet with a back yard which is usually too small to be able to do anything in, thus forcing children to play on the streets and run the risk of being killed by cars, as they so often are? Why cannot we have small units of homes built in a circular pattern with playing space available in the centre and the homes on the perimeter? Why cannot schools be designed in the centre of the community within easy walking distance for children, without their having to run the risk of crossing dozens of roads to get to school? Why do we have to have one type of home only built in the one community, with single unit dwelling all together in the one area and all home units and flats in another area? Why cannot we design communities in which we have a mixture of all these varieties of dwellings to suit different tastes- one or two storey homes, flats, home units, the new style but gradually catching on town house, and many others? I might add that not only should one have in a community different styles, but one should also have dwellings of different styles. I think that this is the great mistake that we have made in our society - we have not designed communities; we have just designed homes. I believe it is very important that we should seek to build communities so that people do not have to travel all over the place, as they are required to do at the moment, and have to use cars to get there. This can be done and it is being done. 
This afternoon I was fortunate enough to receive a letter from a gentleman in Perth. I understand that he is extremely well known in town planning spheres. I refer to Counsellor Paul Ritter. He wrote to me because he read of my interest in road safety and of the way in which I have been raising the matter of the automobile and its effect on our life. Amongst other things, he sent me an item of interest which I want to quote because I think it supports what I have been saying tonight. It concerns the Caversham Park village scheme. It reads: 
Here, on the edge of Reading, a little more than two miles from the town-centre, work has already begun on clearing the site of what will certainly be one of the most interesting communitydevelopments ever undertaken in Britain, to be known as Caversham Park Village. 
Caversham Park really is a park, in the best English Tradition, full of variations in level and perspective, and provided with an unusual number of fine old trees. 
Then comes this passage on traffic segregation: 
Traffic Segregation' has become more than the only civilised way of planning residential areas;  it has become Government policy. A rapid acceptance of this principle can only do good. We shall earn the gratitude of our children and,  in  turn, of theirs. 
Cars, as has been said, are 'a mixed blessing', if we do not plan for them properly. Their very size, power and speed make them dangerous bullies, and the traditional way of planning along streets allows them to affect all areas. 
The 'Radburn Principle', on which Caversham Park Village will be laid out, accepts that the advantages of the car are immense, and that its garage should be handy, next to the house. But beyond this, it makes sure that there is another side of life available to all, and particularly to children and old people. It allows for areas where people can walk and talk in safety, where voices will not be drowned by the noise of cars, nor flower-scents tainted by exhaust fumes. Good planning (perhaps surprisingly) can produce these excellent advantages very economically, putting this way of living within everybody's reach. 
Later on it reads: 
The principle is easy to understand. A main service-road serves many culs-de-sac, or loops, and this road-system is quite separate from the pathsystem. Bach leads to the right places in the right way. Driving is smoother and pleasanter on roads reserved for vehicles. Walking seems shorter along sheltered, well-landscaped routes. The pathsystem represents an extendedpark. There will be various ways over a linear playground, for small children, longer 'adverture-routes' for older children, and possibilities of safe movement for old people and for those exercising their pets. The system of a main path, with secondary branches leading to schools, shops, Community Centre, Church, playing fields, and many other communal facilities, will be very well illustrated at Caversham. As in all the best examples of this kind of planning, the main paths go under roads where the routes cross, so that nuisance is avoided and danger eliminated. Within such a plan, people can live as privately as they wish, and use the paths as much, or as little, as they like. It all depends on the house-type and the gardens, and more variations are possible with this than with a 'traditional' layout. The idea serves equally well with detached houses, with terraces, in local authority housing schemes, or in private developments for sale, of which Caversham Park Village will be the first large-scale example in Great Britain. 
I believe that we can and must start to build Caversham Park villages in Australia. This is what we are asking. Of course, the honourable member for Mitchell would be horrified at that sort of plan, but I think that the great majority of Australians would support it. I think that the Minister for Housing  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  would support it. 
I want to conclude on this note: If there is one thing we need in this Parliament and in this House it is some town planners and some architects. I think it is one of the great tragedies of this place that we have an over-abundance of lawyers and graziers - - 
No. I think that we could use a few more doctors. But we certainly have too many lawyers and farmers and not enough town planners. I believe that this Parliament should represent people from all walks of life. We should have farmers, lawyers, doctors and dentists, but to the best of my knowledge there is not one architect or one town planner in the Parliament In my movements and in my role as Secretary of the Labor Party's Caucus Committee on Housing, Urban Development and Decentralisation, and because of the interest I have had in this matter for many years, I have been fortunate to meet many fine men - men such as Don Gazzard and George Clarke who are well known in Sydney for their work for the State Government. I have not met  Mr Ritter,  but I am looking forward to meeting him in the future. There are also men like Ian McKay who works for the National Capital Development Commission. Recently I noticed that a  Mr Gillies  made a first class statement, which was headlined in the 'Australian'. He said that architects and town planners are going to get involved. I think he used some words which probably are not parliamentary. I say to architects and town planners who may be listening to the broadcast of these proceedings: 'It is time you got involved in the political system'. I know how strongly they feel because I have spoken to them. It is no 'good their trying to exert pressure from outside. They have to be in here where the action is. I support the Labor Party's amendment. 
My question is addressed to the Minister for Shipping and Transport. Has his attention been drawn to the United States National Traffic and Motor Vehicle Safety Act that' requires automobile manufacturers to recall cars that have safety related defects and that this has resulted in 7,918,184 cars, both foreign and locally made, being returned to the factory for the correction of the defects? In view of the importance that the United States National Highway Safety Bureau places on the recall programme in its attempt to cut the road toll, will the Minister explain why the Australian Government' has not found it necessary to introduce similar legislation? 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What was the motor vehicle (a) accident, (b) injury and (c) fatality rate for each of the. States (i) per 100,000,000 vehicle miles, (ii) per 100,000 population and (iii) per 100,000 registered ' motor vehicles, in each of the last 5 years. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Has there been any analysis of motor vehicle accidents to show what proportion of (a) deaths and (b) injuries occur on (i) rural and (ii) urban roads. 
If so, what were the results. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
How many new motor vehicles were sold in each of the last 5 years. 
What were the makes and designs of these vehicles. 
What percentage of the total number of vehicles sold were new vehicles sales. 
asked the Minister for Defence, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to a statement made by  Dr Birrell,  Melbourne Police Surgeon at the Australian Study Week on Road Safety Practices, Melbourne, 1967, that the Armed Forces have a severe accident and fatality problem concerning drunken driving. 
Do his departmental records support this view. 
If so, and in view of the great current interest in road safety, will he consider making public all departmental records relating to this problem so that research groups may further investigate methods of reducing the road toll. 
If he is not prepared to publish this information, is he prepared to allow qualified research groups, such as the New South Wales Traffic Accident Research Unit, access to departmental files covering this area. 
The former Minister for Defence  (Mr Gorton)  supplied the following answer: 
Yes. But the statement is not accepted as substantiated. 
The majority of road accidents involving servicemen occur off-duty when the personnel are travelling in private vehicles. These accidents are investigated by State authorities and are frequently not reported to the Services except where servicemen are killed or seriously injured. Consequently, the Services do not have detailed records. 
and (4) As mentioned in (2) the Services do not have comprehensive records of road accidents involving servicemen. The Services will support any practicable measures that may be taken to improve road safety, and would be prepared to discuss such measures with properly qualified research groups. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
What was the number of (a) deaths and (b)  injuries requiring medical aid in (i) motor vehicle accidents, (ii) air accidents (including military), (iii) rail accidents, (iv) industrial accidents, (v) firearm accidents and (vi) poisoning by accident, during each of the last 5 years. 
I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully sheweth: 
That the Australian Education Council's report on the needs of State education services has established serious deficiencies in education. 
That these can be summarised as lack of classroom accommodation, desperate teacher shortage, oversized classes and inadequate teaching aids. 
That the additional sum of one thousand million dollars is required over the next five years by the States for these needs. 
That without massive additional Federal finance the State school system will disintegrate. 
That the provisions of the Handicapped Children's Assistance Act 1970 should be amended to include all the country's physically and mentally handicapped children. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to 
Ensure that emergency finance from the Commonwealth will be given to the States for their public education services which provide schooling for seventy-eight per cent of Australia's children. And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I have just heard, as I am sure the Parliament will agree it has heard, one of the best speeches made in this House since I was elected here in 1969. I do not agree with everything that the honourable member for Berowra  (Mr Hughes)  said. I disagree with him on a number of matters. But I do say that his approach is an approach that I have been hoping would be made by honourable members of this Parliament for a long time. When he was referring to the mud slinging and said that some of it came from the Opposition side of the House, I agreed with him. We are not all blameless in this matter. It is about time this Parliament started to debate these foreign affairs matters and a host of other subjects on the level on which they ought to be debated. Far too much mud slinging, name calling and smearing goes on in this House on both sides. I congratulate the honourable member for Berowra on his speech. I am not going to try to score any cheap political points. I hope that he is with us for some time to come. 
The statement of the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr N. H. Bowen)  dealt in detail with China, Indo-China, Japan, the South Pacific, Pakistan and India. It showed Australia's area of interest, and quite rightly so. What it failed to mention was a subject that has been of significance in this country which will affect our relations with this area during the years to come. That was the subject of South Africa. All these countries in our near north have one thing in common: That is the factor of colour. Every single one of those nations comprise what we term 'coloured' races. They fear imperialism and many of them have had experience of colonialism. I wonder how many of us here in this House have any idea of the emotions that are aroused when the subject of racism is discussed? I wonder how many honourable members have ever felt the hurt of prejudice? I am one who has, and I can assure honourable members it is not a very pleasant feeling. I can also understand the feelings of people in this neighbourhood and their reaction to a country such as South Africa. I say that South Africa is their arch enemy. To such countries it represents all the evil that can be conjured up. I have said that before in this House, and I will say it again. South Africa is to the people of South East Asia what Nazi Germany was to the Jews. I hope honourable members can imagine the shock and horror that greeted the announcement that the Prime Minister was prepared to use Royal Australian Air Force aircraft to fly the Springbok rugby union team around Australia, particularly in view of what appeared to be the very slow reaction to flying aid to Pakistan. The Prime Minister has stated that he has not heard any criticism from our neighbours. Let me assure him that there is criticism. I have heard it from embassies. I will not mention any names. I have heard it from representatives of embassies who are absolutely appalled at this reaction. I suggest that the Prime Minister mix a little more in the cocktail circuit of Canberra and hear exactly what people have to say, even if they are not game to say it publicly. It is time that all the leaders in South East Asia - Lee Kuan Yew,  President  Marcos and all the other leaders in Asia - spoke out publicly and made it perfectly clear what they think of Australia and our entertainment of teams that are selected on a racial basis. 
The Government has accused the Australian Labor Party of playing politics with wheat and on the subject of China. Yet our Prime Minister is prepared to go a great deal further than playing politics. He is prepared to split Australia asunder. He is prepared to play on every prejudice within the community, irrespective of the damage that it does to Australia's reputation. Why is the Prime Minister prepared to do this? It is because public opinion is with him. I do not deny that that public supports the tours, and it supports the Government's stance. I have never felt otherwise. The problem we face in relation to the question is that it may cease to be a matter of whether you are for or against the tours. It may well become a matter of whether you are for or against apartheid. That is what is happening in the Australian community today. It is only one step further from taking a stand on such a tour that people start supporting and defending apartheid. 
In the 18 months I have been a member of this House I have yet to hear a supporter of the Government speak with any firm conviction in opposition to apartheid. I may be wrong. I hope I am. The Minister for the Navy  (Dr Mackay)  is attempting to interject. I have not heard him speak about that subject since I have been here. I may have missed it. I have not looked up the Hansard record. The only person I can recollect speaking about apartheid with any vehemence is  Mr St  John, who is no longer with us. He spoke about it before I came to this place. To my recollection we have never fought in this country on the question of racial prejudice. I hope to God I will never live to see the day when racial prejudice exists. It is so easy to exploit racial prejudice, particularly in times such as the present when economic pressures exist. It is in times of a rural crisis that all sorts of people will raise their ugly heads. The League of Rights is now jumping on the bandwagon and blaming every small minority group it can find. We saw it happen in Nazi Germany. The whipping boy of the dispossessed middle classes after World War I was the Jew. 
I mention briefly the League of Rights. A short while ago I read in the 'Review' a report written by a member of the Australian Country Party on the League of Rights. It was one of the best reports I have read. I compliment whoever it was in the Country Party that wrote the report. I was disturbed to read at the week-end that the report was going to be watered down. I hope that this is not correct because it is a very accurate description of the sort of worms that have crawled out of the ground and are now infiltrating political parties per medium of the League of Rights. 
We are in the position where the cricket tour of Australia by South Africa is still to be held. I have said before in this Parliament that I will not support those people who demonstrate at and try to disrupt sporting events. I can assure honourable members that I have been in close contact with a number of them and I have had some violent arguments with them. I believe that there are leading those demonstrators people who do not support the Australian Labor Party but who hope to destroy it from within. I believe that they have led the demonstrations because we - and by 'we' I mean the members of the community - have failed to give them leadership. 
I am very concerned about the fact that a short while ago it appeared as if the Prime Minister was prepared to sacrifice this nation by having an election after the cricket tour had been going on for a few weeks. I am told that the Australian Board of Control is split at about 6 all on whether the tour should be held. I am told that the Prime Minister has been in constant touch with  Sir Donald  Bradman urging him to make sure that the tour goes on. Our position is perfectly clear: We would not like to see the tour go on. We hope that the Prime Minister will, despite the fact that the public supports the tour, show some statesmanship and be above taking the political advantage that could be gained, by urging the Board of Control to cancel the tour. There is no reason in the world why the tour should now go on. You will have read in the newspapers recently,  Sir, that  the Marylebone Cricket Club has cancelled its tour of Pakistan and India because of the internal political trouble there. That will mean that no other country apart from South Africa and Australia will have any planned programme of cricket test matches in the coming season. The MCC, Pakistan, India and, if we were to cancel the tour of South Africa, South Africa and Australia do not have any proposed tours this season. 
There is no reason in the world why Australians should be denied the right of seeing cricket during the coming season. A precedent was set after the cancellation of the South African tour of England last year when a Rest-of-the-World eleven was selected. It comprised some 6 or 7 South African players. The rest of the team was made up by Pakistans, Indians, West Indians and, I believe, one Australia. I think Graham McKenzie was in the team. That team toured England. There is no reason in the world why the Board of Control, urged on by our Prime Minister, could not do exactly the same thing. I for one am looking forward to seeing such a team in Australia. I include in that the South Africans. 1 conclude on this note: It will be a sad day for Australian politics when political parties set out to exploit the prejudices that are beneath the surface of our community. I hope and I pray that we never get to that stage. I hope the Prime Minister will not take the cheap way out and exploit this situation for its short term political advantage. If he has any statesmanship in him, now is the time to display it. 
asked the Prime Minister, upon notice: 
How many members of the Commonwealth Public Service and the Armed Forces were killed on duty as a result of motor vehicle accidents during the last 10 years? 
Was the Minister for Trade and Industry correctly reported as telling the national development conference in Canberra last Friday that the Government did not propose to take action to accelerate the growth of overseas tourism to Australia because there are not enough hotels and motels in city and country areas? Is he aware that tourism is the largest single item in world trade, that last year Australia earned $134m from overseas visitors and that tourist spending by 
Australians and overseas visitors in Australia last year amounted to approximately $2,400m, providing jobs for many thousands of Australians? Is the Minister further aware that Australia is one South Pacific country that has consistently failed to provide incentive, as an encouragement to visitors, in the building of needed accommodation in cities and rural areas, and that New Zealand, Fiji, Noumea and Singapore leave Australia behind in the provision of quality accommodation? 
I thank the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Jess)  for putting in a good word for me to enable me to speak next. I am sorry that I could not follow the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron).  1 had intended, when 1 entered this debate, to support him but after he had spoken for 5 or 10 minutes about honourable members who represent electorates in New South Wales and Victoria I was amazed at his infinite capacity to alienate his friends and those who were going to support him. I intend to take up a few points that have been made particularly the implication in the speech of the honourable member for North Sydney  (Mr Graham).  Anyone in this Parliament who starts talking in terms of a 32i, 35, 40 or 45-hour week ought to be boiled in oil. There is not a member of Parliament of whom 1 am aware who works less than 80 hours a week. This is especially true of people like the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Grassby)  who, as far as 1 can see, does not ever go to sleep. I say this because I share a room with him. But even talking in terms of a normal working week is dishonest. It gives a false impression to the public who are already given an incredibly false impression by a few clowns in the Press gallery, not the pressmen here but those in Sydney and Melbourne whose members repeatedly write the sort of articles that give the impression that members of Parliament work only during the hours that Parliament is sitting. This is quite a ludicrous situation but it is basically our fault because we fail to educate the public completely as to exactly the sort of role we play. 
I challenge any member of the public or any pressman anywhere to come with me for one week to see what sort of hours I work. When 1 rise in the morning, I have to read the papers. That is part of our role. Then 1 spend 8 or 9 hours in my office. I always lunch with a constituent. I attend 2 or 3 functions almost every night in my electorate and get home at I o'clock or 1.30 in the morning. This would be at least 6 days a week. I have I day at home with my family and that is usually on Saturday because the children play football. I know what the honourable member for North Sydney meant but this debate is going across the sound waves and all those wonderful people in the public gallery are hearing it; so I do not think that we should even consider mentioning 35 hours a week or phrases like that. I hope that someone in the Press gallery will take up this challenge and come with me and with some other honourable members such as the honourable member for Riverina and the honourable member for Chifley. 
I know. I include also the honourable member from the Apple Isle, the honourable member for Wilmot. 1 will oppose this motion because one of the things that disappoints me about members of Parliament - 1 have a very marginal electorate and it could affect me - is that we seem to be approaching this problem incorrectly. I believe that fundamentally we are sent to this place as legislators. We were sent to the Federal Parliament to represent our electorates but the trouble is that once we have been elected we spend the next 3 years trying to come back here although we really do not want to be here. It is like someone in my electorate who said to me one day: '1 have not seen you for a couple of weeks. Where have you been?' I said: 'I have been in Canberra.' He said: 'What were you doing down there?' I said: 'It doesn't matter. Forget it.' The constituents really do not know what we do. 
The point that I am trying to make is that our primary role is here in Parliament in Canberra, and I do not believe that we should arrive here and then immediately try to get back to our electorates. Since I have been elected to this Parliament I have kept a count of the number of functions I have attended. In 20 months I have attended  370  functions in my own electorate alone. That does not include the functions I have attended in Canberra or out of my electorate, interstate in Melbourne and Sydney. Those functions have been connected with the Country Women's Association, the Red Cross Society, the Crippled Children's Association and the Returned Services League. It is not unique; they are the sorts of functions which all honourable members attend. I think this matter is important. 
Fundamentally, those honourable members in marginal seats - that would account for about one-third of the number of members - have made themselves slaves to getting re-elected. If they are so keen to spend all their time in their electorates doing those things, they are not doing the job for which they were elected, and that is to be here in Canberra as legislators. I believe that we should educate the public to what we are doing or what we should be doing, not spending all our time running around, as the honourable member for La Trobe called it, kissing babies. 
Yes, it is important, and the honourable member for Hindmarsh is a notorious baby kisser. The important thing is that we must educate the public as to our fundamental role, and that is that we are legislators. We are in Canberra to work for the benefit of the nation as a whole. Our other role should be played when we are not needed here in Canberra. 
One of the reasons why we also have to be continually in our electorates is simply because we do not have the staff to cope with our electorate work. There is no member who does not get  40  to  50  pieces of mail on his desk every morning. Admittedly a lot of it is of a circular nature. How much of it is put into the waste paper bin because a member does not have time to read it? How much is put into the file which is marked 'Too hard' or  1  will read it later when I have the opportunity'? I would say that three-quarters of it comes within this category. All that members are able to do is to answer letters from constituents. A lot of the mail could be answered effectively and properly for a member, after research and a precis had been done, if he had research staff. We should try to force the Government to give us the staff which is essential to carry out our job. 
One of the handicaps of the present sitting days - Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday and Friday of one week and Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday of the next week - is that when a member gets back to his electorate he does not have  40  or  50  pieces of mail on his desk but  300  or  400  pieces of mail, and that is the reason why members now want to get back to their electorates on Fridays. If we had the staff, a great deal of the formal mail, which has to be read through in order to get an idea of what it is about, could be handled by a research officer. A lot of it could be answered very often by sending out an acknowledgment letter. But a member has to do this himself. 
I agree with the honourable member for Griffith that we should continue with the present arrangement of sitting days. I should like to see us stay in Canberra for longer periods and have the staff to enable us to cope adequately with our electoral work. I do not agree with the view that we should sit on only  3  days a week. I will oppose the recommendation of the Standing Orders Committee. I will support the amendment moved by the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant),  which provides that the question for the adjournment of the day's sitting be put at  10  o'clock at night. But here might I suggest that consideration be given to the sitting of the House continuing throughout the dinner adjournment. If honourable members are to be stopped from speaking at  10  o'clock at night, when a lot of honourable members want to speak - and the honourable member for Wills is one who never misses an opportunity, when it presents itself, to get his name on the list of speakers, so he is not denied these rights- 
That is right; he moves amendments and that sort of thing. But a lot of members are chopped off when they endeavour to speak. I know (hat if the House were to adjourn at  10  o'clock at night, I would not have been able to make three-quarters of the speeches I have made here. I cannot see why this House cannot continue sitting through from  6  to  8  o'clock so long as there is an agreement on both sides of the House that no quorums and no divisions will be called. This would allow a great number of members to make the speeches they want to make and it would enable us to get away at 10 o'clock at night without any problem at all. 
Somebody may be able to inform me whether I am right, but I understand that the House of Commons operates in this way. 
Then I see no reason why we cannot adopt a similar proposal here, and that would allow us extra time in which to speak. A great number of honourable members could go and have their dinner and there would be no quorums and no divisions. They could make those very important speeches that they want to make. As 1 have said, I oppose the recommendation of the Standing Orders Committee and I support the amendment moved by the honourable member for Wills. 
-I present the following petition: 
To the Honourable  Speaker  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. 
The serious decline in social services has intensified the hardships faced by pensioners and families on lower incomes. 
Therefore as a matter of urgency the Commonwealth Government should immediately allocate extra finances to social services. 
The petition of the undersigned urges your Government to increase immediately 
Pensions - by $5.00 per week. 
Child Endowment - to $3.60 per week per child. 
Maternity Allowance - to at least $1 1.7 for each child born. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Shipping and Transport. Has a survey on road traffic accidents been completed in recent years by his Department estimating that the cost to Australia through death, injury and damage to property was approximately $800m per annum? Was this report shelved by his Department and if so, why? 
On 29th June this year, while the House was in recess, I released a report of 110 pages entitled 'The Australian Way of Death*. Literally thousands of manhours had gone into the compilation of the report, which was a private survey of death and injury due to motor vehicle accidents in Australia. It had involved voluminous reading of everything I could lay my hands on regarding the subject, lt had involved travelling interstate and intrastate talking to a wide range of acknowledged experts throughout the automobile traffic safety field and finally it had meant making choices between the vast multitude of theories put forward by so many experts as to how one can effectively put into operation a cohesive plan to reduce the tragic and mounting toll of human life and suffering occurring on Australia's roads every day. There is no one simple solution lo the road toll. There are dozens of measures that can be put into effect, each one contributing to a greater or lesser degree. What is important is to find an order of priorities that will have the maximum effect for the minimum of effort and expense. With the concurrence of honourable members I incorporate in Hansard the following table: 

<graphic href="073131197109095_89_3.jpg"></graphic>

In a 10-year period. 31.000 Australians have died and 670,000 others have been injured in 9 of those 10 years. If the rate of increase in road accidents remains the same for the next 10 years as it has been over the past 10 years, we will lose a further 50.000 Australians killed, with well over a million injured. National com parisons are difficult to make for a variety of reasons. The accuracy of data collected, methodology and so on make comparison unreliable. Even so, on a variety of measurements, Australia's accident record is amongst the worst. With the concurrence of honourable members 1 incorporate in Hansard the following table: 

<graphic href="073131197109095_90_4.jpg"></graphic>

Whilst the figures per 100,000 population and per 100.000 registered motor vehicles are in accord with those provided by the Treasurer in House of Representatives question No. 2925 on 6th May 1971, the figure per 100 million miles driven (15.8) varies considerably from that provided by the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Nixon).  No State in the United States of America has a 100 million vehicle mileage rate as high as the Australian figure. 
With the concurrence of honourable members I incorporate in Hansard a table showing the death rate in the United States of America per 100 million vehicle miles. 

<graphic href="073131197109095_90_5.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="073131197109095_90_6.jpg"></graphic>

It is unfortunate that the only way one can get through to some people regarding road accident problems is to measure it in economic terms. In reply to a question asked of the Minister for Shipping and Transport about estimated costs to the nation, he gave me details of a report compiled by  Mr J.  D. Thorpe, former  Chairman  of the Victorian Traffic Commission, who estimated the cost in Victoria in 1966- 67 as being approximately SI 00m. Using this as a basis, it would be reasonable to assume that the national cost is approaching S500m per annum. However, there is an unconfirmed report, which I alluded to in my own survey, that the Department of Shipping and Transport did its own estimation of the costs about 3 years ago and came up with the figure approaching S800m. If this rumour is correct and the Minister or his predecessors and the Department have deliberately shelved the report, it would mean that at the present rate of inflation the cost of motor vehicle accidents would be approximately $1 billion per annum. Our costs average about $40 per person per year. That means that in a 5-year period, a family of 5 Australians sharing one family car would be paying about $1,000 towards the expense of injury producing car smashes. 
Many reports have stated that from onequarter to one-third of all hospital beds and associated facilities are required exclusively for the use of motor vehicle injured. The Liberal Party attempted to discredit Labor's estimate of costs and all of Labor's social welfare proposals are answered by the oft repeated cry: 'Where's the money coming from?' Any significant reduction in Australia's road toll would mean a reduction in the amount required to provide medical and hospital facilities, even if the present health scheme was maintained in its present form. The Minister for Labour and National Service, in one of his hysterical outbursts of union baiting, has highlighted the number of working days lost through strikes. He ought to spend a little time examining the number of working days lost through death and injury through road accidents, not to mention industrial accidents. He might be shocked to learn how many people are wiped out at the beginning of their working careers. Few Government and automobile spokesmen in Australia would disagree with the size and scope of the problem. But the disagreement occurs over who or what is at fault and the best methods of solving the problem. Fundamental to any understanding of the causes of road traffic fatalities is an understanding of what happens before, during and after an accident. 
The problem can be broken down into 3 phases - pre-crash, crash and post-crash. The pre-crash phase concerns all the factors in the road-use system which affect the possibility of a traffic accident occurring. For the human component, examples of such factors include age and the influence of alcohol; for the vehicle, visibility, handling behaviour and the efficiency of the braking system; and for the environment, highway design and layout, and traffic management measures. Attention to all or any of these factors in the direction of safety is the aim of measures designed for crash prevention. 
The crash-phase starts at the moment of collision. Examples of factors concerned here are, for the human being, the use of seat belts or the wearing of crash helmets; for the vehicle, interior design; for the environment, the design of roadside furniture and the properties of natural hazards such as trees. Alteration of factors in this phase could lead to the reduction of death and injury in a crash by the amelioration of its consequences on the human body. This is the phase of injury prevention. Lastly, the phase which is labelled post-crash relates to factors which may still be operating after the collision and which may be modifiable in the direction of safety. Such factors include, for the human, the quality of medical care; for the vehicle, the chance of a fire occurring as a result of impact; and for the environment, the ease with which rescuers and medical teams can reach the scene of the crash and evacuate the injured from it to suitable medical care. 
The whole of the emphasis in the recent industry-government-media campaign against the road toll has been aimed at the driver - the nut behind the wheel. We know that drivers make mistakes. We know that at some stage during his driving career of 40 or 50 years, a driver is going to have a momentary lapse in concentration, drive too fast, be distracted by someone inside or outside the car, drink too much or make any one of a thousand mistakes that could lead to an injury or death producing accident. The point is: Should he die for it? 
The situation in Australia is only marginally better than it was in the United States before the publication of the book Unsafe at Any Speed' by the then 32-year old Connecticut lawyer, Ralph Nader. Primarily, Nader based his attack on the failure of the automobile industry to use the science and technology that was available to it in the production of safer automobiles. He accused them of placing undue emphasis, in the designing and marketing of automobiles, on style, power, comfort, prestige, sex-appeal and sales of safety. He said: 
The American automobile is produced exclusively to the standards which the manufacturer decides to establish. It comes into the market place, unchecked. When a car becomes involved in an accident the entire investigatory enforcement and claims apparatus that makes up the postaccident response looks almost invariably to driver failure as the cause. The need to clear the highway rapidly after collision contributes further  to burying the vehicle's role. Should vehicle failure be obvious in some accidents, responsibility is seen in terms of inadequate maintenance by the motorist. Accommodated by superficial standards of accident investigation, the car manufacturers exude presumptions of engineering excellence and reliability, and this reputation is accepted by many unknowing motorists. 
Nader was especially critical of general vehicle design. Among his comments were:  the annual model change adds $700 to the average cost of American cars, most of which is used on stylistic changes. A similar expenditure on safety design each year would make a much safer product: (this figure was based on research done at Harvard and M.I.T. in 196S). 
. car advertising stresses undesirable aspects of power, aggression and speed: 
. motor vehicles do not have to adhere to any Federal safety standards, and existing State requirements are limited and/or 'grossly deficient':  . . there are no statutory criminal penalties for manufacturing a defective automobile dangerous to life; yet driver behaviour is subject to criminal penalties. Both are causes of accidents - they should carry the same kind of penalty.  . . the motor industry has actively cultivated a consumer ignorance about safety by promoting a concept of an automobile that stresses style, ride and performances. They have, but will not reveal, data about breaking ability, tyre skid and blowout resistance, roof collapse strength, door hinge and latch strength, the dash panel's cushioning ability, rearward displacement of the steering wheel and shaft, and so on. 
Nader stated that safety measures which do not rely on, or require people's voluntary and repeated co-operation, are more effective and more reliable than those that do. He went on to say: 
A crash-resistant vehicle which protects the occupant from collision forces can make accidents safer, it not altogether safe. Technology is capable of producing cars 100 per cent safe at under 50 m.p.h. The plain fact is that it is faster, cheaper and more enduring to build operationally safe and crash-worthy automobiles that will prevent death and injury than to build a policy around the impossible goal of having drivers behave perfectly at all times, under all conditions, in the operation of a basically unsafe vehicle and often treacherous highway conditions. We can try ad infinitum to get all 95 million drivers to learn, and instantly act on this learning, that panic brake applications in certain emergency situations, particularly wet surfaces, are likely to lock the brakes and thereby cause loss of control of the vehicle. Or we can simply apply what is presently known and build automobiles with anti-locking brake systems. A crash-worthy automobile ls the last clear chance to prevent bloodshed; it is that final net that catches all the contributing factors in the collision sequence and cuts the sequence so that casualties are prevented or minimised. 
Nader'*, determined campaign forced the United States Government to act. In 1966, President Johnson signed the Highway Safety Act and the National Traffic and Motor Vehicle Safety Act providing for a National Highway Safety Bureau that is responsible for providing leadership and co-ordination of a national programme o. reduce traffic crashes, deaths and property damage. The latest report to hand - June 1970  -  indicated a significant number of accomplishments, including, first, the issuing of 29 motor vehicle standards and the proposing of an additional 95 since 1967' Secondly, it provided for the establishment of highway safety programmes for irnplementation by the States. In order that the States may receive the financial benefits available from the Federal Government, their highway safety programmes must bs approved by the Secretary of the Department of Shipping and Transport and must be in accordance with uniform standards in the following areas: Periodic motor vehicle inspection; motor vehicle registration; motor cycle safety; driver education; driver licensing uniform traffic codes and laws traffic courts; alcohol; identification and surveillance of accident locations: uniform traffic records; emergency medical services highway design, construction and maintenance; traffic control devices; pedestrian safety; police traffic services; and debris hazard control and cleanup. Thirdly, it forced the automobile industry to provide detailed information to consumers with regard to vehicle performance, in areas such as stopping distance, acceleration and tyre reserve load. Fourthly, it stipulated that by July 1973 every new car will be equipped with a new air bag safety device, or a suitable alternative, that will protect driver and front seat passengers from injury in head-on crashes up to 30 mph. Fifthly, it provided for governors to restrict the speed of cars to 95 mph with a warning system at 80 mph. Sixthly, it instituted and financed research that resulted in 1,200 new findings on the real causative factors behind crashes. Seventhly, it let contracts for the design and construction of prototype safety cars that will provide a very high probability of survival of the occupants in head-on crashes at 40 mph to 50 mph and side crashes at 20 mph to 25 mph, as well as a 70 mph rollover capability. Finally, it introduced recall legislation which enables the Federal Government to force manufacturers to recall defective vehicles. The Safety Bureau now has access to all inter-industry reports - from manufacturer to dealer and from dealer to manufacturer. It also carefully scrutinises Press reports, motoring magazines, customer complaints, etc., enabling it to detect any consistent pattern of defects running through a particular model. During 1969 almost 8 million vehicles were recalled. Failure by the industry to comply with recall orders can lead to fines of up to $400,000. 
Let me now give details of the history of apathy and neglect in Australia. On 14th May 1959 the Senate resolved that a select committee be appointed to inquire into and report on road accidents. On 21st September 1960 the report was presented to Parliament. In view of the information available and the limited scientific and academic research done at that stage the report was a remarkably good one. It contained a blueprint for an Australian road safety programme that would have laid the basis for reducing death and injury and adjusting itself to scientific and technological advances that occurred in the United States and Europe during the mid- 1960s. 
The seeds of disaster were sown in the following foreword comments to the report: 
In a Federal system of government, under which individual States have responsibility and sovereignty in respect to most aspects of road safety, difficulties arise in effecting comprehensive programmes of any kind, as they necessitate agreement among the States and, in many, instances, with the Commonwealth. 
The Liberal-Country Party Government has used this as an excuse to do virtually nothing. In respect of only five of the recommendations - those referring to road safety education, vehicle design, and safety equipment, accident reporting and statistics, traffic management and the Australian Road Safety Council, and these only in part - has the Commonwealth played any significant role, and then it has been hardly anything to write home about. 
In February, I asked the Minister for Shipping and Transport the following question: 
Can he say what constitutional power enables the Commonwealth Department of Civil Aviation to control all air traffic and air traffic accident investigations yet denies the same right of road traffic and road traffic accident investigation to his Department? 
He replied: 
To provide an answer to this question would necessitate the giving of a legal opinion. It is regretted that an answer cannot be supplied. 
When this question hit the deck at the Department of Shipping and Transport it caused quite a flap. I know that top level discussion took place before the nonanswer given was decided upon. The Government knew it had been caught out and, as always on this matter, was evasive and deceptive. It decided to try to bluff its way out of making an admission that would have illustrated its failure to take the initiative in regard to automotive transport that it had taken in the 1930s in regard to civil aviation. The major reason for safety regulation in aviation, shipping and rail transport is that the industries involved are economically affected by any accidents. Apart from the property damage, if there were any consistent, large commercial aircraft crashes with the resultant high death toll, there would be a not unexpected drop in passengers. Aviation accidents attract a great deal of attention. 
The Commonwealth's failure, however, can be illustrated by what it has failed to do in the following fields. Firstly, it has contributed a miserable $3,350,000 over the past 11 years. Secondly, it has failed to lay down specification standards on safety design rules for roads built with the $ 1,252m provided by the Commonwealth Aid Roads Act 1969. Thirdly, it has allocated substantial amounts of money for industrial research to some of the largest companies in the world including General Motors-Holden's Pty Ltd $469,646, the Ford Motor Co. of Australia Ltd $25,000, the British Leyland Motors Corporation $25,000, and Chrysler Australia Ltd $161,000 without any report to the Parliament and without any indication that the money would be spent in road accident research. Whereas the Commonwealth financed the setting up of the Department of Aeronautical Research in 1939, no counterpart exists in the automotive field. The only publicly financed institution wholly concerned with traffic safety research is the Traffic Accident Research Unit - TARU - a segment of the New 
South Wales Department of Motor Transport, headed by  Dr Michael  Henderson. This sort of research work should be done at a national level, available to all States, and in a more comprehensive manner. 
The most abject failure in recent times is the failure of the Commonwealth through its new Minister for the Interior  (Mr Hunt)  to implement safety belt legislation in the Australian  Capita)  Territory and the Northern Territory. This is particularly true in view of the resounding success so far in Victoria. The greatest failure, however, has been in the field of vehicle safety. No doubt honourable members are aware of recent surveys released by automobile service organisations. On 26th May the Royal Automobile Club of Victoria - the RACV - presented its survey on car faults. It stated that 2,946 faults were present in 672 cars tested during the warranty period. There were no details as to the make of the car nor was there a detailed analysis of the size and scope of the faults, or whether they were safety related. There appears to be a gentleman's agreement by the automobile service organisations not to name any particular company. This is hardly surprising in view of the establishment nature of most of these organisations that are invariably made up of businessmen who have a sympathetic understanding for the problems of their colleagues. It is not considered cricket actually to name a company that has been selling vehicles with defective brakes. (Extension of time granted.) 
In Australia the system of design rules for motor vehicle safety is dependent on complementary State legislation. Design rules operate at first registration of a motor vehicle, and because they apply only to new vehicles no penalties are involved. A vehicle which fails to comply with the design rules at first registration would not be registered. The Australian Motor Vehicle Certification Board under the Australian Transport Advisory Council certifies compliance of prototypes with design rules. The Vehicles Structures Branch of the Department of Shipping and Transport has charge of the administration of the rules. Obviously, the industry has to have forward notice, usually referred to as lead time, to institute new design rules, but there is absolutely no excuse for the vast difference between the lead time granted in Australia and the United States, which varies from a minimum of 2 years to 5 years. In the United States the average life of a car is 7 years and the lead time for new design rules is 2 years to 3 years. This means that it takes about 10 years for the safety features to be incorporated in 95 per cent of all cars in the United States. The collapsible steering column would reach this percentage by 1975. In Australia the average car has a life of 10 years. This means that the steering column will not be completely operative in all cars until 1981. Many Australians will die during the next 10 years as a result of tardiness in not introducing this design rule until 1971. 
There are a number of reasons why this delay has occurred. Primarily it is because the industry wants no control at all and has invariably fought to delay as long as possible any new imposed safety features, Initially the Advisory Committee on Safety in Vehicle Design was lambasted by industry representatives for trying to impose safety standards in Australian cars that were tougher than those operative in the United States. It was claimed that it was absurd for a small country like Australia producing less than half a million vehicles per annum to push for tougher standards than America had. The Australian Transport Advisory Council - ATAC - consisting of the Federal Minister for Shipping and Transport, the 6 State Ministers for Transport and the Minister for the Interior, bowed to industry pressure. 'Let us stay with the Americans' was the cry. However, during 1969 and 1970 a dramatic change occurred in the American programme and the pace to get safer and safer vehicles quickened. The Advisory panel quite rightly expected that industry could be kept to its original argument. Not a bit deterred, the industry did an aboutface and now argues that Australia cannot expect to keep up with the United States. I thank the Minister for allowing me this extra time. I know that I have had to omit many of the things I would like to have dealt with and I hope I will get opportunities in later debates on the Estimates to complete this part of the story on road safety. 
 Mr Speaker,  I raise a matter of privilege that is based on a letter to the editor published in the Austraiian' of today's date. I produce a copy of the 'Australian', which is printed and published in New South Wales by Mirror Newspapers Ltd at 20-24 Holt Street, Surry Hills for the proprietors, Nationwide News Pty Ltd of 31-33 London Circuit, Canberra, Australian Capital Territory. If I may, I will read the letter because it is brief. The letter is signed by P. Wintle  of Mundingburra, Queensland. It reads: 
While congratulating you on the fine series of articles on parliamentary lobbying by Kenneth Randall, I am wondering when  Mr Randall  will get around to the question of bribes.  It is common knowledge that many parliamentarians look for some monetary reward for the favours they do. In fact you won't get much done without it. It is called 'the sling'. I am assured by a friend who earned his living as a lobbyist that it is essential to offer sufficient financial inducement to the right person if you want something done - $10,000 is considered 'pin money' in this field. 
My friend laughed at the idea that lobbyists persuade' members of Parliament by the force and persistency of their arguments. 

 Sir, I regard that as being a very serious allegation against all members of Parliament. I think it is about time that all members, no matter on what side of the Parliament they sit, took these sorts of letters and allegations in the newspapers seriously. I for one do not believe a word of this letter but I think it should be referred to the Committee of Privileges and that appropriate action should be taken to defend every single member of this Parliament against the charges made. Therefore, I move: 
That the matter of the letter to the editor signed by P. Wintle, published in the 'Australian' of Monday, 13th September 1971, be referred to the Committee of Privileges. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I should like to make a few short comments on these Bills. I have received a considerable number of representations from retired Commonwealth officers living in the electorate of Robertson and I have met with them on many occasions. At least 45 - perhaps more - of them have written to me expressing their concern at the way their pensions have devalued over a period of time. I compliment them on the efforts that they have made on their own behalf in bringing this matter to my attention. I have made considerable representations to the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  and I am delighted to see that he has listened to those representations as well as to those of other honourable members. No doubt other honourable members have been approached similarly by retired Commonwealth officers in their electorates. The shame of it is that people who are in retirement, most of them in their late sixties or early seventies, are forced to do this sort of lobbying. As they drow old and perhaps are less capable of fighting battles than are some of the younger members of the community, they find themselves in a position where, because of cost of living increases, they consistently have to lobby and to write letters to their members of Parliament. This is something that should be obvious to all honourable members. It must be very worrying for them in their old age and in their retirement to have to be concerned about security and the cost of living. 1 agree with the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Jess)  that we should start immediately on debates and discussions about a national superannuation scheme not only in this House but also in the community at large. The Government could overcome many of the objections that may arise by taking the time to bring all members of the community into these discussions. Not only politicians but also academics, various people from different economic groups, pensioner organisations and all the sorts of groups about which we are talking should be consulted as to what they consider a national superannuation scheme should provide. No doubt there will be many differences of opinion between members on this side of the House and Government supporters as to what this scheme should incorporate. However, many of these objections could be removed in debate before the Government presented legislation for a national superannuation scheme. If I were in government, I would welcome as much cooperation as possible in formulating such a scheme. The grave mistake that governments are making these days is that they think they have all the wisdom and knowledge on these matters and that they must present as a fait accompli legislation that will affect the lives of every Australian over the next 20 years, 30 years, 40 years or' more. The Government could circumvent much of this criticism if it were prepared to take not only the Parliament but also the people of Australia into its discussions and debates. Even if it takes 12 months or 18 months to come up with a scheme that is acceptable to 90 per cent of the people, this would be better than having a scheme which, like so many of the Government's schemes, is acceptable to only 20 per cent of the people. 
I was very concerned at what I learnt from discussions with some retired Commonwealth officers. Most of the retired people who live in the electorate of Robertson had been in the lower income brackets, particularly those who had worked in the postal service. In many instances the cash incomes of a couple on superannuation were only marginally better than those of a pensioner couple and they were missing out on the health benefits, concessional travel facilities and so on available to pensioners. This was gravely concerning them and I am delighted to see that the Government has made this notional adjustment. I hope that this adjustment will be made more frequently. These people should know that every year or every 2 years their superannuation will increase automatically. Then they would not have to worry about lobbying members of Parliament, writing to newspapers and getting themselves het up at a time when they should be able to live in relaxation and security, certain that they will be able to continue to enjoy the standard of living they had in the past. 
The Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  in his statement relating to the sites for the proposed second airport for Sydney said: 
Once established it is vitally important that they are able to be located in areas where there is ample opportunity to have them adequately separated from the surrounding development that a large and fast growing metropolis like the Newcastle, Sydney, Wollongong complex brings in its train. 
One of the 2 places named in the report is in my electorate of Robertson. I want to know why this particular area has been selected. I can understand some of the appealing aspects from the point of view of the interdepartmental committee because the site is midway between Newcastle and Sydney. I think that the population of Newcastle will probably be around the half million mark fairly soon. The population of Sydney is about  2i  million. It is predicted that the central coast area of Robertson will soon have a population of half a million. Therefore I can see that from the population point of view it is ideally situated. However, 40 per cent of the traffic will come from the north shore of Sydney. It does not take long to get from the north shore to the Somersby area on the expressway which now links those areas. I estimate that it takes about 30 minutes drive from Hornsby to Somersby. 
So if 40 per cent of the traffic comes from the north shore there is quite a distinct attraction in having an airport in that position. It lakes me anything from 55 minutes to  li  hours, depending on the traffic, to go from Turramurra where I presently live to the Sydney (KingsfordSmith) Airport. If I had to go to Somersby I would be there in about 40 minutes. These are 2 very good reasons why the interdepartmental committee has selected this particular area. Land may be purchased fairly reasonably. I have noticed with great interest some of the sites that were crossed off the list. I notice that Duffy's Forest - which I understand is either in or very close to the electorate of the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  - has been crossed off. That site would be even more appealing. Why has Duffy's Forest been scrubbed off the list? 
All that we are given is the cryptic comment that Duffy's Forest could not be developed for use by international aircraft. 
Why? 
No explanation has been given. Could it be that the electorates of 3 Liberal members - the honourable member for Bradfield  (Mr Turner),  the Minister for Social Services and the honourable member for Warringah  (Mr MacKellar)  - are close to this site? We know that a great deal of the airport traffic comes from their electorates. They are perfectly happy to have airports as long as they are out amongst the working class people who are the ones that have to put up with the noise. Heaven forbid that the genteel people of the north shore should have to put up with that noise. They want airports but they want to stick them down amongst the working class people and let them put up with the noise. I want a better explanation as to why Duffy's Forest has been crossed off this list. 
1 will do a lot better than that when I am finished with you. I can imagine the pressures that would have been exerted on Liberal members when the Duffy's Forest site was suggested. I have a business in the area and I know how effective those people can be at getting to the people who count in making- these decisions. Unfortunately they have far more influence at the moment than the people from Grayndler, Newcastle and Robertson have. The north shore people want an airport and they are the ones who will use it most. Let them have it in their area. Let them inhale their own filthy pollution from their aeroplanes. 
I believe that this is purely and simply a political decision. I know for a fact that, barring any violent upsets in the political arena, the Liberals have written off the area of Robertson. They have also written off the 2 State seats of Gosford and Wyong. They know that they will not be able to hold the seat of Mitchell very much longer because Mitchell is a growing area and, like all the outer urban areas, is going to  go  Labor. So they are perfectly happy to stick the airport in areas where they will not lose any votes in the future. I am trying to find out this evening exactly where in Somersby the airport is proposed, because Somersby covers a fair area of land. It covers about 7 or 8 miles. I have been to see the Minister for Civil Aviation twice this afternoon but he was in another place. 1 was trying to find out exactly where the site is because its location makes a great deal of difference. If, God forbid, we are saddled with this airport we want to know as quickly as possible what its relation is to the residential areas of the central coast. It could mean quite a considerable amount of difference. As yet, I have not been able to get that information. The Minister's secretary said that he will do the best he can to give me that information as soon as possible. 
I want to know exactly where the site is in relation to the town of Gosford, which is in an area with a population of about 10,000 to 12,000 people. I want to know where it is in relation to the new, growing areas of Lisarow, Wyoming and Narara areas which a few years ago had only about 200 people in them. At the last election I think there were 1,500 voters in Wyoming. This is one of the fast growing areas of my electorate. I imagine that within a very short space of time there will be anything up to 5,000 or 6,000 people in this area. If the area set aside for the airport is going to be on the eastern side of Somersby it could well be that the planes will be flying in within 2 or 3 miles of Gosford and within 2 or 3 miles of Lisarow, Wyoming and Narara where young commuters have come to live because they cannot afford the cost of land in the Sydney metropolitan area. They have come up there to have their families of 2 or 3 children and in the foreseeable future they will have to put up with the problem of airport noise. 
I want to know about the flight paths. Surely at this stage there must be some idea of what sort of flight paths are envisaged in the plan. I have heard from some of the leaks that have come out on this matter in the last week or two that the flight path will be in over Ettalong and Woy Woy, into the Somersby area and out through Wyong and The Entrance. That is a very nice semicircle, which just about covers every residential section of my electorate. If anyone was trying to annoy the people who live in my electorate he could not have picked a better plan. We have to know these sorts of things. The honourable member for Grayndler laughs but he knows the areas of Woy Woy, Ettalong, Umina, Gosford, Wyong and The Entrance. 
If the honourable member lived there he too would have a persecution complex. It is all very well for honourable members to make jokes about this but this is a very serious matter. 1 hope I can find out about these things and show just what the Liberal Party thinks of a very serious matter which may affect the lives of 80,000 people in my electorate. Apart from these people how will a decision to build a second airport in this area affect the citrus farmers who live in the Mangrove Mountain area? They are the ones who will be most vitally affected. I say the Mangrove Mountain area because for the uninitiated it encompasses the Somersby area. Living in this area there are about 1,500 people who have citrus farms. There is a small amount of dairying in this area but it is mostly citrus. These people will want to know exactly how they will be affected in the future, if they have any future should this plan be implemented. 
The proposed siting of an industrial complex in the Somersby area, which is in the Gosford Shire, has been suspended although some 350 acres have been set aside for this project. The New South Wales State Planning Authority has refused point blank to rezone the area for industrial use. The Authority knew that Somersby was being considered as a site for a second airport. 1 placed on the notice paper questions relating to Somersby some 6 months ago but I have not been able to obtain a definite answer. The Authority knew of the proposal for an airport. I have been approached by a number of firms about setting up of factories in this area. One firm wrote to me and said that it had American backing and it wanted to build a factory with a capacity for 150 or 160 employees. The American supporters have been driving this company mad to build a factory in this area but it cannot get a clearance from the authorities. 1 refer to the firm of Hesdols and Co. Pty Ltd which wishes to build a factory in this area. The firm of Ashtons wants to build a factory in the area which would employ about 50 people. Another company which has approached me on this matter is Ronson Pty Ltd with employment for about 100 people. 
There are many other firms interested in this area. We could be knocking back employment opportunities for 1,500 to 2,000 people. This is a very vital area for employment purposes. In this area we have the problem of people having to travel a minimum of 1) hours to get to work every day. These people travel 40 to 50 miles a day. Some of them go by car to Gosford and then they spend  H  hours travelling into the city and from there out to Kingsgrove where they work. It is not uncommon for people to spend 2 hours travelling to work in the morning and 2 hours returning home in the evening. We want to get industry into this area but this is being held up by proposals such as a second airport for Sydney. lt is most, important to bear in mind that the central coast area is a magnificent area. It has every amenity that nature can provide. People who live in Sydney and Newcastle know it well. They go there by the thousands for their holidays. They spend their time at The Entrance, around the lakes, the magnificent streams and lagoons. I know many members of the parliamentary staff who spend their annual holidays in this area. About 5 or 6 members of Parliament have weekenders in this area, including  Mr Speaker,  the honourable member for Lang  (Mr Stewart),  and the honourable member for Banks  (Mr Martin).  These people go there because it is a magnificent area. We have been told that in 30 years there will be half a million people living in this district. This district is a magnificent area for people to spend their retirement. For instance it is not unlike the Mornington Peninsula which is represented by the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch)  although that is not as good. 
I may well finish up there. Many thousands of people spend their retirement on the central coast. They go there because they want to get out of the smog, the congestion, the chaos and ugliness which city people have to put up with. Take the electorate of Grayndler. This is not an attractive area. Suburban areas may have excellent parliamentary representation but physically they are ugly and full of pollution and smog. People come to my electorate to spend their retirement in a pleasant and clean atmosphere. Now we have the suggestion that this magnificent area which has everything that nature can provide should have superimposed on it an international airport. We are hoping to plan a Utopia in this area. I believe we can achieve this aim. Everything is there basically to plan one of the greatest residential areas in the world. I will not go into the details now but I know that we can do this. However, I do not believe it can be done if a decision is taken to place an airport in this area which would create all the ugliness which people seek to get away from for their holidays or retirement. 
I want to raise a matter this evening which I had been prepared to let lie after some of the heat generated in recent months concerning the South African sporting tours had died down. However, we were granted the rare privilege of listening to the honourable member for Deakin  (Mr Jarman)  last night in an exercise in ratbaggery such as I had not heard for a long time. I hope I never hear it again in this House. He accused the people who opposed the tour of all of the worst sort of excesses. Apparently there was an incident in which a prominent South African was rung up and there was a threat to pack rape his daughter and do all sorts of vile things. The honourable member for Deakin lumped this in with members of the Australian Labor Party and those people who opposed the tour. He had the audacity also to quote the gallup poll figures which had shown a continual drift against the tour. I grant that the majority of Australians are still in favour of the tour, but when one recognises that only a short 6 months ago 85 per cent of Australians supported the tour and now it is down to 63 per cent, at this rate it will not be long before the figures reach the 50-50 level, as occurred in the United Kingdom. The honourable member prefers to place his own interpretation on this position, but he is not qualified to do this. I do not know why it is that people are changing their opinion about the tour. I could say that it is because quite clearly they understand the implications of racism that are involved in this matter and now they are prepared to take a stand. He made his own interpretation and said it was because they were fearful of demonstrations. 
Let us get to the matter on which I am really rising this evening and that is the headlines that appeared in the Melbourne Herald' today and in a number of other newspapers which read: 'Riff -raff halted tour - Vorster'. The article that followed stated: 
The South African Prime Minister,  Mr John  Vorster, tonight accused the Australian Cricket Board of Control of suffering from a new disease - demonstrates - in cancelling the South African tour. ... 'If  Sir Donald  Bradman says to me it is my fault and my Government's, I say to him as a good cricketer,  "Sir Donald,  you are talking through your hat and you know it".' 
Further on it states: 

 Mr Vorster claimed that 'all decent Australians,' whether they agreed with the South African Government or not, wanted the tour to take place. Only the 'riff-raff' did not want the Springboks to visit Australia. 'They threatened violence and committed violence. The riff-raff won. That is the long and the short of it. If a minority can get away with it, the conducting of national and international affairs will become impossible.' 
Listen to this classic. This is unbelievable: 
Tomorrow and the day after tomorrow, what now applies to cricket and rugby will apply to other spheres. It is time that democracies take note that minorities are trying to force their will on majorities. 
It is almost laughable. Here we have a man who leads  li  million people and rules 19 million people and talks about the rights of minorities. Let us hear who are some of the so-called riff-raff who are opposed to the tour. Let us start with this article in the Melbourne 'Sun-Pictorial' under the heading 'Liberals back Prime Minister's criticism': 
About a dozen Liberal Party members had supported criticism of the Prime Minister,  Mr McMahon,  over the Springbok cricket tour,  Mr C.  H. Francis, Q.C., said last night.  Mr Francis,  47, a Melbourne barrister, is  president  of the Party's Stonnington branch. This is the biggest Liberal Party branch in the State. 
Riff-raff.  Mr Mackerras,  a former member of the State executive, resigned from the Liberal Party. Riff-raff. Thirty-one people signed a letter to the Prime Minister, 1 understand, asking for the tour's cancellation. Listen to some of the riff-raff: Robin Boyd, architect - a real radical, rabble rouser, a dreadful fellow; Max Charlesworth, reader in philosophy, University of Melbourne;  Dr H.  N. Sanger,  Chairman,  Council Liberal Jewish Rabbis, senior Rabbi, Temple Beth Israel - dreadful fellow, real riff-raff; David Scott - this should interest the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  - director. Brotherhood of St Laurence;  Sir Eric  Scott,  president,  Pharmaceutical Service Guild, of Australia; Douglas Wilkie, journalist; and the Most Reverend Frank Woods, Primate of Australia. Listen to this radical - this revolutionary:  Mr Kenneth  Myer, company director. Riff-raff. We could mention also the World Council of Churches, the Australian Council of Trade Unions and the Labor Party. I suppose some people would call us riff-raff, but I think that in the general trend of things we have a fair amount of respectability. I have not thrown a bomb for at least a week. Let us quote some of the things that were said in South African newspapers. This was written by  Mr Stanley  Hurst from Johannesburg under the headline 'Cricketers bitter at tour cancellation': 
South Africans and their cricketers and officials have reacted bitterly to the cancellation of the Australian tour. None of the reaction, however, was against Australia - it was almost entirely levelled at the South African Government's apartheid policy, which created the predicament. 
The fiercest critic has been Neil Adcock, the Springbok fast bowler of a decade ago who was to have been tour manager. He pointed out that in recent months the Government had changed its policy towards most sports to allow for international, inter-racial competition in certain circumstances, but this had not been done for cricket. 
He said: 'One has now to consider the fact of whether we are ever going to play international cricket inside or outside this country. I cannot see it taking place in the next 10 or 20 years. The policy of our Government has been so rigid, especially towards cricket, that one cannot feel they will change.' 
The article goes on: 
The skipper of a leading Indian club, AbduBhamjee, urged that a start should be made with non-racial cricket at club level and forgettin petty apartheid'. 
He said: 
In all the years when our non-white players like Basil d'Oliveira were being ostracised and having their ability stifled, our white players and administrators did nothing. 
They were all white Jack. 
Only when isolation began to threaten their interests did they begin to stand up and speak out for multi-racial sport It was too little and too late. 
Another heading from The Sun Pictorial' reads: 
Now chaps, you know what it's like to be excluded on grounds other than your ability', the Springbok cricketers were told yesterday. 
This is not a local radical, revolutionary university rag but the Rand 'Daily Mail'. The article continued: 
But we take leave to remind our cricketers of one thing- what they are experiencing now is no more than the sting of ostracism which nonwhite sportsmen in this country had known for generations. 
Now chaps, you know what it's like to be excluded on grounds other than your ability. 
True, our cricketers and cricket administrators have spoken out against racialism recently. 
But only recently . . . Only when the threat of isolation began to threaten their interests did they stand up and begin to speak out for multi-racial sport. 
The East London newspaper 'Daily Despatch' commented yesterday that the chief person to blame was the South African Prime Minister,  Mr Vorster. 
Yes, it was our Prime Minister who doomed Springbok Test cricket by keeping Basil d'OIiveira from touring here," it said. 
That was the beginning of the end - not only for Springbok cricket but for apartheid itself. 
It is a sad day when we see garbage like Vorster being able to call decent Australians riff-raff. This is the man who was interned during the war for his Nazi sympathies. That should concern the honourable member for Deakin  (Mr Jarman).  What a hide this man has to talk about the people I have mentioned as riff-raff. I wonder how many of our friends on the other side will go home and tell their RSL branches how sympathetic they are to a man like  Mr Vorster.  I have never been as disgusted as I was the other night by the speech of the honourable member for Deakin. 
asked the Minister for Education and Science, upon notice: 
What were the (a) numbers and (b) percentages of students who were (i) enrolled for the third i last year of secondary education, (ii) candidates for the Commonwealth secondary scholarships examination and (iii) awarded scholarships in each of the (A) Government, (B) Catholic and (C) other private schools in the electoral division of Robertson in each year since the Commonwealth Secondary Scholarship Scheme was introduced. 
asked the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
Has he raised the matter of recall legislation for defective motor vehicles with the Australian Transport Advisory Council as promised in his answer to my question without notice on 5th May 1971 (Hansard, pages 2551-2). 
asked the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
Has the give way to the right rule been discussed by the Advisory Committee on Road User Performance and Traffic Codes, a committee of the Australian Transport Advisory Council. 
If so, what was the result of its' deliberations. 
asked the Minister for Shipping and Transport upon notice: 
Has the Advisory Committee on Safety in Vehicle Design, a committee of the Australian Transport Advisory Council, discussed the proposal by the United States National Highway Safety Bureau to introduce a motor vehicle safety standard high speed warning and control which will govern cars to a speed of 95 mph and give a warning signal at 80 mph. 
If so, what was the result of its deliberations. 
asked the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
Was a survey carried out by his Department in recent years estimating the cost of road accidents in Australia to be near $800 million per annum. 
If so, why was the report not made public. 
asked the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
Has the advisory Committee on Safety in Vehicle Design yet submitted its report on fire in road accidents (Hansard, 16th March, 1971, page 957). 
If so, what Commonwealth action has resulted. 
If not, when does he expect the report to be submitted. 
Has his attention been drawn to the report in The Sunday Australian of 12th September, 1971 outlining criticism of Volkswagen sedans and vans by  Mr Ralph  Nader. 
If so will he initiate studies to ascertain the truth of the criticisms. 
Has the Commonwealth made or does it intend to make any studies of the comparative safety of the most popular cars sold in Australia. 
Would this comparative information be of value to consumers who are at present unable to determine the relative safety of different makes of vehicle. 
asked the Minister for the 
Interior, upon notice: 
When will the Australian Capital Territory and the Northern Territory have compulsory seat belt legislation. 
asked the Minister for Ship ping and Transport, upon notice: 
Can he say what stage of development the airbag safety device has reached in the United States of America, 
asked the Minister for Ship  ping and Transport, upon notice: 
Has he taken any action regarding motor vehicle advertisements that place undue emphasis on speed and power. 
If not, will he take ' action in the near future. 
asked the Minister for Ship ping and Transport, upon notice: 
Has he raised with the Minister for the Interior the matter of the collection and use of road traffic accident statistics for Commonwealth Territories as promised in his answer to my question No. 2740 (Hansard, 16 March 1971, page 956). 
My question is directed to the Minister for Customs and Excise. Has it been a long-standing practice for oil. companies to be charged with customs and. excise duty on petrol when their tankers take delivery from bonded storage, as at Kurnell for instance, prior to its going into home consumption? Was this practice broken just prior to the Budget so that oil companies paid excise . on; petrol in bonded storage at the pre-Budget rate of 15.3c a gallon? If so, will the Minister explain why? . 
I am sure that honourable members will be aware that last weekend saw almost SO Australians killed on the roads. I have been fortunate in the last few days to receive from the United States a report, the foreword of which was written by Ralph Nader, of the Centre for Auto Safety. Thi report is entitled 'The Volkswagen - An Assessment of Distinctive Hazards'. The report commences: 
The Volkswagen Beetle is the most hazardous car currently in use in significant numbers in the United States. 
This report is a damning indictment of the automobile and its manufacturer. The report points out that Volkswagen is the world's third largest automobile manufacturer. In 1970 its sales were valued at $4.2 billion and totalled 2,211,000 vehicles. The Volkswagen was initially a product of the revolt against the Detroit monsters and was sold to the public as an economic runabout and a second car for the family. The sameness of the vehicle year in and year out was promoted as a virtue. However, it is clear that whatever changes were made were rarely safety related and then only to comply with safety standards set down by the Government. I quote again from the report: 
The lack of a consumer movement in Germany and the absence of a critical engineering tradition with access to governmental authority lead to an overwhelming dominance of the corporation over the State in safety matters. 

 Dr Frederick Goes, chief of auto safety research for VW had this to say: 
Government regulations are just another type of technical battle. If they want a padded dash they get it. If they want a sideguard rail, it is no problem to put one in. 
However, Nader points out the extent to which VW has gone in the United States to lobby against and defeat proposed safety standard legislation and also to exert pressure on the Detroit giants, General Motors and Ford, to support VW or face economic retaliation by the German Government against their large investments in that country. Nader in his report continued: 
Not content with such government timidity in issuing meaningful standards VW exerts strenuous pressure to prevent government crash-testing of VWs and disclosure of the results publicly. 
The report  then  makes the following claim:  - The Beetle has many serious design defects which have been responsible for the deaths and injuries of thousands of people. These are deaths which could have been prevented and injuries which could have been reduced in severity had Volkswagen been as aggressive in its safety policies as in its marketing. 
It is well known through research that small cars are less crash worthy and subsequently prove injurious to occupants in the event of a crash. However, the VW beetle and the micro-bus seem to be the most dangerous of them all. Dealing in detail with the dangerous handling tendencies of the VW the report lists the following characteristics of the beetle: Directional instability in cross winds; over-steering behaviour, particularly in cornering near the limits of tyre adhesion, and a propensity towards overturning. The research that has been done shows that about 40.6 per cent of  Vws  involved in accidents overturned whereas the normal rate of overturning was about 30.2 per cent. These characteristics are stated as the reason for the unduly high proportion of single vehicle accidents. Unfortunately, time does not permit me to go into the technical details outlined in the report but the location of the engine in the rear, the centre of pressure being located ahead of the centre of mass, the swing axle rear suspension design and the greater proportion of the car's weight being on the rear wheels causing  oversteer  and its high centre of gravity and narrow track, make it less stable against roll over. The report also quotes the Consumers Union test survey of a number of small vehicles, and had this to say: 
The model that Volkswagen  calls the Super Beetle feels little different from the many unsuper Beetles CU has tested . . . Our Super Beetle rode better than have our earlier Beetles, thanks to a re-designed front suspension. But lt was still among the worst-riding cars in this test group. 
Chapter III blasts VW for taking 10 years to introduce safety rims for tubeless tyres thus preventing an air-out. Possibly the most frightening section is that headed Out the Rear Window: The VW Ejector Seat'. The report states: 
In a collision involving the rear end of the Beetle, the occupant of the seat exerts a strong force against the upper part of the seat back. Using the upper seat back frame rest as a pivot point, the seat back frame becomes a lever which wrenches the seat runner upward and oil its track. When this happens, the seat is no longer attached to any part of the car. The occupant ls now unrestrained and can be thrown backward against the top of the rear seat, the window frame, or even out the rear window . . . Seat belts are of little use in this case since the occupant can slide backward under the belt unhindered. 
Dealing with the question of rear end collisions the report said: 
Direct evidence of seat failures in rear end collisions was provided by an experiment conducted by UCLA engineering students under the guidance of engineers from the Institute of Transportation and Traffic Engineering. The UCLA team crashed a 1967 Ford Custom sedan into a fully instrumented 1969 Beetle which contained 2 full sized male dummies in the front seats, and 2 smaller dummies in the rear seat. The Ford was driven at 30 mph into the rear end of the stationary VW. 
On ' impact, the dummy in the driver's seat pitched backwards, causing the seatback to fail. The dummy then slid backward until its head struck the chest of the dummy directly behind the driver. The dummy in the front position occupied a strengthened VW seat. During the crash, the seat failed and the dummy experienced severe whiplash. 
The left rear dummy, simulating the size of a 13-year old, slid along the collapsed seatback, and hit the rear window which popped out without breaking. The dummy's head and shoulders cleared the opening and its head struck the hood of the Ford. 
When his seatback failed, the. right rear dummy was also hurtled rearward, and partially out of the rear window opening which the left rear dummy had broken. The right rear dummy's head also struck the hood of the Ford. . 
Of this study, VW told its dealers in a confidential memo: 
A test on VW seats in rear-end collisions was conducted by UCLA in 1969. VWoA provided cars for the test and they were 'rear-ended' by 1967 full-sized Fords at 30 mph. The back of the VW front seat bent rearward about 30 degrees, but the seat did not leave the track. 
This is hardly an accurate description of what happened. The erroneous impression is left that the VW seats performed adequately. 
I could go on, if I had more time, and detail the criticism of the. vehicles' shocking door latches. But. I would like to quote from a chapter which is called 'Up In Flames: The Beetle Fuel System'. I remind honourable members of the report brought down by the Traffic Accident Research Unit headed by  Dr Henderson  in New South Wales, which stated that a high proportion of Volkswagens was involved in accidents in which vehicles burst into flames. It was a much higher proportion than the proportion of Volkswagens to all vehicles on the road. I quote the following from that chapter. 
The performance of the Beetle's gasoline storage system in frontend crashes is a serious threat to the vehicle occupants. Several design factors contribute to this deficient performance: Tank location, attachment of the tank to the car, filler neck location, and filler cap design. 
All Beetles except the 1971 Super Beetle have the gasoline tank positioned immediately to the rear of the spare tyre. Only the bumper and the hood are in front of the spare tyre, so that sufficiently severe frontal impacts can result in the spare tyre, its wheel and the sheet metal of the wheel well being forced against the gasoline tank. These forces tend to reduce the volume of the tank, building up pressure in the tank. Since gasoline is effectively incompressible, a tank which is nearly full will build up sufficient pressure so that the weakest part of the structure may' yield. The integrity of the enclosure would then be destroyed, allowing gasoline to be released into the luggage compartment or to flow to the pavement. 
There is considerably more contained in that chapter. The final remarks are contained in chapter 8, which is headed: 'The Most Dangerous of Them All: The VW Microbus'. It states: 
According to extensive data, this vehicle is the most dangerous vehicle by a wide margin which is sold in any significant numbers in the United Slates today.  . . Consumers Union (CU) found the acceleration of the VW bus 'so lethargic' that in their estimation it constitutes a safety hazard. Lack of power affects passing ability, uphill performance and safety in merging onto turnpikes. 
The most serious safety problem in . the microbus is the lack of occupant protection it offers in front end crashes. Such protection can be provided by incorporation into the vehicle design of sufficient 'crush distance', that is, the length of vehicle structure between the front crash surface and the front seat occupant space. In a crash, this structure collapses and absorbs the forces generated by the crash. While most full sized United States cars provide about 3 feet of collapse distance the VW bus provides 'a scant half foot'. 
In speaking to the estimates for the Department of Trade and Industry I want to mention the subject of tourism. Tourism like motherhood, is something to which all Government supporters pay lip service. Unfortunately their contribution to the latter is significantly greater than it has been towards tourism. For some unknown reason, tourism has become the Cinderella industry, despite its continued growth, despite its significant contribution to employment, profitability, decentralisation and balance of payments. The attitude of the Government seems to be that tourism is a not quite manly or masculine pursuit for good red blooded Australians who should be occupying their minds and bodies with healthy vigorous industries even if they lose their shirt doing it. 
One of the fundamentals of business practice is that if you have a line that is not selling or making a profit, you get out of it quickly and cut your losses or phase out of it into another line that has greater potential. There are humanitarian reasons for supporting certain industries in Australia over the short term but in the long term we must look towards those industries that have growth potential and try to make the transition as quickly and painlessly as possible. The bankruptcy courts and commercial graveyards are full of businessmen who had sentimental and emotional attachments to particular enterprises when all the indicators pointed in the opposite direction. It has been often said that the Government of Australia is like a board of directors of a nation. If this is so then the next annual shareholders meeting should see a new board. The neglect of the tourist industry at the expense of less viable industries is simply bad business, nothing more, nothing less. The myth of the Liberals as a party of shrewd businessmen is clearly exploded in their present misjudgment of business priorities. The growth in tourism is clearly indicated in the 1971 annual report of the Australian Tourist Commission to the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony).  The report states: 
The number of visitors to Australia increased by 14 per cent from 387,197 in 1969 to 440,822 in 1970 while visitor spending rose from St 18m in 1969 to SI 35m in 1970 also an increase of 14 per cent. 
The real growth in tourism should exclude the figures for spending by American servicemen on rest and recreation leave in Australia of $20m for 1970, which would give an actual travel credit of $115m. However the report points out that Australians are spending $185m abroad so that there is a deficit of $70m in the balance of payments. With December 1971 seeing the end of R and R spending in Australia there is a growing gap between what comes into and goes out of the country in tourist spending. The total output of our tourist industry for native Australians was valued in 1970 at $2,400m. 

 Mr Alan Greenway,  Chairman  of the Australian Tourist Commission, is to be congratulated on his excellent report for, although responsible to the Government, he has not pulled any punches in his letter to the Minister. Whilst pointing out that the primary role of the Tourist Commission is in the area of marketing and research and congratulating the Government on its changed attitudes towards air charter flights into Australia, he indicates his disappointment at the Government's failure to implement regional plans submitted by the Development and Research 
Division for the Ayers Rock-Mount Olga and the Great Barrier Reef. The report states: 
The Commission has expressed the view in the past, in its 1969-70 Annual Report and elsewhere, that the quality and quantity of Australia's tourist attractions and facilities are in need of urgent attention if our full tourist potential is to be realised. The need for accelerated developmental activity is now all the more urgent if we are to take full advantage of the new markets, which lower charter fares can be expected to guarantee. 
It is clear that the Commission is angered at the failure of the Government to act on the 2 development plans presented so far. The first one on the Ayers Rock-Mount Olga area was presented on 30th June 1969, and the second on the Great Barrier Reef on 15th April 1971. Superbly documented and presented, they are comprehensive blue prints for combined governmental and private enterprise initiatives that would place Australia on the road to having a thriving, flourishing tourist industry with its resultant benefits for employment, decentralisation and prosperity for hundreds of thousands of Australians, not the least of them being those most in need of assistance - the unskilled, women. Aborigines, the aged and those who are presently feeling the squeeze of the rural depression. 
The Great Barrier Reef plan is an exhilarating, exciting and visionary programme that stresses the need to conserve the flora and fauna, and maintain the Reef as an ecological landmark whilst making it attractive to international and domestic tourists. It points out that much of the present development is cheap and nasty and needs to be redeveloped; that new areas should be developed in a more attractive, sophisticated manner stressing the uniquely Australian character rather than being a poor imitation of the worst of overseas design. It highlights the need for an integrated upgrading of transport facilities, new and expanded, such as airports, better quality highways, cruise craft and the provision of facilities - water, sewerage and electricity. Most importantly, it outlines areas for direct government involvement and the need for incentives for private investment in such out of the way places. This should take the form of tax write offs, depreciation allowances, export allowances and, in some instances, direct subsidies. It offers detailed studies for 6 regions ranging from Cooktown in the north to Maryborough in the south. The report states: 
If the Reef is to be preserved, its development must be controlled. Standards must be created and maintained, and the responsibility for such a programme must be fixed in one authority,. 
And therefore it recommends the establishment of 'a Barrier Reef Authority to promulgate, monitor and enforce standards of development*. lt is quite impossible to cover the thousands of detailed recommendations made in the report in the time available in the debate, but I can assure honourable members that they can spend an exhilarating evening reading this report. The same applies to the earlier report on the Ayers Rock-Mount Olga Area. As with the Reef plan the recommendation suggests the provision of better airport and road facilities, and so on. 
I understand that plans are afoot to present similar development plans for other areas of great tourist potential in Australia, although one must begin to imagine the despondency of those associated with the presentation of these superb reports after the complete lack of action on the Government's part. There are many superb areas crying out for development - the Sydney region reaching up to the Blue Mountains in the west and in my own electorate of Robertson in the north, the central coast area between Newcastle and Sydney with its classic bushlands, beaches, lakes and rivers, the southwest through Berrima down to Canberra and Mount Kosciusko and Mount Buffalo, the Barossa Valley, the apple isle of Tasmania, the Pilbaras and the Kimberleys of Western Australia. 
I am sorry. As the honourable member for Riverina says, I should mention the area he comes from. It must be perfectly obvious to anyone who has travelled abroad that a country can no longer rely on its natural assets and the hospitality of its people. International visitors want, I believe, the following things when they visit Australia: Firstly, fast, comfortable and reasonably priced transport - we still suffer due to our distance from the major tourist sources - the 
United States and Europe; secondly, first class international standard accommodation; and thirdly, to view, feel, taste and absorb experiences uniquely Australian. 
We should encourage development that stresses this uniqueness. Hotels if possible should reflect the Australian idiom in their setting, architecture, decor, food and entertainment. We have had an exciting history of colonial pioneering. We should not be embarrassed or self-conscious about playing up our past. Visitors do not come to Australia to see a cheap imitation of Florida, Hawaii or the Swiss Alps. They want Australia. 
Government can play a very real role by involvement in the cultural, historical, educational and scientific areas which will be of equal value to Australians, who are showing greater interest and pride in things Australian, by participating in the development of museums that are not only of value to tourists but also of great educational value to Australia. I recommend to members an excellent article in the 29th May issue of the 'Bulletin' suggesting governmental initiative for a convict museum, a colonial portrait gallery, a museum of Victorian Australia, an Australian museum of natural history, a Captain Cook museum, of the Pacific people, an Australian Maritime museum, an Aboriginal museum, and various other suggestions that would add greatly to preserving and illustrating our heritage. Only a visionary Australian government can see the exciting potential in tourism and commence an aggressive policy of development outlined by the Australian Tourist Commission. One would hope that the new Minister-in-Charge of Tourist Activities  (Mr Howson)  will come up with more dramatic recommendations than he did during tourist week when his sole idea was to suggest to Australians that they plant more trees. I have read every speech that has been made on tourism in the last 10 years and I want to compliment the honourable member for Wilmot  (Mr Duthie),  who has made the best speech on tourism in those 10 years. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Hallett)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I want to raise with the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  a matter about which I asked him a question recently. My question was: 
Has it been a long-standing practice for oil companies to be charged with customs and excise duty on petrol when their tankers take delivery from bonded storage, as at Kurnell for instance, prior to its going into home consumption? Was this practice broken just prior to the Budget so that oil companies paid excise on petrol in bonded storage at the pre-Budget rate of 15.3c a gallon? If so, will the Minister explain why? 
The Minister replied: 
The procedure upon which duty or excise is paid on petrol or other commodities related to my jurisdiction is at the point at which the goods are entered for home consumption. That would apply both to tariff duties on imports and excise duties on locally produced goods. To my knowledge, there has been no change in the procedure relating to petrol or anything else. However, I will look into the matter as the honourable gentleman has requested. 
A number of newspapers took up this matter because it was disclosed, as I understand it, not by any Press statement but through various discussions with the Minister, that the oil companies had saved approximately $1.3m by paying their excise and customs duty on oil shortly before the Budget was presented. I spoke very briefly to the Minister and asked him when I could get the figures. He said that I could get them later on that day or the next day. Perhaps he meant that I was to go and see him, I do not know, but I have not got the actual figures. I hope that these figures will be supplied as soon as possible. However, on Saturday, 2nd October, the following day, an article appeared in the Sydney Morning Herald' under the headline 'Concern at $lm Duty Saving'. The article was written by John Stubbs. I will have to quote it in detail. It is as follows: 
The Minister for Customs and Excise,  Mr Chipp,  is expected to give Parliament details of oil and cigarette company transactions on the eve of the Budget which cost the Commonwealth more than $lm in revenue. 
He said today the companies had gambled that duties would rise and had paid duty on goods they had in bonded store, so avoiding the Budget increase. 1 am concerned by the practice - which has happened almost every year since Federation - but I have been informed that the Commonwealth Government has no constitutional powers to stop it,'  Mr Chipp  said. 
It was the normal practice for companies to pay duty only when goods were taken out of bonded store and entered for Australian consumption. 
He said oil companies had deprived the Commonwealth of about $1.3m in revenue by paying $10m in duty on 65 million gallons of petrol in bonded storage on Budget Day last month. 
This had been about one-third of the petrol in bonded storage at the time. 
The duly on petrol went up by 2c a gallon in the Budget. 

 Mr Chipp said he was seeking details of similar transactions about the same time by cigarette manufacturers and others. 
The fact that this happened before budgets almost every year - except sometimes in election years when taxes were not expected to rise - and that the companies could have trebled their savings by paying duty on all the petrol on bonded storage suggested that there was no leakage that duties would rise. 
That statement, which is as yet uncorroborated, appeared in the 'Sydney Morning Herald' on 2nd October last. However, it is the final paragraph in the article which concerns me because I believe that it leaves the Minister wide open to criticism. 
It  quotes him as saying:  1 am glad this practice has come into the open. I am seriously considering giving details of these transactions to Parliament to discourage similar moves to deprive the Commonwealth of revenue in future years. 
That final paragraph of the article in which the Minister says: 'I am glad this practice has come into the open' and I have read it about a dozen times - seems to me to give rise to the inference that the matter was not out in the open previously. One could assume from a statement such as this that the Minister was not aware of what was happening. In a statement which I issued on the Sunday afternoon after that article appeared in the Press 1 said that if the Minister was not aware of it he was guilty of gross negligence, and 1 still stick to that claim. The Minister said: 
I am seriously considering giving details of these transactions to Parliament to discourage similar moves . . . 
If he was aware of the situation and he has not disclosed it to Parliament, that is an even more serious charge. If not, then I am afraid one can only draw a conclusion about what he should have done. If he can now disclose these things prior to the next Budget and thus prevent this $1.3m from escaping from the Government's taxes, why was this not done before this Budget? Why was it not done before the last Budget? The Commonwealth could have gained perhaps $2.5m to $3m which rightly belonged to it and not left it in the hands of oil companies which I am sure we all agree are not doing too badly. 
I think that for many years the public has been fed up to the hack teeth with the way in which the ordinary consumer will go into a shop on the day after the Budget has been presented and pay an extra 4c or Se for a packet of cigarettes knowing full well that the man who owns the shop did not pay the additional excise on those cigarettes. The Government has been asked questions about this matter on many occasions, and quite rightly it replies: 'We cannot police every little shop'. 1 understand that that is a difficult thing. But in the case of bonded stores, where oil and petrol are in the hands of the Commonwealth Government in about 15 different stores, this is a completely different question. There must be answers to the problem of stopping oil companies from getting away with $2m or $3m to which they are not entitled. The other thing that I think the Minister still has to answer for is this final point that I make: If there are means of stopping this escape in future Budgets why were these steps not taken in the last Budget and why were they not taken in the Budget before last? 

 - Mr Corbett, 1 am sorry that me honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  has left the chamber. The honourable member made a fairly rambling and incoherent speech full of his usual inanities. When he replied to an interjection I began to wonder whether he had not been present with some of his colleagues last Friday night supporting the honourable member for Berowra  (Mr Hughes)  at his pre-selection meeting. 1 want to speak primarily about education and the estimates we are now discussing. lt has been said that education is the key to an egalitarian society. We have lived for many years with the myth of equality of opportunity. Our community believes that by the provision of free primary and secondary education sufficient has been done and that those who fail to make it through the system fail through their own fault and their inability to cope adequately with the education system. 1 believe this is a myth - a myth perpetrated by the Liberal-Country Party Government. UNESCO research has shown clearly that any group of people, irrespective of its religion, race, nationality or economic grouping, has an equal proportion of people of low, medium and high intelligence quotient or capacity, yet in any society such as ours it is clear that the high economic groupings still provide the majority of the professional and commercial ruling classes. They continue to dominate as it can be seen that about IS times the number of graduates come from the north shore of Sydney as come from the working class suburbs. 
If one believes the UNESCO studies and any accepted demographic studies, there must be some great deficiency in our education system if it continues to perpetuate privilege in this way. One must recognise that environment plays an important part in the development of society, and it is extremely difficult to change environment. It is also extremely difficult to give a child motivation, but it can be done through the education system. At the moment deprivation in the home - that is, in the homes of low income earners, in migrant homes, in Aboriginal homes, in the homes of unskilled workers and in broken homes - and the lack of a proper cultural environment retards children from this background and perpetuates inequality. The only way to break this cycle is through the immediate introduction of pre-school education which the honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Bonnett)  mentioned. I agree wholeheartedly with what he said on this subject. Those who are now deprived of pre-school education are those who are most in need of it. 
I want briefly to quote from the platform of the 1971 Launceston conference of the Australian Labor Party the objective in education. It reads: 
Education should promote love of freedom and justice and should develop critical perception, ability to choose intelligently, capacity for selfgovernment and a sense of social responsibility, lt should instil belief in the equal rights of all people and respect for their essential humanity, irrespective of nationality, colour or creed. It should ensure free and harmonious development of intellect, physique, emotions and abilities. It is the obligation of the State to provide a universal, free, compulsory, secular system of education open to all citizens. 
I wanted to make a brief reference to the fact that in this year, the year designated by the United Nations to combat racism and racial discrimination, the Government has done virtually nothing through our school system to try to eliminate one of the great blights upon our society- - racism. I mean prejudice of all kinds - religious, national and racial prejudice. That opportunity has been missed this year, and in this of all years that is a disgrace. 
In the time left to me, however, I wish to refer to the education system as it is working in Robertson, the electorate that I represent. I have in recent weeks undertaken a private survey, and I am proposing to continue this over the next months. I intend to visit and I have visited a number of schools, but unfortunately, owing to a mixup with the local inspector of schools, I have been unable to visit many of the State schools. However, next Tuesday, I will be visiting with him Chertsey School, Gosford Primary School, Gosford High School, Henry Kendall School and the Point Clare Primary School. Some 12 months ago I did a similar tour throughout the Ettalong-Woy Woy area, but I have done quite an extensive one in the time available. I have visited all the Catholic schools in the area. My survey was prompted by a visit to my office by a number of concerned members of parents and friends associations, so I took it upon myself to visit each and every school and spend some hours at every one. I visited St Josephs Girls High School, St Edwards Boys High School, St Patricks Mixed Primary School, Our Lady of the Rosary School, St Cecilia's School and St John the Baptist School. 
Without being qualified to comment on the quality of education, I could readily ascertain some very serious physical deficiencies. 1 want to quote one small section from the nation-wide survey of educational needs. It states: 
In most areas about 8 to 10 acres has been regarded as necessary for the larger State primaries, while for secondary schools IS to 20 acres has been accepted as a norm. 
Let me compare the physical sizes of the Catholic schools in my electorate. Our Lady of the Rosary, St John the Baptist and St Patrick's all are located, I would think, in an area well under one acre of land, and they have pupils ranging from 150 to nearly 500 in the case of St Patrick's. St Joseph's Girls High School is located on less than an acre yet the survey of education needs suggests 15 to 20 acres. 1 think that class sizes are terribly important, because it has been accepted that in primary schools there should be no more than 35 to a class, in junior high school about 27, and in the senior 2 years 20 to 25. 
Let me quote the figures for St Patrick's Primary School from kindergarten upwards. They are 33 and 34, 41 and 41, 45 and 45, 42 and 38, 39 and 45, and 42 in fifth class. It falls in fifth and sixth classes, but of course the boys go on to St Edward's High School. At St Cecilia's each teacher has 2 classes and the numbers are 40, 22, 41 and 36. At Our Lady of the Rosary School it is 35, 37, 42, 34, 32, 21 and 21. Listen to these class sizes at St John the Baptist School. What hope have these children of getting a proper start in school? The numbers are: Kindergarten 61, first class 52, second class 54 and third class 38. At the high schools, in respect of which it was said the norm should be 27, St Joseph's has an average of 36 and St Edward's 34. 
There is a shortage of space for both future classrooms and recreational purposes. The development has proceeded in an ad hoc fashion, and future expansion will be extremely expensive owing to the high cost of land in the newly developing areas surrounding the schools. There are practically no assembly halls and there is no protection from wet weather. There are no specific art, crafts and music rooms, and in some cases there are no special library rooms although through the Commonwealth Government grant that is available a library will be going in at St Edward's shortly, and St Joseph's has quite a nice library. 
There is a shortage of teachers, and I believe they are quite inadequately paid. The Catholic education on the central coast of New South Wales is approaching a crisis situation and will need very heavy support from both the State and Commonwealth Governments if it is to survive. I want finally to quote from the Australian Labor Party's platform under the heading Australian Schools Commission'. It states: 
The Commonwealth to establish an Australian Schools Commission to examine and determine the needs of students In government and nongovernment primary, secondary and technical schools and recommend grants which the Commonwealth should make to the States to assist them meeting the requirements of all school-age children on the basis of needs and priorities. 
I would like to have more time to stress this question of needs and priorities, because as someone who has had experience in the private school and State school system I am one who wants to see support for the Catholic school system. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Corbett)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker- 

I do feel somewhat guilty in standing up to speak to this Bill whilst wearing a dacron and cotton suit because most of my suits are made of wool. I did not know that this Bill was to be debated today, otherwise I would have been appropriately dressed. Some time ago when the Australian Wool Commission Bill was being debated I spoke as a retailer who had had some 1 2 years experience in handling wool and selling woollen garments to consumers. I am not the only one in this House who has some retailing experience. I have a colleague on the other side who I understand has had some experience in this field. 1 refer to the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter).  I hope that he will join in the debate and mention some of the things I hope to speak about this evening. 
What I want to do tonight is to reiterate a lot of what I said in speaking to the Australian Wool Commission Bill. I think that we need to look at wool from the consumers' point of view. I must say that I could not agree with much of what the honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Buchanan)  said in relation to the importance of forgetting whether woollen garments are washable and of selling wool for its own quality. I think we have to look at the qualities of synthetic materials and measure those qualities against the qualities of wool. In this way we can ascertain the deficiencies in wool and thereafter try to improve it. I think the problem of a washable material is a very, very real one. Having dealt with housewives in the sale of garments over many, many years it is my experience that they have constantly asked the question: 'Well, can I throw it in the washing machine'? What can one say? 
Not suits, but knitwear. People do not ask whether suits can be washed. They ask whether slacks, knitwear and children's garments can be thrown in the washing machine. I think this is one of the reasons today why we are losing out in the field of children's garments, because anyone who has 3 children, as I have, will know that within 10 minutes of dressing them their clothes will be filthy dirty. The housewives want something that can be washed every day. In the debate on the Wool Commission Bill I said that I thought it would have been possible for Australia to become a fashion centre, but this we have not become. There have been changes throughout the world in regard to the fashion centres. There was a time back in the 1950s when we looked to the United States and then in the early 1960s the switch was to Europe. Then of all places England became the centre of fashion. Honourable members will recall that in the swinging sixties England became the fashion centre when the Beatles achieved fame. The young people in the world followed the fashions of Great Britain. Nothing has been done in this country at the marketing level to promote Australia as the fashion centre. For this reason I believe that a great deal of criticism can be levelled at the people who have marketed our wool. 
In my speech on the Wool Commission Bill I asked: What attempts have been made to assist the Australian textile industry and the fashion industry to produce garments? I want to talk only about the garment end because I do not pretend to know anything about the production of wool. Coming back to what the honourable member for McMillan was talking about, there are certain areas in which we should concentrate in regard to the use of wool. In my earlier speech on the other Bill I said at that time that pure wool suits and slacks were still in great demand. I would think that 60 per cent to 70 per cent of suits sold by most Australian retailers would be made of wool. The balance would be made up of blends, mixtures of terylene and wool. The firm of Anthony Squires has used hundreds of thousands, if not millions of yards of material, called 'varano' in their suits. It is one-third terylene, one-third wool and one-third mohair. That represents 66) per cent natural fibre. Those suits are mostly sold as summer garments. 
I think we have to recognise that a light weight woollen garment is a very comfortable garment to wear. It is the most comfortable summer suit that one can possibly wear but it is a fact that it crushes very, very easily. One has to have a pretty fair sized wardrobe to be able to afford a number of light weight woollen suits. The average man, and he represents about 90 per cent of the market in the purchase of suits, cannot afford this type of luxury. I can afford - perhaps because I get them at a better price  -  a couple of light weight woollen suits, and I would rather have them. However, I think we must recognise that there are limitations in this field. Slacks are in the same category as suits. 
In regard to shirts my view is that there is a very limited market for woollen shirts and certainly not in the business shirt Held. Cotton and synthetic materials are in demand in this field. As to sport shirts, a woven fabric shirt is very comfortable but it is very expensive. The cheapest woollen shirt today in a quality brand sells at about $14. This does not give a mass market, in the knitted field there is the problem with the coarser woollens of skin irritation. 1 thing it is true to say that most people do not like coarse wools close to their skin. In the knitted field the fine wools are superior but the price range in this field is from $14 upwards. 
In the sock field there is no : question that woollen socks - a 50-50 mixture of wool and synthetics - are on their own. There is nothing better. I have had a tremendous amount of trouble and complaints from customers who have complained after wearing synthetic socks of any description. I certainly never, wear them. I wear a mixture wool sock all the year round, summer and winter. To talk about pure wool socks in this field is absurb because today housewives will not darn socks when they can buy a mixture sock which will last for 12 months or more and worn each week. There are limitations. I heard someone talk of woollen ties. The amount of wool in woollen ties is infinitesimal. There is not much in that field at all. 
I said then and 1 will repeat that I do not think that the people in charge of the Wool Bureau have satisfactorily sold WOO to Australians. I think that the general promotion - and I would agree with my friend here - has been concentrated primarily on the big retail stores, on television and on the sophisticated women's magazines. But there is no community consciousness about the need for Australians to use wool. The best interests of Australia and Australians are served by Australians buying wool whenever the opportunity presents itself. We could refer to it perhaps, as economic nationalism, and I see nothing wrong with that. 
Most other countries do this with fabrics and products that they manufacture. They encourage their own people to buy the products upon which the survivability of their nation depends. I do not think that we have got this message through to the Australian people. It is all very well to say: You have not got it through'. How does one get it through? Previously I have related my own experiences with the Wool Bureau. At the start of every season we would ring up the Bureau and say: 'We are going to start our winter season. We would like some help from you. We have got a 37-foot window and we can do a very beautiful promotion'. We have done some excellent promotions, but we need help. One cannot spend $500 on a window promotion. One needs props. I have done this. I have gone to great trouble to obtain raw wool in order to demonstrate with posters the production of wool from the sheep's back right through to the finished garment. One can do a very attractive display. That is the sort of thing that one would want to do. We would ring up the Wool Bureau, but the assistance which we received was deplorable. We would get one or two posters, and that was it; that was the total contribution. We would receive no financial assistance. 
I believe that someone from the Wool Bureau should have come up there, spent a day with us and helped us with the windows, lt could have provided a window dresser, if you like, and better quality posters and props that could have been moveable; they could have been moved around bie; they could have been moved around from retailer to retailer. A retailer will not go out of his way to promote wool. He wants to sell garments. If he can get this work done inexpensively by someone who provides that sort of a service, he will avail himself of the opportunity. But he will not spend $100 or $150  -  and window  dressers are extremely expensive - to do this for someone else, although in his long term interest, in a very vague sort of a way, this will benefit him. So I think that this is the sort of provision that the Wool Bureau ought to make. 
It seems to me that growing numbers of tourists are coming to Australia. I have forgotten the exact figures although I should remember them because I made a speech on tourism recently. Hundreds of thousands of tourists are visiting Australia every year, and1 the number is increasing. I have done a little travelling, as I am sure most honourable members have. We know that when we visit a country the thing that we most want to take back from that counry is something which represents it. One does not go to New Zealand to buy woollen garments. One does not go to Fiji to bring back Savile Row suits. One buys something which represents the country. If you go to France, or even to Noumea, you bring back French perfumes because that is what Mum wants you to bring back. 
I have found, particularly with American visitors who come here, that they want to take back something which represents Australia. It may well be boomerangs or koala bears. But the thing of quality that we have, that they immediately think of, is woollen garments. Yet when one goes to our international airports at Tullamarine and Sydney one would not know that Australia ever sold or grew any wool at all. All sorts of leases are let out for shops at Tullamarine and Sydney airports. I hope that if the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  is listening he will give consideration to this suggestion concerning our major airports. 1  notice that he is talking to the Minister for National Development  (Mr Swartz)  who in this chamber represents the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton).  At our international airports people should be greeted with the image of Australia as a wool country. We also should let out these leases - I do not mind who gets them; I am not asking for one myself - to the big retailers or to a consortium of retailers who, I am sure, would establish wool stores at the airports - not small, pokey little things, but something fairly grand in which people could buy woollen garments either as they arrived, or preferably as they left, the country. The important point would not be the total amount of wool that is sold at those shops; it would be the impression given of the country which is the producer of the finest wool in the world. 
I also think that there is a need to communicate at the store level with the people who sell wool. I am not talking about the owner or the manager; I am talking about the man in the big retail stores and in the small stores. We ought to establish some sort of lecture system so that these men could be invited to come out for a day or two and have explained to them the qualities of wool and be imbued with the spirit that the selling of wool is in the long term interests of themselves and this country. What happens is that these people will approach a customer - and I have seen it happen constantly in stores - who is looking at  3  garments. The natural thing to do is to select the most favourable features of the garments. The customer will ask: What do you think of this one as against that one - wool versus synthetics'? The man serving the customer will say: *You can throw the synthetic one into the washing machine'. He forgets all the qualities of the woollen one because he knows that this will appeal to Mum. What he should be doing, in my view, is selling the qualities of wool - -warmth, wearability and the whole range of qualities which wool possesses - against the synthetics because, as  1  have said, it is in his long term interests. 
Encouragement should be given to manufacturers to use wool. I note that the Australian Wool Board, in its report, stated: 
In the past, wool growers have defined wool marketing as the method used - to transfer the ownership of wool from the wool grower to the wool trade. However, the Board believes the definition should cover all that happens to wool from the sheep's to the consumer's back. 
Within this concept the Australian Wool Board's current major research effort is aimed at establishing the cheapest and most efficient way to market raw wool. 
Fortunately the Wool Board has changed its attitude towards the restrictive practice with the Woolmark. It will now allow a Woolblend mark, which . will allow manufacturers to use a little bit of synthetics with woo] and still receive the imprimatur of a type of Woolmark. I went and spoke to a number of manufacturers. I went out  to one of the biggest woollen mills in Australia. I spoke to a manufacturer about the problems which he has to face. He said: 'I am a wool man'. I might say that most of Australia's manufacturers are extremely loyal. They know of all the qualities that wool has and they want to use wool as much as possible. But they have said: The frustrations that we have in dealing with the Wool Bureau are unbelievable'. 
One gentleman, talking about shirting, demonstrated the point. He said: 'I will produce 12 pieces of cloth in say, these 9 coloures - blue, red, bone, light blue, orange, mustard, dark green and so on'. The Wool Bureau will then say: 'Yes, they are very good. They are the colurs that we have set for this year's Wool Bureau's colours. We will give you the Woolmark in that one, in the blue, in the bone, in the orange and in the mustard, but the other 4 colours do not come up to scratch'. No manufacturer can send out half of his range with the Woolmark on it and half without the Woolmark because it is not exactly as it was desired. All the manufacturers have experienced these  sorts  of frustrations. The other matter is that if the quality was not exactly as laid down, it did not get the Woolmark. Eventually, what they said was: 'To hell with it. Who needs these sorts of headaches? We will go on and use synthetics'. I met another gentleman who manufactures school uniforms. I am very glad to see the reference on pages 25 and 26 of the report to market research; a special school uniform marketing team was appointed. I have had some discussions with these people and I know the volume of cloth used in the school uniform field. They said to me that the synthetic manufacturers had set out to undercut the price of pure wool just enough to make their product sufficiently attractive for a switch over and there was no way that the manufacturers of the wool textile could get their price down those extra few cents. As a result they lost the market for hundreds of thousands of yards of material. 
It seems to me that there should be some avenue open to the manufacturers when these problems crop up to go to the Board and say: This is the problem, this is what you will lose in yardage and this is what you will lose in customers who are now wearing wool. Can you give us some assistance to get the price down?' This could possibly be done by way of an incentive to help them reduce their prices below those of their competitors. When one talks of losing a market for school uniforms one is talking, 1 would think, in terms of millions of yards of material and it is a field we may well never get back into. I feel also that there should be more cash incentives not only to promote the use of wool but also to assist in constantly finding ways of plugging gaps in markets we are about to lose as well as to encourage manufacturers such as Anthony Squires, Speedo and Sutex, to export their products. A lot of manufacturers are already exporting to the near north, to America and to Great Britain. This is a way not only of getting export income and selling wool but also of selling the name of wool in the long term. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Health, upon notice: 
Has any survey been made to ascertain what proportion of hospital beds are occupied by the victims of road accidents. 
I address a question to the Minister for Labour and National Service. Has his attention been drawn to a report in Time' magazine of 18th October and a number of other reports of late in overseas newspapers stating that some SOO United States business and industrial firms have been experimenting with a 4-day working week without necessarily a reduction in working hours, which makes recruitment of labour easier, reduces absenteeism, increases productivity and improves employee morale? Has his Department investigated the introduction of these revolutionary working hours by employers and what initiatives has he taken to discuss the matter with employer organisations and trade unions? 
I second the amendment. In housing, as in so many other areas of national welfare, this Government substitutes inertia and expediency for planning and positive policy. A generation of Liberal federal governments has done little to meet the needs of Australian home builders and buyers. But even though requests for a national survey into housing needs - requests from the industry itself - have persistently- been rejected by Liberal governments, we know enough to be able to discern the major problem areas. Young home buyers must find more money for higher deposits, earn more for higher repayments and travel longer distances to work because of the failure of the Commonwealth to assist in land development and urban redevelopment. Low income group families and pensioners are deprived of access to public housing and condemned to sub-standard accommodation while spending years on the waiting list for what housing there is. 
The effect on young home-buyers is best measured by the Government's own figures as disclosed in the annual reports on home savings loan grants. The rigid conditions for home savings grants tend to favour the better-off sections of the community, but, even so, a comparison of reports shows how rising costs are forcing postponement of house purchases and" increasing the potential interest burden. In March 1966, 22 per cent of the successful applicants for home savings grants made them on the eve of their marriage. By March this year it was less than 18 per cent of those about to marry. The burden of higher deposits means that the purchase must be postponed. Similarly the need for second mortgages was increasing. In 1970-71 one in seven of successful applicants needed a second mortgage. The reports show up the savage increases in land prices in the metropolitan areas. The Department of Housing started surveying the land price constituent of its successful applicants in 1966. Comparing March 1966 with March 1971, Sydney average land price was up 46.4 per cent to $3,474; Melbourne up 28.4 per cent to $2,589; Brisbane up 63 per cent to $3,049; Perth up 80 per cent to $4,205, the highest in Australia; and Hobart up 79 per cent to $1,547. In Western Australia in March this year $1 in $4 of the cost of the average newly built home was going to pay for the land. In Victoria and New South Wales it was about $1 in $5. 
The average price for a successful applicant's new home in Sydney was about $11,500. On 15 per cent deposit this would mean a $10,000 mortgage or mortgages. That married couple then faced a monthly repayment rate of about $77 a month on  n  permanent building society loan or $70 on a savings bank first mortgage together with a trading bank second mortgage loan. So the young married couple's base income on the traditional calculation, one-quarter rent to income, would need to be $70 to $77 a week. This is the area of greatest pressure for the average income earner, the early years of marriage, but Liberal governments have let the drift of interest rates higher and higher go unchecked. Labor policy is directed towards practical and useful assistance for young marrieds at the time when they need it most. On the permanent building society loan for the average home which I have just mentioned, our 2 per cent interest subsidy would mean a saving of about $640 a year and on the mixed savings bank first mortgage together with a trading bank second mortgage the saving would be about $550 a year. 
The benefit of home savings grants at present is being partially offset by the mortgage loan insurance premium which on that average loan in Sydney would have been about $100. There is some cause for scrutiny of mortgage loan insurance arrangements which have been very much influenced by American commercial experience. The Housing Loan Insurance Corporation paid out only $34,282 in claims over the year ended 30th June 1971. Out of the number of loans issued in 7 years to 30th June 1971, only 0.71 per cent were in arrears. In view of the low rate of failure there is a case for a re-examination of the premium which adds an additional burden on the young home-buyer, who also has to meet his legal, survey and stamp duty costs; there is a case for changing the once-and-for-all of premium payment. Perhaps it might be staged over several years. 
Nothing more clearly demonstrates the casualness and lack of consultation in the present Liberal Government's attitude to Commonwealth-State relations than the farce of this year's Commonwealth-State Housing non-agreement. On 7th April the Minister for Housing  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  told the leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  that the housing interest rates and other matters would be part of the consideration at 'a subsequent meeting which has to be pursued between the Commonwealth and State Ministers for Housing before the re-negotiation of another agreement'. He repeated this on 5th May but there was no re-negotiation. 
The terms laid down by the Commonwealth were announced by the Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  in his Budget. After 2 meetings a state of acceptance rather than agreement was reached. Two aspects of the terms deserve comment. The Minister says the offer would make more funds available to the States over 30 years than the previous Commonwealth and State Housing Agreement made available over 53 years. Of course it should, because the scale and scope of Australian economic development and the growth in national resources since the first Commonwealth and State Housing Agreement has been far beyond the vision of those who signed. This sort of cam.parison is figures-juggling, a popular Liberal exercise which diverts attention from reality. 
The primary objective of the Commonwealth and State Housing Agreement is to provide for low-income groups. We have one simple test on how this task is being fulfilled - the number of applications outstanding for the low-income housing. At 30th June this year there were 37,641 on the New South Wales waiting list, 15,744 on the Victorian waiting list 18,400 on the South Australian Housing Trust list. In the absence of public housing these people and their families must find high rentals or accept sub-standard conditions. Indeed they probably suffer both. On a conservative projection of the New South Wales figures at least 100,000 people are involved in a major social problem. The Commonwealth's allocation towards public housing is only a palliative. It does nothing to recognise the urgency of the social waste and human waste behind the waiting list figures. 
The Government has taken some pride in its offer of non-repayable rental assistance to the extent of $6.25m in the next 5 years as a contribution towards subsidising reduced rents for housing commisson tenants in greatest need. But this still remains a fraction of the amount. To take the New South Wales Housing Commission, it will cover only an estimated one-fourth of the annual rent subsidies. This means that the other tenants, themselves lowincome earners, are subsidising with their rents those necessitous families. The absence of any special Commonwealth initiative for slum clearance and urban redevelopment is so inevitable from this Liberal government as to deserve no further comment. 
Seven years ago  Senator Gorton  as Minister for Works thought it impossible to produce a national building code. Six years ago  Mr Bury,  as the first Minister of the resuscitated Department of Housing, at least tried. The simple fact is that our present proliferation of building codes adds a needless $800 to the cost of every house we build and a needless $S0m to our annual national outlay for housing. 
In April 1970 the tentative building code was at last produced, but we still await its promulgation. Liberal governments lack any coherent policy on housing as on other issues. Labor has positive policies to assist the young married, the pensioners and the less well-off, to stimulate urban redevelopment and to hold back land prices and housing costs. 
This evening I think we have witnessed the lowest point in the gradual; decline of the Liberal Party. Tonight it hitrock bottom. Its members gave a disgusting exhibition of racism at its very worst. That is an illustration of how desperate they are for an issue. This falling, disintegrated rabble has suddenly discovered , that it can work on the latent and dormant prejudices in our community and build, them up into an issue. 
Like every other issue, it will disappear. There is no longer any great fear of a threat from the north and there is no longer any Communist bogey with which to belt the Australian Labor Party, so they are looking for an issue. They thought they had one going for them when the Sprinkbok tour was on because they thought they could play on the prejudices in the community. When the tour folded they suddenly discovered immigration. Where are all the great small T liberals about whom we hear so much and who are pontificating around the countryside? I refer to members such as the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  who pretends that he is a great reformer in the Liberal Party. Where were they when we heard exhibitions such as the one we heard from the Minister for Housing  (Mr Kevin Cairns)  and other speakers? These are people who say that they can communicate with the modem generation - the youth of today who are dropping out of society because of their alienation from it. Why have they not spoken? Why have members such as the honourable member for Berowra  (Mr Hughes)  not spoken? We hear that he is a small T liberal. I think that is the term being used. These are the people from whom we are told will spring new liberalism. Let us look at the Government's policy. The Government is trying to smear the Labor Party by alleging that it would open the flood gates. In the last 2 years the Government has permitted into this country 20,000 migrants of mixed or non-European blood. Let us do a little arithmetic. What is the Government's policy? The Government proposes to let in 10,000 a year for the next 30 years. My arithmetic puts the total at about 300,000 coloured migrants. They will have children. I understand that they multiply at an enormous rate. If one does a little arithmetic one sees that the Government's policy is to have a non-European population content of 500,000 immigrants by the year 2000. If the Government wants gradually to increase the rate, which I understand it does, we can talk in terms of 750,000. Does the Government want to fight an election on that policy? Does it want to see the headlines The Liberals will allow 500,000 coloured migrants', because that is what it has asked for this evening? It wants an election fought on racist issues. It will get that if it keeps this up. The Government knows that. The Minister at the table, the Minister for Labour and National Service  (Mr Lynch),  and the Minister for Customs and Excise, who is sitting behind him, know that. Why has the Minister for Customs and Excise not said anything while his small 'f Fascists have been speaking tonight? He knows the danger to this country, as do many of the more responsible Ministers, if this kind of election issue gets out of hand. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drury)  - Order! I suggest that the honourable member address his remarks to the Chair. 

 - Mr Deputy Chairman. I am sorry, I did not know that you were listening. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! If the honourable member imputed that the Chair was not listening I ask him to withdraw that remark. . 
I withdraw.  Mr Deputy Chairman.  I did not know that you took instructions from the Minister. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN  - Order! I ask the honourable member to withdraw that reflection on the Chair. 
I will withdraw the reflection. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! Only one member is entitled to be on his feet. I have asked the honourable member for Robertson to withdraw a remark. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! I ask the honourable member for Barton to resume his seat. I ask the honourable member for Robertson to withdraw the reflection on the Chair. 
I did. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN-  Order! There is no substance in the point of order. I suggest that the honourable member resume his scat. 
I hope that the Government will come to its senses, because the last thing I would like to see in this country is a racist election. I would hate it and deplore it. I hope that honourable members on the Government side will rethink what they have said tonight. I think I am right in saying that 12 months ago I was probably one of the first in this Parliament to question immigration. I asked the Prime Minister of the day,  Mr Gorton,  a question about it, and at that time he said he was shocked to hear that a member of the Labor Party was questioning immigration. I think I made what was a fairly balanced speech on the Budget and I think at that time nobody took much notice of what I was saying. In the last 12 months the whole of our community has been questioning immigration. We have not said categorically that immigration is bad. What we asked for last year was that it be looked at. What we are asking for now is that there be a breathing space so that we can have another look at where we are going in immigration. 
I think one of the best contributions made this evening was that made by the honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  because he sees the weaknesses and the strengths in immigration. Perhaps I became a bit emotional earlier, but I have sat here and listened to some of the most insulting remarks about the Labor Party that I have heard. I have listened to some of the most gross distortions of our policy. Honourable members opposite have managed to take a policy that I believe is balanced and sensible and exploit it for political purposes. It is  a  moderate approach towards immigration. My view is that there will be probably not a great deal between that policy and the present policy of the Government, but honourable members opposite have exploited our policy for political purposes. To me that is a very grubby approach to a very sensitive and highly emotional question. 
As I was the member who raised this matter initially, I want to make a few comments. Having read the report of the Committee of Privileges, I think that the House can be satisfied with the way in which this matter has been dealt. It will be remembered that initially I raised this matter because of a letter that appeared in the Australian' signed by a gentleman named  Mr P.  Wintle of Mundingburra, Queensland, in which he alleged that members of Parliament were guilty of taking bribes. He referred to a series of articles that had appeared on previous days in the 'Australian' concerning Parliament House lobbyists. I was concerned with this letter because I think that members of this House are subjected to a considerable amount of abuse and to distortion of what they say and do, without suffering also this sort of allegation which I regard as libellous - libelling the whole of the Parliament and everybody in it. It has been found that  Mr P.  Wintle does not exist, or that if he does exist he does not reside at the address shown on his letter. What is important is that  Mr Thomson,  the editor of the 'Australian', has apologised and explained the reasons for publishing the letter. It should be demonstrated to other newspaper editors throughout Australia that they have a responsibility to check carefully letters to the editor. 
I am appalled at some of the misinformation and distortion that appears in the 
Letters to the Editor' columns of Australian newspapers. I am not anti-Press in any way but I think that the report of the Committee of Privileges will at least make editors a little more aware of the need to examine carefully everything that is to appear in their newspapers. I was most distressed because of the newspaper in which this letter appeared, the 'Australian', is, I think honourable members would agree, one of the most responsible newspapers in Australia. It and the 'Age' of Melbourne are probably the 2 best newspapers in Australia. Had this letter appeared in some cheap rag like the Melbourne 'Truth' or something of that nature I would have dismissed it. However when something like this appears in a responsible newspaper - I could include the 'Sydney Morning Herald' in this category - and is read by the more serious members of the community, there is greater need to take notice. The Committee of Privileges found that the publication of the letter was a breach of privilege but that the gentleman,  Mr P.  Wintle of Mundingburra, does not exist at the address given and that no further action can be taken. The Committee also found: 
That the author of the letter and the editor of the 'Australian' are both guilty of a breach of Parliamentary privilege. 
That the letter was published by the 'Australian' without malice towards the House or any member of the House. 
That there is no evidence to substantiate the allegations contained in the letter. 
The Committee has done a good job and its recommendations should be accepted by the House. In its recommendations the Committee stated: 
That no further action be taken against the editor of the 'Australian' provided that, within such time as the House may require, he publishes in a prominent position in his newspaper an apology to the following effect, namely: 
That a diligent search had failed to reveal the alleged author of the letter; 
That publication of the letter signed by, P. Wintle constituted a contempt of the Parliament and that it should not have been published; 
That the editor dissociates himself from the allegations contained in the letter; 
That the editor believes the allegations are without foundation, and 
That the editor apologises to the House of Representatives therefor. . 
I think that if the House accepts the recommendations the matter could rest at that. 
Last Sunday week the Australian Labor Party held a road safety seminar at Terrigal. On that day I had the privilege of putting a Labor Party policy to reduce drastically the road toll in Australia. I was one of 3 speakers. The others were the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam),  who presented a policy on no-fault liability, and the Labor Party's shadow Minister for Shipping and Transport, the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones),  who is now at the table. I propose to speak briefly about our national programme. I have already spoken about it in this chamber once or twice. 
What we propose basically is this: We will set up a Commonwealth highway safety bureau which will set uniform standards for the States to implement. These will include standards on driver education, traffic codes and laws, the collection of data, traffic control devices, driver licensing and vehicles in use. Such a bureau will set safety design standards for new vehicles and test vehicles after production. It will have its own independent laboratory which will carry out research. It will investigate ways of implementing recall legislation for defective vehicles. It will also study, together with our department of urban affairs, effective urban planning that will stop the motor vehicle from intruding into everyone's life as it now does, and also the possibility of setting up a national vehicle inspection company such as exists in Sweden or similar to what operates in New Zealand. 
I wish to use the bulk of my time in talking about what I thought was a most exciting proposal which was put forward by the Labor Party's shadow Minister for Shipping and Transport - the proposal to build a 4-lane highway from Brisbane to Adelaide. I think each and every one of us who looks at transport today recognises that there will be a change in emphasis in the allocation of money to transport and the way in which it is allocated. We have seen what has happened in Victoria under  Sir Henry  Bolte and in South Australia under  Mr Dunstan.  In the future we will see less money spent on highways within cities and an upgrading of public transport. But I believe that we will spend a great deal of our money on interstate highway systems and major roads outside the present urban systems. I think we have to accept the fact that the vehicle is here to stay. Those who rail against it - I am one - would like to see it play a diminishing role in the cities. We have to face the fact that it is the best method of transport for most people and it is an economic method of moving goods. 
We have to realise that this country undoubtedly has amongst the worst roads imaginable outside the cities. The Hume and Federal Highways, on which we are forced to travel in order to come here, in my view are a national disgrace. We heard only today how bad the roads are in more distant parts. But even in the heavily populated areas along the east coast we have these disgraceful roads on which a large number of people are killed. We know that vehicles are now travelling about 10 miles an hour faster than they were in 1960 or 1961. It is a miracle that we do not have more accidents on our roads. Between Sydney and Albury every year about 100 people are killed. I have tried to estimate the number of people killed throughout the highways system of Australia as it now exists. I would like to have incorporated in Hansard a question that I asked and the answer that ] received. I asked for the number of people killed on major highways, but the only basis on which statistics are gathered is for the metropolitan area and the rest of the State. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Cope)  - Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows) -  (Question No. 2926) 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Has  there  been any analysis of motor vehicle accidents to show what proportion of (a) deaths and (b) injuries occur on (i) rural and (ii) urban roads: 
If so, what were the results. 
The Acting Commonwealth Statistician has supplied the following information in reply to  the  honourable member's question - 
Particulars of road traffic accidents which  OCCU  outside' and 'inside' traffic built-up areas are available for Victoria only. In that State, during the year ended 31st December 1969, there were 546 fatal accidents in built-up areas and 357 outside built-up areas. During the same period injury accidents which occurred inside built-up areas numbered 12.881 while those outside built-up areas numbered 2,763. 
The only dissection for which details of road traffic accidents can be provided on a basis which is common to all Slates is a break-down between (i) metropolitan area and (ii) rest of State. This information, for the year ended 31st December 1969, is shown in the following table: 

<graphic href="075131197111106_55_0.jpg"></graphic>

The answer shows that in 1969 the number of people killed in the metropolitan areas was 1,532 and the number killed outside the metropolitan areas was 1,970. I would think that the majority of the 1,532 would have been pedestrians, although there is no analysis. A great number of the deaths in the metropolitan area are pedestrian deaths. On the other hand, I would think that the majority of the 1,970 people killed on our rural roads or highways would have been drivers or passengers. I would like to know exactly how many people are killed on our highway systems. I believe that if we set up an interstate highways system, as the Labor Party will do, we will find that we will, save probably in the vicinity of 800 lives a year. So one of the great advantages of having such a system will be safer travelling. 
I also wish to have incorporated in Hansard a table of figures derived from research work done on various highways in England. They illustrate that the death toll dropped by 70 or 80 per cent when such a highway superseded the previous rural road. 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- Is leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows) - 

<graphic href="075131197111106_56_1.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="075131197111106_56_2.jpg"></graphic>

The cutting of the road toll by about 80 per cent is one great benefit of these highways. There is also a reduction in journey time. Then there is the fact that a major highway will carry a greater volume of traffic. A word that is on the lips of everybody in our community today is 'decentralisation'. I can think of no better way of decentralising than providing proper major highways, particularly in the areas around Melbourne, Sydney and Brisbane. Industries will decentralise if their goods can be transported quickly over the distance of 100 to 150 miles to the major ports and rail heads. I believe that this will be a major factor. On the question of freight economies, a considerable amount of money will be saved by such a highways system. Also personal expenditure due to wear and tear on vehicles and on petrol would be reduced with better driving. One could easily allocate some money from the defence expenditure towards such a highway system. 
I will deal with the American highway system which was built basically for defence. Then of course there is the question of tourism which again is on everybody's lips. An asset like this would boost international tourism quite considerably. The Government will say that we cannot afford it. Let me quote what happened in the United States. In 1956  President  Eisenhower started what was the 'greatest public works programme in history' - the construction of 41,000 miles of interstate expressway to link the major cities of the United States at a cost of $50,000m. I think by now almost 35,000 miles has been completed. It is anticipated that the project will be completed by about 1976. This project was funded by setting up the Highway Trust Fund. The money in that fund must be spent on that highway system. There was a tax of 4c a gallon on fuel; a tax of 6c a gallon on lubricating oil; on new trucks, buses and trailers there was a tax of 10 per cent of the manufacturers sale price; on parts and accessories there was a tax of 8 per cent of the manufacturers sale price; on vehicle tyres and tubes there was a tax of 10c per lb; on heavy vehicles there was a tax of $ 1 p?r 1,000 lb annually or a gross weight of vehicles over 2,600 lb. 
In comparison with the United States Australia's 1,500 miles, the distance about which we have been talking tonight, is a reasonable goal. I am speaking of the road from Brisbane to Sydney to Canberra to Melbourne and Adelaide. Later the highway could link up with Perth and Cairns. Initially it would involve areas where there was a heavy volume of traffic in the eastern States. This is a reasonable goal for Australia to set. If the Americans could do it in 1956 we can do it in the next 10 to 15 years. I think the honourable member for Newcastle estimated the cost to be about $700m over a period of 10 to 15 years. If that money cannot be raised through taxation or it is unacceptable to the Australian people to raise it in this way, we could think in terms of a tollway. We must have an interstate highway system in Australia. It is no longer excusable to continue in this age, with the growing number of motor vehicles on our roads, to ask the people of Australia to drive on our present roads. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Cope)  - Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister for Customs and Excise, upon notice: 
What sum was outlaid more than average by (a) oil companies; (b) cigarette and tobacco companies and (c) liquor companies during the immediate pre-budget period in payment of excise during the years 1968, 1969 and 1970. 
Have estimates been made by his Department of savings on excise made by these companies; if so, what were the estimates. 
asked the Minister for Customs and Excise, upon notice: 
Is it a fact that $31. 9m more than average was paid in excise by cigarette and tobacco firms immediately prior to the Budget (Hansard, 7th October 1971, page 2113). 
If so, what estimates have been made of the sum saved by these companies. 

 - Mr Chairman, I would like to make a personal explanation. 
Yes. During the course of his speech, the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  accused me of a number of things. One accusation was that I led demonstrations in Sydney against the Springbok tour. I did not lead any demonstrations in Sydney. That is quite false. The honourable member linked my name with those who threw tennis balls filled with nails onto a football field. This is quite false. About the most violent thing I did during the Springbok tour was to blow a horn outside the South African Embassy. I condemned violent demonstrations a number of times in this House and I vehemently denounced, at a number of public meetings I attended, those who did violence during the Springbok tour. 
As Somersby, which is a possible site for Sydney's second international airport, is in my electorate I would like to say a few words on the estimates for the Department of Civil Aviation. On Monday of this week I held a meeting in my office, at which a number of very prominent members of the community were present, to discuss the calling of a public meeting so that the people of the Central Coast could express a collective view about the possible siting of the airport at Somersby. Personally, I am opposed to the siting of the airport in this area, but 1 felt it was important that the people in the community should be able to express their views on the proposal. I have no ideological view on this question. If the community wants the airport in this area, then I shall support the proposal. When I have been asked to express a personal view on this question I have stated quite clearly that I oppose the proposal. However, I have to be guided by what people tell me in letters and what they say to me. So far 1 have gained the impression that the overwhelming majority of people on the Central Coast are opposed to the siting of this airport at Somersby. 
I do not want to go into the details. I have been to meetings at which I have said that personally I am opposed to the proposal to site this airport at Somersby, and the people have stood and clapped - not for me but for my view on this matter. At the meeting which 1 called on Monday of this week the Central Coast citrus growers were represented by their secretary,  Mr Fred  Walpole. Also at the meeting were  Mr Eric  Hatley, the  President  of the Central Coast Trades and Labour Council;  Mr Bill  Hecker, the  President  of the Gosford Chamber of Commerce;  Mr Keeble,  the Secretary of the Gosford Shire Assembly, representing 24 progress associations which unanimously oppose the proposal; and  Mr Peter  Pickover, the tourist officer for the district.  Mr Walpole  made some very interesting comments. He represents a very viable industry on Mangrove Mountain - right where the possible site of the airport is. He said that already property sales have been affected. He knows already of 2 proposed sales of properties on Mangrove Mountain which have fallen through. 
The citrus industry and the tourist industry on the Central Coast are the largest 2 industries in the area. A large number of people depend upon them for their income. It has been estimated that at least 2,000 employees are engaged in these industries. At a rough estimate, the siting of an airport in this area could cut production in the citrus industry by 23 per cent. At the present time this area produces  I2i  per cent of Australia's citrus and 35 per cent of Australia's lemons. If production in this industry is cut by 25 per cent it will affect the throughput of the processing factories, the throughput of the packing houses and all the other allied industries which are involved with the citrus industry. It could be the beginning of the end of the citrus industry in this area. If Jusfrute Ltd, or one of the other companies, found that production had to be cut by 25 per cent, it might not pay the company to continue to produce in that area. I hope that the people who are making the decision on the siting of this new international airport will keep in mind not just the noise and pollution factors associated with an airport but also the very real effect which it could have on the citrus industry. 
At the meeting which I called last Monday I asked each person representing a large body of people to express their view. 
I, together with  Mr Keith  O'Connell, the State MLA for Gosford, have called a public meeting for 5th December, and notices of the meeting are already going out. I have here a copy of the Central Coast 'Express'. The newspaper has kindly given a great deal of publicity to the meeting to be held on 5th December. I am just expressing the views of the other people who were represented at the meeting which I called last Monday; these are not my views.  Mr Eric  Hatley, the  President  of the Central Coast Traders and Labour Council, who represents some 22,000 trade unionists on the Central Coast, said that they are very concerned about this matter. A few problems are being experienced in the rutile mining industry on the Central Coast. A number of people engaged in this industry may be put off work, and they will be anxious to obtain other work in the area. 1 mentioned in a previous speech that an industrial complex had been planned in the Somersby area at Kariong. We now find that this plan will be suspended by the State Planning Authority which will not release this land from its rural land classification and classify it as industrial land until the matter is cleared up. It could be that the industrial complex has gone forever. The last time I spoke on this matter I read to the House 3 letters I had received, one from Hesdols and Co. Pty Ltd, one from Ronson Pty Ltd and one from H. J. Ashton Co. Pty Ltd, a bookbinding company, all of which would have been functioning with factories in this complex and employing 300 to 500 people right now. There are many other industries which would have come to the area but which will not do so because the land is tied up. Three hundred or 400 jobs would be immediately affected. It is all right saying: 'Yes, it will bring you employment', but it is highly unlikely that we will have any extra employment for at least 5 to 7 years and possibly longer. People in my area do not want work in 5 or 7 years time; they want it within the next 12 months. How much satisfaction will it give them to tell them than in 5 to 6 years time they may be able to get some extra work? 
I wrote to the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  and asked a series of questions. I said that I wanted to know what the location of the airport would be, what the flight paths were likely to be, what the noise levels were likely to be, how properties would be affected and what compensation will be paid for properties affected. For instance, how will a man who finds himself right on the site be compensated? Is he to be compensated now or in 10 years time when his property is taken over? He will not be able to sell it. What assistance will be given to local government to provide water, roads and all the other facilities required by an airport? What is the possible pollution level? 
The Minister replied that he could not tell me any of these things. It was a nice polite letter. He was kind enough, when I went to see him, to offer to show me the map and where the site was providing I would keep the information confidential. 1 said that in the circumstances I would not look at the map; I did not want any information that I could not pass on to my constituents. I will not enter into a conspiracy of silence. I will not get up at a public meeting and say: 'I know because the Minister has told me but I am afraid I cannot pass it on to you'. A Government member may be prepared to do that but I certainly am not. I understand some of the problems associated with the release of this information. I am not unsympathetic to the problems of announcing it, including the possible property speculation which could result, but I think the way in which people's lives will be affected warrants a quick disclosure of these facts. 
Although he suggested it would not be likely that officers from his Department would come to such a meeting to give information, I sent a letter today to the Minister in which I re-issued the invitation. He did say to me that we would see that  Mr James  Harper, head of the CommonwealthState committee which is investigating the site of the new airport, kept me fully informed about this matter but so far 1 have not had any information at all. The meeting will go ahead. There are critics, including my opponent at the next election, who say we should not have a public meeting until we have more information. This is the 3 card trick. We will get the full information when the decision has been made, and we would then have to hold a public meeting. I am asking people to come along and to express their views on the very scanty information that is available, The Minister can forget any suggestion that we will wait until we get all this information if that information becomes available only when the decision has been made. People who were at the meeting the other day were almost 100 per cent in opposition to the proposal. 
Consideration should be given to the great discomfort which this airport would bring to the many thousands of people who come to this area for their retirement. They come there to get away from pollution and noise, with a desire to live in that magnificent area in peace and quiet. The introduction of an airport into that area will have a deleterious effect on the community. 
The honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Buchanan)  commenced his speech by rubbishing the proposals by the Australian Labor Party in respect of roads and came up with the old cliche: 'Where is the money coming from?' I wonder how many people in the Liberal Party asked that question when the Government bad to find $130m for wool buying? We have read in the Press recently that the Government intends to capitalise child endowment. This has not been announced yet but it is a possibility Where will the money come from for that purpose? Later in my speech 1 will mention the 57m that oil companies and tobacco companies managed to avoid paying by meeting their excise commitments a week before the last Budget was introduced. This is an example of where the money for our proposals will come from. The type of argument used by the honourable member for McMillan is trotted out from time to time, lt seems that the only Party which would not be able to find money necessary for its proposals is the Australian Labor Party. When the Government is faced with an election, it has no problem at all in this respect. One of the things that the Labor Party will do is to start to exploit. Australia's resources for Australia instead of allow Australia's resources to be exploited by overseas interests. We will start buying Australia back and using the profits we make to carry out a number of the policies that we are proposing. 1 wish to deal with the question that the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones)  raised. 1 refer to the four lane inter-city expressway. We propose that if necessary the money should be raised for this purpose through increases in excise charges. In a speech that I made not so very long ago during the debate on the Estimates, I quoted what had happened in the United States of America. The honourable member for Newcastle mentioned this earlier when he said that it was  President  Kennedy - I- might correct him because I think it was  President  Eisenhower - who in 1956 introduced a Bill proposing a programme to build 41,000 miles of inter-city expressways at a cost of $50,000m. During my earlier speech I mentioned that this project was three-quarters completed and that it would be concluded by 1976. J will not go into all of the facts because I have mentioned them in 2 or 3 speeches that I have made on this matter in the past couple of years. The point that I want to stress is the benefit not only in terms of comfort and economy but also in terms of the saving of lives. 
The House will be aware of my interest in this matter. When I spoke on this subject during the debate on the Estimates of the Department of Shipping and Transport, I was not able to give figures as to the number of people killed on the major New South Wales highways. These figures have been given to me today and I wish to quote from them. With respect to the Sydney-Albury section of the Hume Highway - that is, starting at Ashfield in Sydney and travelling to Albury - in the year 1970-71 there were 3,385 accidents in which 74 people were killed and 1,346 were injured. I have not been able as yet to obtain figures for the section of the Federal Highway from the Hume Highway south of Goulburn to Canberra. These would add slightly to the number of lives saved by a multi-lane expressway from Sydney through Canberra to Melbourne. 
In the same period on the Pacific Highway from Sydney to the Queensland border, 5,172 accidents occurred in which 102 people were killed and 2,010 people were injured. 
A person is listed as an Australian road death if that person dies within 30 days of the road accident. In the United States, the period is 12 months. A friend of mine with whom I used to play squash was injured over 9 months ago. He was in a coma for 9 months and died only a few weeks ugo. His death is not listed as one caused by a road accident. These figures would be considerably greater if the method of calculating the number of people killed on Australian roads were extended to include people who die several months after the road accident. The situation is ridiculous when a man who is injured in a road accident, lies in a coma for 9 months and eventually dies, is not listed as a road toll statistic. 
The statistics that J am giving relate to New South Wales only. In the year 1970-71 on the New England Highway from Hexham to the Queensland border, 1,297 accidents occurred in which 38 people were killed and 612 people were injured. These figures show that on existing highways from the Queensland border to the Victorian border approximately 254 people were killed. I say 'approximately' because I have not been able to obtain the exact figures with respect to the Princes Highway from Sydney to the Victorian border. I am told that approximately 40 people are killed on that highway per annum. This means that approximately 260 people are killed every year on highways from the Queensland border to the Victorian border. From the figures that T have quoted of those countries which have expressway systems - be they 4-Iane or 6-lane divided highways - the experience is that there has been a saving in lives of 75 per cent to 80 per cent. This means that if we were to build a multi-lane divided expressway from Brisbane to Melbourne we would save approximately 200 lives per annum in the New South Wales section alone. The road toll has risen almost every year without exception although it may drop marginally this year because of the introduction of seat belts. In 10 years time because of the growing number of drivers and can inevitably the toll will grow, unless there is a drastic national programme to cut it, and the lives of about 2,500 people will be lost on these highways.  I believe that  the value of a human life in terms of the loss to the economy and the loss of a breadwinner to a family could be calculated at about $50,000. This figure has been accepted as about the cost of a human life. We should also remember that the great majority of people killed are in the younger group between 17 and 20 years of age. This means that the cost over a 10-year period would be about $100m. Therefore, when we talk about spending money on building such an expressway we should realise that we have to spend money to save money. 
There are many, many other great benefits to be gained from building such an expressway. I mentioned that  President  Eisenhower in 1956 sent to Congress a Bill to put a levy of 4c a gallon on petrol. It has been suggested in this place by the honourable member for Newcastle that we should ask the people who use the roads most to pay for such a road. I believe that if the people who use the roads were asked to pay an extra 3c per gallon on petrol so that such a road could be built they would support the proposition. 
We can justify the building of this road on a number of other counts. What would happen if we were involved in a war? What sort of road system do we have at present? I hope that the Minister for the Army  (Mr Peacock)  listens to what I am saying because this is in his area of activity. What sort of road system do we have in terms of our defence system? What would happen if a bomb dropped today on any one of one hundred points of the Pacific Highway? What would happen if we wanted to shift troops or tanks along that road? As the Minister for the Army well knows, this would be a hopeless proposition. Defence was the reason why the intercity highway system was introduced in the United States. In fact, it was introduced not as a safety measure but as a defence measure. If we have to shift troops from one end of the country to the" other surely it will be much easier to do so along a 4- to 6-lane expressway. 
Another matter that has been in the news of late is decentralisation. One of the greatest deterrents to decentralisation is the fact that companies will not build their factories out of the capital cities in areas from which their vehicles would have to make long trips across bad roads in order to get to their markets, to ports, or to the rail heads. J would think that one of the greatest incentives for companies to move to areas 100 miles or 150 miles away from the capital cities of Brisbane, Sydney and Melbourne would be the establishment of a 4-1 a ne expressway linking them. In that way the manufacturers could very quickly get to and from the factories built in decentralised places. Only the other day I talked to one of the managers of Sara Lee, a big American company that has opened in Gosford in my electorate. He pointed out to me that in his consideration the building of such an expressway road was a very important factor. He believed that the area around Gosford, which is only 40 or 50 miles from Sydney, was being retarded simply because there was not a continuous section of expressway. How much more would the situation be improved,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  if we were able to go from Sydney to places such as Taree, which you represent,  Sir, in  3 or 4 hours instead of 5 or 6 hours as is now the case? Indeed, trucks probably take a longer time to complete this journey. 
The Australian Country Party has talked about decentralisation for 20 years but it has done, 1 would say, very little about it. 
I cannot remember as far back as the honourable member for Grayndler can. But if we want effective decentralisation, the establishment of such an expressway is a real way of going about it. Of course, I have not mentioned the benefits and the incentive that this expressway would provide to international tourism. 
In addition it would provide freight savings and other economies and add to the personal comfort of the motorist. 
Having dealt with that aspect of the Bill and my suggestion of raising money by way of excise to finance such an expressway, I would like to turn to a matter that I raised some time ago. 1 refer to the question of the oil and cigarette companies managing to evade the payment of tax. I understand that in respect of the oil companies this tax amounted to $1.3m and in respect of cigarette companies it was $3.4m. I have raised this matter with the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  by way of a number of questions and during debates. I am satisfied that the Minister is doing everything in his power now to stop this practice. I am anxious to know what he proposes to do because I believe that this matter has caused considerable concern amongst the public who know that, by paying excise 5 days before the Budget was introduced, the oil companies could evade $1.3m and the cigarette companies $3.4m. 
It has been said that there is a certain element of gambling in such action and that an increase in excise might not have been placed on petroleum products. I accept that. Also it has been said that a certain amount of evaporation occurs in oil products. 1 accept that the oil companies should not pay the excise until they take their oil from the bond stores. However, there is no evaporation in the case of tobacco. Tobacco does not 'evaporate' until one lights it. This matter needs to be investigated thoroughly. The average citizen is very very concerned. This matter came to my notice through a citizen of Woy Woy - and it was not Spike Milligan. The incident demonstrates to me how the average citizen can play a very real role in government. This matter was mentioned to me in passing, and I will not mention the person's name because he has asked me not to do so. I think that if we are able to stop this practice this man will have every reason to feel very satisfied that he has played a very real part in saving this country many, many millions of dollars. 1 have only done my duty by bringing this matter before the House. 
The other point that the Minister for Customs and Excise would, perhaps, like to answer when he comes to reply to the debate is how the oil companies can justify the increase in price granted to them by the South Australian Prices Commissioner. I do hope that the Minister is listening. 
I did not know that the Minister could do 2 things at once. 
1 will repeat what 1 said just- in case the Minister did not hear. How can the oil companies justify the increase granted to them by the South Australian Prices Commissioner, because I understand that the increase is justified on the bases of the price they paid wholesale and the excise duty? As the excise would have been increased immediately after the Budget they were probably putting false figures before the Prices Commissioner in order to gain approval for the new price. 
The other thing about which 1 have not had a satisfactory explanation is why the Minister deplored the way I had raised this matter before. 1 would appreciate it if he would give me an answer because 1 went through every action I had made and quite frankly I cannot see anything that 1 did was so untoward. I believed I had a duty to raise that matter and 1 would appreciate- 
Yes you did, but you also said that I had - 1 think you know what 1 mean. The only other matter I would like to raise relates to cigarettes. I am very concerned that the Government has not seen fit to ban the advertising of cigarettes on television. I suggest to the Minister that what could perhaps be done would be to place a levy of lc or  ic  a packet on cigarettes to enable the anti-cancer forces to advertise on television as a means of advising- people throughout the country of the dangers of cigarette smoking. I hope that they might also find ail effective cure for those who smoke. I am one of them. I only hope that many of the younger generation are not as silly as 1 am and that they do not continue to smoke knowing the dangers. I hope that the Minister will take up the matter. The Postmaster-General  (Sir Alam Hulme)  has stated that one of the problems in relation to the banning of cigarette advertising on television is that it will damage the television companies. A levy of ic would raise, I understand, about S6m and the levy of lc would raise about $12m which could be spent on advising people through television to give up smoking and of the dangers of it. 
asked the Minister for Ship  ping and Transport, upon notice: 
Why is there a difference between the figure of 9.8 fatality rate per 100 million vehicle-miles given in his answer to question No. 2744 (Hansard, 16 Marth 1971, pages 957-8) and the figure of 15.8 per 100 million vehicle-miles given in the March-April issue of the publication by the Department of Shipping and Transport. 
1 thank the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  for his kindness. 1 would not have put that note on his desk had I known at the time that the Minister for the Army  (Mr Peacock)  had graciously extended our time till 5.30 p.m. so that both the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  and I will be able to speak. 1 tried to speak on this subject during the Grievance Day debate, but unfortunately I was gagged after about 2 minutes. I want to raise the question of the States Grants (Home Care) Act. What particularly interested me recently was an answer received by my colleague the honourable member for Barton  (Mr Reynolds)  ou Thursday, J. 1th November, from the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  to a question he asked about the amount of money that had been made available and expended under this Act during the years 1969 and 1970. I have left a copy with the Minister and I would appreciate it if it was incorporated in Hansard. 
In the two or three minutes available to me I will refer very quickly to the States Grants (Home Care) Act which was introduced in 1969 shortly before  1  entered this place. I noticed an answer given recently 'o a question asked by the honourable member for Barton  (Mr Reynolds)  detailing the amount of money that had been made available by the Commonwealth and the amount of money that the States had taken advantage of. In 1969-70 the amount of money made available for home care services was $500,000, of which only$31,000 was used. In 1970-71 the amount made available  was $566,000,  of which$3 17,802 was used.  I  am interested in the provision of senior citizens' centres. I have gone around my electorate showing films, pleading and begging" with the community 'o get going and provide senior citizens' clubs, senior citizens* centres, retired persons' centres or whatever you like to call them. 
In my electorate of Robertson there are 14,000 pensioners. This is the highest number of pensioners in any electorate in Australia. I have a' least a further 7.000 people who are in receipt of superannuation. That is a total of 21.000 retired persons. No other electorate in Australia, would have anything like that number of retired people. Yet there is not one senior citizens' centre in he electorate of Robertson. There is not one senior citizens' club. Shortly after I was elected as a member of this House my colleague the honourable member for Barton took me on a tour of his electorate. We went through the Rockdale area and found 7 senior  citizens'  clubs. In 1969-70 the amount of money made available byt he Commonwealth was $100,000, of which $16.000- 
That grievances be noted. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Sitting suspended at 12.45 to 2.15 p.m. 
Has the attention of the Minister for Shipping and Transport been drawn to statements by the eminent visiting American Professor of Optometry, Professor Merrill Allen, to the effect that black cars are involved in accidents to a greater degree than are white or light coloured cars, the ratio varying in different studies from as high as 5 to 1 to as low as  1  to 1? Has he brought this matter to the attention of his colleague the Minister for Supply? Has his Department sought the advice of Professor Allen, who is recognised throughout the world as one of the foremost experts in the matter of visibility in motor vehicles? 
asked the Minister for Social Services, upon notice: 
What moneys have been allocated to the States under the Stales Grants (Home Care) Act 1969 in each of the Budgets for 1969-70, 1970-71 and 1971-727 
How much of this allocation has been taken up by the States and for what purposes? 
asked the Minister for Trade and Industry, upon notice: 
What was the breakdown of the fruit juice imports of 438,133 gallons referred to in his answer to question No. 4290 on 2nd November 1971 (Hansard, page 2878). 
asked the Minister for Trade and Industry, upon notice: 
<para pgwide="yes">What quantity of fruit juice was (a) produced in Australia, (b) exported and (c) imported during each of the years 1963 to 1971 inclusive. 
That is right, because it is a total of S5.3m. I do not think I know a citizen who smokes, drinks or makes any purchases that involve customs and excise increases who does not get extremely angry and annoyed when he sees that the retailer, the day after the Budget, has put up the price of his present stocks by 2c, 3c, 4c or whatever it is. It is something that he sees in his everyday activities and it angers him immensely. It will anger him even more to know that not only was the smalt retailer making a little bit of extra profit but the very large companies were able to extract some millions of dollars from the communal purse. Not only did the oil companies have the gall to put up their prices immediately but they charged the increased prices to their retailers when they themselves had not paid the increased Customs and Excise Duty. 
It is interesting that in South Australia the companies have to justify any increase in prices. I wonder whether this matter was ever brought before the South Australian authorities, because after the Budget announcement the prices almost immediately went up and I imagine that they would have gone up straight away in South Australia. Yet the companies would not have paid the increased customs and excise duty on most of the oil and petrol that would have been held. I think that a lot of the responsibility in this matter lies with the State governments which obviously did not know that this was happening. However, one question arises: How many other areas are there in government in Australia where big companies, by manipulation and carefully getting around the law, can milch the country of millions of dollars? In the instance I have mentioned an amount of $S.3m was involved. This is a lot of money. It is more than has been spent in the last 3 years by the Commonwealth Government on home care for the aged and for senior citizens centres. How well this money could have been spent for these purposes and who needs it more - the pensioners of Australia or the oil companies and cigarette companies? 
I should like many other areas investigated, particularly in the taxation field, to ascertain how much has been gained by the large companies through the avoidance of taxation and customs duty. I commend the Minister for his action and I know that we will see some activity soon. The Minister did not indicate when legislation was likely to be introduced. Will it be before the next Budget? 
At least there will be an opportunity for this situation to be exposed so that such exploitation will not continue to occur in the future. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
The honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Buchanan)  and I are on the same side. I think he misunderstood one particular point that I was trying to make by way of interjection with regard to the Volvo car. One essential difference between this car and all other Australian makes of car is that the Volvo company is one company - that has bothered about motor vehicle - safety. I think that most Australians today are buying the vehicle because it is, without question, the safest vehicle that isavailable on the Australian market at a. reasonable price. I personally put the safety- of myself and my family above a little bit of patriotism in that particular motor car. I do not wish to disagree with the honourable member for McMillan. I would be fundamentally in agreement with him on almost all that he said. 
However, I want to speak about the clothing industry. Having read in detail the 2 Tariff Board reports on woven shirts and knitted shirts I am rather concerned because it seems to me that the clothing industry in Australia is under serious attack. It may be some time before these proposals are implemented, but nevertheless it is opportune that we should debate this matter now as though the proposals were to be introduced in the next few weeks. I do not think that the Tariff Board, despite the impressive weight of evidence that it has heard - I have read one report very closely and the other fairly quickly - really understands the fashion business or, as it is popularly known, the rag trade. Throughout history the rag trade has had a special place in industry because it is in this industry that the small man can start in a way that he cannot start in many other industries, such as the motor car industry, the steel industry and a whole range of other industries. The clothing industry has been a refuge for the migrant, not in Australia alone but in all countries. In the United States of America the clothing industry was started at the turn of the century by the great wave of Jewish immigration that took place, and later on the Italians entered the industry. It has been an industry for the refugee. It is the closest thing we have in Australia to what one might call a cottage industry. A person can start clothing manufacturing in his own home. I know of one prominent manufacturer who today is a millionaire who, just prior to World War II, assisted by his wife, started sewing in his own home. Today he has one of the biggest industries of this kind in Australia. Clothing manufacturing can be commenced with very little capital and this cannot be done in many other industries in a similar way. 
Another aspect of the clothing industry is the varying size of the establishment involved. A manufacturer can employ 5, 10, 50, 100 or 1,000 people, and this is a valuable asset in this day and age when we are looking for means of decentralising industry. The clothing industry can be shifted out into country towns and into the new cities that we are hoping to start next year when the Australian Labor Party becomes the Government. It is a highly competitive industry. It is probably the most competitive industry that exists in this country or in the world. It is accepted by everyone that the. clothing industry is a cut throat competitive industry. It is highly susceptible to changes, more so in recent years in Australia than ever before. Until the mid-1950s a shirt - I am talking mostly about woven shirts and business shirts - was a shirt, was a shirt, was a shirt. One wore a white shirt and that was pretty well the only choice one had. But since the mid-1950s there has been a radical change in the fashion industry. Just look around this house. The honourable member for Batman  (Mr Garrick)  is wearing a blue shirt; the honourable member for Grey  (Mr Wallis)  is wearing a nice pale orange shirt and the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  has on a pale blue shirt. 
Even the honourable member for Grayndler, of all people, is wearing other than a white shirt, which indicates just how fast a revolutionary change can occur. In that period of time we have had coloured shirts, striped shirts, short sleeved and long sleeved shirts, double cuffs, tapered shirts, body shirts and a dozen different collar styles as well. In the field of sport shirts in the last 12 years, 13 years or 14 years a complete new range of shirts has come on the market every season. In 1958 there was no such thing as a knitted shirt. The only garment that resembled a knitted shirt was the tennis shirt. Since then we have had spots, stripes, paisleys, checks, tartans and short and long sleeved shirts. We have had see-throughs, boat necks, jack shirts, safari shirts and a hundred other different patterns, styles and fashions. 
As I mentioned earlier, the manufacturing side of the industry is highly competitive. If we are to examine the price structure of this industry as it affects Australians we should look at some of the retailers and some of the practices they get up to. Any retailer who knows his business knows what is happening with pricing in each field. It is a competitive industry because if a manufacturer goes into a retailer's store with a range of shirts, that retailer, if he knows his business, will be able to price the garment to within 20c of its value. There is no way in the world that a manufacturer can walk in and get an extra dollar out of a retailer, unless the retailer is a dope and, believe me, there are not many dopes in the retail clothing business. The manufacturer is subject to a squeeze because if things are a bit tight, the retailer will be able to get his business by squeezing the manufacturer down a little in price. The manufacturer must give advertising assistance to many retailers, particularly the large ones, and he must give most extended credit terms to a good number of the smaller retailers as well as the bigger retailers in the industry. 
I mentioned earlier some of the rackets which operate in the industry. I think that if we are to talk about controlling and reducing prices, we should examine some of the gimmicks that our retailers get up to. One of the favourite ploys concerns the labelling of a shirt. AH a retailer has to do is to go to the manufacturer and get designed a label which says: 'Styled in Italy for Joe Bloggs'. The word 'styled' is printed in small letters and the word 'Italy' is in large letters and the retailer can double the price because there is no way of questioning that label. This racket could involve a well known brand of shirt. The retailer could get a well known brand, put his own label on it and jack up the price by $1, $2 or $3. Of course, I would not like to mention the name of anyone in the clothing industry who is involved in this racket, but I know of many instances where this occurs and where a shirt will sell in one store for $8 and in another the same shirt, with a 3c, a 4c or a 5c label affixed, will sell for $15 or $13. 
 Of course it is a shame. It is blatant profiteering and the shrewdies are up to it. This happens a lot. It happens among the big retailers, although perhaps not to the same extent and with the same sort of margins, but it does happen throughout much of the industry. It is not something that the manufacturer can do because the retailer knows his trade too well to be caught. However, the retailer can do it because the consumer is not as aware or as familiar with the industry as is the retailer dealing with the manufacturer. 
I want to build a case for the smaller manufacturer because the essence of the Tariff Board report seems to be that a small number of manufacturers produce the great bulk of woven shirts, and probably the same situation applies in the knitted shirt field. The smaller manufacturer provides a great service to the industry because he is not geared up for long-term production. In the clothing industry, manufacturers work 6 months, 9 months and 12 months ahead. People in the industry would now be manufacturing next summer's goods. They will be showing their summer ranges in a few weeks time. They would have bought their merchandise overseas last July, August or September. Having purchased their fabrics, they have returned to Australia, selected their styles and designs and have started to put their first ranges through to show to the trade at this time of the year. However, the small manufacturer - the little man with 20, 30 or 40 employees - is capable of providing a quick change in fashion and fashion is the essence of the clothing trade today. Honourable members will be familiar with how well stocked are our stores with highly fashionable clothes and how important this is to the young people of today. Quick changes in fashion occur; they happen in a matter of weeks. Someone gets a new idea - it could be see-through shirts - and in a matter of weeks there is a demand for see-through shirts. Only the small manufacturer is geared to this quick change. The big manufacturer cannot meet it. I believe the small manufacturer provides a very great service both to the retailer and to the consumer. He is able to give specialty manufacturing. I do not mean the specialty manufacturing I was talking about before involving the quick change of the label but he is able to make up to order what a retailer will require. He is able to provide special singles in a way one can never get with a big firm. A person with a thick neck, big body and funny waist can get specialty orders from a small manufacturer. He is geared to give this special service but a larger manufacturer cannot do it because of the type of production I was talking about. 
It seemed to me that the report classified more by price than by fashion, and that the members of the Board had no real understanding of fashion trends although they were not unaware of them. I wish to quote from page 5 of the report because it deals with companies about which I have some knowledge. Under the heading capacity' it said: 
Pelaco,  the largest shirt manufacturer known to the Board, had a capacity, at the time of the public hearing, to produce about 165,000 dozen shirts per annum in its 4 plants, i.e. about 10 per cent of the industry's production. Its capacity has since been reduced. 
A similar sort of statement was made about Crystal. It continued: 
Paramount, Van  Heusen,  Whitmont and several other companies had increased their capacity substantially in recent years or had plans for substantial increases . . . Some companies said that their plans for the latter were dependent on the outcome of this inquiry. 
I did not want to mention the names of brands because it sounds like I am doing advertisements, but from my experience I would think that the earlier companies have slipped behind in the fashion field and this is one of the reasons for their drop in production. The last 3 companies mentioned - one of them, Whitmont, is in the electorate of the honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage)  - are amongst the best in the field. They are on the ball and smart aggressive merchandisers and are reaping the results. But others are not as aggressive and are slipping behind. They will probably come good again - they are too experienced not to. These statements were logical and bear out what I have been saying rather than contradict it. As the honourable member for Chifley said, one particular firm - although this is getting a little off the track - -Whitmonts had introduced a 4-day working week and every report indicates it is a raging success both for the employers and the employees. If we eliminate 75 per cent of manufacturers we do the Australian manufacturer, the wholesaler, the retailer and the consumer a great disservice. 
Apart from the obvious failure of many businesses this will cause and the resultant loss of employment, it will place the fate of clothing prices in the hands of too few. One of the things we are concerned with in this country is price fixing. This does not occur &gt;n the industry. I have never experienced any example of price fixing. There is too wide a spread of competition and there is always someone in the clothing industry who will get under other manufacturers if there was an attempt to fix prices. There are, of course, cases where prices come out about the same because in items like socks and jeans and other basic garments it is almost impossible to lower prices. Prices are down to rock bottom for basic things of that nature. But as a general rule I see little example of anything that resembles price fixing. A vast area of quality fashion goods will disappear from the stores of Australia. 1 explained this before when I talked about the little manufacturers. I do not believe the big manufacturers can supply the wide variety of specialised merchandise that is required in Australian stores today. The selection available in Australian shops is amongst the best in the world. 
The honourable member for McMillan mentioned before that Australian manufacturers were good. I would say they are better than that; they superb - not all of them but 'the great majority. There has been a tremendous improvement in fashion, style and quality in the last 10 years. We all recall that after the war one paid 45s for a basic white shirt on which the collar turned up after one had had it for 3 months. One looked as though he was about to take flight. Today we can buy a polyester and cotton shirt for about $7 or $8 and it lasts and lasts. It is incredible how the industry has managed to maintain its price throughout the last 10 or 15 years. Think back to what was paid for any item of clothing 10 or 12 years ago and you will find that the increase in price has been very marginal while the increase in variety, quality and style has been tremendous. That means that on today's wages it costs a lot less to buy almost the same article. 
One of the matters I would like to mention in the few minutes left to me relating to knitted and woven goods and the whole industry really is the question of overseas manufacturers. The Taiwanese, and the people from Hong Kong and Red China do not provide a wide variety of fashion. They do not provide a whole range of garments. Primarily what they do is pick the eyes out of the bulk sellers. I do not like to mention names and give free plugs to industries but by way of example take Bonds 'Grand Slam' shirt which everybody knows, lt is a bulk seller of which hundreds of thousands are made a year. It is easy to pick that line, manufacture it in Taiwan, bring it in to Australia and cut the throat of local manufacturers. This is one of the things overseas manufacturers do. They take out the quick bulk sellers. When a retailer is shown a range of clothing he does not see one shirt; he sees 300 or 400. In all there might be 5 or 6 good sellers, 15 or 20 mediocre sellers and the rest are no good at all. This service is supplied by Australian manufacturers. Then in comes the importer who drops 3 shirts on the counter. He says: 'Those are the ones', because he knows they are the bulk sellers that can get under the big manufacturers. I sympathise with the problems expressed in this report; I understand a lot of them. But I think a great deal more thought should be given to this matter before any steps are taken to harm a very viable industry in this country. 
1 apologise to the Minister for Immigration  (Dr Forbes),  representing the Minister for 
Health, for not telling him that I intended to speak on this matter tonight. However, I hope he will read what I have to say. I only want to bring this matter to his notice and I do not expect an answer now, though I hope he will give me one fairly soon. Almost from the time I was elected to this House I have received representations regarding a gentleman in my electorate. These representations were made by a number of organisations. The name of the gentleman is  Mr Tompkins  of Coonangra  Avenue, Budgewoi. I mention his name because I told him I would. He is a very severe asthma sufferer. I wrote to the then Minister for Health explaining to him that  Mr Tompkins  was forced to purchase oxygen cylinders every week so that he could get relief from asthma. The cost to  Mr Tompkins,  who I might add is a pensioner, is $3 to $4 a week or $11 to $12 a month. I wrote to the then Minister quoting a letter which I had received from the Budgewoi branch of the Old Age and Invalid Pensioners Association in the following terms: 
With reference to the provision of oxygen and respiratory appliances, would you again approach the Minister for Health and press for these appliances to be provided as a medical benefit to pensioners.  Mr Tompkins  of Coonangra Avenue, Budgewoi, says that he was ordered oxygen when he was dicharged from the Belmont Hospital and the appliances cost him approximately $4 per week. It has come to that stage now that  Mr Tompkins  cannot afford to pay this amount from his pension and the only thing left is a slow lingering death. The late Minister for Health,  Dr Forbes,  promised you some time ago that he would inquire into the matter and see if the provision of oxygen could be supplied to pensioners as a medical benefit. I understand that several doctors in this area would like to provide oxygen for chest patients but they realise that pensioners cannot alford it. We would appreciate lt if you would again take the matter up with the Federal Health authorities in an effort to have oxygen supplied to pensioners who need it. 
There is correspondence back and forth involving successive Ministers for Health. I have written to 3 or 4 of them; the Ministers change pretty quickly. Each time I received what 1 regard as a most silly reply because in each case the Minister told me that under the Act the Department of Health could not supply the equipment. I pointed out in the last letter T wrote that there was no request for the domiciliary equipment required to use the oxygen. Since that time I have had dealings with a  Mr Fennell  of Woy Woy who is in a similar situation. He is also a pensioner and unable to afford the cost involved. I wrote to the present Minister for Health  (Senator Sir  Kennth  Anderson) on 26th October 1971 and 1 pointed this out to him. I said: 
You last wrote to me on 16th September, 1971 regarding the inability of the Commonwealth to provide oxygen as a pharmaceutical benefit. This was in reply to repeated representations made by me on behalf of  Mr A.  Tompkins of Coonangr: Avenue, Budgewoi. 1 would also like to add to that now  Mr R.  Fennell of 1 Alma Avenue, Woy Woy whose situation is identical to that of  Mr Tompkins. 
In your letter you stated 'In the terms of the National Health Act it is not possible to provide equipment, apparatus and appliances as benefits. Despite many requests the Government, to date, has not been prepared to extend the Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme to encompass the provisions of such items'. 
Whilst it would be possible under the National Health Act to provide the oxygen gas as a pharmaceutical benefit, you will appreciate that an adequate domiciliary service could not be provided since the supply of the necessary ancillary equipment cannot be made within the scope of the existing Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme*. 
On investigation I find that neither  Mr Tompkins  or  Mr Fennell  require the equipment or the domiciliary service. They already have the equipment necessary and the only burden they have to contend with is the cost of the oxygen.  Mr Tompkins  has provided me with a statement indicating the monthly cost to him of oxygen. 
I have one for $13.71 for the month. 
That comes out of his pension. The letter continues: 
His needs vary depending upon his state of health but he uses approximately 3 cylinders per month which now together with delivery charges cost him $11.16 which you no doubt will agree is a substantial amount out of a pension of approximately $68 per month. 
He now finds that only his savings enable him to continue this life saving treatment. 
In view of your final statement in your letter of 16th September I now ask that oxygen cylinders be considered for those who already have adequate equipment and can arrange privately the necessary domiciliary services. 
I do not know whether I am dense or whether the Minister is dense or whether we are both dense, but I keep writing and explaining to him that it is not a question of the equipment, it is a question of the oxygen. Surely there would not be many people who would be suffering from this complaint so severely that they would require oxygen cylinders. 1 have come in contact with 2 such people. I do not know whether any other honourable members  have had similar complaints. I see that the honourable member for Oxley  (Mr Hayden)  has indicated that he has come into contact with 2 such people. Probably it would mean that there would be only a few hundred - maybe 1,000 - people who are suffering from this complaint throughout Australia. Surely a country as rich as Australia can afford to amend the National Health Act, if necessary, in order to provide oxygen for pensioners or for any group of people who find it difficult financially to buy oxygen from their own means. We ought to be able to include oxygen in the pharmaceutical benefits scheme. I repeat for the benefit of the present Minister for Health, the previous Ministers for Health and no doubt the future Minister for Health, that it is not the equipment but merely the oxygen that is required. 
I have heard some nonsense talked since I have been a member of this House but the Minister for the Interior  (Mr Hunt)  has taken the cake. One would think that he was the Minister for Decentralisation in New South Wales, not a Federal Minister. Never once did he try to defend 'the Federal Government's role in decentralisation. He selected one State out of the whole of Australia. He did not mention the fact that in Victoria there has been a Liberal Government for year after yeas; that in South Australia there was a Liberal government for 30 years; that in Western Australia there was a Liberal Government for 15 years; and that in Queensland there has been a Country Party Government for about 15 years. He selected one State in which there has not been a Labor government for 7 years. I am not particularly interested in whether the Labor government in that State did not do its job; in fact, my information is that it did a considerable amount of work in the field of decentralisation. But one of the things which the present New South Wales Government has done is to juggle costs and figures in order to inflate what it has spent on decentralisation, to make it look as though the Government has spent a great deal more money than it has. What absolute nonsense it is to select one State as being the sole cause of lack of decentralisation in Australia. 
For 23 successive years the LiberalCountry Party coalition Government has preached the gospel of decentralisation. For 23 years under the stewardship of that same coalition the percentage of people who live on the land has dropped from 16 per cent to 8 per cent. Pledging support for decentralisation is a ritual that every member of the Country Party indulges in, in the same way as most Australians pledge loyalty to God, Queen and country. If their rhetoric could be matched by action Australia would be one of the most decentralised countries in the world. The history of the neglect by the Liberal-Country Party Government effectively to plan a programme of decentralisation was fully documented in a speech by the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam)  on 21st May 1969. However, if one wants to understand fully the muddled thinking of the Government, if one wants to comprehend its indolence and apathy, one needs only to turn to recent public utterances of the Leader of the Country Party. On 21st April 1971, in a speech to the Australian Provincial Press Association, the Minister for Trade and Industry  (Mr Anthony),  after castigating the metropolitan Press for having the temerity to interpret the news rather than write it in a way that would absolve the Country Party from blame for its abject performances, had this to say: 
I don't think we have to convince country people of the need for decentralisation. They are already convinced. I don't think we have to convince Governments for that matter. All Governments say they understand the need. You may ask why Governments don't do more about meeting the need. This is the whole point: Governments respond to the demands of,, the people who put them into office. There's nothing wrong with that. That's what Governments are supposed to do. But until more of the Australian people are convinced of the advantages of decentralisation, Governments are unlikely to be very quick off the mark in initiating decentralisation  meastures 
Translated that means: 'We know what needs to be done, we know you want us to do something but we have been able to get away with it because you have never threatened to vote us out of office'. The sudden enlightenment of the Minister for Trade and Industry and his colleagues that decentralisation is important and that something should be done about it highlights their empty rhetoric and inaction of the last 20 years. To start talking now about convincing the people of Australia of the need to decentralise is a measure of how far behind public thinking is this present tired administration. 
Why is it that decentralisation has risen dramatically to the forefront of national issues? Traditionally, most support has come from rural communities always anxious to build up their communities and to broaden the scope of amenities that accelerate with population growth. That anxiety has grown as the decline in rural production has gained momentum. While the rural communities' anxiety increases, the urbanites of Sydney and Melbourne have almost been thrown into panic. The gods of progress and growth, once heralded as a panacea for all our problems, have brought with them even greater problems previously not envisaged. Increasing car ownership chokes our roads, fouls our air, assaults our ears and threatens our sanity. Lack of urban planning has been a bonanza for speculators but a disaster for our residents as they are forced further and further into the hinterland to find a place to live at other than absurd prices. Thousands of people are forced to commute from the Blue 
Mountains and the Central Coast of New South Wales distances of up to 70 miles to find work. As the sprawl continues so does the availability of the amenities that attract people to cities diminish. Educational, cultural, recreational and sporting facilities are further away from many on the outskirts of Sydney and Melbourne than they are from people who live in country towns. Sewerage and water, once considered a necessity of life, are now a luxury for many. I need go no further than my own electorate - to the areas of Wyong, Gosford and Woy Woy - to see the desperate shortages that exist in these respects. 
With the populations of the cities now near the 2.5 million mark and the prediction that they will reach 5 million each by the year 2000, it becomes increasingly clear that if we start tomorrow we may avert disaster. If we leave it we will inevitably commit Sydney and Melbourne, and therefore 40 per cent of Australians, to a similar fate to that of New York, a city that has been condemned to death. What we must do first is define what forms of decentralisation are necessary to improve the quality of life - I hope that honourable members will forgive me for using that hackneyed phrase - of all our citizens, urban and rural, and prepare a plan to implement it. For obvious reasons I speak with more intimate knowledge of the SydneyWollongongNewcastle area. Within the confines of that area decentralisation must occur to alleviate the congestion that now exists. Campbelltown is the first step, the GosfordWyong area must be the second, and then Menai. 
Satellite cities to Sydney must be planned and programmed now in a fashion similar to that used for Canberra. The concept of satellite cities is the ultimate in decentralisation. It is only a minor step. The major step will come when we start to develop selected towns along the 3 corridors from Sydney - one to Melbourne along the Hume Highway, another to Brisbane along the Pacific Highway and the third west through Bathurst and Orange to Dubbo. Some of the steps necessary to encourage the movement of industry and people are obvious. Firstly, we must build a multi-lane divided expressway linking Brisbane, Sydney and Melbourne. Secondly, we must have taxa tion allowances, long-term low-interest loans and, in some instances, grants to those industries which decentralise in the selected areas. Thirdly, we must have lower power and telephone charges for an initial commencement period. Fourthly, the Commonwealth and States must decentralise as many government activities as possible. Thesecould include such things as government departments, universities, teachers colleges, colleges of advanced education, research centres and many other similar activities. 
Our problem is that we tend to look at these measures for decentralisation in isolation. Such a programme not only would alleviate the problems in the metropolitan areas of Melbourne and Sydney but also would be an adjunct to our defence system. As I have mentioned in speeches on road safety, such an expressway would be important in cuttting down the road toll. Similarly, I have mentioned that it would be of great assistance in developing our tourist industry. Of course, in the short time available to me now it is impossible to cover, other than in a very peripheral way, the many measures that need to be brought about by such a programme. Obviously the initiative can come only from the Commonwealth. The Minister for the Interior mentioned that New South Wales had started to do something. That is not good enough. I am pleased to see that the New South Wales Government is doing something, but the Minister has a hide to stand here and defend the Federal Government on the ground that the New South Wales Liberal Government has started to get off its backside in the last few years. We want to hear what the Federal LiberalCountry Party Government is doing. Its record is absolutely abysmal. Anyone who has any doubts about it can read the letter from the Department of Decentralisation and Development to the  Chairman  of the Commonwealth-State Officials Committee on Decentralisation, which was tabled by the honourable member for Reid. It begins: 
On behalf of New South Wales I regret that I. must disassociate myself from the Report of the Commonwealth/Slate Official's Committee. 
It was submitted as follows: 
that the Report is largely irrelevant  in  that this basic issue is overlaid with a great deal of discursive material and, in particular, by repetitious discussion of alternative ways and means of decentralisation which, however important in themselves, are nevertheless secondary to the central question of justification; 
This is an absolute condemnation of the Commonwealth-State Committee, which has met on odd occasions over seven or eight years and has done absolutely 
Has the attention of the Prime Minister been drawn to a statement by  Mr James  Kibel that if he told the true story regarding the negotiations with Chinese officials over the proposed visit of the former Minister for the Army to China the Government would be forced to resign? In view of these most serious charges by a respectable businessman, a member of the Liberal Party, an associate of the now Minister for External Territories and an official courier for the Government, will the Prime Minister use the forms of this House to enable the Parliament to ascertain the facts and clear the name of his Government? 
I wish to refer to a matter raised by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  at question time this morning. He referred, in his question to the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon),  to a statement allegedly made by  Senator Sim  in Singapore on Wednesday. The story had been cabled to the Melbourne 'Sun' by  Mr Bruce  Wilson and appeared on page 4 of this morning's issue. As reported in the 'Sun',  Senator Sim  is  Chairman  of the Senate Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee, member of the Joint Parliamentary Foreign Affairs Committee and  Chairman  of the Committee's SubCommittee on the Indian Ocean. The article was headlined, 'P.M. stupid over China: Liberal' and had this to say: 
A senior member of the McMahon Government today dismissed the Prime Minister's latest statement on relations with China as, 'unwise, in fact stupidity'. 
It continued: 
He described as 'stupidity'  Mr McMahon's  statement last Sunday that an invitation from Peking for a visit by an Australian Minister would be welcome. 
How can it be wise to just offer them a Minister?'  Senator Sim  asked. 
There was no point in blindly accepting China's terms on any visit by an official Australian party. 
Dealing with mainland China needs caution or even over-caution. If we accept an invitation on their terms, and theirs only, they will have no respect for us', he said. 
Referring to recent attempts at contact between China and Australia,  Senator Sim  said he was appalled by the thought that two businessmen brothers could have been acting for the Australian Government in China or that their opinion seemed to carry weight. 'Sending Andrew Peacock (Territories Minister) to China would be really stupid', he said. 'It would be sending a boy to a country where age is venerated and respected'. 
So far so good. It is the Government's concern that a senior senator should choose to attack his Prime Minister and denigrate one of the Liberal Party's few hopes, the Minister for External Territories. It is the next comment that takes it out of the area of legitimate political controversy and enters the field of overt racism and anti-semitism. 

 Senator Sim was quoted as saying: 
Besides, when did Australian Foreign Policy rest in the hands of two Manchester Jews?' 
This was apparently a reference to brothers, Brian and James Kibel who have negotiated with the Chinese for the Australian Government.  Mr Speaker,  this is a most incredible statement to come from any member of the 
Australian  Parliament. What is even more incredible is that so far not one member of the Liberal-Country Party coalition has bothered to disown  Senator Sim.  I cannot imagine that any member of the Government could be so insensitive to the full implication behind this statement as to have not disassociated himself from it. The Prime Minister said nothing. The Foreign Minister  (Mr N. H. Bowen),  in his inimitable bumble footed manner, completely ignored it and appeared smugly pleased with his arrogant answer to the Deputy-Leader's question. As yet those in the Liberal Party who have earned a reputation for small 'l' liberalism have been strangely quiet. I am sure that you,  Sir, representing  a large portion of Sydney's Jewish population will be aware of the damage that would have been done to the Liberal Party's reputation. The work you have done to rid the Liberal Party of its reputation as a bastion of extreme right wing views will be greatly wasted. 
For those who are too insensitive or dimwitted to appreciate the full implication of  Senator Sim's  outburst let me explain. The  Senator obviously  considers that the fact that Messrs Kibel could be labelled as Manchester Jews' was sufficient to discredit their credentials. Being from Manchester was bad enough, but being Jewish too was the final straw. I can imagine that had they been Brisbane Baptists, Loudon Anglicans, Washington Episcopalians or Los Angeles Lutherans it would have been perfectly all right for them to have negotiated on behalf of the Australian Government. But, Manchester Jews - God forbid! 

 Senator Sim will live to regret his intemperate outburst or I shall be deeply disappointed in the Australian people and in this Parliament. It should not require a member of the Opposition to point out the disgusting tactics of the  Senator who  obviously feels that it is sufficient to announce that the Kibel brothers were Manchester Jews to destroy their reputation. I understand that  Mr Brian  Kibel has stated that he will not take any action against  Senator Sim  because he considers it a compliment. It is a pity  Senator Sim  had not meant it as a compliment. This country needs more Kibels and less Sims. To add to the embarrassment of our dear 'Dim Sim' it turns out that Messrs Kibel are not Jewish and are not from Manchester. I am informed that they were both born in England and are Anglican, although a great grandfather may have been Jewish. As  Senator Sim  has not worried about people's feelings, why should he waste his time with getting his facts straight? 

 Mr Speaker, the LiberalCountry Party recently has been under very serious charges of infiltration from an extreme right-wing racist, anti-semitic group known as the League of Rights. In fact in this morning's 'Age' appeared a letter to the editor about the failure of the honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr Brown)  to speak out. I, for one, have a personal regard for the honourable member for Diamond Valley because I consider him to be one of the brightest hopes for the Liberal Party and one of the more liberal members of it. I hope that he will speak out and answer the charge in the 'Age'. 
Last year the League of Rights played on dormant racist feelings in the community by its overt support of the South African sporting teams and it attempted to gain some political mileage over minor changes in the Labor Party's immigration policy. All it needs is to be branded as anti-semitic and any doubts as to the direction it is heading in the political spectrum will be removed forever. The Leader of the Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  had the courage to make a statement on the League of Rights. The Prime Minister and every member of the Liberal-Country Party worth his salt must publicly denounce  Senator Sim  and ask for his public apology or his resignation from the Senate. 
I would just like to add my sentiments to those of the honourable member for Perth  (Mr Berinson).  I raised this matter in the adjournment debate last Thursday night. I was proposing to speak on it. I commend the honourable member for Berowra  (Mr Hughes)  for raising this matter. I think it has cleared the air in a way which is more acceptable, but the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  should reflect very seriously on the way in which he handled this matter because it could have become a very nasty situation. I commend Government members for the good sense they have shown in the final result of this issue. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I present the following  petition: 
To the Honourable the  Speaker,  and Members of the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled. The humble petition of the undersigned citizens of Australia respectfully showeth: 
That the Postmaster-General's Department Central Office policy, of centralising Post Office affairs and activities under the various titles of Area Management, Area Mail Centres, Area Parcel Centres and similar titles is resulting in both loss of service and lowering of the standards of service to the public, directly resulting in the closing of Post Offices, which is deterimental to the public interest. 
Your petitioners most humbly pray that the House of Representatives in Parliament assembled will take immediate steps to: 
Call a halt to all closing of Post Offices and reorganising within the Post Office until full details of the proposed savings and all details of alteration to the standards of service to the public are made available to Parliament, and 
Initiate a joint Parliamentary inquiry into the Postmaster-General's Department, to assess the degree on which it should be run as a normal business undertaking and to what extent its unprofitable activities should be subsidised as a public service charged more correctly to national development. 
And your petitioners, as in duty bound, will ever pray. 
Petition received. 
I ask the Minister for the Navy: DM he arrange for HMAS 'Stalwart' to ship back to Australia substantial amounts of privately purchased furniture from Hong Kong? 
asked the Minister for Shipping and Transport, upon notice: 
Can action be taken to oblige all motor vehicle insurance companies to make available to authorised research personnel their records showing the (a) make and model of vehicles involved in accidents, (b) age of drivers, (c) nature of accidents and (d) nature and extent of vehicle damage. 
Does the Government agree that this information, properly analysed, should (a) reveal unsafe features in particular makes of cars, (b) allow consumers to select vehicles according to the safety performances of vehicles and (c) encourage manufacturers to modify features in their vehicles where necessary. 
Does the Government also agree that the 1970 figures of 3,800 deaths and 92,000 people injured are a sufficient reason tointrude upon the commercial privacy of some commercial and industrial groups. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Civil Aviation, upon notice: 
Has the attention of the Department of Civil Aviation been drawn to any substantial purchases of land in the Richmond and Somersby areas by companies or individuals with interests in aviation and tourism since its announcement that these areas were being considered for the site of the second international airport for Sydney. 
What a lot of nonsense we have just heard from the honourable member for Denison  (Dr Solomon).  It is a pity that the Liberal Party could not take its thrashing in Tasmania a little better. Does the honourable member suggest that people in current affairs, politics or journalism of any description do not have political views? There would not be one journalist in the Australian Broadcasting Commission, the 'Daily Telegraph', the 
Sydney Morning Herald', 'The Sun' or whatever one cares to name who does not have a political view or who does not favour one Party or another. The 4 men who resigned quite clearly showed where their political views were. If they had been Labor men they would not have said a word, but quite clearly because they support the political views of honourable members opposite they have kicked up a stink. If they are worth their salt, as most journalists, political interviewers and current affairs men are, their job comes first. One of the finest interviewers I have ever seen is  Mr Peter  Westerway, now the secretary of the New South Wales Branch of the Australian Labor Party, who time and again, because of his loyalty to his job, embarrassed the ALP, because his job as a journalist came first. I have seen many people with Labor affiliations who have had to go on with the job. 
Perhaps Michael Willesee,  1  do not know. There are many of them. Most of them, because of their conscientious belief that they should do their job in a responsible way, even though it might hurt the political party with which they may perhaps have sympathy, will do it because that is their job and they have a code of honour. It is nonsense to say that because the man referred to by the honourable member for Denison stood for Labor Party selection he should therefore never be able to appear on a current affairs programme under the auspices of the Australian Broadcasting Commission. 
I did not rise tonight to speak on this matter. I want to refer to a matter concerning a constituent of mine, a  Mrs B.  Gable of 26 Alpha Road, Woy Woy. May I take this opportunity to commend the Minister for Immigration  (Dr Forbes)  for the action which he took on behalf of  Mrs Gable  and her 2 sons. I will not go into detail but, as a result of representations made by the Minister,  Mrs Gable  and her 2 sons have now been naturalised and an unfortunate incident in the Department of Immigration has been cleared up. 

 Mrs Gable's 2 sons, Thomas and William, were both born in France. They are now aged 22 and 20. They left France when Thomas was 14 months old and William was 2 months old. At that time  Mrs Gable  was married to Monsieur Dupont. I have in my hand a letter which was sent by the French Consul-General, Monsieur Cyril Le Bas. I find this letter most objectionable. I informed the Minister for Immigration about this letter and he said that it was really the concern of the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr N. H. Bowen),  to whom I gave a copy of the letter because I hoped that the responsible department would take some action in the matter. I am well aware that a number of foreign countries including, I believe, Italy and Greece - I may be wrong here - and France do not recognise the fact that if men become citizens of another country they are released from their duty to undertake national service. I find this quite objectionable. I find it particularly objectionable that these 2 young men, who have spent 20 of their 22 years in Australia and who to all intents and purposes are as Australian as everyone in this House, should now be harassed by anybody from France, let alone the Consul-General. I will . now read to the House this most objectionable letter which is addressed to  Mrs Gable's  solicitor,  Mr J.  White, Market Street, Sydney. It reads: 
Has the Minister for Shipping and Transport received from the Bureau of Roads a report on a survey of highways between capital cities? If so. when did he receive the report and when will it be presented to the House? 
Noone has explained to me fully why this alteration has been mved. Is it because the amendment is supposed to be a little briefer? The honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)  did not give any explanation either. The whole proposal in the Bill has reached the stage where it is almost valueless. What should be put on the boxes is 'Cigarettes will probably give you lung cancer and heart disease' or something that might have some impact. We have even had an argument put forward that advertising will have a pretty minimal effect anyhow. Now we have come down to this innocuous statement: Medical authorities warn that smoking is a health hazard'. Can honourable members imagine hundreds of thousands of people immediately dropping their cigarette packets and swearing to give up smoking, and young people being terriefied by that frightening little phrase? 
We have heard some bleating from our friends over there about country radio stations. In my electorate there is a country radio station which is the most recently opened one in New South Wales - the first new such station in 17 years. I have great sympathy for it. If we are really fair dinkum why do we not spend on anti-smoking advertising on these radio stations and television stations some of the money received from excise? Then there would be no loss of income to them whatsoever. I wouldlike the PostmasterGeneral  (Sir Alan Hulme)  to give us some real explanation as to why he has accepted this innocuous amendment from the honourable member for Isaacs  (Mr Hamer). 
Motion (by  Mr Giles)  put: 
That the question be now put. 

 - Mr Speaker, this is the speech that was nearly not made. On 18th January I made representations to the Attorney-General  (Senator Greenwood)  after having received a visit from 5 young men who live in my electorate. They were Messrs Tony Gillis, George Bird, Peter Buhr, Lawrence Warnock and Gordon Weiss of 10 Scenic Highway, Terrigal. These young men, aged between 20 and 30, were Canadian nationals who visited Australia as members of the Trojan Rugby Union, playing a series of matches against club and representative sides including the Brisbane Waters Rugby Union Club. Due to the warmth of the welcome and hospitality they had received in Australia and particularly the central coast, they had decided to extend their stay for at least 12 months and have a working holiday. At that time I understand 2 of them were employed and the others were still holidaying. I am informed they are now all employed. 
In the short time they had lived in the Terrigal area they had made an extremely favourable impression on local residents and were welcomed as members into the local rugby and surf clubs. Might I add that since I met them on 18th January they have become personal friends and have visited my home and my wife and I have visited their home. They are a fine bunch of young men who I am sure would make ideal citizens of Australia. However, the events I am now about to relate would make it highly unlikely that they would want to stay permanently in Australia. Might I add that they were convinced of the need to bring their case to my attention by  Mr Laurie  O'Malley, one of my closest friends who informed me that they were concerned that any action on their part might lead to some form of persecution by the authorities.  Mr O'Malley  and I assured them that their interests and the rights of all Australian citizens and overseas visitors were best protected by a full disclosure of the facts so that the public can be fully informed of just what is going on in this country. 
At 10.30 on the morning of Wednesday, 5th January, Messrs Weiss, Bird and Buhr were rudely awakened at their Terrigal home by 2 men, one of whom said to  Mr Weiss:  'Alright you guys, the party's over. Get up and get your clothes on. I want to see your passports right now.'  Mr Weiss  asked who they were and when told they were from the Commonwealth Police Force  Mr Weiss  asked them to get out of the house and stand on the porch. The officers refused to leave and demanded to see their passports. The Commonwealth Police demanded to see the passports of Messrs Gillis and Warnock even though they were not at home. These passports were found and the men showed them to the police. When asked why they they were there the police refused to give an answer. At no time did they produce any search warrant, nor were they invited into the house. In the words of  Mr Weiss.  'They entered of their own accord and their attitude was demanding, rude and abrupt.' 
On 18th January I wrote to the Attorney-General setting out the basic fact as I have outlined, adding that I had ascertained that they were searching for American R &amp; R deserters. I had ascertained these facts from Sergeant Gordon Lambert, the State police officer in charge of Terrigal police station. I am sure that Sergeant Lambert is known to you,  Mr Speaker. 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice: 
Has his attention been drawn to the tremendous growth rate of the central coast area of Gosford-Wyong and the proposal by the New South Wales State Planning Authority to plan for a population of 500,000 by 2000 A.D. 
If so, will he give consideration to the opening of a branch of the Commonwealth Taxation Office in the area. 
I  asked the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  to come into the chamber tonight because I want to raise 2 matters with him. The first matter concerns  Mrs Marion  Bowden of 63 Pacific Highway, Ourimbah.  I  have received her permission to raise this matter in the House. In a letter to the Minister  I  wrote: 

 Mrs Bowden is a British migrant who came to Australia 6 years ago with her 2 sons and is in receipt of a British widow's pension of $34.29 per month. She also receives $8.60 per fortnight which is an indefinite sickness benefit payable in the United Kingdom. This latter pension is paid to  Mrs Bowden  owing to her incapacity due to 2 plastic valves in her heart. Once having left Great Britain, further increases in pension are not payable to recipients. 
In recent years  Mrs Bowden  has been living at Ourimbah with her 2 sons and has been able to exist through some assistance from their salaries. However, one son has now married and the other one plans marriage in the next few months. This will leave  Mrs Bowden  with approximately $51 per month income of which she pays $40 per month in rent for her house at Ourimbah. 
I recognise that under the Act  Mrs Bowden  is receiving her just entitlement. However, I think it is a weakness in the Act and in the arrangement between Australia and Great Britain that once a person in her situation leaves Great Britain there is no increase above the level of social service payments received from Great Britain and she is not entitled to an Australian pension until she has been here for 10 years.  Mrs Bowden  arrived in Australia on 18th February 1966. At that stage she had had one heart operation and she has had a second heart operation in Australia.  Her  cider son works for the New South Wales Department of Main Roads. He is aged 25 years and is to marry in September.  Her  younger son, aged 24 years, is married and works at the Gosford abattoir. I am sure that honourable members will be aware that young men working in those sorts of jobs would be on the minimum salary. The maximum they would be receiving would be between $50 and$55. 
You arc quite wrong. Most of the abattoir workers are on bare minimum wages. Because there is a shortage of work the abattoir can get workers on the basic salary. I do not know whether he is a slaughterman, but I understand that he is on that sort of salary.  Mrs Bowden  was widowed at the age of 21 years.  Her  husband died when he was 21 years old. She has had a very hard life.  Her  2 sons have been supporting her but can no longer do so. I do not know what can be done in this instance, but I have known of specific cases in which it has been possible to arrange for a woman to receive an extra payment. I have raised previously with the Minister the case of the grandmother of a German migrant who, strictly speaking, was not entitled to a pension. However, through the generosity of the Minister she received a pension of, I think, $10 a week. If anything can be done to help  Mrs Bowden,  I ask that it be done. It is inconceivable to me that in this country a woman can pay in rent $40 out of her monthly income of $51, leaving her with$11 a month to survive. 
The other case I wish to raise is rather long and detailed and I hope that I can get through it in the 5 minutes remaining to me. I have not previously mentioned it to the Minister and I will forgive him if he does not have all the details with him. The woman concerned is  Mrs Dorothea  Kathleen Wright of 186 Scenic Road, Budgewoi. I wrote to the Minister for Repatriation  (Mr Holten): 

 Mrs Wright, who is a ward of Legacy, is in receipt of a full war widow's pension from your 
Department.  Mrs Wright's  2 youngest children, Suzanne Mary (born IS.12.S7) and Paul Joseph (born 21.6.62) are also repatriation beneficiaries. 
Some years ago it was discovered that  Mrs Wright  had been receiving both a war widow's pension and a social services pension to which she was not apparently entitled, after the granting of the war widow's pension. 
On 2nd March 1966  Mrs Wright  received a notice from the War Pensions Entitlement Appeal Tribunal informing her that the appeal relating to the death of her late husband had been allowed and that payment would be back dated to 15th February 1965 from when her appeal had been made. Apparently what happened was that due to a computer error by the Department an amount of $1,900 was paid to  Mrs Wright  without deducting $1,659.85 that had been paid to her as a civilian widow.  Mrs Wright  had contacted the Department and suggested that she had been overpaid but was informed that the amount she had received was correct. Some time later when the error was discovered and  Mrs Wright's  story verified, it was decided by the Department to deduct moneys from her pension until the full amount had been recovered. 
Initially  Mrs Wright  was employed and until 4th October 1967 an amount of $600 had been recovered leaving a balance of $1,059.85 whilst $12 of an education allowance she had also been overpaid was recovered, leaving a balance of $44.58. Since that date fortnightly deductions of $4 have been made due to the fact that  Mrs Wright  had stopped working. It would appear that  Mrs Wright  still owes the Department approximately $700. 
I would appreciate it if you would give details of the exact amount owing by  Mrs Wright  . . . 
I mentioned that  Mrs Wright  suffered 2 heart attacks and was in Concord Hospital for 3 weeks. I went on: 

 Her life has not been an easy one having brought up 3 children, 2 of whom are still of school age and also she has suffered the loss of her husband at the age of 38.  Her  husband had tor some 2 years prior to his death been an invalid pensioner . . , 
I believe there has been a serious mistake. I received a letter in reply from the Minister for Repatriation. He is net under fire now: the fact is that initially the matter went to the Repatriation Department and the Minister in his letter basically agreed with what I have said. He wrote: 
Although the money was not deducted from her arrears by the Repatriation Department, the actual overpayment is a social services responsibility and any recommendation that the balance of the overpayment be written off would bc a matter for decision by the Department of Social Services. 
I think it has been accepted that the overpayment was an error by the Department. Certainly there is no suggestion that  Mrs 
Wright was in any way deceitful.  Mrs Wright  claims that she contacted the Department but that does not appear in these letters. Neither the Minister for Repatriation nor the Minister for Social Services has disagreed with this proposition. I think there is a case for the outstanding amount of $647.85 to be waived. The final letter dated 30th November 1971 from the Minister for Social Services did in fact reject the request that the debt be waived. I believe that this matter should be further investigated because this woman has a tremendous task in front of her. She has had 2 heart attacks, she is a widow with 3 children and she is trying to survive on a very poor living wage. 
Does the Minister for Labour and National Service agree with those who argue that women are relegated to a second class role in the management and administration of commerce, industry, the arts and sciences and the government of Australia? What initiatives have he and his Department taken to upgrade the status of women in our community so that they may play a role commensurate with their intelligence, capacity and ability? 
asked the PostmasterGeneral, upon notice: 
Has his Department given consideration to the future television requirements of the GosfordWyong area. 
If so, has provision been made for the area to have its own television channel in the future. 
The Australian Industrial Research and Development Grants Board allocated grants of $16,250,000 from its 1970-71 funds. These grants were broken up into various groups: Food, beverages, tobacco, natural materials, ores and metals, metal manufacturing, mineral fuels, animal, fish and vegetable oils, fats and waxes, chemicals, textiles, buildings and building materials, machinery, transport, electric and electronic apparatus, measuring and controlling apparatus, and miscellaneous. The Australian Labor Party supports any proposal that will increase the quantity and quality of industrial research and development in this country. It does so because Australia's record in this regard, prior to the introduction of this Act, was quite deplorable. 1 would like to have more details of the distribution of these public funds. I do not know of any other Act of Parliament that permits public moneys to be expended without public scrutiny and an evaluation of the results of that expenditure. The Government has argued that in this case industrial secrecy is the excuse, but I suggest that that is not good enough. The speech by the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  on 1st March 1972 gave us no indication of the value of this expenditure to the nation, other than to say: 
The Government's examination of the situation has shown that the present scheme has achieved a good deal of success. Many companies have been induced to begin or to increase research and development activities and there has been a marked increase in employment of qualified research staff. 
The Prime Minister went on to say:  lt is estimated that grants under the present scheme over the 5-year period of its operation will be of the order of $60ni. 
How can this Government give away such substantial amounts of public money without any scrutiny by the Parliament or at least by some parliamentary committee, meeting in camera if that is desired, which can evaluate the worth to the nation of those grants and assure the taxpayers and the Parliament that the grants are being made correctly. 
What order of priorities do we have in allocating these grants? Are they made in order to attain some long term national objective? Are they to enable us to achieve some desirable social objective? Are they to assist in aiding our ailing rural sector or perhaps to develop our mineral resources? Are they to encourage export and to discourage import, to combat pollution or to improve the nation's health? It seems to me that if, due to the risk of commercial piracy, we cannot have detailed results, at least we should have a general evaluation of the research programme and its results, instead of vague assurances that more research is being carried out, that this is a wonderful thing for Australia and remarks of that kind. 
I mentioned earlier the different categories to which these grants were allocated. Let us consider the subject of food. In 1970-71, $909,089 was allocated to this category. Is the question of the country's health and nutrition involved in such research? I do not know. We are just told what the bald figure will be. For beverages, which includes beer - Tooths and Tooheys - an amount of $146,241 was allocated. That amount did not go entirely to breweries, but I think I am right in saying that some $95,804 went to breweries or for beer during that year. The reason why we should be spending this sort of money on producing beer, which is one of the great vices of our community, is lost to me. I notice that tobacco was allocated $4,058. This is not a large amount, but was this money spent to improve tobacco or was it spent to try to eliminate lung cancer or heart disease resulting from smoking cigarettes? Was the grant provided to these companies for the purpose of trying to cure an ill in our community? 
In the mineral fuels section I notice that $53,348 was allocated for petroleum and petroleum products. How much of that money was spent on eliminating gases or undesirable effects of automobile exhausts? Canning and packaging also received a large contribution. How much of that grant was used to eliminate problems caused by modern packaging and waste disposal? Need we look at the amount allocated for transport? I shall return to this subject later, but I merely mention now that a total amount of $2,025,997 was allocated to transport. How much of that money was spent on making safer automobiles? We have no way of evaluating this expenditure. I have asked a lot of questions simply because this report is meaningless in any terms other than amounts of money. It does not tell us how the $ 1 6m which was allocated over the past 12 months was spent. 
Textiles are listed as one of the categories. I have no objection to that. I think that it is a good thing if we are spending money on textiles, but for what purpose is the money being spent? Let us at least have some summary of this expenditure. Is it to improve the quality of our wool? I would like to know and I think that most other honourable members also would like to know. We do not need to know the details of the expenditure, but let us have more information about it. Perhaps then we could say whether it was desirable or undesirable. Under the category of textiles the area of yarns and threads received $82,636, fabrics received $20,139, apparel received $12,351 and other areas received $30,514, making a total of $145,640. 
Another item which is listed is chemicals. This category, which is made up of a number of elements such as chemical elements and compounds, dyeing, tanning and colouring materials, was allocated a total of $1,728,877. That is a lot of money. If it was spent to eliminate pollution by improving the chemicals that are poured into our rivers and the gas that is released into the air it would be a desirable social objective; but if it is just going to some very large overseas corporation to make its operations a little more profitable, I am not so sure that I would be in favour of it. I think that the Parliament and the taxpayers of this country have a right to know. I would argue that the achievement of these desirable social objectives that I have mentioned is the responsibility of manufacturers and that manufacturers should be forced by law to pay for the research necessary to eliminate the excesses of carelessly designed products and the filth that exudes from the manufacturing process. But if we are to give grants to large manufacturing corporations let it be with the object of combating the most undesirable consequences of their productions. 
I spent quite some time the weekend before last - the debate on this Bill was supposed to take place last Wednesday or Thursday - studying the publication titled Directory of Overseas Investment in Australian Manufacturing Industry 1971', plus the Australian Industrial Research and Development Grants Board report. I did a bit of extrapolating myself. I will not claim that it is highly accurate, but I spent many hours on that weekend trying to work out how much of this money was going to overseas companies. Perhaps I should have got the Parliamentary Library to do it, it would have saved me a lot of work - but I did it myself. On my calculations - and I admit that they may be a little inaccurate, but I did spend quite a lot of time on them - out of $16,250,000, about Sim goes to companies that are less than 25 per cent overseas owned, about $500,000 goes to companies that are between 25 per cent and 50 per cent overseas owned, and $8,500,000 goes to companies which are between 50 per cent and 100 per cent overseas owned. That means that more than one-half of the amount of money is going to overseas corporations. 
I also went back over figures for the last 3 years to ascertain how much the biggest companies had received over that period. I found that in the last 3 years General Motors-Holden's Pty Ltd has received $1,486,639, Sulphide Corporation Pty Ltd $1,238,808, Chrysler Australia Ltd $823,684, Imperial Chemical Industries of Australia and New Zealand Ltd $706,820, British Leyland Motor Corporation of Australia Pty Ltd $479,258 and MasseyFerguson (Aust.) Ltd $351,942. I think that those figures are fairly accurate. As I say, I carried out the research, not the Parliamentary Library. It seems incredible to me, and I am sure it is incredible to the Australian people, that money of this order - approximately $1.5m to General Motors, approximately $ 1.25m to the Sulphide Corporation and almost Sim to Chrysler - is given away and the Australian Parliament receives no report, no details and no evaluation. I do not think that I need to repeat the sort of profits that are being made by companies such as General Motors. If this Government can afford to give these companies this money, then I think that General Motors can afford to give a report to this Parliament, if not in public, at least to an evaluating committee sitting in camera, so that this country can get some information on the value of the research being carried out in this country. 
asked the Minister for Supply, upon notice: 
How many motor vehicles have been purchased by his Department during the last 5 years. 
What were the makes and models of these vehicles. 
I address my question to the Minister for Labour and National Service. I refer to the question asked by the honourable member for Mitchell last week concerning the Riverstone Meat Co. Pty Ltd. Is the Minister aware that the Gosford abattoir laid off 200 workers approximately 10 days ago and that it announced that the reason for the lay-offs was the unavailability of stock for slaughter? Has he investigated the Riverstone company's claim that its lay-offs were caused by industrial disputes? In view of the experience at Gosford, does he now accept the Riverstone company's version of the sackings or does he now consider that there may well have been a lock-out? "  Mr LYNCH-  The honourable gentleman and, of course, other honourable gentlemen opposite are desperate in their attempts to condone the increasing degree of industrial unrest which has characterised this country in recent years. I believe that the facts about the Riverstone Meat Co. are clear; certainly, they have been subject to no refutation by honourable members on the other side of this House, as I might well have expected- 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
I wish that the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  and the former Prime Minister  (Mr Gorton),  who has just spoken, and their colleagues could really understand why the people of Australia have lost faith in this Government. I think they sell the Australian people short if they think that they can buy back their support for a couple of dollars. I have no doubt that the assistance that was granted will be welcome, but that is not really what it is all about. Money is important - very important. Jobs are even more important. But that is not why the people are deserting the Government. They simply do not trust the Government any longer. They have no faith in it. They have no faith in its judgment, they have no faith in its integrity, they have no faith in its honesty and they have no faith in its motives. They have no faith in its capacity to handle any of the massive problems that face Australia today. This Budget only further confirms their view that the Government is unfit to govern. After its incredibly inept performance over the past 3 years the Government thought it could make them forget by giving them a bribe. What a shabby gesture. What does it take Australians for? Does it think that they have no pride? Does it think they are fools? Does it think that the Australian people cannot see what it is at? 
The people want to know that the Government cares, not only about them but about everyone - about the poor, the black, the aged, the new arrivals, and about where they live, what they live in and how they live their lives. They want the Government to take them into its confidence, to trust them and to let them know how and why it makes its decisions. They are sick and tired of the cloak of secrecy that separates governments, the Public Service and the public whose lives so vitally are affected by their decisions. They want a government to stop treating them like children about what they read, what they view and what they do in the privacy of their own bedrooms. They are tired of a government that gets its policies from the gallup poll; that reacts to every test of leadership and statesmanship by playing on every prejudice and fear lying dormant in the community; that acts in every national or international crisis only in terms of the political advantage it can squeeze out of it - whether it be China, South Africa, Bangladesh or French nuclear tests, or whether it be poverty, industrial relations, racism or rural depression. They want a government with guts and they want leadership with backbone. 
My greatest disappointment is the complete failure of this Budget to show any sense of direction. There are no national goals and there is no rational leadership. If the Government were going to increase expenditure by over SI, 000m, it could well have devoted a large portion of this and more to tackling the deep seated problems that face Australia in the 1970s. Australia can be a great country, not because of the yardsticks of the past, but by a vision of the future. Our greatness will not be achieved by military adventure but by our willingness to help the less fortunate both at home and abroad. It is absurd to suggest that we cannot abolish poverty in Australia if we have the wit and the will to apply ourselves to the task. For years we have been told that the poor will always be with us and that the abolition of poverty was a Utopian dream envisaged by an irresponsible Australian Labor Party. We shall never hear the question 'Where's the money coming from' again. The Australian people now know that when an election is nigh the money can be found, just as it could be found back in 1964 when we started our arms expenditure for the Vietnam war. Money in the pocket alone cannot solve the problem of poverty. People are poor in an affluent society if they lack adequate facilities and social amenities. We must have a Federal government that has a vision of what a great society it could create if only it were not so hog tied to outdated laissez-faire philosophies that oppose any form of planning as an instrument of socialism. 
The problems of Australia are the problems of the cities and their immediate surrounds. Burgeoning populations are spilling over the edges. Inadequate, almost nonexistent urban planning by free enterprise governments, whose sympathies lie more with the developers than with those they are supposed to serve, has led to a chaotic urban bungle that is slowly destroying the fabric of family and social life within our society. Cars now choke the roads, spewing forth their poisonous fumes as public transport, through lack of finance, grinds to a halt. Suburbs spill over into one another and become one endless, mindless sprawl stretching for over 30 miles in nearly every direction. The result is that communities lose all identification and the people lose contact with one another. Disaffection, alienation, drugs, alcohol and delinquency are the final end products of such a society. Experience and experimentation elsewhere document the past, the present and the future. 
In earlier times the inner city areas were peopled by those who worked in the city and the nearby industrial centres. As industry and commercial redevelopment gobbled up workers' homes in the inner city areas and young couples commenced their families, they were forced to leapfrog over the middle class belt that surrounds the city to the outer urban areas. Initially, the attraction was cheap land and the chance to own their own home. The poorer they are the further they have had to go to achieve this Australian dream. The Blue Mountains, the Central Coast, Emu Plains and the Hawkesbury area now contain far flung commuter suburbs for Sydney. The result is that hundreds of thousands of workers now live in communities so far away from their work that they are forced to spend from 3 to 4 hours a day in uncomfortable travel. Is it any wonder that there is such pressure for a reduction in the working week? If a person lives in Darling Point it must be difficult for him to believe that thousands travel from Woy Woy, Springwood, Campbelltown or Richmond and back to the city every day. 
My own area in the electorate of Robertson, known better as the Central Coast, is the perfect site for a great social adventure. For it is here that one sees a microcosm of most of the problems that face Australia today. A choked and polluted metropolis coupled with massive increases in the price of land have meant that many young people have moved to the outer urban areas of Sydney. They have even gone past Sydney to the Central Coast for the rare opportunities it offers to escape the visual ugliness and urban chaos of that exploding city. They find here a peace and tranquility, a natural scenic gen tleness, a rural and marine environment that have long since disappeared from Sydney. It is as idyllic for children as it is for parents. This recent migratory phenomenon of young commuting families to the Central Coast, that commenced with the electrification of the railway to Gosford some 7 or 8 years ago, is only part of the reason for the massive growth rate of the Central Coast. Since World War II and before, older generations have known of its uniqueness as a haven for their retirement. They discovered it long ago and they came in their thousands. Today one in every 3 adults in the Central Coast is over 60 years of age. There is no area in Australia with such a demographic mix. 
It may be asked why, if it is such a paradise, I sound such warnings. Unless initiatives are taken soon by governments at all levels the opportunities to build and plan effectively will be lost forever. We shall recreate what we chose to escape. In 1968 the New South Wales State Planning Authority forecast a population of 500,000 by the year 2000. In 3 years since 1968 the population has risen from 74,370 to 89,057 in 1971- an increase of almost 20 per cent. Undoubtedly the SPA's forecast is proving accurate, but with what results? The past history of the Central Coast is a monument to indiscriminate ad hoc development. In earlier years councils, anxious to increase their rate revenue, allowed developers to rape the landscape. Subdivisions were permitted along the majority of the foreshores of the beaches and the lakes, permitting a privileged few to capture the most desired sites that should have been permanent public property. Dozens of different sized developments were permitted without any coherent plan and without any consideration of the facilities or amenities available. Hugh areas of land were carved up without proper roads, water, sewerage, telephones or recreational, educational, cultural or social amenities. 
The Central Coast occupies a physical area roughly the same size as the Sydney region. Dozens of small communities, many of them village or hamlet-sized, were allowed to spring up at the whim of the developers without any consideration of the enormous cost of providing the infrastructure. A number of these communities exploded into sizable towns; others remained village sized. Virtually uncontrolled planning permitted many of these towns to merge into one another, recreating many of the worst features of the Sydney urban sprawl that the newcomers had hoped to escape - narrow, single-laned transport arteries; unsealed, unkerbed residential streets; unplanned, choked shopping centres; large, unsewered areas dependent on septic or effluent removal systems; and much of the area without water and telephones. To this can be added the visual ugliness of a multitude of advertising hoardings, massive destruction of trees, ribbon development shopping centres and the indiscriminate siting of a number of industrial complexes. There emerges a clear picture of a scene that must stand as an all-time memorial to ad hocism. ineffective town planning and laissez-faire free enterprise. The visual ugliness is obvious; the social shortcomings are less so. 
When one in every 3 adults and one in every 4 citizens are over 60 years of age, when a large number of the remaining people are young families, when an area has over one million resident tourists per year, when it has the highest motor vehicle accident rate in New South Wales - caused by the Pacific Highway running through the area - and when it has a high incidence of marine accidents, then there is a great demand on its health facilities. When hospital accommodation of 218 beds is operating at 110 per cent capacity, then there exist the perfect ingredients for suffering and tragedy. Patients are being rejected from the hospitals when they should be admitted. They are being asked to leave prematurely to make way for others, and in some instances people cannot get in at all. Officers and officials of the hospitals are at their wit's end to know where to place patients and are now using holding wards, corridors and the casualty ward for patients who cannot be placed in the normal wards to which they are entitled. Local doctors are now reluctant to phone up unless a patient is critically ill, for they are aware of the dire circumstances that exist in relation to bed capacity. 
The permanent population of the Central Coast is near 100,000, rising to 250,000 during the peak of the tourist season. Gosford and Woy Woy hospitals combined provide 218 beds. Whilst the State average is 5 per thousand - and it may be argued that this average is created by a number of hospitals not being fully utilised - it is conservatively estimated that a district must have a minimum of 3.5 beds per thousand. Gosford has the lowest rate in the State, namely, 2.18 per thousand - less than twothirds the minimum required. If the situation were normal, the bed ratio would be extremely bad; but in the Central Coast the situation is abnormal for the reasons I have outlined already. Seventeen per cent of the patients are geriatric, against a State average of 10 per cent. Normally 10 per cent take up about 40 per cent of the beds; here they constitute between 65 per cent and 70 per cent of the patients. 
There is no alternative hospital to Gosford District Hospital between Hornsby and Belmont, as there is in other metropolitan areas where a patient can be fitted in somewhere else if he cannot be accommodated locally. To further emphasise the critical position, let me point out that the average stay of patients in Gosford Hospital is 6.2 days. Almost every other hospital in the State has an average of between 8 and 12 days. 
However, even if a person is in the peak of physical condition and amongst the 20,000-odd people who have retired to the Central Coast, he is not necessarily guaranteed a full and varied retirement. On the contrary, the very nature of retirement to a new area entails leaving family ties and life-long friendships. Tragically, retirement is often followed shortly afterwards by the loss of one of the partners. Even if it is not, loneliness, boredom and a feeling of not being a useful member of the community are common ailments that cannot be measured in dollars and cents. An area suffering the development problems of the Central Coast is primarily concerned with the basic amenities I mentioned earlier. Councils in the past have been reluctant to provide the funds necessary for social amenities for the aged. Although the number of retired people is twice the national average, there is not one senior citizens centre. Older, more established communities can provide these centres in abundance. In the electorate of Barton - I see that my good friend the honourable member for Barton  (Mr Reynolds)  is in the House at the moment - there are 7 senior citizens centres. 
The State Grants (Home Care) Act, which was passed in 1969, has used less than one-third of the moneys appropriated for these purposes. Because of the complexity of the Act and the numerous governmental bodies required to act to achieve a finished product, as of now there is not one single senior citizens centre in the Central Coast. After a continuous campaign lasting 3 years the Wyong and Gosford shire councils have allocated $75,000 from their 1973 estimates for the provision of these centres. Of this amount, $60,000 comes from the Wyong Shire Council. They have been forced to allocate resources from their budgets for social welfare when this should have been the responsibility of the Commonwealth. This same Act allows the Commonwealth to subsidise half the cost of a social worker. Could there be any area in Australia with a greater need for social workers than the Central Coast? Yet the Commonwealth provides not one cent in the Central Coast for this purpose. There is no assistance to cultural pursuits, sporting and recreational activities, or the special health needs for the rehabilitation and care of the aged. 
The problems of the retired are matched by those of the tired - the employees. Due to the huge influx there have always been difficulties associated with finding work. Over 7,000 workers now travel by train to Sydney. Many thousands more go by private car. Most are anxious to find employment nearer to home rather than spend 4 hours per day commuting. They readily accept minimum wages rather than suffer the tedium and invasion of their leisure that travelling 60 to 70 miles by slow, cramped and expensive trains entails. Fares were recently jacked up 60 to 70 per cent by the Askin Liberal Government. A number of unscrupulous employers take advantage of this desire of workers for employment near their homes. Wages are often the bare minimum award wages and there is a ready queue of replacements should a worker get 'too uppity'. Any idea that the traditional employer's behaviour has softened over the ages is soon dispelled by some of the actions of Central Coast employers. There are some scandalous examples of workers being told to work overtime without pay or else. 
In the Central Coast the phrase 'pool of unemployed' has a very real and sinister meaning. The situation has never been good, but since the 1971 Budget it has deteriorated rapidly. In 1970 the average number of people unemployed was 615. For the first 6 months of 1972 the figure was 859, an increase of 40 per cent. These figures do not include the many thousands of women who would like work if they could get it or the retired who would like a parttime job to supplement their meagre pensions if it were available. The central coast has the worst unemployment in the New South Wales country area, with the exeption of Dubbo, and unless something dramatic turns up it will worsen. A further 200 employees were laid off from the Gosford abattoirs the other day. What contribution has the Commonwealth made to decentralisation? Absolutely none. What contribution has the Commonwealth made to improving the transport system? Absolutely none. The problems of the area and of Australia generally are caused by the Government's apathy and indifference. They are just a few of the reasons why the Government has lost the support of the people of Australia. 
In the last few minutes available to me 1 want to deal with another matter. I want to put forward an idea for public discussion that would be, I believe, a major contribution to world peace, to humanity, to Australia's relations with the rest of the world and to the morale and efficiency of our defence forces. I believe that we should consider the creation of a special unit within our armed forces for the sole purpose of dealing with civil disasters both at home and abroad. Regularly, the world witnesses major natural disasters that are terrifying in their intensity, rapacious in their destruction and heart-rending in terms of human misery and suffering. Earthquakes, volcanic eruptions, floods and cyclones occur with regularity in countries near and far. The floods in what is now Bangladesh are estimated to have claimed half a million lives. In recent weeks the Philippine floods left approximately 400 dead and 2 million homeless and starving. A considerable amount of time and energy is now being expended by agencies of the United Nations in exploring ways of coordinating a plan to prevent disaster occurring, to provide emergency relief and to assist in reconstruction afterwards. 
My proposal is that a special force be created by the Australian armed forces consisting of at least one battalion of our Army and sections of the Royal Australian Navy, Royal Australian Air Force and medical camps to be trained specifically for this type of international civil disaster. It should be available to fly to any trouble spot in the world at 48 hours notice. It should be a highly mobile unit consisting of Hercules transport, helicopters, small watercraft, road and bridge building engineers, fire fighting units, medical teams, communications experts and general rescue expertise for all types of natural disasters. It would have stockpiles of drugs, food, clothing and protective cover ready to accompany such an exercise. Such a unit could play a major contribution uplifting to Australia's reputation among the new developing nations.. It would be an angel of mercy exercise welcomed by all those who feel for the suffering when such great civil disasters occur. It would be- 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Drury)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I support the motion moved by the Prime Minister, and I thank him for moving it. I sent a telegram to him and to the Leader of the Opposition last week asking that such a motion be moved, and I am delighted that he has done so. 
It is now 6 days since the massacre at Munich. It was an event unparalleled in its implications, unparalleled in its cowardliness and unparalleled in its ferocity. It is not the first time that so-called Arab guerillas have murdered and maimed innocent civilians. Airports, school buses, supermarkets, playgrounds and cinemas have become the new front line for these international cowards. It is doubtful whether any group of human beings has ever more justly earned the contempt of the world. The fact that this House is taking the unprecedented step of supporting such a motion is a measure of the universal horror at the enormity of this crime. Why did they do it? God only knows. What did they hope to achieve? Again God only knows. Did they really believe that Israel would surrender to their blackmail? Are they so stupid that they were not aware of Jewish history, of Israeli resolve? To choose Munich, so near Dachau where millions died, is a tragic irony. Arab nations, Jordan excepted, have disgraced themselves by their statements of support for this crime. Egypt, Syria, Lebanon, Algeria and others must bear the blame for harbouring and breeding these vicious killers. The vitriol that has been poured out against Israel over the past 23 years has been the cause of this type of guerilla action. The tragedy is that others must die because of the increased conflagration that will occur in the Middle East. 
I am one of those who believe that it is right that the Olympic Games should have gone on. Even though they continued in great sadness, I believe that had the Games been stopped this would have been the green light for any group of fanatics throughout the world to choose such an occasion, such a function, in the hope that their cause would gain even greater publicity. I understand the Israelis and those others who thought that the Games ought to have been cancelled. In soberer moments the world will agree that it was right that the Olympic Games should continue. It is so tragic that the Games at Munich should have been chosen for this act because of all the functions at which the nations of the world gather together, the Olympic Games are a function at which men and women of all the different creeds, nationalities and colours gather together in the hope that there will be greater peace. I have very much pleasure in supporting the motion moved by the Prime Minister. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
It is always difficult to follow our dear friend, the honourable member for Mallee  (Sir Winton Turnbull).  We shall miss him sorely when he departs at the end of this year. However, I shall do my best. I rise as a member concerned about the question of a second international airport. One of the 2 areas named as a prospective site is in my electorate, and is known as Somersby. The delay over this airport siting is unconscionable, but the Government secrecy that has surrounded this airport siting is more unconscionable. I maintain that the way in which the Government refuses to reveal any of the criteria on which it makes its decision is complete nonsense. The Australian community and, to a great extent, parliamentarians themselves, have grown accustomed to the Government keeping all information to itself and not informing the public about the criteria on which it bases its decision. 
When the first report was released about 12 months ago we were informed that initially some 40 sites were considered. The number was narrowed down to 16 sites, later to 4 and finally to 2. Let us accept the proposition that the present 2 sites are the only acceptable ones. Some of the information that is now available to the Government should be kept secret but why, for instance, cannot we be told why the other 38 sites were eliminated? We were never told this. We were never told why the Duffy's Forest site was eliminated, only that it was not suitable. 
The only reason the Government wants secrecy is that if the public knows and has access to the information it can evaluate the decision - perhaps not as expertly as the experts - and the fear that the Government has is that the minute the doors are open and the people know why it is making a decision it will be in all kinds of trouble. That is what it thinks; I think it is wrong. The day will come in Australia when a whole range of decisions will be under public scrutiny. My view is that then we will start to get real democracy. Opposition members cannot make effective criticisms because we do not have access to the information. We do not know, for instance, what is the Government's order of priorities. When the decision is finally announced and the site chosen we will be told that it was the only possible, sensible, sane, responsible decision - whatever it is. Of all those 40 sites it will be the only one that could have been chosen. Anyone who suggests anything else will be stark raving bonkers, particularly if he comes from the Opposition. The people of Robertson, the people of Australia - because this is a decision for Australia; not merely for the people of my area - and I, wish to know the order of priorities. How did the Government regard conservation of the Central Coast in its evaluation? 
The question of pollution arises. I hear a lot of nonsense about air pollution and the claim that only 1 . per cent of it is airport pollution. Let us accept that proposition in relation to the whole of Australia, but what is the position around airports? Tests in the United States of America have shown that around the airport pollution from aeroplanes runs as high as 40 per cent. Where does pollution come in the Government's order of priorities? What economic factors did it consider - the cost to the community, the cost to the farmers or the cost to the people who have to suffer the noise? How does it evaluate the feelings of the local community and the needs of the local community? 
I am just appalled at this constant cloak of secrecy that surrounds everything the Government does in every field. This is just another continuation of it. I cannot see why we cannot have public hearings into a lot of matters. Ultimately the Government has to make the decision. I recognise that defence needs arise and there is the possibility of people making unfair profits out of land speculation. That is fair enough and I accept it. But I cannot for the life of me see why grown up, mature Australians cannot be brought into the decision making process by public hearings on all these things. If the Government has discarded these other sites it should tell us why it has discarded them. We are entitled to know. The total cost, including the State Government's provision of transport back to the city, is estimated at between $3 00m and $500m. These are the figures that are being trotted around in the media, and experts I have spoken to assess the cost at around that figure. It is a lot of money and a very big decision. A number of astute judges who are highly placed in the tourist industry, including one whose name I do not wish to mention but I can assure honourable members that he is extremely high up in the industry, are now questioning the massive expense, not to mention the massive dislocation of community life that such an airport will spawn. They are suggesting that, in view of the added expense to international visitors who first fly into Sydney or Melbourne before travelling to the tourist destinations they must desire to see, the enormous public expense would be far better invested in upgrading the facilities at tourist destination airports. My colleague the honourable member for Dawson  (Dr Patterson)  mentioned this earlier and I believe that he is completely on the right track. This is a serious proposition and a lot of very astute judges are considering it. lt should be considered in greater detail by this Government. There is a popular myth that all international visitors are wealthy Americans whereas in fact the majority of them travel on tight budgets in the same way as Australians do. They would find that they have to fly back to the Barrier Reef or to Alice Springs and they have either to bypass Australia or to restrict their visit to one or two places. Honourable members opposite know that I am interested in the tourist industry and I will be speaking on that subject in the debate on the estimates for the Department of Trade and Industry. If the airports of Townsville and Alice Springs were upgraded to take jumbo jets there would be the following benefits: Firstly, a considerable amount of airport traffic would be taken off Sydney and Melbourne; secondly, new travel patterns would emerge thus enabling international visitors to extend their stay and embark on a round trip taking in Tasmania and a direct route to Adelaide. The savings made on the airport would reap far greater benefits to the travel industry, while a major contribution to decentralisation would have been made. 
Finally, in the few moments left to me, I want to take up the question of the local people who have been so affected by consideration of this matter. At this moment on the airport site there are some hundreds of farmers who simply cannot move because of this decision hanging over their heads. They cannot plant anything, they cannot sell and they cannot buy. I am very critical of the Minister for Civil Aviation  (Senator Cotton)  because he has still not answered my letter of some months ago asking whether compensation will he paid for the dislocation to the businesses of these people. I am not talking now about the taking of land, but if one was in the position where one's business was in a state of suspended animation the chances are that one would lose thousands of dollars. The Government has made a decision that is costing people money. The Minister for Civil Aviation is a likeable chap but I am very annoyed over his failure to answer correspondence. When I led a delegation to see him in Sydney earlier this year he promised information on the flight paths by July. I waited until August and then sent a telegram. I called at his office but still received no reply. I first learned of the delay till next year in the Press. This is gross discourtesy and I am surprised at the Minister doing this because it is not his usual behaviour. My colleague the honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage)  said that the Minister should be replaced. Maybe he should, but the alternatives are too horrible to contemplate. 
I suggest today that the Commonwealth should extend its involvement by way of the State Grants 
Act to areas where it has hitherto not shown any interest. Last Wednesday the results of a survey carried out by  Dr A.  W. Willee, the Director, Department of Physical Education, University of Melbourne, for the Commonwealth Council of National Fitness were released. The survey was conducted to assess the present fitness levels of Australia's secondary school students by establishing fitness norms for 13-17-year-old boys and girls attending government secondary schools throughout Australia'. 
This report was prepared some time ago and initially rejected because it made comparisons between the physical fitness of Australian children and that of their overseas counterparts. The results would have been embarrassing to the members of this Government and to their Liberal colleagues who at the time of the preparation of the report occupied the treasury benches in all the States of the Commonwealth. A watered down version, which will still prove embarrassing to the Government, has now been released. The report makes reference to proposed comparisons with American children but states without explanation: 
. cross cultural references are fraught with difficulty, and for this and other reasons it was decided that the report of the survey should be confined to the primary purpose of establishing Australian standards. 
Without going into detail on this comprehensive 131-page report, I would like to draw attention to the following points: Firstly, the results of the 8 fitness tests undergone by 7,439 boys and girls showed that the girls' physical fitness deteriorated from the age of 13 to the age of 17 and, while the boys' improved marginally, it was not as great as maturity and development would expect. Let me quote at random from the report. Here are a few of the remarks that are sprinkled through it: 
Public and/or Governmental interest in fitness rises and falls according to circumstances. War or threat of war is always sufficient to arouse interest and act as 'a spur of action. . . . Bach year the cost to the nation of coronary heart disease has been estimated by the National Heart Foundation to be $700m. Large sums are expended on workers compensation. . . . Accident in industry is a constant drain on the nation's resources. . . . Lack of exercise is a risk factor in coronary heart disease. Exercise itself has a beneficial effect on all the other risk factors associated with heart disease. Fatigue is a major cause of accidents of all types. .  . Concern is expressed for a day,  each time the rejection rate for National Servicemen is published. There would be a great saving to the community and to the Army, if recruits were not only organically sound and therefore trainable, but were also functionally fit. ... A recent survey of secondary schools throughout Australia revealed that over three quarters of all Government High Schools are without covered areas in which physical education activities could be conducted. ... No child can take full advantage of whatever education is offered unless that child is healthy. It is physiological common sense, as well as established fact that there is a positive relationship between mental alertness and physical fitness. . . . There is ample evidence that the beneficial effects of exercise are measurable and considerable and that lack of exercise is associated with disease. 
As a result of a report which 1 circulated to my colleagues and which contained some suggestions to combat this problem, I was recently quoted in a Melbourne newspaper as follows: 
The physical fitness and well-being of a nation is as important to the health and ultimate happiness of its people as its level of affluence, education and cultural attainment and its technical and scientific achievements.  . . Australian children compare most unfavourably, with those of similar countries. Whilst our concern about this may lead us to improving the physical fitness of our young people, it is equally true that older generations are even more dangerously unfit than the young. Growing affluence, the universal use of the motor car, labour saving devices and the acceleration of the rate of change from manual labour to clerical and service industries is leading to a more sedentary existence than is reflected in the growing incidence of heart disease and other physical disabilities attributable to lack of physical exercise. 
The likelihood of increased leisure coupled with daylight saving will mean a growing amount of people able to and interested in spending some of this leisure in physical recreation, lt is highly desirable that they should do so. It is equally desirable that governments should assist in the provision of facilities that will assist them in doing so. 
As a result of the report I received a quite delightful letter of support from Professor John Bloomfield, Head of the Department of Physical Education, University of Western Australia. He forwarded to me a copy of a paper he had given entitled The Conservation of Man'. In his opening remarks he said: 
Living in an urban society has deprived man of one of his greatest needs, namely that of movement. As a biological organism, he has evolved over millions of years in an environment demanding physical mobility and endurance, yet in the last 50 years, Australians, by following the trend of other technologically advanced countries, have considerably reduced their daily energy expenditure. 
There is now alarming medical evidence which indicates that man's inability to physically adapt to his changing environment is causing many diseases of a degenerative nature. Research in the field of human biology has demonstrated that a certain amount of physical activity is necessary so that man's biochemical processes can function normally. 
Many European governments, concerned by the trend towards physical inactivity, have attempted to compensate for this lack by establishing a government body with the responsibility of encouraging physical recreation in the community. Although Australians possess reasonably adequate outdoor facilities for recreation, we lack co-ordination in their use, and directional planning for the future. Each average-sized community needs centralised indoor and outdoor facilities, staffed by, Physical Education specialists. Each urban municipality must have easy access to open space, for such outdoor pursuits as bush walking, horse riding, canoeing, camping and nature study, to name but a few. 
If a Federal Ministry of Recreation was established in Australia its function would be twofold. Not only could it co-ordinate recreation al the State level, but it could also produce and circulate, via the mass media, regular National programmes and advertisements promoting physical activity and recreation. 
We must guard against man falling victim to his own technological ingenuity. Neglect of man's physical welfare could be disastrous for his future. 
I made a number of recommendations that I believe could be initiated by governments, particularly by the Federal Government. Many of these could be implemented through the States Grants Acts, particularly the one we are debating at the moment due to its special interest in schools. I believe that this country needs a Minister for Sport and Recreation and a national sports council to work with and advise the Minister on the order of priorities and methods of implementation of a programme to raise the standards of physical fitness of all Australians and of the sports in which they compete. I also suggest that we should build a national sports institute for the training and educating of coaches and instructors and the awarding of diplomas and degrees in physical education, associated sciences and sports education. Associated with the institute should be a fully Federal Government financed sports medical research unit with adequate facilities for postgraduate work; the provision of a sports training centre for Australian athletes to train and be coached for international, national and intra-national sporting events; each national sporting association to submit a programme for the  promotion and extension of its sporting activities on a State or regional basis; and those programmes accepted by the council to receive a Si for SI subsidy from the Federal Government. A national playing fields committee, I believe, is also essential to inquire into and recommend a programme of providing adequate sporting facilities in each community. Approved projects, I believe, should receive a similar  $1  for  $1  subsidy. Some of my colleagues on the other side of the House may think that this approach is revolutionary. Let me assure them that if I had the time I could quote chapter and verse on how this is occurring in a number of countries around the world, including Canada, Great Britain, France and Germany. 
However, the idea that most appeals to me, because I believe it has many functions that will have widespread coverage for the people of each and every community - I hope to see a Federal government take these initiatives - is that the Government undertake a programme of building community gymnasium-swimming pool complexes. A programme of building such complexes would effectively bring to ali Australians a wide range of sports and recreation that is now available only to a handful and it would do so at a markedly reduced cost. The advantage ®f providing these facilities under one roof with the assistance of trained coaches and qualified instructors is immeasurable. Such sports would include basketball, netball, boxing, wrestling, weight-lifting, judo, karate, fencing, table tennis, badminton, athletics, gymnastics, trampolining, archery, swimming, diving, water polo and squash. An extension of the proposal which may have greater appeal is that these complexes be built in co-operation with local government authorities and be located as near as possible to schools. It would be the responsibility of the local government authorities to provide the land and a small portion of the capital cost - let us say  20  per cent - and the Commonwealth's responsibility to build the complex. Once complete the ownership, administration and upkeep would pass to the local authority, a few communities have built sports centres such as those envisaged - in fact, there is one in Garlands in my electorate - and their experience shows that approximately  1,500  people use each centre each week. Over- seas experience shows that one such centre can adequately cater for a population of  20,000  and that it can be built for approximately  $300,000.  With community participation and the economies obtained by building thirty or forty such complexes a year, the cost to the Commonwealth should be limited to about  $225,000  for each. 
I have no doubt that sceptics will say it cannot be done and that the anti-sport lobby in the community will say it should not be done and that we should place more emphasis on cultural and intellectual pursuits than in the worship of the great god, sport. Let me assure the House of  2  things: Firstly, it can be done, and is being done in many countries overseas, particularly in Europe; secondly, sporting and cultural interests are not necessarily incompatible. In fact, they are not incompatible. With a little imagination such complexes could be all embracing to include facilities for both. We should not think of sport competing with the arts, music, theatre and literature for the public purse, but' as desirable pursuits complimenting one another. For those who believe I suffer from a bad attack of Utopianism let me refer to what is happening in Europe and in particular France and the Federal Republic of Germany - that is, West Germany. Between  1958  and  1970  the French Government built  5,130  athletic centres,  2.620  gymnasiums,  1,130  swimming pools,  1,470  youth centres,  1,700  open air centres and  560  youth hostels. It is anticipated that by  1985  the sports facilities requirements of France will have been met. 
In West Germany, with the co-operation of the various branches of government and the German Union of Sport, a programme of measures designed to advance sport and to make it available to everyone in that society, not just a privileged few, has been drawn up. Between  1955  and  1959  the German Olympic Society developed what it refers to as the golden plan, not because it costs a lot of money but because man's health is one of his most prized possessions. It provides that during the period  1961-75  the building of  31,000  childrens playgrounds,  15,000  public and school playing fields,  16,000  gymnasiums,  2,150  covered swimming pools, and  1,600  open air pools, should be completed. During the first 10 years of the plan two-thirds of these facilities had been built. I am aware that there is a difference in the populations of West Germany and Australia but we have done nothing in regard to this type of activity. 
Those of us who have listened to the coaches and commentators returning from the Munich Olympic Games will have noted with interest their repeated comments on the fantastic facilities available to European athletes and remarks that the reason for the great leap forward in performance by the European athletes, particularly the 2 Germanies, is a by-product of those Governments having provided the sporting facilities and the coaches to lift the overall participation and subsequent performance. Let me make it perfectly clear that I believe that in no circumstances should such a programme be undertaken with the object of winning medals at the Olympic Games. I am talking about the health and physical well being of the whole community. Internationa] performances by our sportsmen are just a byproduct of total community participation. It would be perfectly feasible under the States Grants Acts for a Federal Government to undertake a programme in conjunction with the States, local government and the sporting associations to provide these facilities. 
I believe, however, that there is one body of sportsmen that requires a special consideration above all others because of the rather unique position it occupies in the community. The Australian Surf Life Saving Association serves the community in 2 ways. It not only provides excellent physical recreation and sport for a large number of young people but it also provides a valuable service to the community. Without the surf life saving movement many Australians would lose their lives each year. From my own personal experience I can vouch for that. Many thousands of young Australians guard Australian beaches throughout the summer months without any remuneration other than the camaraderie of their friends, the competition of the surf life saving movement and the knowledge that they are providing a vital community service. Unfortunately we tend to take them for granted. It is unconscionable that they should be forced to raise the money required to provide the equipment that helps save these lives. They should not have to beg from their fellow Australians for the right to rescue them. They should be able to make their contribution free of financial problems associated with the purchase of life saving equipment such as boats, reels and medical equipment. At the moment they receive differing amounts from the State governments. For the year 1970-71 amounts provided by the States were: New South Wales, $50,000; Victoria, SI 6,000; Queensland, $87,257; South Australia, 58,000; Western Australia, $9,500 and Tasmania, $3,600. Queensland provides 75c for each $2 collected by the Association and in 1971-72 will provide $111,338. It appears that the Queensland Government is far more generous in this respect than all other governments put together. I believe we should consider 2 possibilities which will not cost much. The first is a matching grant with the States which would have promised $174,357 during 1970-71 and approximately $200,000 during ' 1971-72. The alternative is the provision of $1 for $1 grant for the purchase of all new life saving equipment. 
Finally, let me deal with that long suffering group, the sports spectators. The Sydney Cricket Ground, Sydney's only stadium approaching international standards, cannot seat 25,000 spectators. 1 am sure that you,  Mr Speaker,  will agree with that. I believe you are a constant visitor at big matches; I have often seen you there. But if one does not have a member's pass it is very difficult to get a seat.  Major contests  are witnessed by crowds of between 60,000 and 70,000 people jammed together in uncomfortable, unhygenic and often dangerous conditions. The New South Wales Government has recently proposed the construction of a sports complex in the Moore Park area. I do not believe that this is the right area but I do believe that such a complex should be built. The eastern suburbs of Sydney are nowhere near the centre of Sydney today. They will be even less so when such a complex is completed, probably by the 1980s. I hope the Federal Government will assist financially with the construction of these complexes. This would materially assist those campaigning to gain the 1988 Olympics for Sydney. 
I was hopeful that the Minister for Social Services  (Mr Wentworth)  would be here. I think he is probably on his way. I wanted to raise a social services matter that has arisen in my electorate that has upset me probably more than any other case I have dealt with since I became a member. On Monday of this week a woman came to see me. Basically the story is this: She is a deserted wife with 2 children, boys aged 13 and 10 years. There has been some trouble with the eldest boy. He has been wandering away from home. I am delighted to see that the Minister is now in the House. I will recapitulate if I may. The woman who came to see me on Monday is a deserted wife. She is a delightful woman. 
I suppose one could say she is everybody's idea of what a mother should be. She is a woman of, I suppose, 47 or 48 years. She has 2 boys, one 13 and one 10. The eldest boy has been a problem to her and has been running away from home. He is not a bad child, but because of the difficulties the family is having he is now in Mittagong boys home. She received a letter from the Department of Social Services in the usual standard form. It stated: 
Owing to changed circumstances your pension has been reduced from $57.50 to $36. 
I realise, and I think she does too, that when one of the children becomes a ward of the State it is normal for a reduction to take place, in the pension. However a reducation from $57.50 to $36 seems to be rather savage. So I contacted the local officer of the Social Services Department, who said to me: That is strange because she ought to have been receiving more than that. She should have been getting $62.50'. I think that was the figure he mentioned. He said: 'Leave it with me. I shall check it'. He rang me back 2 hours later. I am still shaking over his reply because I cannot believe that any government could permit this to occur. Apparently why this woman has had her pension reduced is that the husband, who deserted her, left about a year after the first child was born, and the second child is the product of another relationshipcasual or otherwise, I do not know - and certainly not of the father of the first child, who deserted her. So because this woman has a second child born outside wedlock, or however the Department likes to describe it, she is now being told that her pension will be reduced from $57.50 to $36. 
I am sure that honourable members will agree that this is an appalling situation. I have been discussing this matter with members on both sides of the House, and they have found it incredible that this situation could continue. I cannot accept the attitude the Government has towards single mothers but at least I understand it even if I reject it. Its policy is that single mothers should not get social services because this will encourage promiscuity. I think that is a mediaeval concept. Surely this woman, who already has a family, who is a mother, a housewife and a deserted wife to boot, should not be penalised in such a way on the basis that the child was not of the legal marriage. To me this is a moral judgment which no government has the right to make. 
In discussing this matter with one or two of my colleagues it was pointed out to me that in the 'Age' of 13th September an article, appeared which was headlined Fewer forced into marriage: "Pathetic" to condemn single mothers.' It was an article quoting what the Minister for Customs and Excise  (Mr Chipp)  said about single mothers. The article reported him as having stated: 
If this shows that a woman who finds herself pregnant is less prepared to enter a shotgun arrangement with a man with whom she has had a clandestine or brief affair, and if she says that she is not going to ruin her life, and the baby's life and that man's life, and that she will have the baby as a single person instead, I would not say that this is the sort of thing we should rapidly condemn without some thought. 
It gives us hope that maybe there is an air of tolerance coming into our community that would allow single women to do that. 
I believe that the article is a very good article in which the Minister has pointed out that we are getting a new, informed attitude towards single mothers. I will not mention the name of the woman to whom I have referred, although she has given me permission to do so. I do not want to mention her name. I would rather not for the sake of the child and the sake of the woman. I think this sort of situation is primitive in the extreme. If we are to talk in terms of abolition of poverty and if we are to talk about bringing social justice into our society - I am sure there would be very few people in this category - I believe, that this anomaly must be abolished. I would very much like to hear the Minister. I will be delighted to give him the name and address and file number tomorrow when I get them, but I would very much like to hear what his attitude is if it is possible. 
I ask the Prime Minister whether he was correctly reported in July this year as having stated that the American consumer advocate,  Mr Ralph  Nader, was a professionally paid pot stirrer. Has the Prime Minister's attention been drawn to a nation-wide opinion poll held in the United States of America last year which indicated that some  78  per cent of Americans wanted Ralph Nader as their president -  1  might add that this opinion poll was a little better than other opinion polls on some people - and that they regarded him as one of the few men, if not the only man, in the country with the capacity and integrity for that great office? In view of the enormous interest and appreciation shown by Australians in the subjects raised by Ralph Nader - foreign control of Australian resources, automobile safety, excessive government secrecy, pollution, conservation, dishonest advertising and packaging and others - does the Prime Minister still hold the same view of  Mr Nader? 
Last year when speaking on the estimates for the Department of Trade and Industry I spoke about the tourist industry and the failure of this Government to institute a programme to maximise the natural attractions of Australia for the benefit of the industry and the hundreds of thousands of people who are directly or indirectly involved. I directed my criticism at the Government's failure to implement any of the recommendations of the reports prepared by Harris Kerr Foster and later Parnell Kerr Foster on the total Australian tourist scene and specifically the Mount Olga Ayres Rock projects and the Great Barrier Reef. 
At that time my concern lay in the opportunities that were being missed to gain the maximum development, profitability and employment from an industry with so much potential rather than the minimum. Since then, as a direct result of this Government's inflationary policies and the world-wide downturn in travel the tourist industry is not only not operating at maximum capacity, it is also in the middle of a serious recession that could send not only many business operations to the wall but leave a great number without employment. I said then that providing the machine was struggling along on one leg, this Government would do nothing. Maybe now that it is legless, the Government will give it some consideration. Under an Australian Labor Party government it will have both legs and arms restored and will be flying well ahead of its opposition. 
The tourist industry has gained some small recognition in the Budget. This is a step, ever so small, in the right direction, but like so many Government gestures in recent years it has strings attached. It requires State government acceptance of a dollar for dollar grant, and if experience is any guide, they are very thin strings. 
The Treasurer  (Mr Snedden)  had this to say in the Budget Speech: 
An approach has been made to the States seeking their agreement to a programme of development of tourist attractions - such as Australiana and pioneer settlements, the preservation of historic sites and buildings, fauna sanctuaries and the like - considered to have particular appeal to overseas visitors to this country. The Commonwealth will match expenditure by the States dollar for dollar up to a total Commonwealth expenditure of Sim annually. S25O.00O may be needed in 1972-73. 
As with so many other matching grants dependent on the States' involvement, it is possible that little or nothing will be pumped into such projects. It is a pretence to suggest that the Government has allocated Sim a year to the tourist industry - it has not; that is, not until the State governments have made their position clear. 
Ten minutes allotted in the debate on these estimates does not permit me to range over all the areas of concern in the industry. However, in the hope that the States will recognise the urgent need to accept this offer I want to speak specifically of an exciting project that should qualify for assistance as indicated by the Treasurer in his Budget Speech. I am hopeful that honourable members will understand that I raise this matter not because it concerns my electorate but because of my continuing interest in the tourist industry over a long period. I want it clearly understood that although I am delighted that such a project will be built on the Central Coast in the electorate of Robertson I would have been equally enthusiastic and equally insistent that a considerable amount of money should be allocated to assist this project if it were in someone else's electorate. 
The project is to be known as 'Old Sydney Town' and is the brainchild of one  Mr Frank  Fox, a well known Sydney architect. For over 12 years  Mr Fox  searched in vain for a site where he could recreate in authentic detail the living environment of Australia's first settlement. Over the next few years  Mr Fox  and his colleagues will invest approximately $9m in the Old Sydney Town project. For many years the search took place for a site with a configuration similar to that of Sydney Cove. Many people when first made aware of the proposal made comparisons with Disneyland. This misconception is, I suppose, quite understandable, but it would be more accurate to compare it with Canada's Upper village' or the United States' Williamsburg. The brochure circulated some 12 months ago sums up the objectives quite clearly. It states: 
To establish a high quality, historically accurate living recreation of the Sydney Cove area to 1810. The area to be recreated will be that portion of land and water including the Cove and bounded by the present day Argyle, York, Hunter and Macquarie Streets. 
The siting of the Old Sydney Town is nothing short of brilliant. It will be located on the Pacific Highway and in close proximity to the new Sydney-Newcastle tollway within 60 miles of 3.3 million permanent residents or one quarter of Australia's population. It overlooks 20,000 acres of national park in an area with one of  the  most temperate climates in Australia. 
Let me make it perfectly clear that this is a commercial proposition, but one need only to talk to Frank Fox for a few minutes to realise that it is far more than that to him. It is a lifetime dream to give Australia an historical landmark that will equal anything in the world.  His  enthusiasm is infectious, and one realises quickly that while it may turn out to be a very profitable investment, that factor is secondary to the completion of a dream. Should it be financially successful - and I know that many hard headed business associates of  Mr Fox  were sceptical in the early days - the profit will have been justly earned, for the frustration, obstacles and expenses would be enough to make most hardy men throw in the towel. Site problems, finance, State Planning Authority and local government delays, plus numerous trips overseas to research and study similar projects have all contributed to the frustration and delay, but now it is all stops out. It is exciting to see the dream becoming a reality. 
The phrase 'authentic living re-creation' is an essential part of the concept, and I can best enlarge upon it by quoting from the Old Sydney Town brochure. It states: 
Sydney in 1810 was a living, vital organism, bustling with activity and gusto. Between stern military order on the one hand and brawling licentious convictism on the other, there was a prodigious diversity of endeavour. It will be the aim of Old Sydney Town to recreate this vitality. 
The life of the old settlement will be simulated by a large range of daily activities that were once normal but can no longer be seen. The windmill will actually grind grain; the baker will store the flour and then bake breads for visitors to eat. Builders will be seen at work using the materials, equipment and techniques of 1810, both on buildings under construction and in the workshops. Blacksmiths will actually use the forges in the smithy, producing ironwork not only for the buildings but for the tourist shops in Heritage Hall. In the marketplace goods and produce actually originating locally will be sold. 
As well as day-to-day activities such as these, there will be regular special events and reenactments. Robert Sidaway's theatre will produce stage shows. The Rum Rebellion and the arrest of Governor Bligh will be commemorated. Garden Parties will be held at the Governor's house. Court proceedings will be conducted and 'sentences' carried out. The stocks in the market place will occasionally be filled, and a chain-gang sometimes seen. The re-enactment of the hoisting of the flag on January 26th will be an essentia] ceremony. 
All transportation within the Town will be historically authentic; no motorised vehicles will be seen. A large and important collection of animaldrawn carts, waggons and carriages is already on the site and some are already restored and ready for use. A team of ten bullocks has been trained to work in yoke and will haul not only large loads of materials but also tourist waggons. Water transportation will be represented by the large colonial vessel already mentioned, by the vessel in frame on the dockyard slip, and by smaller boats both oared and sail-powered. 
The project envisages the authentic re-creation of forty-seven historic buildings. Almost all of the important structures of early Sydney will he represented. Nearly thirty of them will be houses, ranging from the comparative grandeur of the Governor's and the Lieutenant-Governor's houses to the nearest convict domiciles from the impressive store mansion of Simeon Lord to the tiny shelter built for Benelong. 
I said earlier that I am delighted that Old Sydney Town will be built in the electorate of Robertson. Apart from the pride we will all feel in having it on the Central Coast, it will be a major contributor to solving the very serious problem of unemployment that has always been prevalent. It will bring hundreds of thousands of extra visitors to the Central Coast who will undoubtedly take advantage of many of the other tourist attractions available there, but primarily it will belong to Australia. It will add immeasurably to the visit of overseas tourists. It will sustain and encourage the growing interest that Australians have discovered in their own heritage. It will bring to life early Australian history to school children who have previously had to suffer the unutterable boredom of the average textbook on Australian history. If there is one project that should receive financial support under the terms expressed by the Treasurer, it should be Old Sydney Town. 
I have taken part in housing debates before and, frankly, I have become tired of talking and seeing the Minister for Housing  (Mr Kevin Cairns),  who is at the table, looking bored with everything and I am tired of seeing honourable members on the back benches opposite half asleep and disinterested. I know it must be hard work for them to stay up at night and have to listen to all these arguments from the Australian Labor Party about the lousy job the Government is doing  and the statistics showing that the housing situation in this country is dreadful. Tonight I will change my normal procedure of speaking and I will read into the record 2 letters. One case came to my notice from a woman that I know very well. The other one is from a woman I have never met. I will read them without mentioning the names. One woman wrote:  Dear  Mr Cohen, 
This is the very first time that I have ever written to an MP. Actually I don't know what, if any, good this will do. But when you are desperate you will do anything. 
We have been waiting for a Housing Commission house for 21 years now. When we applied the inspector said that it wouldn't be any more than 2 years at the outside. Well, so much for that. 
We are a young family. My husband is 25 and I am 22. We have three daughters. The eldest is 4 in September and we have twins who will be  2  in October. My husband earns $63 a week. Sometimes he is lucky and earns some overtime which usually pays a doctor's bill or something we haven't been able to afford. My child endowment, of course, comes in handy to pay the medical benefit. 
We aren't in debt thank goodness (if you don't count hire purchase as debt) but you can see that it is impossible to even think of trying to buy land or save for a house. We have no alternative but  to  wait for the Housing Commission. 
I know this sounds like yet another whining letter to you (that is if you have even read this far)- 
That shows how much confidence she has in members of Parliament -  but to us and I am sure, thousands more like us, there is not much hope for young people in this so-called affluent country of ours. 
I have written to the Housing Commission, not to hurry them up, but just to ask them to give us something to hope on. If they would only say, well you may have some chance in the next twelve months' or something like that we wouldn't feel so absolutely desperate. 
I suppose I have taken enough of your time. I am not really asking you to do anything because I know you can't. I was just wondering whether you men who run this country know what it is like for the little people who make up this country, who have less future than the migrants who come out here and because they are new and strange get all the help in the world. I am not knocking the migrants. I just wish the young Australians were given a go also. 
I do not think I need to embellish on that. I think it says a mouthful and does not need any comment from me. The writer of the other letter, again, will remain unnamed and I shall read the letter. The woman who wrote it is particularly well known to me and I admire her immensely. She wrote to me as follows: 
I suppose when I came to Australia many years ago I had the 'Australian dream' of owning  a  house. 
Both my husband and myself worked hard, paying rents of between $25-835 plus bond (which by the way, never seems to be returned) weekly for houses, not on the wealthy North Shore, but mostly in the Western Suburbs. Every few years or months, as the case may be, we moved, when houses were sold, or rents increased. 
Finally 3 years ago, because I was involved in an accident, we finally had the meagre compensation money which enabled us to put the deposit on an old modest timber house. 
Then the fun really began. Our wonderful Government had tightened the purse strings and  finance, for people like us, by now in our forties with 5 children ages from 5-19 was just not obtainable. 
Running around from Peter to Paul we finally obtained because we have a good credit rating, Finance Co. Finance'. You borrow $8,000 over 10 years and pay back $16,000, very simple arithmetic brings you to the figure of 100 per cent profit. $140.00 per month is hard to find. As long as I had a job, we managed after a fashion. 
However, any day now my house will be up for sale, I became redundant 2 months ago and however hard I have tried, I have had no luck in finding another job. 
The Great Australian Dream' yes - for the rich, with the tax concessions, etc., etc. - but not for the average working man at least not under the present government. 
Those letters, I think, show very simply what is the situation in Australia today for people who are not fortunate. Having been myself through the same sort of situation some 10 years ago I can identify very well with it. I know what it is like moving around from home to home because I could not get a deposit for a home. I know what it is like paying rent of $25, $35 and $40 a week. I know how stupid is the situation in this country when the people who least need finance can get it and the people who most need it cannot. I have recently taken out a second loan to build at Erina. The rate of interest I pay on that loan is very much lower than the interest on the loan for the first home I bought simply because I am now a better credit risk. But before, when I was buying the first home, 6 or 7 years ago, was when I needed the lower interest rate because that is when my salary was low and I was battling. 
It is the same for people right throughout the community. The woman who wrote the second letter had to pay double the money for a very modest home  -  $8,000 capital and $8,000 in interest. People on her income are denied the lower interest rates. I did not mention her income before. She was a librarian in a government facility which closed. I think she was earning about $65 a week. Her husband was a slaughterman at the Gosford abattoirs earning between $55 and $60 a week. So, they received $120 a week when they were both working. Of their earnings $140 a month went on the house. But then, as I said, she was made redundant because the government facility closed. A week after she wrote that letter she informed me that her husband had lost his job because 200 people had been put off at the Gosford abattoirs. They have to pay $140 a month for their house but they have no income. I understand that she may now have a job. But still, how does a person manage first of all to cope with that sort of payment? 
Why do we not have some sort of Government instrumentality which, when people get into these difficulties, as they can through no fault of their own but through employment factors and recessions very often brought about by this Government, would provide some sort of housing finance for a short term while they get back on their feet again? It is absurd that this woman should have to live from hand to mouth and find money, perhaps only for a few months - 3, 4 or 6 months at the most - or have to sell her home because of the inability to find this very heavy payment. 
Just before I was elected to the House of Representatives the cost of land in the electorate of Robertson ranged from about $2,000 to $2,500 per block. The same land is now selling for between $6,500 and $7,500 a block. I want to make that point because I did not mention land values. The 3 problems of housing are summed up in those 2 letters and my final comment about the inability of this Government to assist in any shape or form people who are in desperate need of housing. 
I would like to make a personal explanation. This morning during the debate on the report of the Expert Group on Road Safety I said: 'You have blood on your hands'. I meant to indicate, and I think the Hansard report will show, that 1 was accusing the Government collectively for its actions over a period of 10 years. I do not want the Minister for Shipping and Transport  (Mr Nixon)  to think that I was accusing him personally. I believe that he has that feeling. If so, I would like him to accept this explanation as an apology to him. I certainly did not mean it that way. 
I ask the Prime Minister whether his attention has been drawn to the High Court ruling in the case of Miss Anne Lodge, who sought to have creche costs allowed as tax deduction. The High Court ruled that the expense of keeping a child in a day nursery was neither relevant nor incidental to Miss Lodge's work. In view of the generous allowances that are permitted to businessmen for all sorts of entertainment and other expenses will the Government reconsider the situation and legislate so that such day care costs incurred by mothers, particularly single mothers, are allowable tax deductions? 
This is a very interesting document. What it does in effect is to support completely the stand we have been taking for 18 months. It is a most damaging document because chapter and verse it illustrates just how clearly the Federal Government has ignored the very deep seated road safety problems. I have read only the summary at the beginning of the report because, like the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones),  I received a copy of it only this morning. I want to quote just a few pieces from it. It reads: 
The behaviour of the road user is nearly always the final link in the chain of circumstances which leads to a road accident. Because of this fact there is a widely held belief that the most effective way to reduce road accidents is to modify human behaviour by more driver education and training and by intensive road safely publicity. In practice these efforts have proved only minimally effective. 
Although the driver may appear primarily to be at fault in many accidents, there is clear evidence that in the shorter term making the road and/or the vehicle safer is often cheaper and more effective in reducing both the incidence and severity of accidents than are attempts to modify human behaviour. 
The whole basis of our attack over the past 18 months has been that the old myths and shibboleths on road safety have to be cast aside. The Government's expert group has backed up the statements that we have been making from this side of the House. The Government's own committee has made some very trenchant criticisms. Its report says:   a vigorous co-ordinated multi-disciplinary attack on road safety problems must be implemented on a national basis. 
It goes on to say: 
It is strongly recommended that the Commonwealth Government should involve itself more directly in road safety and in other ways promote a more vigorous, co-ordinated and multidisciplinary approach. 
Each and every one of the recommendations in this report by the Expert Group on Road Safety were recommendations made by the Australian Labor Party. They are in our policy. They were in the report which I wrote and which the Minister for 
Shipping and Transport at the time did not have the good grace to say anything decent about. He said that my report was a collection of other people's thoughts. 
Let me quote the recommendations which are already a part of our policy. I will also quote from a speech I made in the House on the Budget last year. The Report continues: 
It should do this by: 
Creating a specialist National Office of Road Safety (Co-ordination and Research) . . . 
Introducing a special programme of financial assistance to the States . . . 
Creating a central information office so that those working in road safety will have ready access to adequate statistical and other information . . . 
Planning and sponsoring a greatly expanded research programme . . . 
Increasing the technical and other support in the areas of vehicle safety standards, traffic codes, education and publicity; 
Ensuring that adequate safety features are incorporated in roads which are financed out of Commonwealth grants, and especially those highways of national importance; 
In the section headed 'Motor Vehicles' the report states: 
The mandatory inclusion of known safety design features and the compulsory wearing of seat belts have made valuable contribution to road safety in Australia. 
Before I deal with that let me quote from the speech I made on the Budget last year when I outlined Labor Party policy which I had previously outlined at a seminar at Terrigal. I said: 
What we propose basically is this: We will set up a Commonwealth highway safety bureau which Will set uniform standards for the States to implement. These will include standards on driver education, traffic codes and laws, the collection of data, traffic control devices, driver licensing and vehicles in use. Such a bureau will set safety design standards for new vehicles and test vehicles after production, lt will have its own independent laboratory, which will carry out research, lt will investigate ways of implementing recall legislation for defective vehicles. It will also study, together with our department of urban affairs, effective urban planning that will stop the motor vehicle from intruding into everyone's life as it now does, and also the possibility of setting up a national vehicle inspection company such as exists in Sweden or similar to what operates in New Zealand. 
When we have put these propositions forward they have . been argued against by Government supporters and ignored by Ministers, who have brushed them off by saying that they are the responsibility of the States. Yet here we have one after the other in this report recommendations adopted by this Expert Group which are Fart of the Labor Party's policy. The Minister scoffs. Let him show me in this report the recommendations which are not part of our policy. Let him show me how much difference there is between the recommendations of the experts and our policy which the Government has ignored for years since a Senate committee made its report. You have blood on your hands. Thousands of Australians have died because you have not been prepared to implement anything or to take up your responsibility. All the Government has done has been to say that it is the responsibility of the States. It is easy to talk about 30,000 people - mothers, fathers and children - who have broken bones or who are dead. This has happened because of the failure of the Federal Government to take the initiative in this (field. 
I realise that this matter will be debated at a later stage and we will have more time to consider it. I hope that we will get time to debate it fully before the House rises because there is so much more to say. I think that at first glance the report is an excellent one. Like the honourable member for Newcastle, there are probably some things in it with which I do not agree but at first glance I think there are some things which the Labor Party could almost implement in toto. 
-! always feel a little sad following the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Jess).  He never seems to be happy unless there is a war going on. If there were not a war going on I am sure he would be looking for one. 
I have no intention of withdrawing it. I meant it when I said it. 
I am also amused by the fact that honourable members opposite never seem to remember that in 1941, when this country was at war and when their fathers left this country unarmed and unprepared, it was a Labor Government that got them out of trouble, as it has done every other time. I want to put forward an idea for public discussion that I believe would make a major contribution to world peace and humanity, to Australia's relations with the rest of the world and to the morale and efficiency of our defence forces. 
I believe we should consider the creation of a special unit within our armed forces for the sole purpose of dealing with civil disasters both at home and abroad. Regularly the world witnesses major natural disasters that are terrifying in their intensity, rapacious in their destruction and heart rending in terms of human misery and suffering. Earthquakes, volcanic eruptions, floods and cyclones occur with regularity in countries near and far. The floods in what is now Bangladesh are estimated to have claimed half a million lives. In recent weeks the Philippine floods left approximately 400 dead and 2 million homeless and starving. Peru and Turkey have seen earthquakes destroy whole towns and killing and injuring thousands. 
Each time such a catastrophe occurs the world appears to be quite incapable of quickly and effectively assisting very often poor underdeveloped countries to minimise the number of those killed and injured and alleviate the suffering of those left homeless. An enormous number of countries want to help but inevitably through lack of a co-ordinated plan there is a time consuming delay with unnecessary loss of life and suffering. A considerable amount of time and energy is now being expended by agencies of the United Nations in exploring ways of co-ordinating a plan to prevent disaster occurring, to provide emergency relief and to assist in reconstruction afterwards. 
My proposal is that a special force be created by the Australian armed forces consisting of at least one battalion of our Army and sections of the Navy, Air Force and Medical Corps to be trained specifically for this type of international civil disaster. It should be available to fly to any trouble spot in the world at 48 hours notice. It should be a highly mobile unit consisting of Hercules transport, helicopters, small watercraft, road and bridge building engineers, fire fighting units, medical teams, communications experts and general rescue expertise for all types of natural disasters. It would have stockpiles of drugs, food, clothing and protective cover ready to accompany such an exercise. But I would leave it to the experts to determine exactly what would be required. That is just a general concept and it is not specific. 
Such a unit could play a major contribution, uplifting to Australia's reputation among the new developing nations. It would be an angel of mercy exercise welcomed by all those who feel for the suffering when such great civil disasters occur. It would be invaluable assistance within Australia when disasters such as those that have occured in Hobart, Townsville and Maitland are repeated elsewhere. It would be welcomed, I believe, by the armed forces themselves as a valuable and interesting humanitarian activity during the long periods that occur between armed conflict. One would hope that armed conflict will never occur again or that at least it will occur as little as possible. However, one of the frustrations of peace time Army service must be the continued preparation for combat without the opportunity to prove oneself - much like a boxer training for a fight but never getting to the ring. Such frustrations are natural and must build up pressure within the armed forces for action, irrespective of the rights or wrongs of the conflict. The feeling that one was using one's skills and expertise in conflict against nature would help to allevi ate those feelings of frustrations. Men serving in such a unit would have done their basic training in one of the forces and in time of war they would be able to revert to a fighting unit or, alternatively, using their skills in assisting in rescue operation so prevalent during wars. I believe that some debate took place earlier on the Citizen Military Forces. I believe that sections of the CMF could well be included in this proposition. 
When I commenced my speech I said something about the remarks made by the honourable member for La Trobe. Perhaps I was a bit harsh at the time, but I would like to hear him talk a lot more about the things which I have just talked about, rather than being solely preoccupied with the fighting of wars. Perhaps I get the wrong impression but every time I hear him speak in this House he is talking about war, fighting and armies. If that is a wrong impression, it is certainly the one which he gives to honourable members on this side of the House. 

 Mr JESS (La Trobe)-  Mr Chairman,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
In one inspired burst of shuffling the Prime Minister  (Mr McMahon)  has solved the urban problems of Australia. Twenty-three years late and two months before an election the penny has finally dropped. Or perhaps it may be that Government supporters are realising that the Australian Labor Party's programme for redevelopment of the cities, provision of facilities for burgeoning outer suburbs and the development of new cities has been increasingly well received by the Australian electorate. However, I have enough faith in the common sense of those voters to make their judgments as to why the Liberals have been so belatedly converted. 'Decentralisation', 'regional growth centres', 'sub-metropolitan centres' - these unfamiliar phrases rolled glibly off the Prime Minister's tongue as if he had been using them all his life and not just in the last few weeks. One thing that can be said about him and his supporters is that they do not lack cheek. After a series of unprecedented spells of policy about faces the new National Urban and Regional Development Authority must be the 'Daddy of them AH'. The Australian Labor Party's Department of Urban Affairs proposals were in their own words: 'An attempt to usurp the functions of State and local government - the ultimate in socialist centralism - Utopian dreaming'. It makes interesting reading these days. It is a pity alerations to Hansard are restricted to the greens. There would have been a lot of changes made over the past 6 years. We can hardly expect a public recanting but at least we know that on so many issues the Liberals have managed to go into reverse gear. The sneering phase is over. Incidentally, this must finally give the lie to the proposition that an Opposition cannot achieve very much. Had the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Whitlam),  the Shadow Minister for Urban Affairs the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren)  and members of the Federal Parliamentary Labor Party not stomped the country detailing their plans to local government associations, civic design group, architects, town planners, engineers, conservationists and a myriad of other people and organisations concerned about the deteriorating quality of life for the majority of Australians, this Bill creating the National Urban and Regional Development Authority would never have eventuated. 
One great danger the Australian people must be made aware of in the first euphoric moments of the Liberals adopting the principles at least a portion of Labor's policy is the realisation that effective decentralisation does not occur overnight. It would be tragic if people believed that the vague proposals outlined in the Prime Minister's second reading speech constituted an attack on or a solution to the problems of the overcrowded polluted cities of Australia - particularly Melbourne and Sydney. The Prime Minister's second reading speech is a load of waffle. It says absolutely nothing that would not be obvious to a high school student asked to do an essay on the problems of the cities. The proposals are vague in the extreme and show how hasty and illprepared both he and his speech writer were about urban matters, lt promises little specifically. If one looks past the cliches it is clear that this is simply another committee to make a report - an exercise for which the Prime Minister has become famous. I searched closely for some substance and came up with only two facts about what NURDA will do. The Prime Minister said: 
It will be required to investigate and report to the Prime Minister on matters relating to urban or regional development. This investigation and advice would be designed to assist the Government in making decisions having urban and regional implications. 
This is heady stuff,  Mr Speaker.  This should send the hundreds of thousands of people who are genuinely looking for a positive lead from the Government on urban planning into ecstasy. The second item of substance, if one could call it that, in the second reading speech of the Prime Minister reads: 
It may undertake pilot or experimental projects, studies, including feasibility studies. It may enter into consultative engagements with professional groups and Government agencies and provide information and advice to other authorities. 
What a pretty state this Government has come to when after a decade of the rest of Australia growing daily more aware of the problems of urban congestion and rural depopulation, of air and water pollution and traffic congestion, of urban sprawl, visual ugliness and the resultant social alienation, it should introduce such vague and innocuous proposals as those contained in this Bill. 
Even if we started tomorrow it could take 20 or 30 years to effectively reverse a trend that has been continuing since the first settlement at Sydney Cove. Should honourable members think me unduly pessimistic, might I remind them that the only planned decentralised programme that has been Canberra. It has the highest growth rate of any city in Australia - around 10 per cent. 
Yet it has grown from a population of approximately only 20,000 in the early 1950s to approximately 160,000 by 1972. All this has occurred with massive Government support and finance. It is conventional wisdom amongst decentralisers that for a city to become a self-generating growth area it must first reach a minimum of between 100,000 and 150,000. Outside the major capital cities, there are few towns with populations above 40,000. I exclude Newcastle and Wollongong. Sydney's population is near 2£ million and according to the Minister for Decentralisation in New South Wales, the honourable J. B. Fuller, the population of Sydney is growing by about 70,000 a year. A rapid rate of growth is essential to attract industries that are themselves attracted by growth - the building industry and allied trades, plumbing, electrical, brick works, hotels and motels, and so on. At each stage in the population growth a new group of industries become viable. It must be perfectly obvious to anyone that there would have to be half a dozen cities of between 100,000 and 150,000 now to hope to siphon off the 70,000 growth in Sydney every year. With the snowballing effect of population growth, Sydney will be growing by 100,000 a year within 5 years. We would have to be building a city of 100,000 every year to hold Sydney at its present size. Christopher Jay in an 'Australian Financial Review' article on Wednesday, 20th September said: 
The question facing Australia now is not how to prevent these megalopolises from sprawling to S million plus populations. That possibility has already been foreclosed by the past 30 years of political fumbling and missed opportunities. 
The question on which the options are still open is whether they can be levelled off nl 5 million or so - or whether they will plough on indefinitely towards the 10 million person mark, accompanied by ever-increasing smog, crowded ultra-high density housing, unhappy urban populations, deteriorating public services and all the other features of mass urban life so familiar from overseas. 
The history of decentralisation, paid lip service by Country Party members since that Party was formed, is the history of apathy, indifference, buck passing and straight out jealousy by parochial politicians determined that if there were to be decentralisation it had to be in their electorate. 
Dispersed decentralisation has failed. We can at least be gratified that selective decentralisation appears to have been accepted by the Country Party politicians, although I understand that the recent announcement that the New South Wales Government had selected Bathurst-Orange as the first growth centre has caused some 
Country Party politicians to mutter about their area being neglected. It is essential that country people and their councils support the proposition of selective decentralisation. Unless they do this the country will continue the interminable wrangle and no decentralisation will occur. Again I quote from the 'Financial Review', although I have forgotten the name of the writer: 'Yes, by all means, do your best to promote your centre as a growth centre, and if you don't succeed, support one near you, and, if that doesn't come off, support a growth centre, in that order'. 
Already in my speech in the Budget debate and again in the debate on States Grants Bill (No. 3) I have concentrated on the deficiencies that exist in the outer urban areas of the capital cities of Australia. I dealt with Sydney which I am more familiar with and particularly the electorate of Robertson on the central coast which I described as being a microcosm of all the problems that exist in urban Australia today. It must be inconceivable to Liberal Party members who represent the well-to-do suburbs of Sydney, such as the North Shore electorate of Bradfield, Warringah, MacKellar, North Sydney and Bennelong to imagine what it is like to have to live between 30 and 60 miles from their work. Can they conceive of travelling 2 hours to work each morning and 2 hours returning home at night in crowded, dirty trains? Have they any concept of the facilities such as water, telephones, roads, kerbing and guttering that have become luxuries to many people who live in these newly emerging suburbs? Can they believe that hundreds and thousands of people live in unsewered areas in this age when we can put men on the moon? If they do not have the obnoxious pan system they have to put up with the septic system with its extra cost and often polluting effects on the environment. Worse than that, they may have to suffer the economic burden of the tanker removal system. In fairness to the electors of Bradfield I can cite my own experience in my last year living in Turamurra. Over and above normal rates I was forced to spend $400 for the year for removal of effluent. Many many thousands of people in outer urban areas suffer this back breaking burden because of the failure of governments, both Fed eral and State, to provide adequate finance to local government and semi-government authorities to enable them to sewer these outer urban areas adequately. 
If local and semi-government authorities cannot provide basic facilities, what hope have they of providing such things as recreational facilities, libraries, youth centres, swimming pools, cultural amenities and a host of other needs that go to make up a balanced community, that go to make up what is generally defined as quality of life? The Federal Government has always passed the buck to the States. The States in turn have passed the responsibility to the local government authorities and that is where the buck stopped, or should I say that is where the bucks ran out. There are no bucks left to spend on these facilities. If you are wondering why, let me quote from Max Walsh's article in the 'Australian Financial Review' on Friday, 13th October. He wrote: 
The Prime Minister,  Mr McMahon,  this week provided in the long statistical analysis of public debt some invaluable ammunition for  Mr Whitlam. 
The thrust of these figures is illustrated by the accompanying graph. 
Unfortunately I cannot incorporate the graph in Hansard. He continued: 
This shows that semi-governmental and local government authorities are galloping into debt at a rate which outstrips the Commonwealth  and  the States. 
In  1947, the total debt of Commonwealth and 
State public bodies was $6,337ra. Of this total, the Commonwealth accounted for 58.9 per cent; the State governments accounted for 32.2 per cent; semi-government authorities accounted for 6.6 per cent and local government authorities for 2.2 per cent. 
In 1970, the last year for which full figures are available, the total public debt was $20,848. 7m. 
The Commonwealth's share of this had shrunk to 18.6 per cent, the States to 44.7 per cent. 
Semi-government's share had risen to 28.9 per cent and local government to 7.8 per cent. 
The situation has actually been reached where, through interest rate differentials, the semi and local government people are actually paying mora in interest and debt redemption than State or Federal governments. 
In the short time left to me I wish to refer to the statement of the honourable member for Cowper  (Mr Robinson)  on what the Government would do about land. I would like to remind him that since the land tenure system was changed in Canberra the cost of restricted land has risen by 465 per cent and the cost of unrestricted land by 181 per cent. In group sales prices have risen by 334 per cent. That is not a bad effort, even for the Liberal Party. 
Interestingly enough, our Country Party colleagues have been running a campaign which is designed to show that they are concerned about the environment. In the 71 years since Federation Australian voters have been subjected to many dishonest compaigns, but never before have they been subjected to the fraud now being perpetrated by the Country Party. In an attempt to gain electoral ground in an area where its surveys have shown it to be weak, the Minister for Trade and Industry,  Mr Anthony,  and the Minister for Primary Industry,  Mr Sinclair,  have appeared in a number of television commercials that emphasise the Country Party's ong and abiding interest in the quality of life of Australians. We are being asked to believe that the Country Party is not just a mouthpiece of the big grazing and farming interests but has always been concerned with the health, education, housing and social welfare of Australians and is dedicated to solving the growing problems of the environment, namely urban congestion pollution, conservation and decentralisation. 
I was fascinated to find this new found interest of the Country Party because during the 3 years I have been in this Parliament I have been struck by their almost total lack of concern for people. I decided to do an analysis of the questions asked in the House of Representives by the 14 Country Party backbenchers during the 27th Parliament. It produced some very interesting results. 
It is related to the Bill. The Bill is about decentralisation and environment. I want to illustrate just how interested the Country Party has been. Question time over a substantial period will illustrate clearly where the order of priorities of a political party lies. The Australian voters have a right to know - not only the country voters but also the urban voters, whose lives are shaped so decisively by the actions or inactions of the Country Party members who are able to pressure their urban coalition colleagues - the Liberals. I want to read the figures I have compiled into the record. The Country Party backbenchers asked 458 questions, the figures I give will show their interest in the environment. One hundred and twenty-four were addressed to the Minister for Primary Industry, 55 to the Minister for Trade and Industry, 44 to the Prime Minister - 20 of which were rural questions, none on the environment - 39 to tha Minister for National Development, 32 to the Minister for Shipping and Transport, 27 to the Minister for the Interior, 23 to the PostmasterGeneral, 20 to the Treasurer - 12 of which were rural questions relating to tax concessions and rural relief - 14 to the Minister for Education and Science - 7 of which concerned the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation on cattle - 13 to the Minister for Labour and National Service, 9 to the Minister for the Army, 8 to the Minister for Foreign Affairs and, 7 to the Minister for Immigration. We have not yet got down to the questions on the environment. 
Earlier tonight I was gagged, I think quite unnecessarily, during the debate on the estimates for the Repatriation Department and the Department of Social Services. As it turned out, a period of 10 minutes was wasted on a division. I would not have spoken on the adjournment had I been able to speak earlier. I notice that the Minister for Repatriation  (Mr Holten)  is in the House. I do not wish to go over all the ground that was covered by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Barnard)  regarding the wives of totally and permanently incapacitated pensioners. I think it was stated fairly emphatically earlier on in the debate on the estimates. I too want to put a case for wives of TPI pensioners having hospital and medical entitlements. When this matter first broke in my electorate I received a communication from the  president  of the Central Coast pensioner organisation, and I met representatives of the 6 branches of this organisation. All the arguments have already been put. I believe that the position in which the wives of TPI pensioners are placed is wrong. I asked this organisation about the hospital and medical costs of a pensioner's wife. I asked one gentleman whose wife is an invalid whether, together with his local doctor, he would please get some details that I could show to the Minister. I would rather not mention this gentleman's name, but it is available if necessary. He wrote to me: 
Dear  Sir, 
With reference to our recent meeting at the Tuggerah Lakes Memorial Club, I have endeavoured after consultation with the Medical Practitioner, Chemists etc., I can now present to you an approximate statement of what I consider, will be my medical expenses in the coming year for my wife. . . . 
In doing so, may I draw your attention to the fact, that ... is a severe Aortic Stenosis and leaking valve of the heart, coupled with Sclerosis, (Coronary).  Her  age is seventy years and her condition can be expected to become worse, with the passing of time. 
Together with his doctor he compiled a list of his expected medical costs for this year. His wife is a very seriously ill woman. He expects to have 26 surgery consultations at $4 each, totalling $104, less medical benefit refunds of $83, leaving an amount payable of $21. He expects 34 in-hours home visits at $5.45, the total cost of which will be Si 86, less medical benefits refunds of $144, leaving a net payable amount of $42. He has calculated that he will have 20 out of hours visits at $7 for a cost of $140, less medical benefits refunds of $85, leaving an amount payable of $55. In regard to medicines he has calculated that 8 prescriptions would be required every 2 weeks, which would cost $260, and that further prescriptions - I cannot quite read how this figure was calculated - would cost $84. Then he has allowed $20 for possible hospitalisation. I think that he has omitted from this list the cost involved in his wife's joining the fund which, I think the Minister said, would cost about $52 a year. This makes a total of $482. I think that we could add another $52 to that figure, giving a total of $534. 
This is just one example of the sort of thing that can occur. I think that the Minister referred to a figure of $590. I think he will agree that there will be little benefit for this patient. I do not believe that this man has exaggerated these costs. He calculated them with his doctor on the basis of the sickness which this lady had suffered during the previous year. That is the sort of problem that has to be overcome and it is the sort of problem that I hope the Minister will take into consideration. I am prepared to give him further details if necessary. 
In the 5 minutes remaining to me I want to raise another matter and in this case I will give the gentleman's name. I made representations to the Minister regarding this matter, and on 13th September 1972 I received a reply from him. This concerns a  Mr B.  C. Mauger and his claim for a duodenal ulcer to be accepted as related to his war service.  Mr Mauger  and his family have been known to me for some years. He is a young man. In his reply the Minister said: 
My inquiries reveal that  Mr Mauger  served between 17th July 1968 and 16th July 1970.  His  service included service in Vietnam from 16th February to 14th May 1970. 
That is a period of about 4 months. The letter continues: 
On 13th October 1970,  Mr Mauger  lodged a claim for peptic duodenal ulcer to be accepted as related to his war service. He was medically examined by a Repatriation Board and, on appeal, the Repatriation Commission each decided that his duodenal ulcer was not due to, contributed to, or aggravated by his war service. Medical advice to the Commission is to the effect that his service in Vietnam did not contribute in any manner to the development of the ulcer. 
I do not pretend to be a doctor, but I have gone into this case in a fairly detailed way and, as I understand it, the only basis for rejecting this man's claim was that he had complained, I think before he went into the Army, of having had a stomach ache. On this basis I understand that his claim to have a duodenal ulcer accepted as related to his war service has been rejected. It has been stated that his condition is 'not due to, contributed to or aggravated by his war service'. I have discussed this matter with doctors, and for the life of me I do not know how any doctor could possibly say that this man's duodenal ulcer was not related to his war service. 
I understand that ulcers are caused by worry and tension. It will be a wonder if all of us do not have ulcers in the next few weeks. How could any doctor in the Repatriation Commission say that a man would not worry about going into the Army? I still get nightmares when I think about my national service although I did not have to serve overseas and I had to serve for only 6 months. How could any doctor say that this man would not worry about going into the Service and, if he was a born worrier, that he would not worry while he was in the Army doing his training and that he would not worry about going to Vietnam? I do not care how many heroes there are around the place. Any normal human being who has any sense or feeling at all is scared about going to a front. He is scared about being shot. I think that the bravest men in the world have been those who have been able to overcome that fear. But they still know fear if they have any feeling at all. lt will be seen from the dates I have given that 5 months after coming out of the Service this man was struck down with this severe duodenal ulcer. I do not know how the doctors can possibly judge that this man's illness is 'not due to, contributed to or aggravated by his war service'. It is not often that I have spoken in the Parliament on repatriation matters. I recognise that the position of the Minister for Repatriation is that the matter goes to the board. However, I think that if it is known in a community that the boards and commissions are rejecting claims of this sort it may cause some reaction and stink so that these things can be rectified. 
This man has been to Vietnam. The Government is willing to send men to Vietnam, yet the system it has- set up cannot possibly give them economic justice. It is most important - I stressed this to him - that he fight this case now. He is all right at the moment; he is not an. ill person. But he does have this disability and it is a thing that can crop up again and again. He must get it established now as a war caused disability. I am very hopeful that the Minister for Repatriation will look into this matter and do whatever can be done. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, 1 wish to make a personal explanation. 
Does the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented? 
Yes, by the honourable member for Cowper  (Mr Robinson).  At the conclusion of his speech he stated that I had not made any speeches on welfare in the time that I have been in this House. Rather than get up straight away and reply to him, I went down to the Parliamentary Library and checked the dates. I would like it noted that I have made the following speeches on welfare: On 5th March 1970 in my maiden speech; on 12th March 1970 on Aborigines; on 3rd June 1970 on handicapped children; on 17th September 1970 on the Social Services Bill in relation to pensioner poverty; on 22nd October 1970 on Aboriginal advancement; on 1st April 1971 on the Social Services Bill; on 15th 
September 1971 on superannuation pension increases; on 2nd December 1971 on home care under the States Grants Bill; on 24th May 1972 on 2 repatriation cases; on 20th September 1972 on social services matters and on 11th October 1972 on housing. I also asked 4 questions concerning welfare matters on 30th October 1970, 6th May 1970, 9th December 1971 and 17th October 1972. 
I find it difficult to believe that those present in the House last week could not have been affected by events that marked the opening of the 28th Parliament. Those who were not affected lack any sense of occasion. The return of the Australian Labor Party to the Treasury benches after an absence of 23 years was an event that brought untold pleasure to millions of Australians. Only a handful actually participated in the proceedings but throughout the nation those who have supported us, worked for us, voted for us and shared our moment of triumph and, I believe, many others who did not, were, nevertheless wishing us well. 
For my own part it completed my greatest ambition - to witness and participate in a Federal Labor Government. That ambition commenced a little over 13 years ago. A sense of disquiet at a lack of national goals and national leadership, a feeling that the then Prime Minister,  Sir Robert  Menzies, was smugly complacent at the manner in which he had ruled in the interests of a privileged few, gave way to real anger at the callous manner in which the 1960 credit squeeze was introduced and which put approximately 150,000 people out of work. It seemed inconceivable to me at the time that any government could so lightly regard the welfare of hundreds of thousands of human beings as to use their suffering as a means of righting their own economic misadventures. Yet the same callousness prevailed recently in the 1971 Budget. 
For someone whose family background was predominantly apolitical and who had been nurtured within the confines of the privileged private school system, I determined that people with such scant regard for their fellow Australians were no longer fit to rule this country - not now or ever. I resolved to play whatever part 1 could in bringing about the removal of the Liberal-Country Party coalition from the government of this country. Each year that passed since I made that decision further strengthened that resolve and as I gained and learnt more of the Australian political scene and my interest broadened to encompass a much wider field of human endeavour, I came to realise just how badly this country had been governed. Wherever one looks, the appalling deficiencies and neglect are obvious. In the area of planning, whether it be economic, urban or agricultural, there is almost a total lack of direction. In the field of human relations whether it be the aged, the invalid or low income workers, the Aborigine, the younger generation or the socially and politically conscious, there has been total lack of appreciation or understanding of what places people in their present plight or what concerns them. 
Our opponents pride themselves on their relations with other countries, yet internationally we were regarded as primitives, aligned to the long discredited foreign policies of, first, Great Britain and. more recently, the United States of America. It became more and more obvious to Australians that foreign policy pronouncements of imaginary threats of communist takeovers in our near north were blatant political propaganda for internal domestic consumption. How convenient it was that these threats appeared just prior to an election and faded quickly after the election was over. Our concern for the plight of those threatened by dictatorships from the extreme left was matched only by our lack of concern for those already under the dictatorship of the extreme right. Whilst thousands of young Australians were fighting and dying in South Vietnam to save that country for democracy our former Prime Minister was trying desperately to maintain relations with countries which select their sporting teams on the colour of a man's skin. Ever ready to denounce the denial of human rights in Russia, China, North Vietnam and other communist countries, the former Government was noticeably reluctant to apply the same yardstick to South Africa, Rhodesia, Greece, Spain, Portugal and the Philippines. 
No doubt for years the pundits will argue the reasons for Labor's victory and the Liberal's defeat. There are those who will put the view that the Liberals lost because of lack of leadership and disunity and that Labor's 'It's time' slogan was an appropriate rallying cry for the mood of the electorate. There are those who will argue that we won because of the positive leadership shown by the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  and the carefully worked out and imaginative policies that he put to the Australian people in the whole of the period of his leadership of the Australian Labor Party. There will be those who will argue that the Liberals lost because they failed to stand up to the continued blackmail and threats of members of the Country Party to withdraw from the coalition if they did not get their way, and that both of the coalition parties had failed to enunciate new policies and programs to deal with the problems that beset the Australian society of the 1970's. The arguments will be never-ending, each putting his case, dependent upon his own particular prejudices or the barrow he is trying to push. 
Since 1 joined the Labor Party I have heard at least 10 different explanations why the Australian Labor Party lost the 1949 election. Those who will prosper from the last election are those who realise that a little of all those reasons contributed to the change of Government. What surprises me is that in the few days that Parliament has been meeting the new Opposition appears to have learnt absolutely nothing from its recent defeat, lt would appear that members of the Opposition regard the result as some aberration to be tolerated for 3 years until the electorate comes to its senses and returns them to their rightful place, ordained by God and Queen, to rule Australia. Unless they improve on their inauspicious start of the past 3 months I can assure them that they may well set a new record for the term spent by a party in Opposition. 
Incidentally, if 1 may digress a little, I noticed that the former Prime Minister,  Mr McMahon,  took some solace from the fact that the coalition had lost only 8 seats with a swing of 2.5 per cent whereas his predecessor, the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  had lost 17 seats. He failed to mention that his predecessor had to defend the best result the non-labor parties had had since Federation, and that had there been a further swing of a little over one half of one per cent he would have lost a further 6 seats, namely, Parramatta, Paterson, Bendigo, Deakin, Henty and Griffith, and would have faced a Labor majority of 21 seats. 
The nice gerrymander that prevented Labor from taking office in 1954 and 1961 when it gained the majority of the 2-party preferred vote operated again during the last election so that Labor required 52.7 per cent of the 2- party preferred vote to gain office, whilst our opponents could have retained office with 48.5 per cent of the vote. With electorate boundaries drawn fairly - with one man, one vote, one value - the defeat of the Liberal PartyCountry Party coalition would have been devastating. Government must go to the party or parties which gain 50.1 per cent of the 2- party preferred vote. Our electoral system should be designed accordingly to ensure that the democracy we acclaim so loudly is a reality as well as a theory. 
The address given by the Governor-General last week is a momentous document for social change. It is ambitious; it is grand; it is a blue print for a great society and for a great nation, lt is also a massive indictment of 23 years of apathy and indifference. In our early years as a nation we led the world with progressive and enlightened legislation. It is Australia that now looks to other countries for example. 1 was amused to hear some of the asides muttered by the Liberals during and after the Governor-General's address. It is a measure of how out of touch with the real world they are that they should sneer at our program, lt was their sneering and arrogance that put them where they are today. 
We have been accused of trying to create a Utopia. 1 think 'instant Utopia' is the phrase used in a derogatory and derisory fashion. Frankly. I find that phrase flattering. I make no apologies for wanting to create a Utopia. I believe that that should be the aim of any just and humane society. I am realistic and pragmatic enough to realise that Utopia can never be achieved, but that should not stop us trying. If we get half or three quarters of the way there it will be an immense advance on not trying at all. 
A great deal of public discussion has taken place on Labor's program. If our supporters were pleasantly surprised at the speed with which reforms were announced our opponents were left gasping. After hearing for so many years how impossible it was to act in so many areas it was almost laughable that the only criticism the conservatives in the community could come up with was that we were going too fast. What was evident to the rest of the community was how easily these reforms could be carried out by a Government with the wit and the will to apply itself to the task. 
In almost every field of government there has been action. Those in receipt of pensions will soon receive their first increase as part of our program of lifting the standard rate pension to 25 per cent of average weekly earnings. The abolition of the means test and the introduction of a national superannuation scheme are also part of our program. There have been emergency grants to States to assist in overcoming the backlog of housing commission homes which is now running in excess of 90,000. A schools and a pre-schools commission will soon be evaluating the needs of education in both the private and public sector so that genuine equality of opportunity is available to every Australian child, irrespective of colour, nationality, heritage or religion. A new era in industrial relations will begin with the object of eliminating legislation which is now the cause of friction between employer and employee and between one trade union and another. 
A national inquiry into the largest Government Department, the Post Office, is about to begin. Our natural resources will be developed by Australians for Australians. Already steps are in motion to establish a national pipeline authority to construct and maintain a natural gas pipeline system throughout Australia to ensure continuity of supply and uniformity of price. Votes for 18-year-olds, the abolition of national service, recognition of the People's Republic of China, and more control of and information about United States bases in Australia are all measures that daily add to the program introduced by the new Government. It is now a little over 3 months since we gained office, yet more has been achieved in that short period than in any 3 year period during the past 2 decades. Each day has highlighted the incredible inadequacies of the previous administration. 
We are now in the process of debating the program outlined in the Governor-General's address. We have presented our program. The Opposition will criticise it. This is the democratic process. It is right and proper that it should do so. It is equally true that those who judge the Government and the Opposition - the Australian voter - should hear what the alternative government proposes. This is the other half of the parliamentary' process. 
I notice the front bench spokesmen for the Opposition are complaining that their Press releases are not being reported adequately in the media. When one finds that during the first 3 months of their new-found role they have relied solely on negative criticism of the Government and have not put forward one constructive suggestion, it is hardly surprising. Is it not about time that the Australian people started to hear the program and policy of what is laughingly called the Opposition? What is its excuse? ls it that it has not had time or is nol 23 years enough time to determine national goals and policies? We heard what happened to the policy committees set up under the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp)  last year. It is easy enough to operate without clear-cut policy when a party has control of the Treasury, when it can distribute largess, when it can alter electoral boundaries, when it can select the timing of an election or when it indulges in the gutter politics that marked the last week of campaigning of the 1972 election, but it is another ball game when it is denied those advantages, lt has been obvious to the Australian Labor Party for many years that what passed for national goals and policies were simply a nervous twitching from time to time as the political climate changed. We need only look at the performances over the past few days to see that nothing has changed amongst the Liberal and Country Parties. Their approach is totally negative and devoted almost entirely to trivia. I realise that they will have to learn how to ask a question. I would have imagined that they would be able to come up with something better than the innocuous questions asked so far. 
The censure motion moved on Thursday morning must surely have been the non-event of the week, but the prize for the most adolescent performance must go to whoever decided to oppose the extension of one minute for the ringing of the division bells. One hour and ten minutes was devoted to such trivia. Is it any wonder that Parliament and politicians are held in such low esteem? One can imagine the reaction of those who tuned in to the parliamentary broadcast last Thursday afternoon. If they were surprised then they must have been even more amazed when they heard Opposition members attributing all the ills that beset Australia to a government that had been in power for only 3 months. 
I was fascinated to hear the maiden speech of one new Country Party member, the honourable member for Fisher  (Mr Adermann).  Whilst I congratulate him for the fluency of his initial performance, I can assure him that he underestimates the intelligence of the average Australian voter if he believes that Australian voters will accept that the failure to decentralise, the lack of telephones and the total absence of any attempt to develop our tourist industry is the fault of the Labor Government. I am sure that if this House had assembled on 3rd December, Country Party members would have been blaming the new Government for every shortcoming in Australia. Whilst the honourable member for Fisher gets some marks for cheek, he came nowhere near the performance of the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth),  the former Minister for Social Services, who surely comes up with the prize-winning performance of all time. After being the Minister responsible for social welfare for nearly 5 years and having failed to abolish the means test he now proposes to move: 
That in the opinion of this House the abolition of the means test for all persons aged 65 and over should not be delayed beyond the 1973 Budget. 
Can any honourable member in this Parliament surpass that performance for audacity? I would have thought that even the honourable member for Mackellar gave the Australian voters credit for a little more intelligence than that. If we need more proof that things are just as they were before one needs only lo read the nauseating drivel that passed for a speech by one of the Opposition's backwoodsmen, the honourable member for Balaclava  (Mr Whittorn).  If one needs evidence of how out of touch with the Australian electorate are most members of the Liberal Party, let me remind the House of what the honourable member had to say. In his speech last Wednesday he said: 
There is no doubt in my mind that the Chinese Government has made certain that Australia will become a satellite communist country much the same as Czechoslovakia is to the Soviet Union, much the same as Poland is to the Soviet Union. . . .  and so on. 
I refer to some of his other remarks which almost would have called for a withdrawal. However, I understand under parliamentary procedure an honourable member may insult a party. The honourable member went on to say: 
I  see very little difference between the activities of this Government in hitting the headlines in this manner and those of the Black September movement which annihilated athletes last September. 
Surely that must be a new low in parliamentary dialogue. 
I should like to conclude by mentioning the question of Parliament as an institution, a matter on which I spoke in my first term in Parliament. It concerned me gravely as a member of the Opposition back bench that Parliament was being ignored and that too much was rubber-stamped by Parliament. There was little or no debate and no opportunity for backbenchers on either side to make a contribution to the parliamentary process. I feel that it is most important that the new Government gives the opportunity previously denied to honourable members. I am hopeful that when Bills are introduced and Opposition backbenchers come up with proposals that are acceptable, the Government will accept them. I cannot see that either side of the Parliament has all the conventional wisdom or all the intelligence. I hope that the Cabinet and my Party will show tolerance this time, in a way in which we were never treated before. Unless the Labor Party adopts that course we can ask no quarter if we return to the Opposition benches in the future. 
I certainly hope that it will not happen for a very long time. It is too easy for governments to become complacent and feel that they alone know the answers to problems. I am sure we do not have to diverge from our basic philosophy and proposals, but I believe that if an Opposition member comes up with a proposal, it ought to be given consideration. This is the only way in which Parliament can start to operate. If an honourable member knows that he has a chance to change legislation he will come into the House. The reason why honourable members stayed in their offices and attended committees was that they knew they were the only places where constructive work was done. Certainly they have not been able to get anything done in the Parliament. I hope there will be a big change in that field in the next 3 years. 
Has the attention of the Prime Minister been drawn to a disturbing program on 'This Day Tonight' last night in which residents of the Northern Territory expressed attitudes that I think this Parliament would regard as racist and undesirable? Will consideration be given by the Government to implementing or setting up a national committee to combat racism and racial discriminanon which would include groups from all sections of the community so that as well as educating our black population we can start to educate our white population as to the reasons for the plight of underprivileged groups of people, not only Aborigines but other sections of the community such as national groups and ethnic groups? 
I shall be very brief. I hope that the proposed new Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence will be considerably better than the previous Committee. I am confident that it will be. I was a member of that Committee for 3 years and I found it to be an exercise in boredom. It could be described as nothing better than a study group of about the same quality as the workers education classes that are conducted throughout our community. In almost every case the people who came before the Committee were a succession of exambassadors, retiring ambassadors and high commissioners who, in a very boring way, presented their views as the government's views. As members of the Committee we were not able to select items of interest that were topical. If something was in the news internationally it would come before the Committee perhaps 6 months later when the issue had quietened down. A member of the Committee learnt very little that was not available in the newspapers in reports by foreign affairs commentators, such as Dennis Warner. In fact, Dennis Warner appeared before the Committee, but we could have read what he had to say in the newspaper that day. That is not the way in which I view the functions of such a committee. 
I agree with one previous  speaker  that in a consideration by a committee it is possible to arrive at a more bipartisan view of the facts presented because of informal discussion when members are not grandstanding as they are when they are out amongst the community or in this House. Often it will be found among members from both sides of the chamber that some who take an extreme point of view publicly will privately concede that another person's view contains a great deal of merit. I hope that the status of the committee will be upgraded and that its proceedings will be open and televised. I hope also that the Committee will be able to visit places which are of interest and which in some way affect the matter under consideration by the Committee. Certainly I would not have wanted to belong to the Committee if it had been reconstituted as it was formerly. I threatened to resign from the Committee because of the unutterable boredom and I would have done so had it not been for the Minister for Science and Minister for External Territories  (Mr Morrison),  who is now at the table. He talked me out of it. I do not think I am speaking out of club when I say that he believed, as I do, in the long term future of the Committee. Nevertheless, it must do a great deal more than it has done in the past. 
1 congratulate the honourable member for Mcpherson  (Mr Eric Robinson)  on the fine style of delivery, if not the content, of his speech. I think he will make quite a contribution in this place and I am sure we will watch him with interest. I want to commence my remarks in this debate by nailing some of the lies - in the general sense - or falsehoods that have emanated from the Liberal Party over the past hour or two of this debate. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Armitage)I think that the honourable member for Robertson should withdraw it. 
Well  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I will withdraw the word 'lies'; I will use the word 'falsehoods'. I want to deal with a question that a number of speakers, including the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden),  have raised. They have said that the Australian Labor Party has only once gained the major vote at an election. That is a falsehood. Honourable members opposite want it both ways. They want to be able to say that the system of voting they prefer is the preferred vote, but when they quote figures to suit their argument they use the primary vote. In most elections, except for a few, the Labor Party has won on the primary vote. If honourable members opposite wish to assess the results of elections on a primary vote basis, let us have first past the post voting and let us have none of this nonsense with which they are carrying on. We have a preferred party voting system; that is the system under which we operate and that is the way we should calculate which party received the major vote at an election. 
I shall quote to honourable members figures on the 2-party preferred vote in the last 5 or 6 elections. In 1958 the Liberal and Country Parties received 54.1 per cent of the vote compared to the 45.9 per cent received by the Labor Party. In 1961 the Liberal and Country Parties received 49.5 per cent of the vote while the Labor Party received 50.5 per cent. In 1963 52.6 per cent of the vote went to the Liberal and Country Parties - honourable members opposite were entitled to win then- and 47.4 per cent went to the Labor Party. In 1966, on a 2-party preferred vote basis, the Liberal and Country Parties received 56.9 percent of the vote compared to the 43.1 per cent received by the Labor Party. But in 1969 the Liberal and Country Parties received 49.8 per cent of the vote compared to the 50.2 per cent received by the Labor Party. In 1972, 47.3 per cent of the vote went to the Liberal and Country Parties, while 52.7 per cent went to the Labor Party. So, including 1954, which has been quoted by honourable members opposite and conceded by us, the Labor Party, on a 2-party preferred vote basis - remember that that is the system under which we operate; preferential voting - the Labor Party should have won 3 elections. If honourable members opposite want the other system, that is fine; we will go along with it. I think we could arrange for first past the post voting and then honourable members opposite could quote the figures. 
The honourable member for Mcpherson in his maiden speech stated that we did not have a mandate. He argued that, simply because this was in our policy speech, that does not necessarily mean that we have a mandate For it. Would the honourable member mind telling us what we have a mandate for? How do we separate what we have a mandate for and what we do not have a mandate for? The only basis upon which one can argue is that the Labor Party put this matter in its policy speech and was elected on that policy. Otherwise, who has the right to choose which things in the Labor Party's policy are matters on which it was given a mandate? One either rejects the lot or accepts the lot. We have heard some nonsense talked about there being a redistribution after every Section, t wish some of the honourable members who have spoken in this debate would read the Bill. We have stated quite simply that we will have a redistribution after each census. A census is conducted every 5 years and one does not have to be a Rhodes Scholar to work it out. 
The question of Tasmania has been raised. It would require a referendum to change the situation in respect of Tasmania. I think a special case exists for Tasmania, the Australian Capita] Territory and the Northern Territory. Let us examine the question that has been raised on a few occasions tonight. We have heard our colleagues on the other side talking about Canada and England. They did not mention New Zealand, our sister dominion across the sea. I have in front of me Schedule C from the report of the Representation Commission, 1967. in relation to the House of Representatives in New Zealand. I seek leave of the House to have this document incorporated in Hansard. 
My question is directed to the Minister for Science. In view of the fact that the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation and the National Standards Commission come within the ambit of his Department, has the Minister considered what measures can be taken to use these authorities to improve consumerism in Australia? Will he give consideration to inviting to Australia the well known pot stirrer  Mr Ralph  Nader so that we can get the bert advice available in the world today on consumerism? 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes. In the debate on the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence last week the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron),  in a dastardly attack, grossly misrepresented me. He said the honourable member for Robertson was busting his neck to ensure that we got along to the Committee the Israeli Ambassador or one of his representatives'. This is not true. It was the Egyptian editor of El-Ahran whom I was busting my neck to get along to the Committee. 
Last night in the New South Wales Parliament the Liberal and Country Party Government introduced a Bill for electoral reform. Only a few days ago we debated in this House an Electoral Bill to bring about one vote one value. During that debate we heard most hypocritical speeches from speaker after speaker from the Liberal and Country Parties. They used such words as 'gerrymander'. 
The Bill introduced into the New South Wales Parliament proposes the third redistribution of State electoral boundaries in  3  terms. Not so long ago the Liberal and Country Party confreres in this House of the New South Wales Government supporters were saying that a redistribution by the Federal Labor Government was held too often if it was held every 6 years. Apparently it is quite acceptable for their Liberal and Country Party colleagues in the New South Wales Parliament to hold a redistribution every  3  years. Apparently it is not acceptable if we do it every 6 years. In the debate in this House we heard expressions like 'gerrymander', 'end of democracy' and similar nonsense, yet similar action is being taken much more frequently than is contemplated here. 
Some Liberal Party members claimed that they had been gagged and that the Bill had been guillotined ruthlessly through this House. I will show how ruthlessly we applied the guillotine. In the debate there were  34  speakers over a total of 12 hours 27 minutes. In the time that I have been in this Parliament only one Bill has been debated at greater length. That was a Bill relating to compensation. In the last  3  years no other Bill has been debated for more than 7 hours. On the Electoral Bill we permitted debate lasting 12 hours 27 minutes. I might add that it was almost an hour more than the LiberalCountry Party Government permitted for a Bill to go through in 1965. What utter humbug is this,  Mr Speaker?  The cousins of these same people ran through a Bill, to coin a phrase, in the dead of night in  3  hours last night, the final stage being reached, I believe, at  4  o'clock this morning. The Minister for Services and Property, who is at the table, is indicating that that is right. We heard such terms as 'fascists' and 'ruthless gagging of free speech'. Honestly, honourable members opposite must think that the Australian people are utter fools and that they will accept the sort of nonsense that went on in this House when the Commonwealth Electoral Bill was debated when they find what happened with an electoral Bill in the. New South Wales State House. 
We are just getting on to that. Thank you very much for reminding me. I have seen from the intelligent expression on the face of the honourable member that I need a straight guy, and he is the man to do the job. We were talking about reducing the tolerance from 20 per cent above and below the quota. May I remind the honourable member that his colleagues in New South Wales are talking about increasing it to 20 per cent not across the board, but 20 per cent above and 20 per cent below above the separate quotas that are to be established for the country and for the city. So in fact, I understand, there will be 33 country seats and it will be possible to have an electorate 20 per cent below or 20 per cent above the quota for the country. In the city where, I understand, there will be 36 seats, electorates may be 20 per cent below and 20 per cent above the quota for the city. So in fact there will almost certainly be a situation in which smaller seats will have about 16,000 voters, as Temora now has, and in larger seats there could be well over 40,000 voters, as there now are in The Hills. In fact what is happening in New South Wales is far, far worse than the Commonwealth situation. It is not a 20 per cent tolerance. It is closer to 40 per cent or 50 per cent and could be 100 per cent. 
At the 1971 State elections the New South Wales branch of the Australian Labor Party received 51 per cent of the 2-party preferred vote. It is clear that since then the fortunes of the Liberal and Country parties have declined. In all the results recorded since then in House of Representatives elections, State by-elections and Senate elections they have polled considerably worse. They have defeat staring them in the face, and in the traditional conservative tory fashion there is only one solution to save a government from defeat and that is to draw the boundary lines so that it cannot lose. All the crocodile tears that were shed on the other side of the House make me sick, and it makes me even sicker when I see what is happening in New South Wales. 
Let me quote Malcolm Mackerras. We all know Malcolm. He is a man who has devoted his life to the study of psephology, who until a few short years ago was a member of the New South Wales State executive of the Liberal Party. He has written many books. He is highly respected for his judgments and his studies in this matter. He stated on the Brian White radio show today that the New South Wales gerrymander that exists at this moment is worse than that in any other State, and he is amazed that so little has been said or done about it. I suppose that in a sense we can blame ourselves because we have not been vociferous enough in denouncing it. We have almost accepted in certain parts of the Labor Party that gerrymander is the norm and that inequality in voting is part of the price of defeat. I do not accept it, and I will, as I have done in recent weeks, raise this matter more and more often. 
The situation has become so serious in every State except Tasmania - we would remedy the situation in South Australia if we had control of the Upper House - there is gross inequality in electoral justice. I know that my colleague, the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs  (Mr Bryant)  and also the Minister for Services and Property are concerned about this matter. I propose to recommend to our caucus that we investigate the possibility of taking this matter to the Australian people. I do not think we can tolerate a situation any longer that continues to keep out the rightful government. I believe that the Labor Government should consider going to the people on a referendum, a Bill of Rights for the people of Australia, which will include in it an assurance that each legislature in Australia provides a guarantee to each citizen of universal and equal suffrage. This is something that should have been done a long time ago. I am surprised that it was not done earlier. I believe that the concept of universal and equal suffrage would be supported unanimously across this country. If the States in which the Liberal and Country parties have control continue to deny to the people of those States their rights there is only one possible answer: We must go to a referendum. An opportunity presents itself at the forthcoming Senate election not only for this House but also for each legislature, both upper and lower, in each of the States. 1 intend to move that way when the opportunity presents itself in the caucus and in the party and I hope that my party will take that opportunity to bring that referendum about. 
I ask the Minister for Defence representing the Minister for Repatriation and, if necessary, the Minister for Health and the Minister for Social Security: What action has the Government taken to restore the medical benefits of the wives of totally and permanently incapacitated pensioners who were so affected by the last Budget? If the Government is contemplating action, will it as an interim measure consider some benefits for those wives who suffer from long term illnesses, some of whom at the moment are financially disadvantaged by heavy expenditure even if they have joined a medical benefits fund? 
by leave- I shall be reasonably brief. I commend the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  on the statement he has made and the Government on re constituting the Select Committee on Road Safety. I pay a tribute to the committee which existed until the end of the last Parliament. It was headed by the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Henty  (Mr Fox).  It was a very good committee which operated in the interests of Australia and those persons whom the Parliament is trying to protect. The  chairman  of that committee did a good job and all members of the committee got on well. Unfortunately the committee was constituted rather late in the Parliament and had only begun functioning when its members were involved in the elections. However in the short space of time available to the committee it heard numerous submissions. I pay a tribute, too, to  Dr Solomon,  the former member for Dennison who, fortunately for us, but unfortunately for the Liberal Party, will not be available as a member of the reconstituted committee. He made quite a contribution to the former committee. 
No-one would disagree with what the honourable member for Henty said, but because all honourable members are in agreement on the question of death and injury on the roads it is wrong for people to think that that we do not feel strongly and emotionally about it. I recall reading what one prominent writer - I believe it was Max Walsh of the Financial Review' - wrote, namely, that road safety usually had an eye-glazing effect upon politicians and the public. The honourable member for Henty was right in saying that there has been a too ready acceptance that 3,500 to 4,000 people will be killed and 20,000 injured each year as the price we have to pay in a modern and affluent society. I stress the matter of injuries. People tend to think that if a person finishes up a paraplegic or punch-drunk as a result of an accident he is not really a victim. People forget that although 3,500 to 4,000 are killed, which is a dreadful figure, 20,000 are injured. 1 doubt whether there is any honourable member in this chamber who has not had a relative or friend seriously injured or killed, probably annually. I would be interested to know whether any honourable members have not been injured in an accident. I know that the honourable member for Macquarie  (Mr Luchetti)  is lucky to be with us tonight. 
Yes, but more importantly I think the honourable member was concerned about himself. Until recently there has been a general feeling that we must accept that nothing can be done about the situation. What the Minister has done in outlining many of the surveys which are now being undertaken is to show just what can be done if we have the wit, the will and are prepared to make the initial financial contribution to help in seeking out answers to these problems. 
One matter that concerned me last year was that with the introduction of a law requiring the compulsory wearing of seat belts there was a real drop in the number of road deaths. Compared with the previous year there was a 13 per cent drop throughout the nation. If one takes into consideration the increased number of vehicles and drivers the percentage would be much higher. However because there was a reduction in the road toll people thought that at last we were getting on top of the problem and there was a tendency to neglect many other safety features. I have said many times in this chamber that I believe there are 2 important things that must be done. First, there must be built a safer package into which to put drivers and passengers. The present motor vehicle is not designed to withstand crashes at speeds exceeding 15 to 20 miles an hour. With about 5 million cars on our roads we must learn to package people properly. Secondly, we must provide an environment in which a vehicle can travel properly. I do not think any honourable member would disagree with me when I say that our present road system is primitive in the extreme. It was never designed for what it is now carrying. 
I hope that the reconstituted committee will make strong recommendations to the Government on these matters and that the Government will take notice of those recommendations. Recently I had the most heartrending job of calling on a friend to offer him my condolences because his 7-year-old son had been killed as a pedestrian. Too often we forget the pedestrians, yet they represent 25 per cent of the number killed on our roads. I hope that I do not have this experience too often. My friend said that nothing could have been done - that the accident was something about which nothing could have been done. At that time I did not feel like pushing the point and discussing with him the fact that an enormous amount can be done for pedestrians. In the next 25 years we will be building more houses and more communities than have been built in the past 150 years. Modern town planning methods, if applied, can eliminate the present cross-flow of vehicular with pedestrian traffic. We must design our new communities to be as free as possible of danger to pedestrians. I look forward to the work of the Select Committee. I make the point to the Minister that although the Committee is set up to make an ultimate report I am wondering whether it would be possible for it to bring out interim reports as it deals with each subject. 
I am delighted. Ministers and departments will tend to say: 'We must not do anything until the Select Committee has brought out its report'. It could take 1 8 months or 2 years for the final report to come out. Within a week it is buried. In the meantime, hundreds of things could be done. Probably each honourable member could think of about 50 steps that could be taken to contribute towards the saving of lives. We must compile a list of priorities in finding measures that will be the cheapest and the most acceptable in the community. The introduction of seat belts was not costly and was acceptable to the community. In 101 things that can be done are vehicle design, road design, treatment of alcoholism, lighting and data collection. I hope that we will be able to bring out an interim report every month or two so that moves can be instituted and lives saved as soon as possible. 
asked the Minister for Social Security, upon notice: 
How many people were in receipt of a pension in the Electoral Division of Robertson, or in that area which as near as possible approximates Robertson, as at 1st April 1973. 
What were the different categories of pension, and how many pensioners were there in each category. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Repatriation, upon notice: 
How many people were in receipt of a Repatriation pension in the Electoral Division of Robertson, or in that area which as near as possible approximates Robertson, as at I April, 1973. 
What were the different categories of pension, and how many pensioners were there in each category. 
I ask the Prime Minister a question. Has his attention been drawn to the savage drought that is threatening the lives of some 30 million central Africans living in Chad, Mali, Mauritania, Senegal and Upper Volta? Has consideration been given by the Australian Government to giving some relief assistance to those countries? 
I have been listening to the bleat of the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles).  It followed the normal line. 
 I am not dismissing it like that. 
 Had the honourable member taken the trouble to find out a little more about the matter to which he referred he might not have been quite so concerned. The Gosford-Wyong area in my electorate of Robertson is the biggest producer of lemons in Australia. It produces 35 per cent of Australia's lemons. There was some confusion and panic in the area this morning as a result of the Budget provisions. I have taken the trouble to find out from the Treasurer  (Mr Crean)  and the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Grassby),  who is also concerned about this matter, what is to happen. As I understand it, the amount of $25m which was the subject of the exemption was primarily going to multinational producers of pop - fizzy drinks. I am referring to the makers of Coca-Cola and that type of drink. Very little of the exemption was going to the benefit of the fruit growers for whom it was intended. I understand that about $5m ultimately finished up with the producers so that the Treasury was losing about $20m. I do not see any great benefits in the general run of the mill fizzy drinks for the average Australian child or adult so we cannot properly argue that the exemption resulted in nutritional benefits for the country. It can be argued that there was some benefit for fruit growers. I have had some discussions with the Minister for Immigration about the following statement in the Budget: 
In such abolishing the exemption the Government stands ready to provide such funds as may be necessary to assist with the reconstruction of any sectors of the fruit growing industry that may be affected. 
I understand that the amount of money set aside will be approximately the sum that normally would have finished up with fruit growers; that is about $5m. It will be put aside to assist fruit growers so that they will receive the same amount of money as before. I have been in touch with  Mr Eric  Goldswain, one of the biggest producers of lemons in the Gosford-Wyong area. He was notified by the Jusfrute company that it would not accept any more lemons for some time. There was some confusion as to the period for which it would refuse to accept lemons. The company just put up its hands and said: 'No more'. A meeting of the local Lemon Board is taking place in the Gosford area this evening. It has been asked to put forward proposals as to the best use of that sum of $5m. 
I understand that the processors, growers and other interested parties will be meeting over the next few days to work out proposals as to how the$5m can be used to assist the industry. If a system can promptly be worked out by the industry in agreement with the Government fruit growers can receive the same amount of money as before. I feel sure that they will work out an equitable system which will enable them to produce the same amount of lemons for processing so that it will be attractive for the processors to continue to purchase the lemons. I agree that similar problems arise in respect of oranges. The ultimate result will be that everyone will be as well off as before and the Treasury will be $20m better off. One hopes that certain fizzy drinks will be less used by the Australian community in general. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
If honourable members opposite have finished their little argument I shall direct a question to the Minister representing the Minister for Customs and Excise who will recall that just after the 1971 Budget was presented I asked the then Minister for Customs and Excise a question about the practice of oil and cigarette companies of paying duty on excess goods prior to the Budget, which enabled them to make a profit of about $5m to which they were not entitled. Will the Minister inform the House whether the same practice was continued prior to the presentation of thu Budget and whether steps are being taken to end this obnoxious practice of profiteering? 
Has the attention of the Minister for Transport been drawn to a statement by the former Minister for Civil Aviation,  Senator Cotton,  that the Liberal Party favoured Somersby as a site for the second international airport? Will the Minister inform the House whether the residents of Galston are especially privileged in comparison with the residents of the Gosford-Wyong area and whether we have on the other side of the House a bunch of phoney environmentalists who planned to site the second airport at Somersby because they considered Robertson to be a safe Labor seat? 
(Quorum formed.) I thank the honourable member for North Sydney  (Mr Graham)  for his kindness in getting an audience for me. I was quite stunned by the honourable member for Herbert  (Mr Bonnett),  who accused this Government of parsimony and of being mean and miserable men. I am reminded of the definition of cheek - the man who murdered both his parents and then threw himself on the mercy of the court on the grounds that he was an orphan. The honourable member for Herbert has just made one of the cheekiest speeches I think I have heard in my years in this House. I happen to have with me the figures for the pension increases over the period I have been in this House. The present Government has increased pensions by $3 a year. Let us not talk of SI. 50; it is S3 a year. That will continue to be a minimum increase until we have reached that desirable figure of 25 per cent of average weekly earnings. I remind the honourable member for Herbert, a front bench member of the Opposition, that it is only a minimum amount and that if it is desired that we increase the pension by S4 a year to achieve that 25 per cent we shall do so. We did not say at any stage that it would be done in the first 3 months, 6 months or 9 months of a Labor Government but in the first 3 years, and representing the largest pensioner electorate, I for one am convinced of the Government's sincerity and that it will do just that. 
Let us look at the record of the previous Government. When I came into this Parliament pensions were SI 5 a week. I remember the stunned surprise of not just this Parliament but the whole of Australia when pensions were raised by the grand sum of 50c in the August Budget of 1970. This is only 3 years ago. Then when the Government was in all kinds of trouble upon the defeat of the former Prime Minister,  Mr Gorton,  in an attempt to take the heat off the Government the incoming Prime Minister,  Mr McMahon,  added in his maiden Prime Ministerial speech that there would be a further 50c for pensioners. In October 1971 we had the first reasonable pension increase of SI. 25. But, of course, the Budget of that year will always be remembered as the horror budget that gave us 140,000 unemployed, and in an attempt to improve the employment situation another SI was added to the pension at that time to stimulate employment. That increase was granted not to look after the needs of pensioners but to look after the electoral chances of the Government. Only once in the time I have been in this House has there been any real attempt to increase pensions substantially, and that was just prior to the last elections. lt was done quite cynically for no other reason than to boost the Government's obviously very flagging chances at the 2 December elections. So let us have no more crocodile tears about what this Government is doing and no more hypocrisy after what the previous Government did not do in the long period it was in power. 
If anyone had taken the trouble to listen to the speeches of members of the Opposition during the Budget debate and also to study the editorial comments on that document in leading Australian metropolitan newspapers he could have been forgiven for coming to the conclusion that 2 completely different budgets had been presented on the same evening. I tried to get a copy of the speech of the honourable member for North Sydney, which I can recall was an absolute classic. I could imagine that the Bolsheviks were coming around the corner, according to him. I picked out just a few items from speeches by Opposition members like 'doctrinaire socialism', 'the greatest domestic disaster of the day', 'the most vicious, vindictive and savage attack ever made on any section of the Australian people'. The revolution is just around the corner according to some of the crazed nuts on the other side of the House. 
Quite right. They are a good pair. It seems that full moons affect them both in the same way. 
On behalf of the House of Representatives Select Committee on Road Safety I bring up the first report of the Committee which relates to a national authority, the constitutional position and statistical needs, together with minutes of proceedings. I move: 
That the report be printed. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 

 Mr COHEN (Robertson)- I ask leave of the House to make a short statement. 
 Before I speak on these Bills, I should like to pay a tribute to the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp).  I think every honourable member on our side of the House has been delighted with the fair minded approach that he has taken to one measure after another that the Government has introduced. He has refused to play politics, and it is a shame that some of his colleagues on the other side do not approach such measures in the same way. In my view, there is plenty of room for disagreement in politics without seeking to attack on every single measure. The honourable member for Hotham has taken a fair minded attitude on this legislation. I compliment him, and I hope that we can find many more areas of agreement. 
I doubt that the Bill on which I intend to speak - the States Grants (Home Care) Bill - will hit the headlines of the national newspapers tomorrow. I have had a particular interest in this subject over a long period of time since I was first endorsed as the Labor candidate for the electorate of Robertson, because of the unique age and makeup of the constituents of Robertson. I have said it before but for the record I say it again: There are some 72,000 constituents in the electorate. Three months ago, the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  informed me that there were in excess of 21,000 people in receipt of the pension residing in my electorate and, of course, that does not include probably another 5,000 people who are over the age of 60 but who are not in receipt of a pension. 
I think it is recognised that, in terms of numbers, Robertson is the No. 1 retirement area in Australia. People have come to the area to retire. Sadly, what very often happens is that one passes away very shortly after retirement. The intended bliss of retirement ends quite dramatically and is replaced by a great deal of loneliness and sadness. For those who are fortunate to enjoy a long retirement, there is a marked lack of recreational activities in the electorate of Robertson and there is a very real reason for this. This is a developing area; it is one of the growth centres of Australia. I am not saying that in any parochial sense. The area has been designated as such by the State Government and the Australian Government. It will have a population of some 500,000 people. For those members who are not familiar with the area, it is between Sydney and Newcastle. 
The councils must concentrate on the basic infrastructure that is necessary to accommodate that projected growth. A great deal of their resources are taken up in providing basic water, sewerage, roads, electricity and other amenities. In the past, they have not had the finance or the resources to indulge in the luxury of building many of the senior citizens centres that exist in other parts of the State or, for that matter, many of the other recreational complexes that are available in other communities. I do not absolve the local councils of all the blame, particularly since legislation was introduced in 1969 providing for a onethird Commonwealth capital grant. The change we now are proposing will bring the Commonwealth grant up to two-thirds of the total outlay. 
I do not want to sound conceited about this but I think it is well known in the community that in my role as the Federal member for Robertson I have called numerous public and private meetings and have appealed in hundreds of letters, yet we have not been able to achieve the completion of one senior citizens centre. However, there has been a very heartening increase in activity in the past 12 months, particularly in the weeks since the 
Budget was announced. We have 4 projects under way - one in the Long Jetty area, one at Toukley, one which is proposed in the Ettalong area and one at Gosford. Unfortunately, an appalling confidence trick was played upon the people of New South Wales by the Premier of that State,  Sir Robert  Askin, just prior to the last State election. The Act required a State contribution and an acceptance of the Commonwealth's offer by the State. We tried to convince the previous sitting Liberal member in the area, who was defeated at that election, that there was an urgent need for the Liberal Party to accept this Act. Just prior to the election, in his policy speech  Sir Robert  Askin said: 'Yes, we will accept it'. We thought that our worries were over. After the election we broached the subject of his acceptance of the Act and he said: 'Yes, we have accepted it but we are not going to give any money'. If that is not a play on words and a confidence trick, I do not know what it is. This is one of the reasons for the failure to get what was proposed as the State contribution to these centres. If the Premier wanted to argue that the Commonwealth should not make grants of this nature dependent on a State Act he should have said so and should not have tried to trick people into supporting his candidates and then disappointing them afterwards. 
I should like to refer to another matter which has been mentioned in my area. In fact, last night I spent quite some time writing a letter to one of the organisations in my electorate where it is proposed to construct one of these centres - I refer to the Budgewoi Old Age and Invalid Pensioners Association - because of some confusion as to who is a senior citizen. The term grew up for a number of reasons. For many years there was simply one organisation - the Old Age and Invalid Pensioners Association. It represented people who were in receipt of a pension. Of course, its numbers have varied from year to year. As the tapered means test was introduced its numbers grew considerably, and with the phasing out of the means test everyone over a certain age will be a pensioner. 
In the early days there was unfortunately what I may describe as class distinction between persons on a pension and those not on a pension. The Old Age and Invalid Pensioners Association was primarily a political - I would not say a Party political - organisation. It was political in the sense that it represented the interests of the pensioners and tried to gain political benefits but, naturally, iti restricted its membership to people who were in receipt of a pension and left out a large group of people who were not on a pension. As a result, the senior citizens clubs, as they were defined, were set up to cater for that group. Unfortunately and rather tragically there was some dissension between the old age and invalid pensioners organisations and the senior citizens centres. The previous Government, however, in defining its Act of 1969 made it clear that it was not saying that the grant was available only to senior citizen organisations. It defined 'senior citizens' in the Act as all people over a certain age. I have had to explain this over and over again at various meetings, and still there is in the minds of people a distinction between these 2 organisations. Fortunately, with the abolition of the means test within 2 years there will be no distinction because all people will be pensioners, senior citizens or whatever one likes to call them. 
I turn now to the need for senior citizens centres. I intend not to criticise what is offering but to point out what is lacking. The present organisations meet in the community halls that are available to them for hire, but they lack the incentive to develop a more comprehensive entertainment and activity program, as unfortunately they lack the security of tenure that comes with pride of ownership. I am talking now about my own area. While it is essential that aged persons should not lose social contact with other sections of the community, it is clear that there is a desperate need for a centre that caters particularly for the needs of the people in this age group 7 days a week. 
The present organisational social structure is catering partially for the needs of that small section of the aged community that has adapted to retirement and the loss of a partner. What is unseen is the many thousands who sit at home, lonely and bored and with their physical and mental health being impaired. The erection of a number of these senior citizens centres will make a considerable contribution to enabling both the presently active and the non-active to live a more vital, enjoyable and creative retirement. An abundance of social research is available from studies done elsewhere to illustrate the improvement in the mental and physical health of the aged community where such centres are created. Incidentally, a by-product of such a program will be a lessening of the strain on our present health resources. 
I commend the Minister on his speech. 1 agree with him. Although he is not necessarily opposed to or critical of what is happening, he thinks there is great room for improvement. He mentioned a whole range of activities that could be added to the present senior citizens centres and the ones that will be built in the future. What is a senior citizens centre? Normally, senior citizens centres have a major hall that can cater for 400 to 500 people for special functions, meetings, dinners, concerts and so on. They usually have a kitchen, and in areas where I am associated with them we are seeking, where possible, to provide meals on wheels outside the centre and to provide a hot meal during the day. These centres normally have toilet facilities and offices. They may have such things as a library, a reading room, a television room, a card room, a billiards room, a work room and a hobbies and handicrafts or activities area for a whole range of hobbies and handicrafts that spring to mind. They may have a dining room, and I believe that they should have a dining room if possible. Very often they have laundry facilities. 1 note that the Minister suggests hairdressing and chiropody facilities, a mobile library and a number of other facilities that could be incorporated in the centres. But I believe that these centres should have more than that. I believe that they should have a clinic with facilities suitable for a doctor, nurse, psychiatrist and, as the Minister mentioned, chiropodist, so that they can function adequately. There is a very great upsurge in thinking on this matter and recent thinking is that these centres can provide a much wider range of activity. I think it is fundamental that there should be a social worker. A large number of citizens are unaware of their entitlements in our society and they often require individual case counselling. Owing to the fragmented nature of our health and welfare facilities, people needing assistance are often unable to locate the source and they wander through a bureaucratic maze of government, semigovernment and voluntary agencies, becoming more and more distressed as they fail to overcome their emotional or financial problems. An adequately trained social worker will be able to give the time to case counselling which is now unavailable to any substantial degree not only in my area on the central coast of New South Wales but probably in most areas in 
Australia. Such a social worker would become an invaluable link between those in need and the sources of assistance. 
I do not think many people outside those who are working in this field realise just how fragmented our society welfare structure is. The moment people get into trouble they go and see their Federal member, their State member, their local councillor or perhaps their local ombudsman. They may go to the Commonwealth Departments of Social Security, Labour, Repatriation and in some areas Aboriginal Affairs and Immigration. In New South Wales they may go to the State Department of Youth and Community Services. They may go to the chamber magistrate, to the police, to the public hospital - where various services are available - to private hospitals, nursing homes or to any one of a whole range of voluntary agencies. Of course, the position is that many of these offices are under-staffed and over-worked 'and some have personnel inadequately trained to cope with the complex problems - physical, financial and emotional - that beset people when they are in trouble. 
Is it any wonder that a large number of people do not receive their just entitlements or the assistance that is available? Many often give up when they are pushed around from one agency to another. In my role as a Federal member I am constantly finding people who are in a desperate plight and who for months or years have missed out on assistance to which they were entitled. Social workers accessible to the people most likely to need their help and available to devote their time to case counselling would be an immense asset if located as part of a senior citizens complex. The new amendment to the Act also increases the Australian Government subsidy for the salary of a social worker from one-half to twothirds. 
In all the centres we are planning we are hoping to have a special office for a social worker. We also are hoping to provide a special office for government departments so that all State government, local government and Australian government departments will have an office available for them to use, perhaps, only one morning a fortnight or one morning a week. We believe that a community office should be provided so that the interviews that are conducted by officers of, say, the Department of Social Security, could be conducted at that centre and this fact would become known. Next to that we would hope to have an office for the various voluntary agencies. So we would have an office for a social worker, a government department office, a voluntary agencies office and hopefully a clinic. I feel that in such centres we would accomplish a storefront operation so that people would not have to be shuffled around all over the various towns and shopping centres and from one government department or voluntary agency to another but could go to a senior citizens centre and have a social worker case counsel them and direct them to the various agencies and keep them under observation until their problems are solved. 
I commend the Minister on this imaginative legislation. I hope that the various voluntary agencies throughout our society, particularly in my electorate, and local government bodies will grasp the opportunities for initiatives that the extra funds made available by the Minister have created. I commend the Minister on this enlightened and improved approach to the administration of this Act. 
Will the Minister for Transport make available a research team to investigate the crash at Cabramurra in which 18 people were killed yesterday to ascertain the cause of the accident and the cause of the loss of life? Will he see whether lives could have been saved by the use of seat belts in the bus? If so, will he consider using the Commonwealth's constitutional powers regarding interstate trade to make it compulsory for buses transporting interstate visitors to be fitted with seat belts? 
We have just listened to the typical, whining, whingeing, moaning and bellyaching type of speech we have heard from the Country Party goats since this Government was elected. How different it was from the fine speech made by the Liberal shadow Minister, the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp).  During his speech on this Bill some weeks ago he had nothing but praise for the establishment of the Commission. In the typical style of the Country Party since 2 December its members have tried to score off every single improvement and every social advancement that this Party has made. They have fallen flat on their faces as usual. Let us have a look at some of the criticisms made by the honourable member for Indi  (Mr Holten).  He said that the Social Welfare Commission was set up without parliamentary approval. I remind him that  Sir Robert  Menzies set up the Australian Universities Commission as an interim committee on exactly the same basis and he also appointed  Sir Hugh  Ennor without advertising the position. He acted in exactly the same way as the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden). 
The honourable member did not say anything about it at the time; I can assure him of that. I point out that the discussion paper No.1 concerns both this Parliament and the nation. The initial objectives as set out in the discussion paper are: 
The aim of the Australian Assistance Plan is to assist in the development, at a regional level within a nationally co-ordinated framework, of integrated patterns of welfare services, complementary to income support programs and the welfare-related aspects of health, education, housing, employment, migration and other social policies, having regard to the following matters: 
That the existing responsibilities of State and local governments, voluntary agencies and the Australian Government are recognised. 
That assistance should be available for planning and developmental programs. 
That the development of regional planning systems is to be encouraged. 
That every effort is made to avoid duplication and overlapping of services. 
That local residents and welfare consumer groups are encouraged to participate in the planning and provision of welfare services. 
That continual elvaluation and monitoring of all programs occur to ensure their flexibility, adaptability and appropriateness in light of changing patterns of social need. 
The honourable member for Indi said that the discussion paper is vague. Of course it is vague. We are moving into a totally new field. The previous Government never bothered to do any research into this field. It set up a whole lot of government agencies for each department andlet them run on their own without any co-ordination or integration. When the honourable member for Indi was Minister for Repatriation the Department of Repatriation operated in isolation from other departments, as did the Department of Social Services. If there is anything for which I should criticise the previous Government more than anything else it is for lack of information we received. 
The honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  is now in the chamber. When he was Minister for Social Services I wrote to him repeatedly and asked for information and statistics about the depth and the amount of poverty that existed, the lack of housing and the lack of welfare services to the community. I never received any information because he always said that this field was the responsibility of the universities and the academics. He said it was not the Government's responsibility to find out where the problems were. It was always someone else's responsibility. In effect the previous Government said: 'You tell us what the problems are and then maybe we will do something about them'. 
The previous speaker asked what was to happen with respect to the other government departments. I hope that they will learn to co-operate with one another and to work together. I am reminded of the number of departments both Federal and State that now exist. In most communities today, particularly in country areas, the departments operating in this field include the departments of Social Security, Labour - that is, commonwealth employment - Immigration, Repatriation, Aboriginal Affairs and Tourism and Recreation. 
In my State of New South Wales the State departments operating in this field include the Department of Housing, which administers the State Housing Commission, the Department of Youth and Community Services, which was formerly the Department responsible for social welfare, the Police Department and, to name one other State office, chamber magistrates. In addition, through the Department of Health various services are provided. 
Other organisations include local hospitals, domiciliary health care clinics, nursing homes, nursing care services, aged persons' homes and the various voluntary agencies such as Legacy, the civilians widows' organisations, the Returned Services League, the war widows' organisations, the handicapped children's organisations, sheltered workshops and various community service clubs such as those catering for age and invalid pensioners and senior citizens together with the parents without partners and birthright organisations. All of these bodies operate without any form of co-ordination. This is what is wrong with the social welfare system. This is the fragmented nature of the system that exists and will continue unless action such as that proposed by this magnificent document entitled the 'Australian Assistance Plan' is agreed to by this House and by the Parliament and is implemented by the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  and his Department. 
The honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp)  talked about volunteer help. He said that his Party believed in voluntary involvement in social welfare services. I think this involvement is important. But I differentiate between what I call voluntary help and government involvement. We should make sure that voluntary workers are not filling a void caused by government abdicating its role. The sight of voluntary workers being forced to beg in the streets to provide basic health and social welfare amenities I find intolerable as, I am sure, do most sections of the community. We must strike a happy medium with respect to government involvement and voluntary help in decision making. We should not depend on voluntary helpers to provide all needs including the massive finance that is essential to make our welfare system function. 
The Country Party, through the honourable member for Indi, as it has done with respect to almost every Bill which has come before this House, has tried to discover some plot in this legislation which demonstrates that the 
Labor Party practises a form of discrimination against country people by giving preference to metropolitan areas and to the cities. I represent a partly rural electorate. Many of my colleagues represent rural electorates. There is an enormous amount of rural poverty. From the discussions that I have had with the Minister and from early reports, I have been informed that rather than rural areas receiving less per capita through the Australian Assistance Plan, any discrimination will probably be in thenfavour. 
The great advantage that I see in this program is that at last on a regional basis we will have some sort of direction as to where we are going. I am sure that I speak for every member in this House when I say that a member suffers enormous frustration when he sits in his office and meets his electors and representatives of voluntary agencies who, one after the other, discuss various problems and different programs. One person will say: 'I think we need an aged persons' homes unit. How do we go about doing that?' The member asks: 'Where should we build it?' The reply is: I have not accurate information. I do not know whether we need 10 units, 50 units, 100 units or 500 units'. Someone suggests that a social worker is needed. Someone else might say that 5 or 10 social workers are required. The question is: How many do we need? People suggest that we should set up youth centres or senior citizens clubs. Again the question is: How many do we need? 
Does direction or planning exist? There is no co-ordination throughout the whole community to analyse and to dissect the welfare and health problems and what is required in a total community program to bring them to fruition over a period to meet the requirements. All of the organisations that I mentioned earlier and others in our community go off in different directions and do their own things without any form of co-ordination. I see the Australian Assistance Plan as the beginning of a program to create a proper integrated welfare system in Australia. I deplore the attempts made by the previous  speaker  to try to score political points in this matter. I hope that the people who are listening to this debate or who read about this debate will note the deep divisions which exist between the Opposition parties. 
The honourable member for Hotham made one of the most laudatory speeches that I have heard from an Opposition member towards the Government since I have been a member here. On the other hand, the former Country Party Minister attempted to score political points. I find it incredible to believe that in respect of this basic document setting out laudable social objectives the honourable member could find so many points on which to whine and whinge. The document is vague - I agree with him on that point - 'because the area in which we are moving is vague because so little information is available on which to base it. So much of what we are to do will be exploratory. We will be researching and gathering facts and information. I am most disappointed - in fact, I am quite bitter - to think that this action, of all the steps that we have taken, should be knocked in such a performance by the Country Party. 
-Will the Minister for Services and Property introduce legislate similar to that operative in the United States to make it compulsory for all political parties to disclose the source of their funds so that the Australian people can see for themselves how much foreign money is being poured into Liberal Party coffers so that it can sell this country out to overseas interests? 
Does the Minister for Overseas Trade recall the gloom and doom predicted by the Leader of the Australian Country Party at the time of the tariff cuts when he said that hundreds of country businesses would close down, particularly those engaged in the textile trade, and also similar outbursts from the Liberal Party about the fashion industry? What is the present position regarding the textile and fashion industries? Is it not a fact that today in Australia it is almost impossible for persons engaged in the retail trade to get their orders supplied this side of Christmas and that, in some instances, orders will not be forwarded until March 1974? 
One  speaker  after another has favoured Capital Hill. It seems to me that the proposal put forward by the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  is eminently suitable. It preserves the present Parliament House. It would be impossible to do that if the new parliament house were erected on Capital Hill. The present Parliament House would completely ruin the view from that site and the only acceptable solution is to build on to this present site. I agree with the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter)  that any suggestion that this House be done away with would be a tragedy. We have had in excess of 50 years of parliamentary life in this House. Probably by the time the new parliament house is finished it will be 60 years. We have seen Prime Ministers such as Bruce, Scullin, Lyons, Menzies, Curtin, and Chifley, and here have been the great battles of politics over the greatest period of Australia's early history, with the exception of that first 26 years since Federation. In these, I would say - perhaps I am being a little over-sentimental - hallowed halls, have been some of the great political battles. 
Future generations of Australians will be very saddened if we desecrate this place by destroying it. The objectionable part about the Capital Hill site as I see it is that the erection of the new parliament house could be 15 or 20 years away, and with the program presented by the Minister this is something that all of us, with rare exceptions, could hope to see in our political lifetime. 
It does not mean that at all. 
It means that this building can be retained. Ultimately a new parliament house will be built, but this building can be retained as a conference hall or as an historical museum. Even some of the honourable members in this House perhaps would like to be interred here so that people could come and say, for instance: "This is where the honourable member for Macquarie, in full flight, once stood'. Some people already regard it as a place where honourable members are interred. 
I will not speak for very long. I think that the proposition put forward by the Minister is acceptable. It can be proceeded with immediately. It will retain all those good features of this House for future history and it will mean that we can get on with the job. All the other things, such as the inadequacy of the rooms, have been said over and over again. The present accommodation is quite hopeless. I bring visitors to my room and show them the little 8 ft by 8 ft room that I used to share with the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Grassby).  The mind boggles. Honourable members can imagine what it is like being left in one small room with the Minister for Immigration, who used to turn his radio on full blast, had an 1810 typewriter which he used and would have 3 Italian visitors from his electorate drinking wine while I was supposed to be preparing a speech for the next day. It was like being in a room with a cage full of cougars all going at once. 
Now I am in another room on my own which is still only 8 ft by 8ft. When I take visitors there they look at me as though I am joking. They think that this tiny room to which I have taken them is the toilet; and this for a member of Parliament. Any self-respecting person in the business world would not have an office of that size. I have 23 visitors here today who are World War I veterans from the Central Coast. I would like to be able to take them to my office, but of course we could not swing a cat if 5 of us went in, let alone 25. 
I thought the honourable member said something else, but I am glad that he said 'converted'. I think this is the first time anybody has even been able to convince the honourable member for Ballaarat  (Mr Erwin)  to change his mind. It shows that he has a great deal of wisdom that previously he has kept well hidden. I think that all those inadequacies have been stated over and over again. I just want to repeat that the Minister has put forward an excellent proposition which I hope honourable members will support. 
I will not spend much time commenting on the remarks of the honourable member for Boothby  (Mr Mcleay).  I agree with him that there is a great deal of injustice and a lack of civil liberties in probably 75 per cent of the countries of the world. No one would argue with that. Civil wars do break out. The point that I think he has missed is that there is practically no other instance where one group of people are opposing another group of people simply because of the colour of their skin. ' 
I do not think it is. The honourable member for Boothby mentioned the Ivory Coast and said that it is a one party state. There is no racial discrimination in the Ivory Coast. He mentioned Mali as being a place in which there is a civil war. I do not think it is on a racial basis. The honourable member mentioned that there is class distinction in India. That is also immoral, but to me it is as great an evil. 
No, I am using the word. I am saying that it is immoral but to me it is not as bad as discrimination on the basis of the colour of one's skin. However, that is my view on the matter. I do not wish to spend a great deal of time on it. I should like to mention briefly what is happening today in the Middle East. To my great disappointment in the 4 years that I have been in this House, there has never been a debate on the Middle East, and there is still not likely to be one. Unfortunately within the whole of our society, and in this Parliament, there is generally speaking a considerable amount of ignorance about the history of the Middle East and what has happened there over the past 90-odd years. So many people approach the conflict between Arab and Israeli by taking out of context some happenings in history. They will argue on the basis that we should look at the problem of the Palestinian refugees. They say: 'What are the Israelis going to do about that?' But they must - I would like to do so today - examine the whole question from an historical point of view. 
There has always been a Jewish presence in what is now Israel or what was called Palestine. It was small. It probably reached about 2,000. But the great movement that is known as Zionism, which had been a continuing movement throughout the 19th century, grew immeasurably through the efforts of one Theodore Hertzl. Hertzl campaigned throughout Europe and, together with any other Zionists, carried the message of the return to Zion to Jewish communities throughout the world. The Jews started to drift back, many of them walking across thousands of miles of Russia and Poland to return to Israel. They received support from wealthy Jewish communities in other parts of the world and they purchased large areas of land in Palestine at exorbitant prices. The community grew and in the early years there was considerable harmony between Arabs and Jews because the Arabs were perfectly willing to sell what was useless land - barren land and desert - to those Jews whom the Arabs throught were stupid enough to buy it. 
Throughout the 1880s the Jews returned from the Diaspora - from the dispersal - and took up land in Palestine and, to use a corny phrase, made the desert flourish. They did this over a period of some 30 or 40 years. The movement grew in the Jewish communities throughout the world and gained tremendous support. It received official recognition in 1917 at the time of the First World War in the Balfour Declaration which provided that Britain would recognise the right for a Jewish homeland in the Middle East. It was not until the early 1920s, when the community had grown to some hundreds of thousands, that the Arabs started to look with envy upon the new communal citrus farms which had been made out of the desert, and started to realise that what they had sold at very exorbitant prices was now something that they would like to have back. 
The Mufti of Jerusalem and other Arab leaders decided that it was good politics then to incite the Arab comunities against those Jews who were settled there. Not only had the Jews made the land flourish, they also attracted many thousands of Arabs to the area because the communities brought with them employment and trade. Many of those Palestinian Arabs who claimed that their ancestors had lived in Palestine for hundreds of years were in fact migrants themselves from other parts of the Middle East, attracted to Tel Aviv and Haifa and to the communal farms because of the opportunities to gain employment and to trade. The Arabs started to attack the Jewish farms throughout the 1920s and 1930s. As a reaction against this, the Jews formed an underground army which was known as the Haganah. They also formed other groups which were known as the Palmach, Irgun and later, of course, the notorious Stern Gang depending on whose side one is on. 
Of course throughout the 1930s the immigration to Palestine was greatly increased through the Nazi terrorism. During the Second World War members of the Jewish underground helped many thousands of Jews to gain illegal entry into Palestine. This continued after the war when there was a tremendous amount of world support for the establishment of Israel because people of the world had. seen what had happened under the Nazi holocaust and that some 6 million Jews had died. They believed the only solution to the violent outbreaks of anti-semitism which occurred with monotonous regularity every 30 or 40 years was to find a home that the Jews could call their own. 
The battles that raged throughout the late 1940s until the time of partition are monumental. The refusal of the British to get out of Palestine, and their reluctance then to carry out the promise of the Balfour Declaration because of their oil interests in that area, ultimately meant that the problem was referred back to the United Nations. The United Nations, supported by Australia, voted for partition in 1947. On 25 May 1948 the fledgling country of Israel was born when Britain pulled out of Palestine and left some 600,000 Jews there without any arms, and with the Arabs in the most strategic positions with all the arms that were required to wipe out the Jews. The world waited to see what would happen in the Middle East. The United Nations had partitioned the area into the Jewish State of Israel and the Arab States. The 6 Arab countries surrounding Israel refused to accept partition. On 25 May they attacked. The Jews who were there had nothing except a few tommy guns, a few Molotov cocktails, a few Jeeps and their bare fists. To the world's amazement they not only fought the Arabs off but defeated them. 
The Israelis begged the Arabs who were living in Palestine to stay. They said: 'We, together, can build a nation known as Israel with Jews and Arabs living together'. But the Arab leaders decided that it would be better if they, terrified their own communities and told them that if they did not get out they would be raped, looted and massacred by the Jews. Many thousands of Arabs fled. Many stayed. Some 250,000 Arabs stayed and live today in Israel as first class citizens with equal rights with the Jewish community. But it was at that point in 1948 that the present, conflict was born. It will remain because of the refusal of the Arab countries to recognise the right of the State of Israel to exist. From that day to this the Arab leaders have said that they live for only one thing - the extermination of the State of Israel. Everything that has happened in 1956, 1967 and again in 1973 has been caused by the decision of those 6 Arab countries not to recognise partition and not to recognise the State of Israel. They have said continually in statement after statement that they live for only one thing - to see Israel pushed into the sea. 
Unfortunately time does not permit me to say much more. One of the tragedies of these Estimates debates, I am afraid, is that there is not much time to speak. I would have liked to have gone on and covered the period from 1948 to 1967. An awful lot more can be said. But I say to those people who do not understand the position that they should take the time to read and study in full the history of the Middle East. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Duthie)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 

 Mr McLEAY (Boothby) -  Mr Deputy Chairman,  I wish to make a personal explanation. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN  - Does the honourable member claim to have been misrepresented? 
I was in the middle of talking about the Middle East when I was abruptly cut off. I was then speaking of events in 1948. I should like to continue to talk briefly about the history of the Middle East since then. At the time of the war in '1948 the boundaries that were drawn up or suggested by the United Nations were quite incredible. If honourable members cared to have a look at them, they would see that they zig-zagged all over the place. That is what they looked like on a map. As I said before, the Arabs refused to accept partition and the existence of an Arab state which was planned in that partition. There were cease fire lines or truce lines drawn through the operations of the United Nations and those truce lines virtually became what was pre- 1967 modern Israel. Some 300,000 to 400,000 Arab refugees left that area and were deposited in the areas that were known as the Gaza Strip, in parts of Lebanon and what was part of the proposed Arab state and ultimately was absorbed into Jordan. 
In the period from 1948 to 1967 there was a complete refusal to accept the right of Israel to exist. There has been constant and incessant guerrilla attacks first of all by what was termed the Fedayeen and later by what became the Al Fatah and various other guerrilla movements. The Israeli tactics were quite simple. The daily terrorism that existed, the lobbing of a shell on an Israeli kibbutz, the leaving around of land mines in schools and the occasional foray into Israel by guerrilla groups were tallied up and at the end of each month the Israelis would pay the account with a big hit - quite stupidly, I think - instead of hitting each time there was a terrorist attack. Consequently, the thousands of Jews who were killed in many incidents over this period were not noticed so much as the Arabs killed in the big Israeli reprisals against them. 
In 1956 Nasser nationalised the Suez Canal. No one denies his right to do that. Some did deny it, but I believe he probably had the right. But he also threatened to cut off Israel's lifeline and continued to say ; at the ultimate day of reckoning would come when the Israelis would be exterminated. We know what happened in 1956. Israel, in co-operation with France and Britain, pushed down into the Sinai and captured the Suez Canal but were forced to withdraw by America's threat in the United Nations. So it continued. There were some hundreds of thousands of Arabs living in the Gaza Strip, kept there by Arab nation for no other reason than that it was good propaganda. It would have been no problem whatsoever for the Arabs to absorb into their own countries those few hundred thousand refugees. Good Lord, the Israelis took 3 million people from around the world, but the Arabs could not accept 400,000 refugees. They were kept there, living in the most desperate miserable poverty that humanity can possibly imagine, for political reasons. 
Here was fomented the bitterness and hatred against Israel and against Jews over that period and from here grew the Al Fatah, the Black September movement and every other type of guerrilla organisation, fed on the hatred of what they alleged Israel had done. They said they had been pushed out of their homeland by the Israelis. Had the Arabs accepted partition in 1948, all those Arabs who were in the Gaza Strip, on the west bank and in Lebanon could have remained and lived in harmony as the 250,000 Arabs who did remain have done. But they have said over this period: 'What are you going to do? You must take these 400,000 refugees'. Of course, because of the population explosion this number grew from 400,000 to nearly 1 million. Having fed them on hatred against Israel, the Arabs wished the Israelis to take them back. That would be something like saying to us in about 1945: We would like you to take in 6 million or 7 million Japanese'. Of course, it would have been absurd and at that stage of history it was an impossibility for Israel to contemplate that suggestion. 
If honourable members were to look at the map of Israel as defined by those truce lines, they would see how impossible the lines were. The Gaza Strip comes right up like a dagger pointing at Israel's throat. The West Bank bellies in and narrows Israel down to a strip of 16 miles. Sixteen miles! That is from Parramatta to Sydney. From the Golan Heights the Syrians were able to lob shells into Israeli kibbutzim, which they did with monotonous regularity, killing a few Israelis every few weeks. So, in 1967 when the Arab armies said: This time the final decision has come. We will eliminate Israel', when they massed their armies on the borders of Israel, when they blockaded the port of Elat by bringing their troops up at Sharm el Sheikh, when they expelled the United Nations observers and when they threatened daily and hourly on the air that they were going to push the Israelis into the sea, the world was shocked to find that Israel struck first. The Jews unfortunately had a history prior to 1948 of not winning many battles but I will not go into that now. They struck first and destroyed the Arab armies, and the world condemned them for doing this. Apparently you should wait for someone first to come and cut your throat and then, as the history of the Jews for 2,000 years demonstrated, you are right but you are dead. Such a decision to wait the Israelis were not going to take again. 
The 1967 conflict achieved fundamentally one thing. It gave the Israelis a buffer on the Sinai against an Egyptian attack. It protected the kibbutzim in the northern part of Israel from Syrian rockets and it eliminated the Jordanian part of the Arab community from bellying out into Israel. 
I have not got time now to go into that. But this dangerous belly into Israel was eliminated. The point that I want to make is that I am not anti-Arab and neither, I think, are 98 per cent of Jews. They do not dislike Arabs. They want to live in peace with Arabs. They want to be able to contribute together to a prosperous Middle East. All they ask for is recognition and the right to exist - nothing more and nothing less. But the idea that some people spread around that Israel is looking for lebensraum, for breathing space and that it intends to conquer the Middle East and rule is absolute and utter nonsense. What they seek is peace. After 2,000 years they are happy to settle for that. I believe that it is possible. If there is a genuine approach from the Arab countries and a genuine belief in peace in the Middle East, anything is possible. I believe that Sinai will go back to the Egyptians. I believe that you could form an Arab State, if you like, between the Gaza Strip and the west bank. And, ultimately, if there is peace, I can imagine the Golan Heights, too, going back to the Syrians. When there is peace any boundary is possible; when there is not peace, of course one must look for secure and defensible boundaries. 
But there must be a period of time in which mutual trust can grow. I believe that in a sense this last conflagration possibly may be the answer. I can understand Arab pride. To have been defeated as they were in 1948, 1956, and 1967 and possibly again now, to have a- victory, however small, is important to their national pride, and I am sure that that has continued to be the reason they have carried on the hostilities. The Arab leaders, having created a monster - the monster of Israel - continually have had to go back to their own people for political purposes, and any sign of weakness against Israel would have been the end of any Arab leader. Now Sadat and others can go back to their countries and say: 'Look, we had a win'. One hopes that, having been able to convince their people that this was a victory, no matter how small, their honour will be satisfied and they can sit down and negotiate. This is important because the fundamental principle for which Israel stands is that negotiations must take place between the countries concerned. Once those negotiations are started, anything is possible. I believe even the problem of the Arab refugees can be solved. But it depends fundamentally on the willingness of the Arab countries to accept the right of Israel to exist and to be prepared to sit down and work out an amicable arrangement with the parties concerned. 
I would like to make some comments about tariff cuts and the effect that they have not had on our economy, or the effect that they were expected to have and have not had. Some few months ago this Government slashed tariff cuts by 25 per cent. At that time there were great predictions of doom from our opponents on the opposition side of the House. Memories are extremely short, but those who now quote the Liberals' prediction of economic doom in the future ought to remember the similar forecasts that they made at the time of revaluation and at the time of the tariff cuts. We were told that the country would be flooded with cheap imports from low wage Asian countries. This, we were told by the economic clowns of the Liberal and Country Parties, would send thousands of businesses to the wall and produce massive unemployment. It is now 9 months since the first revaluation, and nearly 3 months since the tariff cuts, and the same experts have been noticeably quiet since the news was released that only 25 people had applied for assistance available to those who were made redundant as a result of the tariff cuts. 
The same Liberal and Country Party economists who put 130,000 people out of work when they said that it could not happen are the same ones who predicted bankruptcy for primary producers and miners on revaluation, and economic chaos after the tariff cuts. We are now asked to believe their forecasts about impending doom due to inflation. The Liberals have been trying to highlight excessive wage demands and government spending as the cause of inflation. Inflation causes wage demands, not the other way around. What they never want to look at is profits and one of the greatest scandals has yet to be unmasked to the general public. As I said before, because of Australia's massive balance of trade surplus overseas the Australian Government revalued twice and did not follow the United States dollar down when that country devalued. The tariff cuts were a bold step to reduce the price of imports and make Australian business more competitive. 
Just control yourself for a moment and you will hear what I have to say. The incredible increase in consumer demand has had the effect of taking up any slack that might have occurred in Australian secondary industry and at the moment the majority cannot even keep up with demand. Any retailer in the country will tell you of the unique experience of being unable to obtain stocks and having to place orders months ahead. In many areas, housing, clothing and automobiles, the position is particularly acute. 
The scandal I want to refer to, because it is in a field with which I am very familiar, is what is happening in the clothing industry, for it illustrates clearly how unprincipled some businessmen can be and what a mockery they make of the Liberals' claim that they could contain excessive profiteering by co-operation. These events have been recounted to me by a 'well known and substantial local manufacturer and importer. I shall not mention his name because it could ruin his future business relations with the companies with whom he does business. It was obvious to everyone in the clothing trade that the reductions in prices caused by revaluation were not being passed on to the consumer. Retailers, particularly the large ones, were in touch with the importers within hours of the announcement of the revaluation to insist on reductions in goods they had placed on order. That was the end of the reduction. Anyone who doubts that the extra profit went into the pockets of the retailers need only look at the massive increase in profits announced by major retailers in recent weeks. I want to quote from an article in the Australian' headed 'Myer Beats Rivals with 31pc Boost'. The article states: 
Myer Emporium Ltd has bounded past its major retail rivals to post a 30.8 per cent or $5. 9m rise in earnings for the year to July 31. 
To mark the strong improvement, directors have raised dividend from 7c to 9c a share and will recommend a one for two bonus issue to shareholders. 
Directors yesterday reported that net trading profit rose from $19,097,000 to a record $24,985,000 on a 19.3 per cent rise in sales to $623.9m. 
Higher profit reflects the boom in retail spending over the past 6 months and better profit margins. 
Underneath those words is a table headed: How the retailers compare'. It shows that Myer had a net profit of $25m - an increase of 30.8 per cent; Coles, $15.3m - an increase of 24.2 per cent; Waltons, $8.4m - an increase of 49.3 per cent; and Grace Brothers, $5m - an increase of 12.2 per cent. Woolworths balances on a different date from the rest of the firms, so its figures cannot be included. 
If the honourable member uses that as a yardstick, he will accept any form of profiteering on the ground that everyone pays tax. When the Government did not allow the Australian dollar to follow the United States dollar down, there was little effect on the clothing industry. The majority of cheap imported clothing comes from South East Asia, Hong Kong, Taiwan and South Korea. The 25 per cent tariff cuts were the next move that should have sent prices of clothing down even further. The Australian manufacturers certainly were made more competitive, and within days of the tariff cuts being announced many importers received visits from Customs officers who asked to see the importers' invoices in order to satisfy themselves that the tariff reductions were being passed on. Apparently, they made it perfectly clear to importers that if they did not pass on the reductions they could well face the loss of their import licences. Once again the retailers were on the backs of the importers to see that they received the maximum reduction. Once again the reduction stopped with the retailer. The consumer never saw it. The national Government's hands were tied because it lacked any powers over retail prices. The threats it could make to the importer could not be made against the retailer, and the retailers know it. The States held the powers and there was no way that  Sir Robert  Askin,  Mr Hamer  and  Mr BjelkePetersen  were going to act against their business mates in the 3 big States where 80 per cent of retailing is done. 
The fact of the matter is that these goods which were being brought in from these countries were being marked up with high profit margins of 50 per cent to 100 per cent. They are now, as recounted to me, being marked up by minimum margins of from 100 per cent to 150 per cent. I have proof of that. Affidavits are being prepared to be given to the Minister for Overseas Trade  (Dr J. F. Cairns).  The only problem is that the people making the affidavits cannot come out into the open because they would risk their future business relations. However, they are prepared to give affidavits. 
What has that to do with this matter? I am no mate of Ken Myer. If Ken Myer wants to support the Australian Labor Party, that is his business. He probably does not even know what is going on amongst his buyers in his own department stores. 
The honourable member for North Sydney interjects every time the word profit' is mentioned. I might point out that very few of the honourable members who sit on the other side of the chamber and pride themselves on their support of big business have had any business experience at all. Most of those who got on to the boards of companies got there because they were accountants or lawyers. I do not know one of them who has had any real experience in business. The last person in the Liberal Party who was a genuine self-made businessman was  Sir Allan  Fairhall and he left in disgust. When honourable members opposite start talking about business they should first of all find out something about it. Many of the small businessmen who sit on this side of the chamber really understand it from the grass roots. 
It was called to my attention that whilst I was out this evening the honourable member for Paterson  (Mr O'Keefe)  made some references to my earlier career as a part owner of a mens wear store. I am sorry that he has just walked out of the chamber. I do not like talking about a man when he is not present. I understand that he referred to me as one of the wealthiest men on the north shore of Sydney. I intend to get hold of a copy of that speech and take it to my bank manager because he is not aware of that and I am certain that most of the people who know me are not aware of it- Frankly, it is not a joke. I think that it is rather a low act to refer - I notice that the honourable member has returned to the House now - to a person's career and make those sort of references which are totally inaccurate. Whether they are true or not, I do not think they have anything to do with the Parliament or with the honourable member for Paterson. 
We on this side of the chamber certainly do not make references to some of the holdings of honourable members opposite - the wealthy landowners. I certainly have not made any references like that. If the honourable member wants, we will run through the list of multi millionaires over there. At least if we make such statements they will be true. At least we do not make wild, inaccurate statements such as the honourable member made. I understand that the honourable member attacked me for talking about the clothing trade and the fashion industry. After spending 12 or 13 years in that industry, I would assume that honourable members would give me credit for knowing just a little about it. As a matter of fact, when I spoke about wool in the House, 7 members from the other side, including 5 former Ministers came over and congratulated me. They said that it was the best speech on wool they had heard in the House for 20 years. 
It was a funny way in which to kid me. The  members  of the Country Party seem to regard it as their right to be the only people who can speak on rural matters. They claim that they are farmers and ask what could anyone who was not a farmer know about farming? I presume that those honourable members would give me at least similar credit to be able to speak about an industry in which I spent the major portion of my life. The point that I understand the honourable member for Paterson was trying to make was that I was speaking from vested interest. I know that he is not very bright. But if he had listened closely to my speech- 
I will not withdraw anything after the way the honouarble member has behaved this evening. I know that he is not very bright. But if he had listened to what I had to say he would have heard that I was attacking the retail trade of which I was a representative, not defending it. I said that the big retailers had been dishonest in failing to pass on tariff cuts that should have reduced the price of clothing in the major stores, by a considerable amount. I said that they were now taking profits of 100 per cent to 150 per cent. I understand also that the honourable member made reference to the fact that the country was going to be flooded with cheap imports. I do not know what will happen in the future. However, I do know and obviously the honourable member does not know, that there are quotas on imported goods and they still exist. The fact of the matter is that at the moment the clothing industry, for which honourable gentlemen opposite predicted absolute doom and in which they predicted that hundreds of country businesses would go to the wall, is burdened with work. It is unable to meet most of its orders. 
That is the situation right now. If the honourable member knows anything about the trade he will know that it works 6 months ahead and it is booked out for next winter. There are quotas to protect the industry if necessary. But the fact of the matter is that the honourable member was completely and utterly wrong. That is the point. I was not defending the retail trade. I was attacking it for not doing the right thing and passing the tariff cuts onto the consumer. 
If there is confusion in the minds of honourable members and listeners, it would have been caused primarily by the language used by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch).  It might have been very technical and very legalistic but what are we talking about? 
The honourable member was quite courteous. I have no objection to his manner for a change. 
I am always polite, as you well know. What are we talking about? Simply price discrimination that occurs in a number of instances in trading in Australia and throughout the world. These are the sorts of things that happen. Company A purchases a range of refrigerators at a price of, say, $100. Company B wants the same type of refrigerator and is told that it can buy a greater number but it cannot have the particular refrigerator that this company has at the moment, So they manufacture the same refrigerator with slight variations and they charge a different price to another company and sell the goods at less than the price charged to company A. That is what it amounts to. 
Yes, clause 49. These companies get around the Restrictive Trade Practices Act by minor alterations to the product any by selling it at a different price which undercuts the opposition. That is what the second provision of the clause is all about - the bulk purchasing of goods. It is one of the most common occurrences in business today. A small retailer cannot purchase goods at the same price as a large retailer. In fact, what happens in a great number of cases throughout the country is that the small retailer is buying the goods at the same price as the large retailer is selling them. This is a most common occurrence in business today. Does anybody here suggest that that is not an unfair method of trading and that it should not be outlawed? 
That may well be true and there may possibly be some excuse for providing for a minor advantage for bulk buying. I do not argue with that. We are talking about purchasing rather than manufacturing. Nevertheless, the differential between the prices of some goods is the difference between the wholesale and retail prices. As I have said before, I have seen instances where people have purchased a line from a manufacturer at the same price as the big retailer down the road was selling that line. That is more than simply a discount for bulk purchasing. There was another habit which used to be prevalent in the trade that I was in. 
No, this was when 1 was in the sporting goods game. We had 4 different columns of prices - manufacturing, wholesale, trade and retail. It was a common occurrence just to show the price list appropriate to whomever we were selling to. If one was selling to a big retailer, he received the manufacturer's price. The next person, who was a small retailer, would get the wholesale price and the bloke who walked in off the street to buy at a discount received the trade price. There were vast gaps between these various prices. It was a common practice that should be banished. 
If we do not create some equity in purchasing, what we will do is seek to channel all goods through a handful of large retailers and drive every small retailer out of business. This has happened already in the grocery industry where there are simply 2, 3 or, at the most, 4 major grocery retailers in Australia today. That is how it has happened; the small man could not compete because he could not buy in bulk or at a price even remotely close to that paid by the big retailer. Even if he could give the little services that a small retailer can give, he could not overcome price. I know enough about the business world to know that there are some areas in which personal service would count, such as in the clothing industry. But when one is buying a 9 oz pack of peas, or marmalade or whatever it may be, it has nothing to do with service, quality, style or fashion. It is a product and that is the price one pays for it. People will go where they can buy the product at the best price. That is simply what has happened in our food industry today. All the small people have been forced out of the industry. I can understand that there are some instances where these practices can possibly be justified but they are very rare instances. The essence of this alteration to the Act, is, that the onus of proof shall be on those restricting trade to prove that their practice was justified in the public interest. 
I ask the Prime Minister: In view of the enormous public interest in 'Blue Poles' will it be possible to arrange for the painting to be shown in all the major capital cities and large provincial centres of Australia? 
On behalf of all honourable members on this side of the House I should like to compliment the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr Ruddock)  on the manner in which he delivered his maiden speech. As one who has gone through an agonising quarter of an hour or 20 minutes it takes to make a maiden speech, I know the sort of emotional feelings the honourable member must have experienced. He delivered his speech with great aplomb and a feeling of confidence. I think that we all wish him well in the speeches that he will make in this House in the future. 
I think the Minister has made a very fine point. We had hoped that the contributions made in this chamber by some of the older members of the Liberal Party of Australia were even half as good. However, I should like to take up one or two points which the honourable member made. I do so without in any way wishing to downgrade his speech, which I thought was a first class performance. The honourable member dealt with the siting of an airport at Galston. Shortly after this matter blew up the former Minister for Civil Aviation,  Senator Cotton,  appeared on the television program 'Federal File' in a discussion on the siting of an airport at Galston. He made it very clear that if the Liberal Party were returned to office - this was the feeling at the time the Liberals were in office - it would favour the Somersby area as the site for a second airport for Sydney.  Sir Robert  Askin has said that he had a site in mind but he would not name it - that is, not prior to the last election. Somersby was one of 2 sites which had been selected for consideration by the previous Government. While I sympathise greatly with the honourable member for Berowra  (Mr Edwards)  and the honourable member for Parramatta over the Galston site, I state quite categorically that the Somersby area is equally as lovely and equally as attractive as the Galston area and has as much to offer the people of New South Wales and the people on the Central Coast. 
The phoney environmentalists, the middle class environmentalists who came to Canberra in their thousands recently, were noticeably absent when people were trying to impose a second airport on the people in my electorate. It was different when real estate values or their properties were affected; they got angry and heaped abuse on the Labor Party. I would like someone on the other side of this chamber to get up and say that Somersby and the Central Coast is less attractive to the community and to our society than is Galston and that it should be thrown to the wolves. I never received any support for my opposition to locating an airport at Somersby, apart from people within the immediate area of Somersby. 
Not one conservation society, not one group of irate Sydney citizens came to Canberra in buses to help us fight the previous Government on that issue. Frankly it made me sick to see the sort of phoney attitudes that have been expressed by large sections of the Sydney Press and the Sydney environmentalists, and to hell with the people who live in the Gosford and the Central Coast districts. 
The Sydney Press too. The honourable member for Parramatta made one or two comments which I think ought to be taken up. I like the proposal to have patrolmen along the Parramatta River. They could probably be known as 'Ruddock's Raiders'. I should like to point out to the people of Sydney the effects of the honourable member's suggestion for the use of a helicopter to take people from Parramatta to Sydney (KingsfordSmith) Airport. How many electorates would the helicopter have to fly over? There is nothing noisier than a helicopter. The sight of North Shore businessmen commuting to Kingsford-Smith Airport in myriads of noisy helicopter is enough to make one's mind boggle. I suggest to the Liberal Party and to the honourable member for Parramatta that they give that idea some very serious thought otherwise we will have another  100,000  people on the lawns outside this Parliament protesting at such a monstrous proposition. 
I come back to the estimates for the Department of Urban and Regional Development. Unfortunately I have only  5  minutes left in which to speak. I was very interested in the speech made earlier by the Minister for Urban and Regional Development when he introduced the Albury-Wodonga Development Bill. No doubt we will have time to debate that Bill. Two Central Coast councils covering the Gosford Wyong districts are at the moment wondering what sort of role they will have to play in the future development of the Gosford-Wyong centre. I am hopeful that the Minister will be able to visit the area early in the new year. He was to have made a visit just recently but unfortunately the arrangement clashed with a visit by  Sir Charles  Cutler and we decided to postpone it to a future date. I am most conscious of the need to keep the community informed of the future role that local people will play, for instance, in the work of this Development Authority. I reject completely the proposition put up by some councillors that all that needs to happen is that the national Government should hand over millions and millions of dollars to local government or to a regional development authority, which will then develop an area. The district in which I live is one of great beauty destroyed by the inadequacies and inefficiencies of local councils which simply do not have and never have had the expertise required to develop growth centres which will each incorporate a population of half a million people. 
I reject that proposition out of hand. But I do believe that local councils have a great deal to contribute by way of local expertise. Let me deal with one most serious problem that arose in my electorate in the course of the last State election in New South Wales. The recently elected member for Gosford, Councillor Brooks, the Shire President, used his position as Shire President- 
He was elected member for the Gosford electorate last Saturday and I congratulated him on his election. He used his position as Shire President to reject all Federal aid on the ground that acceptance of this aid would involve control of the Central Coast area from Canberra. He said that- 
He rejected all Federal aid. He said: 'We do not want anything to do with it'. He said that if he accepted Federal aid this would mean that he would be told what to do by Canberra bureaucrats. He used all sorts of phrases such as nationalisation and socialisation which, if I may say so, were a load of codswallop. The fact of the matter is that, as we see from what is proposed with the AlburyWodonga Development Authority, development authorities have a  3  -tiered involvement at the levels of Federal, State and local governments. A range of experts will be provided from the State and national governments. These experts will carry out the planning. We are talking about building  2  major townships of, I should imagine, the size of a large suburb in Canberra, of between  30,000  and  40,000  people. Planning of that type requires the work of ecologists, demographers, engineers, all ranges of scientific experts and planners including town planners. 
It is simply absurd to suggest that this type of expertise can be gathered from the local community. 
I urge the Minister for Urban and Regional Development - I know that he is willing to do so - to keep the lines of communication open. Councillor Brooks is now the State member for Gosford. I wish him well in the 3-year term for which he has been elected. Now that the election has been held, I hope that he will adopt a different attitude, that he will agree with the attitudes expressed by other local councillors and that he will join with us in a spirit of co-operation, such as has been shown to this Parliament today with respect to the Albury-Wodonga development. The Minister for Urban and Regional Development has managed to work with the Liberal Governments of Victoria and New South Wales with respect to Albury-Wodonga. I hope that Councillor Brooks will say: T am prepared to put aside petty party politics so that what we will do with the State and Federal governments will be for the benefit of the people of the Central Coast area'. The concept is most exciting. In the past, the development of this area has been allowed to sprawl with the most objectionable type of poor development, ad hoc planning, roads going in all directions and shore fronts being taken over by developers. High rise flats have been constructed everywhere without any consideration of the total concept of the needs of the community. This is a great opportunity which we must not lose. 
I want to deal with a couple of matters this evening, one of which was occasioned by a Press release which went out last night and a couple of Press reports as well as a comment earlier by the honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles),  indicating that the Liberal Party seemed to be enjoying some sort of euphoria at the prospect of winning the seat of Robertson at the next Federal election. I have no objection to anyone claiming that they are going to knock me off at the next election. That is a perfectly legitimate charge to make. But I wish when they make their analysis of electoral figures, which is somewhat similar to their economic analysis, they would be slightly more accurate. I thought I would read for the benefit of the psephologists on the other side of the House- 
I would imagine that the honourable member for Chisholm who is a noted political scientist will enjoy this. I thought I would read into the record the figures relating to seats contained within the electorate of Robertson at the recent State elections. There are 3 State seats in the electorate of Robertson. One is the new seat of Gosford which was carved out for the Liberal Party and which is the one remotely Liberal area in the whole electorate. The figures relating to the Gosford electorate were:  Mr Brooks,  Liberal, received 10,319 votes or 52.4 per cent of the vote;  Mr Dunbar,  Democratic Labor Party received 637 votes or 3.2 per cent of the vote; and  Mr McGowan,  Australian Labor Party, received 8,744 votes or 44.4 per cent of the vote. There is another State seat called Peats which is also totally within the electorate of Robertson and the figures relating to this seat were:  Mr Hallett,  Liberal, received 10,458 votes or 42.1 per cent of the vote; and  Mr O'Connell,  Labor, received 14,397 votes or 57.9 per cent of the vote. The figures for the third seat of Munmorah, two-thirds of which is in the electorate of Robertson, were as follows:  Mr Connolly,  DLP, received 1,262 votes or 5.1 per cent of the vote;  Mr Jackson,  Liberal, received 7,649 votes or 30.4 per cent of the vote; and  Mr Jensen,  Labor, received 16,215 votes or 64.5 per cent of the vote. 
Briefly, the split up on a two-party preferred basis was: Gosford - Labor 45.5 per cent of the vote and Liberal 54.5 per cent; PeatsLabor, 57.9 per cent of the vote and Liberal 42.1 per cent; and Munmorah - Labour, 66 per cent of the vote and Liberal, 34 per cent of the vote. All I can say is that if we are going this bad in Robertson, please God I will go that bad for the next 20 years. The Labor vote was roughly 57 per cent of the total vote in Robertson, so I would ask the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  to go back to school to learn about mathematics. 
I will not particularly enjoy the next matter I want to raise, lt deals with a very dear friend of mine,  Mr Jack  Hallam, with whom I was brought up in the town of Griffith as a young man and with whom I have stayed on a number of occasions. He is a member of the Legislative Council in the New South Wales Parliament. During the course of the recent State election campaign in the seat of Murray a proposition was put to the Labor candidate,  Mr Doug  Drew, in relation to Labor Party preferences. The proposition was made by the independent Australian Country Party candidate,  Mr Bruce  Jeffrey. It involved a request that  Mr Drew  allocate his preferences to  Mr Jeffrey  who in return would provide $1,000.  Mr Drew,  who had no authority to allocate preferences, very properly made a full report to the Australian Labor Party officers.  Mr Drew  at no time made any statement about this matter, nor did he name anyone. But widespread rumours circulated and he then stated simply that he had made a report to the Labor Party officers and that this report did not concern discussions he had with  Mrs Mary  Meillon, the State member for Murray. 
Still the rumours persisted and some found their way into the Press. In the meantime the proposition had been judged corrupt. To clear the names of the innocent candidates the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating)  raised the matter in the House on 8 November. He made it clear that the allegations concerned the proposition put to  Mr Drew  by  Mr Bruce  Jeffrey and no one else. The honourable member for Murray  (Mr Lloyd)  issued a challenge that any evidence should be turned over to the Attorney-General  (Senator Murphy)  for proper action to be taken. That was a proper step for him to take. But he went on to make completely unsubstantiated allegations against  Mr Drew  in connection with a previous by-election. 
That is the honourable member for Murray in the House of Representatives. It is quite incredible, if he had any evidence of wrong doing, that he did not raise it during the by-election when his candidate was defeated. The honourable member for Blaxland accepted his challenge and on 15 November he produced the evidence in this House, took legal advice on the matter and turned the evidence over to the AttorneyGeneral for proper examination. 
There the matter should have rested until a proper inquiry was made. But I find that under the guise of a personal explanation the honourable member for Murray made an incredible attack on 2 members of Parliament. He said, without any evidence whatsoever, that  Mr Drew  had offered a bribe. Then he contradicted himself and said that it was offered on  Mr Drew's  behalf by 2 State members of the Australian Labor Party,  Mr Jack  Hallam and  Mr Lin  Gordon. In Deniliquin they made an offer of $3,000 for Country Party preferences, so he said. Then he stooped to the most incredible depths to involve  Mrs Laurel  Drew, the wife of the Labor candidate, by saying that she had offered bribes on behalf of her husband. He then alleged that the New South Wales Country Party Leader,  Sir Charles  Cutler, was a witness to all this. 
The attack on 2 outstanding members of Parliament without a tittle of supporting evidence is bad enough, but to go into the gutter to attack the wife of a man in public life is to strike an all time low in Australian politics. The documented taped evidence against  Mr Jeffrey  is in the hands of the Attorney-General. Legal opinion has already been given that it is an open and shut case of bribery and that even if  Mr Jeffrey  had won the seat it would have been stripped from him by the Court of Disputed Returns. But the reckless allegations made by the honourable member for Murray are in an entirely different context. He has attacked a widely respected wife and mother, her husband and 2 members of the New South Wales Parliament who enjoy reputations second to none.  Mr Lin  Gordon, member for Murrumbidgee, has categorised the attack as malicious political lies.  Mr Jack  Hallam, MLC, has described the charges as the product of a totally dishonest and cowardly man. They invite the honourable member for Murray to do the decent thing and apologise. But if he persists in this baseless charge he should have the courage and honour to produce his evidence, take it to the proper authorities and repeat his charges outside the Parliament. Unless he can produce this evidence and unless he has the honesty to repeat his charges outside the Parliament so that they can be tested in a court of law I can only describe his actions as dishonourable and cowardly. Let him rise with an apology before it is too late for him to do so. 
Yes, we have got it. We have handed it over to the Attorney-General. 
I ask the minister for Urban and Regional Development whether his attention has been drawn to statements by executives of real estate companies such as L. J. Hooker Ltd to the effect that there has been a mass reduction in the price of land and houses. Is this reduction a result of the Government's economic policies and will its eventual result be to the benefit of hundreds of thousands of people, particularly young people, seeking homes? Will this reduction result also in greater economic savings for people over both long and short terms? 
We are debating 4 Bills - the Albury-Wodonga Development Bill, the Albury-Wodonga Development (Financial Assistance) Bill, the Growth Centres (Financial Assistance) Bill and the Land Commissions (Financial Assistance) Bill. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  spoke in this debate for about 35 minutes. I was mildly amused to hear him claim credit for the program of decentralisation which is encompassed in this legislation. We all recall the haste with which the Liberals and the Australian Country Party suddenly discovered one month before the last election the problems facing the cities. After years of ignoring totally the problems in capital cities around Australia there was a sudden upsurge of interest. One would hesitate to suggest that it might have been the wrath of the voters that honourable members opposite were anticipating that broupht on this interest. But of course history will record that the man who was responsible for making the issue of the cities a national issue was the present Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam),  so ably assisted by the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren).  I can recall the famous Walter Burley Griffin memorial speech which set the tone and the pattern for political campaigns in 1969 and 1972. 
What we are really encompassing in these 4 Bills is a totally new concept, a new vision of an Australia of the future. Decentralisation has been the catchcry of the Country Party down the ages. But unfortunately the Country Party has been singularly ineffective in its attempts to achieve anything remotely resembling decentralisation. It has had a total lack of success in implementing decentralisation programs. What we have seen has been a continued expansion of the growth of major cities. The population of Sydney is almost 3 million and in Melbourne it is almost  2i  million. It is almost inevitable that those cities will progress to a population of 5 million each. It is not a question of stopping them now; it is a question of stopping them from rising to a figure of 10 million. The facts are that there has been a continual drift from the country to the cities. We have been unable to retain our population in the rural areas. There are a number of reasons for this. There was in recent years a rural recession. The main attraction of cities is that they offer employment; they offer a great range of educational opportunities; they offer cultural and recreational advantages that small country towns do not have. The primary attraction is employment. A wide range of employment opportunities exists in large towns. What we really have to do is to establish in other parts of Australia large towns equal in size to a city, such as Albury-Wodonga. 
 I do not know to what the honourable member is referring. Perhaps he could explain it to me later. We are really aiming at 2 types of growth in this program. Albury-Wodonga represents an artificial growth stimulus. People would not have gone to Albury-Wodonga in great numbers unless there had been a massive program such as the one proposed by the present Government. The other aspect of our program is to plan properly those areas which inevitably would grow, for example, Holsworthy, Menai, Appin, Campbelltown and Gosford-Wyong. People were going in their thousands to those places anyhow because they are close to the city. They are new areas in which land is available and in which there is room to move. 
There are 2 distinct types of growth involved in this program. I think people ought to bear that in mind because I have heard honourable members on the other side say what a terrible thing it is to say to people in an area: 'You will have 300,000 or 400,000 people'. In most cases that figure would have been reached anyhow. What is desired is that those 300,000 or 400,000 people will go into the area in a properly planned environment. I think it is important that the people of Australia recognise that there is no instant decentralisation formula. It is a long slow program. We have only to look at Canberra as an example of this. I said earlier that there had been no effective decentralisation. There has been one, and that is the development of Canberra. If there is one thing that the previous Government can take credit for it is the development of this city of Canberra. But in the early 1950s  Sir Robert  Menzies said: Yes, let us make Canberra the capital in reality, not only in principle.' 
The Menzies Government set out on a program of encouraging growth - a massive rate of growth. Yet in the 20 years that has elapsed since that time the population of Canberra has risen from about 20,000 to only 170,000. In contrast the city of Sydney is growing by 70,000 a year. To keep Sydney's growth at that level we must aim at creating towns that are able to absorb 70,000 people a year. Clearly that is quite impossible. We will not see immediate results of the program. Planning in Canberra takes a long time. The creation of suburbs like Tuggeranong or Belconnen takes a minimum of 9 years from the time planning is started, the plans go into the pipeline and the suburb is established. In this program we will not see the results immediately. It will be a long slow process but it will lay the foundation stone for new cities and towns of the future. I hope the people do not expect to see this happen overnight because it is not on. 
It is important that we should be selective. The 1968 report of the New South Wales Department of Decentralisation said for the first time that there must be selected growth centres; that if you spread decentralisation in a pepper and salt method all over the country you would achieve nothing; that a city had to get to a certain minimal size before it started to generate its own growth. The figure given for that was a city with a population of between 50,000 and 100,000. 
The problem that we have had has been a political one. The Country Party has a sort of schizophrenic attitude towards the question of decentralisation. It wants it but it does not want it. Its members talk about it in their electorates. They demand that it be their bailwick. They all want it so long as it is theirs but they do not want it in the next fellow's area. They expect it to be in every country town and this is simply not on. If honourable members read that decentralisation report I referred to they will recognise the common sense contained in it. 
The other problems with the members of the Country Party is that once they demand it in their own bailiwick they hope that it is not the one chosen because unfortunately decentralisation brings with it people who are known as urban voters and who inevitably vote not for the Country Party but for the Labor Party. Unfortunately the Country Party has had this schizophrenic attitude towards decentralisation. Its members talk about it. They are in favour of it just like the national anthem, motherhood, Anzac Day and the Returned Services League. But by God if it ever happened they would all be out of this place on their ears. 
We must get away from ad hoc planning of the past. Unfortunately I have been asked to keep my speech within a limited time. I want to deal very briefly with the community which I represent, the community on the Central Coast of New South Wales. The development on the Central Coast is typical of the type of poor development that has occurred almost throughout the whole of Australia. The community has grown like Topsy. I do not say this in any derogatory sense but developers were allowed to pick off little sub-divisions hither and thither all over the Central Coast. They were able to move in on perhaps 100 blocks of land on the edge of a lake, near a river or down near a beach; flog them off without any kerbing, guttering, roads, electricity, telephone facilities- 
No sewerage, hospitals, libraries and recreation facilities. All those amenities have to be provided by the rest of the community. It is simply a matter of economics: If you have to provide all those sorts of facilities in a community to 60, 70 or 80 villages - and if honourable members are familiar with my area, they will know that it is broken up into a whole lot of little communities - it is a very expensive proposition. There are some major towns in my dec.troate, but there is an enormous number of places which one would describe as villages of 50 or 60 houses. Some little villages extend out 6 or 7 miles from the main centres. That means that the authorities have to provide 6 or 7 miles of bitumen road, telephone cable, electricity cable and so on. It is just as economical to provide those facilities for 1,000, 2,000 or 5,000 people as it is to provide them for 100 people. This is the way in which we have wasted our resources, and this is what we have to avoid in the future. 
This is what this new concept will do. We will move in and plan townships with communities of 4,000 or 5,000 people and suburbs of larger towns which perhaps will consist of 40,000 or 50,000 people. The whole project will be planned at the beginning. It may mean that a vastly greater amount of money will be outlaid at the beginning, but in the long term the capital investment that is ploughed in in these early years will show an economic result in the future. We will do this rather than spend money constantly to get an adequate result, which we are doing now. For example, in the case of a road, a little dirt track is made, it is widened a few feet, a few years later a bit of bitumen is put on it, then as the population grows a 4-lane highway is put down, and so it goes on. Millions of dollars are expended over a long period of time, and this results in an enormous waste. If the project is planned, the 4-lane road is put down in the first place, and one bite is taken at the cherry. The same principle applies, whether it be telephone services, electricity, water, sewerage, schools, hospitals and so on. 
The final thing I want to say in the last few minutes of my speech is that as  Chairman  of the House of Representatives Select Committee on Road Safety I have viewed with grave concern the enormous number of pedestrian deaths that occur in our community. About one-quarter of the 3,500 people killed on our roads every year are pedestrians. In a planned community, such as Canberra, the pedestrian death rate is about one-sixth of that in any other community in Australia. In the next 30 years we will build as many communities as we have built in the last 140 years. The Committee has asked the Department of Urban and Regional Development to make a submission to it, and the Department will do so. By planning our communities in this way we can save many thousands of lives. Pedestrian deaths, I repeat, comprise one-quarter of all Australian road deaths, and in most cases little children or older people are the victims. 
If we are looking for ways of saving lives, one way is to build communities in which one separates the pedestrian from the vehicle. The Radburn principle of planning, in which there are overpasses and underpasses, where children can play safely and walk to school, to playing fields and to shopping centres without ever coming into contact with a vehicle, is, I believe, the hope of the future. When I was in Western Australia recently I had the very great privilege of looking at a development called 'Crestwood', where a township is being built by a gentleman named  Mr Sloane.  It is a very fine performance. About 1,250 homes are to be built in an area in which the vehicle and the pedestrian are completely and utterly separated. I commend the Bill. I am delighted to see that the Opposition will support it. I look forward to the day when we will receive that unequivocal support on a whole range of measures. 
Has the attention of the Minister representing the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs been drawn to statements that have been made by the eminent criminologist, Gordon Hawkins, which point to a dangerous and pernicious mythology in Australia today that Aborigines are paid in excess of what is paid to Europeans or white people, that is, through the Social Security Department? Does the Minister agree that this mythology that is now common in folklore in Australia that Aboriginals are receiving up to '$200 a week merely by going down to the social welfare departments and putting out their hands is injurious to the race relations that we hope to improve in Australia.? 
Is the Minister for Urban and Regional Development aware of a report which appeared in the 'Sydney Morning Herald' on Wednesday, 27 February, attacking the joint Australian-New South Wales governments' plan to develop the Gosford-Wyong area as a system city? Does the Minister agree that the Gosford-Wyong area and other areas of existing urban growth should be developed in a rational way? 
I just wanted to jump up and refute some of the spurious and specious statements made by the honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Cooke).  In the short time he spoke he dealt with 3 matters which were totally dishonest and meant to deceive this House. First of all, he said that if we called for a general election now this would resolve the problem, lt is quite correct to say that it would resolve the problem for that election but the same thing could happen ad infinitum. We could continually get out of plumb. There would not be a guarantee of simultaneous elections in future; it would be only for one election. 
The second point that he made was about the Brisbane City Council. He virtually accused the Lord Mayor of Brisbane of some form of malpractice. I remind the honourable member that the Lord Mayor of Brisbane won 19 out of 20 seats on boundaries drawn by the Country Party Government in that State in an attempt to get rid of him. He increased his majority to 19 out of 20. The honourable member talked about the Brisbane City Council meetings. I think a world record for a lack of meetings was established by the Queensland Parliament. I can recall one of the honourable member's colleagues saying that the Queensland Parliament had not met for something in excess of 8 months. 1 hope that honourable members who speak later on these Constitution Alteration Bills will at least have the decency to treat the truth with some care. 
I hope that the right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon)  will stay in the House for a little while because if he does he will see just how attainable our proposals are and he will not continue with the delusions and the dream world that he is in now and which he was in when he was the Prime Minister of this country. By a Strang coincidence I was reading the 'Far East Economic Review' just before I came into the chamber. I hope that the right honourable member will stay and listen to what this publication said about his term of office as Prime Minister. The publication stated: 
In McMahon's case at least he was a trier, but somehow he never could quite get it right His last visit to South East Asia was meant to highlight the importance of Five-Power Defence. But in Jakarta he was primed to say defence pacts were unnecessary. Unfortunately a journalist asked the Singapore question in Jakarta with the result that Australian televiewers heard that the Five-Power pact was unnecessary. 
Thus, after Menzies' aloofness and Holt's warmth, the track record of Gorton and McMahon was of prime ministerial bulls in the Asian china shop. 
The right honourable gentleman has the temerity to criticise our Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  about foreign affairs. I might point out that the front page feature article in the Far East Economic Review' dealt with the present Prime Minister's recent trip abroad, and said what a fine performance it was. 
Labor has now been in office for one year and 100 days and is approaching the half way mark in its first term of office for 23 years. A few months ago our opponents were howling for an election. With the 4 opinion polls released in recent weeks showing that the Government's stocks have risen considerably, they are still calling for an election but with not quite the same enthusiasm. Despite their air of bravado they manage to convey, they are acutely conscious of the problems they would face in an election as day by day, week by week, voters become conscious of the new Australia that is starting to emerge as the Government's program starts to imprint itself on the consciousness of the electorate. 
I do not believe I am exaggerating when I state that the present Opposition must be easily the worst in this country's history. For the past 465 days, the media have concentrated their attention on the actions of the Government. In a general election, unfortunately for the Opposition, that attention will focus on them. There is a limit to how long any Opposition can continue without a policy and even the most generous and biased among the electorate must be embarassed by what is purported to be policy statements by the Opposition during the Christmas recess. Horrifying as it must be to them to have to face an election without policies or programs, it must be even more scary when they think of who has to present nothing to the electorate. It is a measure of how desperately short of talent the Liberal Party is that it should have at the helm 2 men who had the dubious distinction of recording the biggest swings against them in any electorate in Australia. As a Labor member, I relish the prospect of an election campaign between the clown prince of politics, the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  and the best Prime Minister Australia has ever had. Quite apart from the lack of any domestic policies, one can imagine him recounting his sortie into foreign affairs. If he really has any feeling for Australia, he would be doing the country a great service by staying at home and restricting himself to just embarrassing his own supporters rather than the whole country. The plastic men of the Liberal Party commenced their caterwauling on 3 December 1972. Crisis, chaos, industrial anarchy, communists, fascists, centralists, spendthrifts, misers and a host of other phrases roll glibly off the tongues of these men as they continue on the same path of dividing the nation in Opposition as they did for 23 years in Government. 
Despite the fact that people are now back at work, rural incomes have trebled, profits are going through the roof, our trade surpluses are embarrassingly high and look like going higher, tariffs have been reduced, the dollar is sound and more realistically valued, we are out of Vietnam, conscription has been abolished and our relations with Asia and Africa have now been brought out of the colonial era, social welfare is now taking its rightful place in our order of priorities, the 2 Jeremiahs of  Her  Majesty's Opposition daily pronounce imminent disaster and chaos. One wonders what new words their over-worked image makers would use if something really did go wrong. Their hyprocisy reaches grandiose heights when they attack the Government for its failure to implement some new measure that they themselves failed to implement in 23 years. They really do insult the voters' intelligence. We have had our prob- lems, we have made mistakes. I do not think we ever claimed we would be infallible. 
Unfortunately and undoubtedly, inflation looms as the greatest single problem the Government faces. But I must say I find it amusing to hear conservatives on this side of the world claim that inflation is all the fault of the Labor Government while their cousins in the United Kingdom blame an even higher rate of inflation on world-wide economic conditions that transports inflation from one country to another. After 2 revaluations, 25 per cent tariff cuts, the setting up of the Prices Justification Tribunal and the Select Committee on Prices, together with the referendum on prices and incomes, no Government could have done more to contain inflation at 13 per cent. I would like to quote figures from other countries such as Japan, Italy, the United Kingdom, Ireland, Greece where inflation is higher - much higher - than it is here in Australia. 
Today, however, I want to illustrate what this initial period of Labor government has meant to the people I represent, the 77,550 electors of Robertson and their dependants. I want to highlight to members the specific new benefits that have come to the Central Coast area of Gosford-Wyong, as distinct from the benefits that are available to every community. I believe firmly that if there is one way we shall be judged, it shall be the new commitment to improve the basic amenities that people use in their day to day living. First of all I want to go back to my first speech in this House on 5 March 1970. I said at that time: 
We have a unique opportunity in the Central Coast to avoid the mistakes of the past - the mistakes made in all the metropolitan areas of Australia. We have the opportunity to avoid many of the problems that exist in today's cities . . . Never a day passes without some new outcry against air and water pollution, traffic congestion, destruction of our flora and fauna, despoliation of our beaches and urban ugliness and visual chaos. Couple these crimes against nature with the continued shortage of amenities that affect the everyday lives of our citizens - sewerage, schools, hospitals, recreation facilities, roads and highways and one becomes aware of the ghastly lack of planning that has accrued since our society developed into primarily an urban society. 
Where in the Governor-General's address was there recognition that these problems exist? 
That was in 1970. In my first 3 years in this place the electorate of Robertson - one of the major growth centres of Australia, with the largest pensioner population of Australia, one of the most popular tourist resorts of Australia and the area next threatened by the urban sprawl of Sydney and Newcastle; - received virtually no assistance with the problems that I have outlined. The Liberal-Country Party Government answered every appeal for assistance with the oft-repeated cliche: These are matters for State and local governments. 1 suppose, in fairness, I should state that the former Government continued to supply telephones and postal services, if somewhat tardily, and if my memory is correct grants were received for 2 science laboratory blocks for 2 schools in the area. Any other request was treated in that supercilious fashion that is so carefully cultivated by those who have such immense faith in their inherent right to rule. There is an old fashioned Australian expression to describe what we got when we asked for something. 
Let me now contrast that with what has happened in the first year and 100 days of an Australian Labor Government. The Cities Commission, working in conjunction with the New South Wales State Planning Authority, has recognised Gosford-Wyong as a major growth centre that will absorb a- population of between 400,000 and 500,000 by the year 2000 A.D. It is assisting in the planning and national development of the Central Coast to avert the disastrous errors of ad hoc development so evident in all our major metropolitan areas and on the Central Coast itself. It has accepted the State Planning Authority's recommendations of 2 properly planned townships similar to the Canberra style suburban development and has provided $3m in the last Budget to purchase land for these projects. It has also commissioned 5 in-depth studies of various problems that must be solved if the vast increase in population is to be absorbed smoothly with minimal dislocation of the natural beauty and present communities. I refer to the Gosford town centre study, the transportation study, the flood and drainage study, the conservation study and the market economic base study. The total contribution to these studies is about $200,000. This initial investment is only a fraction of the amount that will ultimately be spent in the area. Investment of this nature is not physically evident for a long time, as anyone who has studied the planning of Canberra by the National Capital Development Commission will know, but history will pay tribute to the foresight of the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  and his Department. 
In the field of education the results will be obvious much sooner. The Karmel Committee recommendations are being implemented at a rapid pace and within 2 years should have transformed the face of education on the Central Coast. Three hundred thousand dollars has been provided for a new Catholic girls high school at East Gosford. I am informed that they hoped to receive $80,000 from the previous Government. Both the Catholic high schools - the only private high schools in the Central Coast - were given H category status which resulted in the per capita grants being lifted from $104 for 1973 to $215 for 1975. The result is that school fees have not had to be increased for this year and school standards will be able to be raised immeasurably. 
It is more difficult to pinpoint the benefits in the state school field as the moneys directed to education by the last Budget are allocated by the State Department of Education. However, the local State member and Teachers Federation officials inform me that in recent months a constant flow of money has been available for new buildings, heating and lighting, teaching aids, slow learners assistance and a host of other improvements that were never available in previous years. One of the most exciting developments has been the announcement that each of the major high schools in the area will receive a multipurpose activity centre which will double as a theatre or a gymnasium as well as being available for an assembly hall. These centres which are directly attributable to the Schools Commission finance will be used by the school during school hours and will be available to the rest of the community in the late afternoons, evenings and weekends. 
I understand that the high schools will be coupled together, with one of the schools receiving a theatre complex and the other a gymnasium complex. The individual cost of these buildings will be between $180,000 and $200,000. Within a short while Gosford, Henry Kendall, Wyong, Woy Woy, Swansea, The Entrance and Erina high schools and the proposed new high school at Umina will be provided with one of these much needed amenities. I do not envy the job of the local Liberal Party trying to convince the electors of Robertson that the face of education has not changed since Labor came to power. 
Having provided for a totally new look primary and secondary education, the Government has turned its attention to tertiary education. Late last year the Australian Government approved the finance for the development of a college of advanced education at Ourimbah in the heart of the Central Coast. Honourable members recall the abuse hurled at the Minister for Education  (Mr Beazley)  and me by the New South Wales Minister for Education,  Mr Willis,  who claimed that we were trying to seek the glory' for the project. He said: 'After all, we selected the site. All the Australian Labor Government did was to provide the money'. I shall not repeat, what I said to  Mr Willis  at the time. 
That is right. So much for education. Now let us look at what is proposed for the people of Robertson in the health field - an area even more neglected by our predecessors than education. Last year, to its great credit the New South Wales Health Commission sent to the Central Coast a very well informed, progressive young doctor,  Dr Howard  Gwynne, to study the health facilities of the Central Coast and to make recommendations to overcome the glaring deficiencies he uncovered. Three factors were evident in his excellent report: The unbelievably high proportion of aged people, the growing numbers of young families with children and the need to provide improved health care in the community and at home. Health care is changing its emphasis to preventative methods and to treating people in their own homes rather than for prolonged periods in hospital. We all like to have a hospital near at hand in case we become ill but most of us prefer to spend as little time as possible in one. Patients respond infinitely better to the home environment and food than they do to the best of hospitals. A rapid recovery is more likely if the patient can be treated at home, particularly during the convalescent period. With this in mind,  .Dr Gwynne  recommended the provision of mobile pediatric and geriatric services for the Central Coast. The Australian Government provided $173,050 for this purpose during 1973-74. 
Due to the high degree of loneliness and boredom suffered by the aged - the large proportion being widows or widowers - there is a high incidence of mental stress. The Govern- ment has provided initial finance for 4 mental health clinics at Woy Woy, Terrigal, Wyong and Norah Head. The two at Woy Woy and Wyong are to be main community centres and will be staffed by psychiatrists, psychologists, occupational therapists, social workers and experts in drug dependency care. The Terrigal and Norah Head centres will be storefront operations and will work in conjunction with the 2 main centres. A total of $96,750 has been provided for the establishment of these mental health clinics. The services to the community will be provided free to all patients. 
However, the most exciting news is that the Government has agreed to finance the establishment of a series of community health centres commencing at The Entrance. A $50,000 grant has been made available for the first of these projects, and negotiations are in progress to purchase the site. It had been hoped that the centre would be staffed by salaried medical officers, but the New South Wales Government has little interest in a salaried medical profession as it bows to the interests of the Australian Medical Association and the General Practitioners Society at the expense of thousands of patients. Nevertheless they will provide a wide range of paramedical services free, financed by the Australian Government, such as those already mentioned. These will include an occupational therapist, social workers, community nurses and possibly a pathology department. Private practice doctors operating on a fee for service basis will be offered rooms in the centre so that patients will have available more complete community health care facilities. The Health Commission has placed an energetic and well informed young man,  Mr David  Briggs, in the area to oversee the implementation of this farsighted and enlightened program. Two further community health centres are planned for Woy Woy and Wyong. I remind the House again that under the Liberal-Country Party Government health care facilities of this nature received absolutely nothing. 
On Sunday evening I had the pleasure of announcing a new grant that has raised immense interest and delight amongst my constituents. The Minister for Tourism and Recreation  (Mr Stewart),  who is at the table, informed me  that  the Government had approved a grant of $63,000 towards the building of a $300,000 youth centre which will be part of a magnificent plan to provide The 
Entrance, Long Jetty and Bateau Bay areas with one of the finest recreational complexes in Australia. There are two reasons why this particular grant has given me a thrill, firstly, for the obvious reason that it will bring enormous benefit to the people of that area, and secondly because of the part I played in formulating the Labor Party's sport and recreation policy in the latter part of 1972. The total plan includes playing fields, athletic track, an olympic swimming pool, and a multi-purpose activity and youth centre which will include indoor basketball courts and gymnasium. The Australian Government is already providing $180,000 to $200,000 through the Schools Commission for the activity centre which will be attached to The Entrance High School and is adjacent to the complex. 
This centre will double as a community theatre and school assembly hall. The $63,000 is an initial grant towards the indoor basketball court and gymnasium which, as I said before, will ultimately cost some $300,000. I have been assured by the Minister that further contributions will be made by the Australian Government as the project proceeds and money becomes available after the August Budget. A lot will depend on how quickly the Wyong Shire Council moves to utilise the initial grant. This project has been on the drawing boards for some years now and I believe I am not exaggerating when I say that the decision by the Minister to make this grant, together with the initiative of the Schools Commission, will be just the incentive required to inspire the Council and the rest of the community to make this dream a reality within a very short time. At the risk of being repetitive, I again remind the House of the Liberals' contribution to sport and recreation facilities - nothing. 
Two further areas where the Government has taken new initiatives are in the road safety and social welfare fields. An amount of $20,000 has been provided for reflectorised markings on the Pacific Highway and for special turning lanes at the Tuggerah turn-off, and $5,000 has been provided for the Central Coast Social Welfare Co-ordinating Council. Time does not permit me to enlarge on these new initiatives in detail. However, I hope to have more to say on these matters in later speeches. 
I believe that I have shown clearly today a new and widespread community involvement by the Australian Government that illustrates just how hopeless, how inadequate and how unresponsive was the previous Government to the very real needs of our communities. This is what has been achieved in 1 year and 100 days in my electorate of Robertson, and there is a lot more to come. I have no way of knowing accurately whether what has occurred in the electorate of Robertson has been repeated across Australia. Clearly, there were unique problems of growth, development and social and demographic structure that would not be repeated elsewhere. I understand, however, that what is happening in Robertson is occurring in many other electorates throughout Australia. In order to provide such widespread benefits, Governments often have to impose extra taxes and often have to change the order of priorities, but let me assure honourable members opposite who fancy their chances in an election that the Australian people are daily becoming more and more aware of just how many benefits are being planned and implemented in their communities. It is a program of which Labor members are justly proud. It is a program that I believe the Australian people, when given the opportunity, will overwhelmingly endorse. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Berinson)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I do not know what the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  was rabbiting on about. I honestly think that he thinks he is paid by the word, in which case, judging by the number of times he speaks in this House, he ought to be on his second million. He seems to attribute to the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  some sinister plot that has been cooked up. I assume he attributes to the Prime Minister the same devious, scheming, intriguing, cunning little mind as his own. I can assure him that he will get the surprise of his life and will realise that he has wasted 20 minutes of the time of this House when the Senate election date is announced. I remind him of his last comment about gagging. He talks about democracy being trodden on by jackboots. Many of us were here on that fateful night when we sat in this House and 17 Bills went through, in one night. The previous Government still holds the world record for this. 
While we sat here until 5 o'clock in the morning. 
As the honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Sherry)  points out, the honourable member for Mackellar was asleep as usual, so it did not worry him particularly. Let us not hear any more talk about jackboots treading on democracy until we get anything remotely near the previous Government's appalling performance of passing 17 Bills in one night. 
This Opposition, what little of it is here tonight, has had a very simple philosophy since it came to occupy the Opposition benches - attack, smear, denigrate, distort, and speak dishonestly about what the Labor Government is doing. Accuracy and facts have gone out the window. The Opposition has used the old Goebbels tactic of telling the big lie and hoping that people will believe it. Everything that was given by this Government was ignored or taken for granted. It was not enough, the Opposition said. Everything that was taken away brought about hysterical abuse. Every deficiency that existed in Australia was blamed upon the Labor Government. After 23 years the situation was supposed to have been fixed after 12 months in office. But the honourable members opposite kept it up. I must admire them. There was no worry about honesty or fair debate or fair discussion; they just kept on saying it and kept on telling the people that this was what was happening, hoping that after a while the people would believe it. Maybe it has worked; I do not know. It was a good tactic but I am afraid that the chickens are coming home to roost. 
I cite one example that we heard tonight from the honourable member for Darling Downs  (Mr McVeigh).  'I have heard it repeated over and over again in this House that the Labor Government promised to increase pensions to 25 per cent of average weekly earnings. It did promise that. But the Prime Minister made, it very clear in his speech at Blacktown that that was a promise to be met over 3 years - over the life of one parliament. Is there any member in this House tonight who denies that this was not the promise? 
Let us debate that at another time. The promise was clear and concise - pensions would be raised to 25 per cent of average weekly earnings in the life of one parliament. 
I shall come to that in a moment. Yet I have heard repeatedly the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch),  and the honourable member for Darling Downs tonight, state that this was the promise and that we have broken our promise. The promise was for the goal to be achieved in 3 years. We have now reached not quite the half way mark, as my good friend the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  has said, and the pension now stands at 22.6 per cent of average weekly earnings. When we came to office it was 20 per cent. We are fractionally ahead of half way at the half way point. I point out that most of the time I was in this House in opposition the pension languished at 18 per cent to 19 per cent of average weekly earnings. Only just prior to the last election it got a big lift to 20 per cent when the previous Government saw what was happening in the electorate. 
This is a typical example of what I call the big lie. The Opposition believes that if it keeps on with it enough people in the electorate will finally believe that we did promise to achieve the goal on the day we got into office. My friend the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  today made some very good points about the Public Service. The Opposition is constantly saying that it will cut public expenditure. When we ask where, of course, it will not pinpoint anything. It says only that we should cut down Public Service spending. Of course that always has popular appeal. The most denigrated person in our community is the public servant. I do not know why it is. I should not say that he is the most denigrated; the most denigrated is the politician, but the second is the public servant. The poor old public servant cannot answer back so he is always a good target - 'They are all bludgers; they are all leaning on their shovels'. That is the concept people have of public servants. It is not the concept I have because I work with a lot of them, and generally speaking I find them most dedicated men who do a fair day's work. But the story the Opposition puts up is that it will cut Public Service spending. 
The honourable member for Gellibrand today made the very good point that the growth rate of the Public Service has increased - I did not copy down the exact figure - from about 3.3 per cent a year to about 4.6 per cent a year, a difference of a little over 1.25 per cent. In actual numbers, it has increased by about 11,000. It would have increased, as it had done under the Liberals, by about 8,000. The extra increase is about 3,500 public servants. So when the Opposition talks about controlling inflation it means that it will sack 3,500 people, and it says that will solve all our problems. Brilliant. That would save $40m, and we are talking of a Budget in terms of $10 billion. 
The figures are there. To save $150m we would have to sack every public servant who has been put on since we came to office, and we would have to cut back to a zero growth rate in the Public Service. Under the previous Government there was a Public Service growth rate of approximately 3 per cent a year. I assume that it would not suddenly stop growing after 23 years of office of the previous Government. I make this point too: We have opened new areas in which we are dealing with new problems, such as with the Department of Urban and Regional Development. I believe, and I would have thought that some of our country cousins would have accepted the fact, that decentralisation, urban development and growth centres are important and that those things cannot be achieved by mystery people, by Eskimos. They have to be done by human beings, by public servants who have to be paid a salary. We are opening new areas in the social security field which require people to work in them. If anything, most of the people in my area complain that there is not enough service in the government departments and that they cannot get served in the Department of Social Security offices because there is not enough staff and there are too many queues. 
The honourable member for Petrie  (Mr Cooke)  is leaning back in his green seat. I have never met a person who does not feel that he is the hardest worked person in Australia and that everybody else is sitting back taking an easy seat. 
That is your view. I am sure that there are some public servants who are lazy. I am sure there are some private enterprise people who are lazy. I recall playing golf one day at the golf club with some lawyers and accountants who were having their second game of golf for the week. They were sitting down having chicken sandwiches and champagne while they complained about the lazy workers who were on strike. That is the sort of philosophy that emanates from people like the honourable member for Petrie. 
He said they did not give an honest day's work. Is that correct? 
I apologise most humbly,  Mr Speaker.  You are quite right. The fact of the matter is that since Labor came to office there have been whole new areas of commitment. I instance the field of education. Does anyone deny that the extra $460m that will be spent on education will create a tremendous new area of growth that will be most important and something that every Australian would agree with? In the field of health there are new plans, new health centres. There is a big program in the areas of urban development and urban transport and, as I mentioned earlier, in social security and in the field of recreation. 
If as our opponents say, they intend to cut Public Service expenditure, the question must then be asked: Where? I think that is the question that is going to be increasingly asked in this House and outside this House and in the media and throughout Australia. Where are they going to make the cuts? We have heard honourable members opposite clearly outline some of the programs that they intend to introduce should they be returned to office. For instance, they intend to increase expenditure on their private schools - the category A schools that have been cut out of Government assistance. Honourable members opposite are going to increase expenditure on all those categories of schools on which Government expenditure has been reduced. We could put a price on that at a rough $10Om. Members of the Opposition are very critical of the fact that we allowed expenditure on defence to diminish slightly and, in their terms, they will bring it back to what it was. I think they are talking in terms of $400m to $500m. They intend to increase expenditure in health because they have no intention whatsoever of controlling the fees of doctors on the health funds. We could guarantee that in the first year of a new Liberal government, that policy would cost another $10Om. Then, they intend to restore all the subsidies and taxation dodges that we have eliminated. They are going to provide more money for oil exploration for their Esso-BHP friends about whom we heard so much from our friend, the Leader of the Australian Country Party  (Mr Anthony).  The superphosphate bounty will be restored. That will cost another $65m. I could go on and on. I have only just started, and the total is already over $ 1,000m. How are the honourable members opposite going to raise this extra Si, 000m that they are going to give back? 
Yes, they are going to cut taxes by $600m, so the total is now $l,600m. 
One does not have to be a Rhodes scholar or an economist to work out the sort of mathematics that are coming from our friends on the other side. Where is the money coming from? 
That is right; they are going to lower interest rates. 
You are going to do all this in this brilliant economic plan and yet you talk about responsible economic management. The total is now $ 1600m. 
Yes, I think you must have printed your own money. 
I am disappointed in the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp).  I have always considered him to be one of the few honest members on that side of the House. (Honourable members interjecting) - 
I apologise,  Mr Speaker.  I thought that what I was saying about the honourable member for Hotham was complimentary. I have always regarded him as an honest member of this House. 
If the cap fits, wear it. Tonight we saw from the honourable member for Hotham an exhibition of yelling. I assume he thought that if he yelled long enough and loud enough he would make his argument sound sincere. Previously, he has always used honest argument. Tonight he said that Australia has the highest rate of inflation that has ever occurred. In fact, in the previous Government's second year of office the inflation rate was 25 per cent. That was in 1951. At present it is about 13 per cent - almost half of what it was in the first few years of the Liberal Government. 
Frankly, I find it quite sickening to hear the new found friends of the pensioners who must be deeply touched and deeply moved by their newly won friends in the Opposition. Let us examine the record of the Opposition when it was in government. In 1963 it gave pensioners a $1 increase. In 1964 it gave an increase of 50c in pensions. Of course, that was a Senate election year. The following year, 1965, it gave the pensioners nothing. It can be seen that increases occurred in election years - elections for either the Senate or the House of Representatives. In neutral years nothing was done. In 1966, an election year, the pensioners received an increase of $1; but in 1967, a non-election year, nothing. In 1968 pensions were increased by $1. In 1969, an election year, the increase was $1. In 1970, which was not long ago - let us not forget that there was a fairly hefty rate of inflation then - the Opposition in government gave an additional 50c to pensioners. This was oneninth of what this Government has given pensioners this year. 
What I say is correct. The Opposition in government gave pensioners 50c in 1970. Honourable members will recall the momentous day here when the Gorton Government fell, when the right honourable member for Higgins  (Mr Gorton)  was forced to resign and the new Prime Minister, the right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon)  in an effort to take the heat off the Liberal Party, gave pensioners an extra 50c. In 1971 the pension rose by $1.25. This was less than 3 years ago. In that year there was a disastrous Budget that caused unemployment. Shortly after, in the new year, there was a mini Budget and an attempt to solve not the problems of pensioners but the problems that the then Government's bad business management had created, including unemployment. An extra $1 was added to the pension to boost consumer spending and the pension reached the grand sum of $18.25. Finally, when honourable members opposite saw the writing on the wall and inevitable defeat facing them, there was the first decent hike in pensions in years - $1.75 - and the pension reached $20. In my first term as a member of this Parliament I saw the pension rise by $4.50. In the last 16 months, during Labor's term of office, it has matched that amount already. 
Honourable members opposite quote statistics. No one denies that there has been inflation; but the fact of the matter is that pensions languished between 18 per cent and 19 per cent of average weekly male earnings under consecutive Liberal-Country Party governments, whereas pensions are now 22.6 per cent of such earnings. 
It is 22.6 per cent of average weekly earnings right now and it will reach 25 per cent. This figure has not been claimed but it is a stated guarantee that this Government has promised. The honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp)  asks what is magic about it. The only thing that is magic about it is that it is 7 per cent higher than what was mostly given by the Government of which he was a member. 
Debate interrupted. 
I rise to resume a speech that I commenced last night and, unfortunately, through lack of time was unable to finish. At that time I was talking about the dishonesty that I believed had intruded into the debate on social services. I would hope that just occasionally there would be some honesty in political debate. Inaccurate and distorted charge and counter-charge lower the level of debate and, instead of some reasoned discussion taking place, the debates become an exercise in trying to top each other's distortions. Since I have been in this House I have used figures prepared by the Parliamentary Library on inflation, unemployment, pensions and average weekly earnings. I have never deliberately distorted or misquoted those figures. I have never distorted what members of the Opposition did or said, although I reserved the right to interpret those statistics or policy pronouncements. I believe that to be legitimate parliamentary debate. 
But, as I said last night, during the last few days we have seen Liberal Party spokesmen deliberately distorting both the policy and the statistics surrounding this issue under debate. Let me quote some instances. It was said that the policy of the Australian Labor Party on pensions was to increase the pension to 25 per cent of average weekly earnings. That is quite true. But what has been implied consistently by spokesmen on the other side is that we intended to implement the increase in our first few months in office. The Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  said quite clearly in his policy speech in Blacktown that this was a commitment over a 3 year term. Yet members on that side of the House have consistently thrown this promise at us as if we had intended it to be introduced within days or weeks of coming into office. It would be as dishonest for us to say to honourable members opposite that they intended to abolish the means test on the day they got into office. They made that commitment. We made a similar commitment. I believe it is only fair if there is to be any sort of interplay in this House and any sort of reasonable discussion between parliamentarians for statements to be accurate. By all means, attack us on those things on which we are weak but, please, I ask for some reason. At least quote what we said we would do. If honourable members opposite say that that is not sufficient, that is legitimate, but do not distort what we have said. 
In the earlier part of my speech I mentioned that the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp)  said last night that the current rate of inflation was the highest rate that has ever existed. That simply is not a fact. It simply is not true. As I said last night, a 25 per cent rate of inflation existed in the early years of the Liberal-Country Party Government. There may have been some very good reasons for that; I think there were. There were high prices for wool and other economic factors operating at that time. But it was a fact. I was disappointed that the honourable member for Hotham of all people on that side of the House should have said what he did last night because it simply was not fact. 
This debate has been raging around average weekly earnings. One honourable member said last night that although he accepted that pensions now represented 22 per cent of average weekly earnings, in fact, from the time that such a pension level was introduced, it would start to deteriorate. That is quite true. But the point that I want to make and that the Government has made is that we stated that the pension was 22.6 per cent of average weekly earnings at the time that the increase was granted. We have also compared that level with statistics that existed when the LiberalCountry Parties were in office. We said in 1972, before the last Budget of the previous Government, the pension was 18 per cent to 19 per cent of average weekly earnings and that after the Budget it was 20 per cent of average weekly earnings. It is equally true to say that immediately honourable members opposite introduced a rise in pensions, as average weekly earnings started to rise, the pension gradually deteriorated as a percentage of average weekly earnings before the next rise. This is why I ask for some honesty, if honourable members opposite must quote statistics. In fact, this has been , the case ever since comparisons have been made between the rate of pension and average weekly earnings. 
As I said last night, under the LiberalCountry Party Government pensions languished between 18 per cent and 19 per cent of average weekly earnings and reached 20 per cent just prior to the last election. Using the logic of honourable members opposite, as I said I could easily argue that under the LiberalCountry Party Government the pension languished even lower than the level I have already quoted. However, last night I used the same figures in showing what Labor has done as I did when illustrating what occurred under the Liberals. 
The honourable member for Wimmera says that it was all wrong. The figures are there; they were prepared by the Parliamentary Library. He keeps making this charge that they are wrong. The facts are that all the statistics available show that the pension now- stands at 26.2 per cent of average weekly earnings. 
Of course they are based on the December quarter. They are the last figures available. The point that I should make and can legitimately make at this stage is that, traditionally, the December quarter represents the highest period of earnings 'because of overtime, Christmas pay, holiday pay and so on. In fact earnings normally drop in the March quarter and have done so year after year. If they follow the normal pattern, instead of being 22.6 per cent of average weekly earnings, pensions should rise to about 23 per cent but I will not cite that figure because that would be a dishonest distortion of figures. 
I have no way of knowing, but it has happened every other year and I see no reason why it should not happen this time. The point is that at this stage the pension has been increased to 22.6 per cent of average weekly earnings at the last average weekly earnings announced. 
The honourable member says that I did not say that last night. I spoke for only 5 minutes last night out of my 20-minute speech. I am making those final points now. 
I want to make one correction to my speech last night. I said that the pension rose by $4.50 in the last term of the Liberal-Country Party Government. That was incorrect. It rose by $4. I also said that this Government had increased it by $4.50 in the first year. That was not correct. It was in the first 16 months. I would like those corrections to be noted. The Government is now moving inexorably towards a pension rate of 25 per cent of average weekly earnings and that point should be reached in August or September last year. 
In August or September next year. 
I apologise. It was a slip of the tongue. Pensioners are now guaranteed 2 rises a year, which will ensure that pensions will never drop below that proportion of the nation's wealth. They will never be dependent on the whim or the political fortunes of any government - Labor or Liberal. They will never again be used as a means to innate or deflate economies. We will get rid of one of the most obnoxious features of politics in this country whereby pensioners were guaranteed a rise only in an election year and afterwards were ignored. To a certain degree this method will take politics out of pensions. There will be plenty of room for debate. 
The honourable member for Hotham asked: What is magic about 25 per cent? I agree that there is nothing specifically magic about it, but the point is that it is 6 per cent or 7 per cent better than what was given consistently by the Liberal-Country Party Government. It will be a guarantee that pensions will have the 25 per cent relationship. The Government has a lot of social objectives which the Minister for Social Security  (Mr Hayden)  is gradually introducing. We would like to have been able to do everything in the first year in office. Clearly we must have an order of priorities. I hope that at the next Labor Party Federal Conference - which will be held in Terrigal, I believe - new debate will ensue in the Labor Party about what should be the next steps in our social objectives. I personally would like to see a greater concentration on those sections of the community which are receiving the very base standard rate of pension. 
The Government intends to abolish the means test. That should be completed by the time we go to the people in 1975. It will bring great benefits, particularly to those people in the community who are now receiving a modest income. Some fairly wealthy people will benefit from it too, but much of that will be taken back in tax. The abolition of the means test will improve the lot of people in the middle sector. I believe that in future years the Labor Government, having achieved those 2 desirable social objectives, should then start to concentrate on that section of the community which is receiving just the base rate. 
I hope that the Government will look at the need for a much greater extension of low rent housing and some increase in the rent allowance. At some date I would like to see a new pension introduced which would be similar to the rent allowance, payable to pensioners who have only a home and very few other assets, to help them pay their rates. The Government will of course be concentrating on other aspects that will improve the life of pensioners. I refer to health services and the provision of a range of health centres throughout the community. I believe that in my area of Gosford-Wyong there will be a greater extension of recreation and activity centres to help the very large number of people in that area who have a lot of time on their hands to enjoy fully their leisure time. This is something that our society must look at in much greater detail because it is something that has been ignored over a long period. I will deal with that in another debate. 
Finally, I think that the Liberal Party has a duty to spell out exactly its policy. Honourable members opposite are saying that there is nothing magic about the figure of 25 per cent of average weekly earnings. If one reads closely the speech made by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  the other day one will see that he indicated - I will not say 'stated' because I do not want to put words into his mouth - that the Liberal Party is thinking seriously about abandoning the concept of 25 per cent of average weekly earnings. In my visits to pensioners meetings in recent weeks I have heard them say: 'We know what will happen under a Labor Government; we will receive the 25 per cent. That will be a big improvement. But what happens if Labor goes out of office?' Let me tell honourable members what I said to them. I believe I was being politically honest, lt would have been easy for me to say: 'The Liberals will abandon it.' I said: 'I do not believe that they will. I do not believe that they would be politically courageous enough to abandon the concept of 25 per cent, which I believe is a very good concept.' 
The other day the Deputy Leader of the Opposition indicated that the Liberal Party was looking at another form of indexation. He talked about price indexation. 1 do not know whether that is what the Liberal Party intends to do. Does it intend to abolish what Labor is working towards or to dismantle it? Will it go back to the old system of giving rises off the top of its head? Does it intend to introduce some new scheme of its own attached to the cost of living? I think that the questions the pensioners are asking are fair and reasonable. This Parliament is entitled to know the answers. The Liberal and Country Parties should be saying something about their policy. Maybe they will continue Labor's scheme. I hope they do. Maybe they will try to build upon it. That would be even better. But I think they have a very real problem ahead of them if they do not state categorically what is their policy with regard to pensioners. 
I ask the Minister for Transport a question. Has his attention been drawn to suggestions that the Government is considering using its sales tax powers to encourage the production and sale of small motor vehicles at the expense of larger vehicles in order to discourage fuel consumption and pollution? Is he aware that generally small vehicles are far more dangerous when involved in accidents than larger vehicles? Will he assure the House that any decision to use sales tax powers or any other taxing powers to encourage the use of different forms of motor vehicles will  be  taken only after consideration is first given to the environment of people inside motor vehicles? 
I do not wish to speak for a long time on these Bills. I made a number of speeches in the previous Parliament on the subject of tourism. It seems that tonight we have a measure of agreement between both sides of the House on the direction in which the industry should go and there is an approval of the Government's Bills. I was interested to hear the comments of the honourable member for McPherson  (Mr Eric Robinson)  and the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  because one of the things that have concerned me over the past few years is the view that the way in which we will encourage tourism in Australia is by spending a lot of money overseas in bringing people to this country. What we have to do is examine the reasons why people travel. I take the view that Australia is not attracting people because we are concentrating on only 2 aspects of tourism. We assume that if we provide good facilities for people - by that I mean accommodation - and if we have beautiful scenery we will be absolutely inundated with tourists. I doubt that very much, although I believe that scenery in parts of Australia is equal to any in the world. 
Today the standard of accommodation in most of the major cities and the major countries of the world is pretty much the same. If one takes hotels like the Wentworth, the Chevron, the Hilton or Sheraton hotels around the world one finds that there is not a great deal of difference between them. The degree of quality does not vary a great deal. 'I doubt very much whether a massive increase in quantity of facilities will make a great deal of difference to tourism. I do not think that scenery alone is sufficient. What I think attracts people to a country is what there is to do and see. Not so long ago I was fortunate enough to visit the very small country of Israel which is 250 miles from one end to the other. There is such a wide diversity of cultures, such a wide diversity of people and such a wide range of history, architecture, economics and industry that one can simply walk along any block and see a tremendous range of things that one cannot see in a country such as Australia. 
What we need to do is to concentrate on building attractions that people can visit, such as the Opera House in Sydney. No doubt there are plenty of other places throughout Australia that are similar. I do not want to make a parochial speech but I am very fortunate that in my electorate of Robertson there is a $9m project now being undertaken to recreate Old Sydney Cove. It is a massive project which the proprietors have undertaken. 
Yes. The honourable member may be surprised by some announcement that will be made shortly, lt is a private enterprise scheme. I am not opposed to private enterprise. 
In Somersby, just south of Gosford. It will recreate Old Sydney Cove as it was in circa 1810. The developers spent some 12 years looking for a site that was an exact copy of Sydney Cove with the Tank Stream. It is quite spooky, if I may use the term, to see how similarly it represents the early pictures of old Sydney Town. They will recreate that early period with Government House, the convict buildings, the officers mess, taverns, inns, the Customs House and Bennelong's hut. A huge harbour will be built there on the site of an old dam and a tank stream will come down into it. It will become one of the major tourist attractions of the area. People will come to the area not because it has beauti ful scenery, which it has, but because there is something to do there, just as the safari lion parks, the reptile parks, zoos, the Opera House and so on attract people. I believe that that is what we need to spend our money on in order to create what may be called 'stock' things for people to do, see and visit. That is what we ought to be pouring our money into. I am a little disappointed in the Government in the sense that I would like to see it do more. However, I have some sympathy for the sort oi problems the Government is facing because if we were to encourage an excessive amount of building at the moment with the present housing difficulties which exist, we would be creating problems in another direction. I would hope that in the future when the building pressures ease in our community we will devote more money towards providing the sort of stock that would become tourist attraction facilities in the future. 
I heard some mention made recently by, I think, the honourable member for Bourke  (Mr Keith Johnson)  of the Great Barrier Reef. He said that the Barrier Reef was one of our great attractions. I can assure people that I would agree with that view but I think we must start to look at the sort of facilities that are available on the Barrier Reef. I made the mistake about 2 years ago of going to the Barrier Reef during summer time. I arrived there the day after Cyclone Althea had virtually wiped out Townsville. It was about 85 degrees and raining and I was shown to a weatherboard shack which had none of the basic facilities that one expects today in any sort of modern motel. It had a tiled floor. 
No. I had my wife and 3 children with me and I was paying, I think, S35 a night. There was no refrigeration, no air conditioning and no Muzak. We were in a weatherboard shack with the 3 children's beds stuck alongside each other. They had to jump from one to the other to get into their beds - at $35 a night! I think that if I wanted to feed them at the motel restaurant it would have been about an additional $20 to $25 a day. This was 2 years ago. Costs are a lot less now. So, for $50 a night we were living in the place I have described to honourable members. The temperature rose to 107 degrees Fahrenheit after we had been there about 2 days and the humidity was about 98 per cent. I reached the stage where I was running around hiding under bushes to get away from the heat. When I approached the manager of the motel and said: 'I am dying. What are you going to do? Let me out of the place!' He said: 'This heat is marvellous for you. It is good for your health. Do not worry about air conditioning. That is unhealthy.' In the meantime, I was almost prostrate from the heat. 
Where in the world would one go where there was a temperature of 107 degrees and find such accommodation? It was like that for 7 days. We could not go out in the sun but we could not stay in the hut because it was 120 degrees in the hut. This is the sort of facility we are offering to international tourists. Australians can travel to Fiji, New Guinea and places like that. If we are to show people the great beauty of the Barrier Reef we must provide accommodation that is equivalent to international standards. 1 stayed only on Dunk Island. On top of all that, on New Year's Eve in the flat next to us there was an attempted rape. So, I was called out in the middle of the night. A policeman came around and the following morning I gave evidence. He said: 'You do not mind coming back in a couple of weeks time to the court case, do you?' So, not only did I have a very unpleasant 2 weeks there but I also had to go back there a couple of weeks later to give evidence at the court case. That was one of the disasters I call a Christmas holiday. This is a serious problem. We can laugh and joke about it, but the Great Barrier Reef is considered to be one of our great tourist attractions. 
What? 
I wondered what the honourable member was talking about. I visited only one short section of it which was Dunk Island. But it really would be a great place if adequate facilities could be provided. 1 talked to the former owner of the island who unfortunately has passed away, a very interesting man,  Mr Eric  Mclllree. He pointed out the difficulties of providing proper facilities at a place like Dunk Island. Firstly, it costs about 3 times the capital investment to transport material to the island to build the facilities. Running costs are a great deal more than elsewhere because one must bring workers over to the island and provide them with accommodation. One has to pay them about double what it would cost to secure the services of someone on the mainland. Then, it is necessary to fly in fresh fruit and food. It cannot be brought on rail runs or regular transport runs. It must be flown or shipped in. So, if we are to develop places like the Great Barrier Reef, Ayers Rock and other off the beaten track places we must use the basic principles that are used, I understand, in countries such as Ireland and New Zealand. If we are to develop outback facilities, special provisions must be made for private enterprise. I do not think across the board incentives, subsidies or loans should be provided. We should be very selective about whom we assist. We should not be developing the inner city areas. I notice that a number of the very big motel-hotel organisations pick only the prime places to develop. They do not go out and pioneer and I think that the provision by the Government of any sort of across the board depreciation allowances, taxation incentives or whatever they may be is basically wrong. What we ought to do is scale the incentives to the degree of difficulty in providing accommodation at a particular place and I hope that in future years when we seek to increase growth in the tourist trade we shall follow this pattern. 
Yes. The growth of tourism in my area has been enormous but I do not know that it is all due simply to visitors. A lot of it has been caused by a growth in the number of commuters - people who have come to live in the area. However, there has been a massive increase in tourism. My area of Gosford-Wyong has received almost all the tourist growth with which it can possibly cope because it is so close to a city. It is about 1± hours run from Sydney and about 40 minutes run from Newcastle. However, we are establishing the sort of facilities to attract tourism such as Old Sydney Town project and the reptile park. We have the natural resources and the beaches and I have no fears for the tourist industry there. 
I thank the honourable member for Patterson for his kind remarks about my electorate. He said that it has the best beaches in the world and I would agree with that. If I might say so, it also has some of the best scenery. However, I did not want to make a parochial speech. I wanted to speak on behalf of the tourist industry as a whole. I would be delighted to see an increase in the facilities provided at places like the Great Barrier Reef, the outback, Alice Springs and Tasmania. We could put forward an argument for Tasmania on the ground that probably the greatest asset it has is its scenery, its attractions and its natural beauty. And it needs it because it lacks some of the facilities that other sections of our society have. 
One of the attractions of the Riverina is that I was born and brought up there. Apart from that, of course, it is represented by my dear friend and colleague, the Minister for Immigration  (Mr Grassby),  a very sober, quietly dressed young man. I doubt very much whether the Riverina needs any assistance these days when it has such a good publicist in its Federal member. 
I think we have to be serious about this matter. Not every area in Australia will be a great attraction for international tourists. As much as we all want to say that this is God's little acre, it is not. Not every place is 100 per cent. We must have an order of priorities. The honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  has in his electorate the Barossa Valley, which I have not had the pleasure of visiting. I am told that it is one of the great areas of Australia to visit. But there are many others. We need an order of priorities. We cannot develop all potential tourist areas but I think we should concentrate on the 10 or 15 most attractive and adopt the approach that I have outlined this evening. 
asked the Minister for Services and Property, upon notice: 
What were the subdivisional enrolment figures for each electoral division in New South Wales as at 28 February 1974. 
On behalf of the Select Committee on Road Safety I bring up the second report of the Committee which relates to roads and their environment, together with minutes of the proceedings. 
Ordered that the report be printed. 
 Mr Speaker,  I seek leave to make a short statement in connection with the report. 
I have been quite fascinated to listen to the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair)  and to some previous speakers in this debate because one would think that by the passing of this Bill and of the Senate (Representation of Territories) Bill somehow or other the Australian Labor Party was going to gain some electoral advantage from it. I am quite mystified by this point of view. As I understand it, 2 senators will be elected from each territory and the basis of their election will be proportional representation for 3-year terms. Having researched the voting pattern for the past 20 years or so for both of these areas, it seems almost certain to me that in the Australian Capital Territory we will have a representative of the Labor Party and a representative of the Liberal Party. We will certainly have that situation in the Northern Territory. So, why is there such panic amongst members of the Opposition that this is some plot to gain power for the Labor Party? It would be a miraculous situation if the Australian Labor Party were to gain 2 representatives from the Australian Capital Territory. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Martin)Order! The time allocated for the second reading of this Bill has expired. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Bill read a second time. 
In Committee 
The Bill. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I listened with fascination this evening to the speech of the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp).  I am dying to look at the Hansard report of today's debates to work out how he came to the calculations that he gave in that speech. What he was claiming - and what I think the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  was claiming - was that by autumn of next year the pensioner will be worse off. This, of course, assumes - and the Government was accused of deceit - that there will not be any pension increase between now and then. The argument that the Opposition is constantly putting forward is based on the proposition that one calculates the pension as it is at the moment as a percentage of average weekly earnings and says that in another 3 weeks that ratio will have diminished. If we use that argument the only way we will ever be able to keep the pension at a constant percentage is to adjust it daily, because clearly that percentage relationship will diminish daily. That happened in the time of the former LiberalCountry Party Government. It has happened under every government in history. From the day a pension increase is announced until the next pension increase the percentage relationship diminishes. The former LiberalCountry Party government increased pensions yearly and sometimes every second year. Of course the percentage diminshed. Then that government had to correct the situation by a further pension increase. I think I am right in saying that if the honourable member for Hotham looks at his speech tomorrow he will realise that he did not appreciate what the Minister for Social Security stated when he said that there will be a rise in autumn. I think the honourable member thought that autumn was in September of next year. There will be a further increase, as I understand it, in March 1975. This pension increase has come 2 months ahead of its normal time. 
The fact is that the present increase brings the pension to almost 25 per cent of average weekly earnings. The Minister has been extremely honest because he could have said that the last announced figures, which were the March figures, showed that this percentage had risen to 26 per cent. But he said: 'No, the June figures are due'. He has really based his claim that the new pension will be 24.8 per cent of average weekly earnings on figures that have not yet been announced. Rather than be deceitful the Minister was being extremely honest. The argument which the Opposition has constantly put that the percentage will diminish is one of the most absurd arguments that I have heard. It is totally dishonest of members to use it. Pensioners have also been affected by some of the increases. 
It has been amusing to watch some of the newspaper headlines of the last few days both before and after the Treasurer's Budget statement. Those headlines told us that it would be a horror Budget; the increases would be monstrous. Those views were repeated on the morning after the statement was presented. When the editorial writers had had an opportunity for reflection they said that in fact there was not really much in it. After they had a good look at it, after 24 hours of reflection, the charges were not at all that savage. What is there really in it? I am looking at this matter primarily from the point of view of the pensioner. Consider the pensioner who smokes. Not all of them smoke, of course. If he smokes a packet of cigarettes a day he must pay a further 28c a week, which is roughly SI 5 per annum. If he has a telephone he is up for an additional rental of $6, maybe S10 or S15 a year it' he uses the telephone a fair bit. That amounts to S25. We have a total now of approximately $40. One cannot be exactly accurate in this calculation. If he writes a letter a week - and for the average person that it a lot of letter writing - he will spend another dollar a year. So we are talking about increased charges for a pensioner of $35 to S45 per annum. To offset that he will receive S260 per annum or, if he is married, $312 per annum. One point has been missed in this debate. In every Budget in my memory the announcement nf an increase in pensions in August has been proposed to take effect from the first or second week in October. The pension rises  now  before the House have been announced 8 weeks earlier than usual. Pensioners will receive an additional 8 weeks' pension increase which amounts to at least $40. At least for the first year any increased charges that a pensioner will face if that pensioner is a smoking, telephoning, letter writing person - 
I think the average pensioner does not drink whiskey but drinks beer, but we will not pursue that aspect. The cost of those new increases will come out of the extra 8 weeks' pension that is being granted as a result of the pension increase being announced earlier than is usual. I understand that these increases will be paid from 8 August. Let me remind the House of the increases that pensioners received under the former LiberalCountry Party Government. I have taken out figures for the last 10 years. In 1964, pensions were increased by 50c a week to $12 a week. No increase was granted in 1965. The pension increase in 1966 was $1 a week. In 1967 no pension increase was granted. An increase of $1 a week was given in 1968. In 1969 the increase granted was also $1. In my first Parliament, which was only 4i years ago, the increase was 50c a week. That was a magnificent performance by the new found friends of the poor who sit on the other side of the House. In April 1971, which is when 

 Mr Gorton was unceremoniously thrown out,  Mr McMahon,  trying to take some of the pressure off himself, announced on his inauguration as Prime Minister a 50c a week increase in the pension. In the Budget in October 1971 the pension was increased by $1.25 a week. In May 1972, which is when it was in a bit more trouble, the Liberal and Country Party Government gave a further increase of $1 a week and the pension went to SI 8.25 a week. In its last Budget that Government granted on increase of $1.75 a week. Increases totalling $8.50 a week were granted in 8 years. 
Labor has been in office for not quite 20 months. In March 1973 the Labor Government granted a pension increase of $1.50 a week retrospective to December. In August 1973 it granted a $1.50 a week increase. In March 1974 it granted a $3 a week increase. In August 1974 an increase of $5 a week is to be granted. That represents a total increase of $11 a week in about 20 months. It would be dishonest of me to say that that is a fair comparison because it is obvious that money values have changed. I am not going to make that sort of cheap political claim. But clearly anybody with any sense of fairness and fair play will acknowledge that the Labor Government has shown a much more impressive performance than its predecessor.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I seek leave to have a table incorporated in Hansard. 
Has the attention of the Minister for Labor and Immigration been drawn to the action of leading Australian retailers in immediately increasing their profit margins on goods already held in stock and paid for when shop assistants were granted a long overdue increase bringing a senior's wage to a modest $102 a week? Is he aware of the high profits of the large retailers during the past 2 years caused by booming consumer demand and their failure to pass on to consumers the effects of revaluation and tariff cuts? Is he aware that one firm, Grace Bros Pty Ltd, got its staff to work back on the night of the wage announcement to mark items up to 100 per cent gross profit? 
I wish to make a personal explanation. 
Yes, I shall be brief,  Mr Speaker.  During question time, when an altercation occurred, you referred twice or 3 times to the honourable member for Robertson. I think it was a mistake,  Mr Speaker,  you were referring to  Mr Ian  Robinson, the honourable member for Cowper. I would not like it to go over the airwaves that I was the person you named. 
I will not take up the time of the House in answering the rubbish that just came from the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr Ruddock)  but I will take the opportunity to make a few comments that I was unable to make at the second reading stage. I believe that history will regard this Bill as one of the great achievements of the Australian Labor Government. I do not believe that the Australian people, or the media, have fully comprehended the significance of this Bill or the impact it will have on Australia, its people, its economy and its life style. At long last a government has the foresight, the courage and the initiative to commence on the long, difficult and expensive job of providing this nation with a national highway system. 
There is no doubt that we have linked the various cities of Australia. We have roads that commence at Cairns and end at Perth. But to describe those roads as highways is a misuse of the English language. Today more than ever before an enormous number of people are questioning the role of the motor car. Its growth as a mode of transport is one of the phenomenons of the post-World War II period. In Australia, motor vehicle ownership has risen since June 1945 from 928,400 to 5,812,400 at December last. The number of vehicles per 1,000 population at the same date in 1945 was 124.7 vehicles. In December last that figure rose to 438.1 vehicles. That is a staggering increase of 251 per cent. At 30 June 1971 the manufacturing wholesale and retail sectors associated with the operation of motor vehicles employed 290,445 persons or 5.45 per cent of the work force. At the same time the money spent on roads and motor vehicles constituted 13.3 per cent of the gross domestic product. The motor vehicle is so much a part of our way of life and so many people are dependent on its continued use that anything that changes the role of the motor vehicle in our society has a profound effect on hundreds of thousands of people. 
It is healthy that this debate about the motor vehicle is continuing in our society. The resources it uses, the energy it absorbs, the rapidly escalating costs both in public and private expenditure, the inefficiency of the motor vehicle as a mode of urban transport, for that is what it has become, and most importantly, the terrible toll it takes in life and limb - more than 3,500 people killed and nearly 100,000 injured per annum - are all part of this debate. Ideally one would hope that the automobile could be replaced by another form of transport but at this stage of twentieth century man's development such a hope is unlikely to be fulfilled. We have to face the fact that however much we may work towards replacing the motor vehicle it is with us for many years to come. It is refreshing, nevertheless, to see that all political parties are now recognising that the headlong rush of the post-war period to transform- 

 - Mr Chairman, I would have hoped that you would have allowed me the same latitude as you allowed the honourable member for Parramatta and the honourable member for Gippsland. I will take up some of the points that were raised by the honourable member for Parramatta. Specifically I want to refer to the question of the Newcastle bypass which he attacked as some form of pork barrelling. I find that one of the most objectionable statements that came from a most objectionable speech. 
It seems to me that the honourable member for Wakefield is in a lighthearted mood this evening. I usually expect better behaviour from him in this chamber. I continue with the point I was making. The honourable member for Parramatta insinuated - not insinuated but stated clearly - that the Newcastle bypass is a form of pork barrelling. I point out to him that without any doubt the Newcastle-Sydney expressway is the busiest urban highway in Australia. Figures will prove that what I am saying is correct. That expressway connects 2 major cities of New South Wales. It is part of the main highway to Brisbane. 
What the honourable member was referring to is in fact the Newcastle expressway which also feeds, as a transport route, into the major area known as the Central Coast. To refer to this project as a form of pork barrelling is a gross misunderstanding of what the Government is trying to achieve. 1 want to refer to the national highway system because under the previous Commonwealth Aid Roads Agreement, during the years 1971, 1972 and 1973, 47 per cent of the money was spent on rural roads. The Commonwealth Bureau of Roads recommended that this financial year we spend 59 per cent and the Government in fact proposes tc spend 61 per cent on this purpose. The Government has changed its priorities because it has decided that Australia at long last must have a national highway. The way some of the State governments' spokesmen have screamed, one would think that building a national highway was a disadvantage to the rural sector of our community - not because country people would not benefit but because city people would benefit too. 
The honourable member for Parramatta referred to the Newcastle bypass and that is why - 
Progress reported. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Overseas Trade. Is it a fact that prior to the Australian Government's tariff cuts of 25 per cent the Australian textile and clothing industry was the most over-protected in the world? Is it a fact that most countries, including Canada, South Africa and Western 
Europe, had no more than from 5 to 25 per cent tariffs on clothing items, and that Australian tariff rates were 60 per cent, which in some cases was five or six times higher than those of any other country? Is it a fact that it was, and still is, the most over-protected industry in Australia? 
-In his final remarks  Senator Carrick  used the word 'humbug'. If ever humbug was spoken it was spoken by  Senator Carrick  tonight. If ever we have heard hypocrisy, humbug and misleading statements we have heard them from speakers on the opposite side of the House. What seems to horrify  Senator Carrick  is that there will be 2 types of senators in the Senate if this legislation is approved. Might I remind  Senator Carrick  that for years supporters of the present Opposition put up with special types of representatives right here in the House of Representatives. The first member for the Northern Territory was elected in 1922, and until 1936 he had no vote in the House of Representatives. He had a special type of representation in the House of Representatives. In 1968 he, along with the honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory, finally gained full voting rights. But Opposition supporters put up with that type of special representation for years and years while they were in government. What humbug it is to say now that there should not be a special type of representation in the Senate. 
The honourable member for Gippsland asks: 'Who gave the vote?' From 1949 to 1968 when both of those seats were held by the Australian Labor Party the Opposition did not believe in democratic principles. It did not do so until it gained the seat for the Northern Territory, and then Opposition supporters suddenly became great democrats. I noticed also that  Senator Carrick  used the district of Columbia in the United States as an example to support one of his arguments. How marvellous it is that the Opposition uses the United States example when it suits its case. It did not suit its case when it was arguing this afternoon in relation to one vote one value, but it does suit its case now that it is talking about Senate representation. I might remind the Opposition that the District of Columbia has just been given representation in the House of Representatives. 
Why do the Liberal and Country Parties fear this Bill? The reason has nothing to do with democracy or democratic principles, because if ever there was a bunch of politicians in this country lacking in principle it is those on the other side of the chamber. The simple fact of the matter is that they fear that they will not get equal representation. The proposition is to have 2 representatives in the Senate whose representation is on a proportional basis. This will mean and should mean, in effect, that anyone who receives about 34 per cent of the vote in either of those Territories should win a seat. Surely the parties opposite should win a seat in the Northern Territory. If a person is any sort of a candidate and conducts any sort of a campaign he should be able to win a seat in the Australian Capital Territory. The fact is that during the last election the Opposition polled so badly in this seat of government, in this place where people saw how it behaved for 23 years, that it does not give itself a chance of winning a seat in the Australian Capital Territory. That is why it is opposing this legislation. If it thought it could win a seat it would be supporting this proposition. 
The fascinating part about this legislation is that it is about the fourth time it has been before the Parliament-the House of Representatives, the Senate, and now the Joint Sitting. On the first occasion it was presented to the Parliament the Country Party voted for it. Its members crossed the floor because of their support for the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder).  On the last occasion the Country Party managed to talk out the time allotted for consideration of the legislation so that it would not come to a vote. Why is it now that it has suddenly changed its mind? Only a few months ago it supported the legislation but now suddenly we find that the legislation is against all democratic principles. I am reminded of the speech made tonight by the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen),  who is a man for whom we have a great respect, a man who is a great traditionalist and a great  speaker  in this place. But I am afraid that I can never quite get over the worship that the honourable member and so many others opposite have for the Constitution. There is a very great danger in this Parliament and in this country in our becoming worshippers of the Constitution. This was a problem that faced the founding fathers of the United States. If one reads of Jefferson, Franklin or any of the other great founding fathers, one sees that they warned against the very thing that we in this country are doing today, namely, believing that at the time the Constitution was framed some great wisdom was handed down from the mount to those who framed it. This a very great mistake and a very great danger. 
As the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation,  Senator Wheeldon,  asked earlier, what special intelligence and what special wisdom prevailed among Australian politicians of the 1 890s which made their words good for all time? I believe that if we had to draw up a constitution tomorrow there would be the wit, the wisdom and the intelligence in politicians on both sides of the parliament to draw up a better constitution than those people did 80 years ago. I ridicule the attitude that the Constitution is sacrosanct and must not be touched for all time. The point which  Senator Wheeldon  made was that it was drawn up in the 1890s, at a time when the Labor Party virtually did not exist. It was in its infancy. It was formed in 1891. I could be marginally out in these figures, but I believe that at the 2 Constitutional Conventions the Labor movement had one representative out of 135. Those people who drew up the Constitution were, primarily, men of property, merchants, farmers and men of influence in our community. Representatives of the people whom we on this side of the Parliament represent were not members of the various State parliaments at that time. The result is a constitution which is ultra-conservative and ultra-cautious. One of the great shames of our history is that at the time of the drawing up of the Constitution the Labor movement was not fully represented, as it should have been. If it had been fully represented, we would not be having the sort of struggles and battles that we are having today. 
I am reminded again of  Mr Killen  's question: Why two; why not four, why not six, why not ten? I suppose that the reason is very simple. Two is the smallest number which ensures proportional representation. In effect, it means that both the Labor Party and the Liberal and Country Parties will be equally represented in the Senate after these elections. I believe that this will happen. One might well ask: Why did not people on this side say in the debate on the earlier Bill: Why 20 per cent; why not 40 per cent, why not 60 per cent, why not 80 per cent? 
-That is exactly what I was talking about. Honourable members and senators opposite argued that 20 per cent was a figure which showed some great wisdom. I was making the point: What was so special about and what was the great wisdom in 20 per cent? 
There was derisory laughter when  Senator James  McClelland called for the abolition of the Senate and then said that while it exists it should be democratic. I ask honourable members and senators on the other side- members of the Liberal and Country Parties- what they found so amusing about our opposition to the Senate. If this Bill is passed- it will be passed in a matter of minutes- will they show their sincerity by not standing candidates for either the Northern Territory or the Australian Capital Territory? Because they do not believe in the principle of representation of the Territories in the Senate, will they withdraw their candidates? The logic is the same, as  Senator James  McClelland pointed out. The trouble is that the Senate has become obstructionist for obstruction 's sake. It still seems to be carried away with its moment of glory a few years ago when one of its strength stepped down from the Senate to become the Prime Minister. I suggest to the Senate that it should not let that moment of glory go to its head. 
-In his final remarks  Senator Carrick  used the word humbug'. If ever humbug was spoken it was spoken by  Senator Carrick  tonight. If ever we have heard hypocrisy, humbug and misleading statements we have heard them from speakers on the opposite side of the House. What seems to horrify  Senator Carrick  is that there will be 2 types of senators in the Senate if this legislation is approved. Might I remind  Senator Carrick  that for years supporters of the present Opposition put up with special types of representatives right here in the House of Representatives. The first member for the Northern Territory was elected in 1922, and until 1936 he had no vote in the House of Representatives. He had a special type of representation in the House of Representatives. In 1968 he, along with the honourable member for the Australian Capital Territory, finally gained full voting rights. But Opposition supporters put up with that type of special representation for years and years while they were in government. What humbug it is to say now that there should not be a special type of representation in the Senate. 
-The honourable member for Gippsland asks: 'Who gave the vote?' From 1949 to 1968 when both of those seats were held by the Australian Labor Party the Opposition did not believe in democratic principles. It did not do so until it gained the seat for the Northern Territory, and then Opposition supporters suddenly became great democrats. I noticed also that  Senator Carrick  used the district of Columbia in the United States as an example to support one of his arguments. How marvellous it is that the Opposition uses the United States example when it suits its case. It did not suit its case when it was arguing this afternoon in relation to one vote one value, but it does suit its case now that it is talking about Senate representation. I might remind the Opposition that the District of Columbia has just been given representation in the House of Representatives. 
Why do the Liberal and Country Parties fear this Bill? The reason has nothing to do with democracy or democratic principles, because if ever there was a bunch of politicians in this country lacking in principle it is those on the other side of the chamber. The simple fact of the matter is that they fear that they will not get equal representation. The proposition is to have 2 representatives in the Senate whose representation is on a proportional basis. This will mean and should mean, in effect, that anyone who receives about 34 per cent of the vote in either of those Territories should win a seat. Surely the parties opposite should win a seat in the Northern Territory. If a person is any sort of a candidate and conducts any sort of a campaign he should be able to win a seat in the Australian Capital Territory. The fact is that during the last election the Opposition polled so badly in this seat of government, in this place where people saw how it behaved for 23 years, that it does not give itself a chance of winning a seat in the Australian Capital Territory. That is why it is opposing this legislation. If it thought it could win a seat it would be supporting this proposition. 
The fascinating part about this legislation is that it is about the fourth time it has been before the Parliament- the House of Representatives, the Senate, and now the Joint Sitting. On the first occasion it was presented to the Parliament the Country Party voted for it. Its members crossed the floor because of their support for the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder).  On the last occasion the Country Party managed to talk out the time allotted for consideration of the legislation so that it would not come to a vote. Why is it now that it has suddenly changed its mind? Only a few months ago it supported the legislation but now suddenly we find that the legislation is against all democratic principles. I am reminded of the speech made tonight by the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen),  who is a man for whom we have a great respect, a man who is a great traditionalist and a great  speaker  in this place. But I am afraid that I can never quite get over the worship that the honourable member and so many others opposite have for the Constitution. There is a very great danger in this Parliament and in this country in our becoming worshippers of the Constitution. This was a problem that faced the founding fathers of the United States. If one reads of Jefferson, Franklin or any of the other great founding fathers, one sees that they warned against the very thing that we in this country are doing today, namely, believing that at the time the Constitution was framed some great wisdom was handed down from the mount to those who framed it. This a very great mistake and a very great danger. 
As the Minister for Repatriation and Compensation,  Senator Wheeldon,  asked earlier, what special intelligence and what special wisdom prevailed among Australian politicians of the 1 890s which made their words good for all time? I believe that if we had to draw up a constitution tomorrow there would be the wit, the wisdom and the intelligence in politicians on both sides of the parliament to draw up a better constitution than those people did 80 years ago. I ridicule the attitude that the Constitution is sacrosanct and must not be touched for all time. The point which  Senator Wheeldon  made was that it was drawn up in the 1890s, at a time when the Labor Party virtually did not exist. It was in its infancy. It was formed in 1891. I could be marginally out in these figures, but I believe that at the 2 Constitutional Conventions the Labor movement had one representative out of 135. Those people who drew up the Constitution were, primarily, men of property, merchants, farmers and men of influence in our community. Representatives of the people whom we on this side of the Parliament represent were not members of the various State parliaments at that time. The result is a constitution which is ultra-conservative and ultra-cautious. One of the great shames of our history is that at the time of the drawing up of the Constitution the Labor movement was not fully represented, as it should have been. If it had been fully represented, we would not be having the sort of struggles and battles that we are having today. 
I am reminded again of  Mr Killen  's  question: Why two; why not four, why not six, why not ten? I suppose that the reason is very simple. Two is the smallest number which ensures proportional representation. In effect, it means that both the Labor Party and the Liberal and Country Parties will be equally represented in the Senate after these elections. I believe that this will happen. One might well ask: Why did not people on this side say in the debate on the earlier Bill: Why 20 per cent; why not 40 per cent, why not 60 per cent, why not 80 per cent? 
-That is exactly what I was talking about. Honourable members and senators opposite argued that 20 per cent was a figure which showed some great wisdom. I was making the point: What was so special about and what was the great wisdom in 20 per cent? 
There was derisory laughter when  Senator James  McClelland called for the abolition of the Senate and then said that while it exists it should be democratic. I ask honourable members and senators on the other side- members of the Liberal and Country Parties- what they found so amusing about our opposition to the Senate. If this Bill is passed- it will be passed in a matter of minutes- will they show their sincerity by not standing candidates for either the Northern Territory or the Australian Capital Territory? Because they do not believe in the principle of representation of the Territories in the Senate, will they withdraw their candidates? The logic is the same, as  Senator James  McClelland pointed out. The trouble is that the Senate has become obstructionist for obstruction's sake. It still seems to be carried away with its moment of glory a few years ago when one of its strength stepped down from the Senate to become the Prime Minister. I suggest to the Senate that it should not let that moment of glory go to its head. 
-Is the Minister for Overseas Trade aware that gross profit margins of between 200 per cent and 300 per cent are being made on clothing and footwear imported from overseas countries? Is a large part of these profits due to the tariff cuts and revaluation decisions made by the Government with the intention of reducing the prices charged to Australian consumers? In view of the excessively high retail prices of imported goods will the Minister explore the possibility of the Government imposing price control on imported clothing and footwear? 
-On 25 September 1973 I had the pleasure of presenting to Parliament the first report of the House of Representatives Select Committee on Road Safety. The report recommended the creation of a national authority on road safety and it commented on the constitutional position and statistical needs in the road safety field. The Committee then inquired into the environment in which the motor vehicle moves, specifically roads, road engineering, town planning and roadside obstacles, and I had very much pleasure in presenting this report to the House on 10 April 1974. At that time I began to make some comments on the Committee, its staff and the report itself, but was unable to complete my speech because of the pending dissolution of Parliament and need to discuss Government business. 
The report has only just become available in printed form and it is appropriate that I should, at this time, bring it to the attention of all people interested in road safety. It was my first experience in chairing a House committee and I was delighted with the work of both the staff and the members of that Committee. While I was Chairman of the Committee we sat on 33 occasions and held public hearings in all the capital cities. During these public hearings evidence was received from 115 witnesses and 3,600 pages of evidence was taken. One of the sharp distinctions between committee work and debates of the House of Representatives is the degree of unanimity one can achieve in a committee although the Committee consisted of members of all political philosophies represented in the Parliament We were able to resolve these difficulties and come up with a unanimous report that I believe has far reaching consequences for this country and for its citizens. 
The great problem that we face in our society today is that the motor vehicle has been imposed upon a system which was never designed for a motor vehicle, certainly not the five and a half million motor vehicles that are present in Australia today. Seventy years ago, no one would have foreseen the growth in motor vehicle usage. Thirty years ago, our planners failed to foresee what was likely to happen and the result is a tangled mess that results in enormous wastage of resources and time, a massive loss of life, and large numbers of injured. The decisions that we make today will determine whether, by the turn of the century, we will have shown more foresight than did our forebears. We expect to build as many new communities during the next 25 years as we have in the past 200 years. We have a marvellous opportunity to learn from our failures of the past and to see that death and injury from the motor vehicle are reduced to a bare minimum. 
The previous report and this report stress the need for an overall systematic approach to the problems of road safety. The major aspect which has been dealt with in this report is the environmental side of the problem and covers such things as road design; construction and maintenance; the roadside environment; traffic engineering, including signs, signals and markings; town planning and the transport system, including alternatives to the private vehicle. Other aspects such as the vehicle, driver, law enforcement, care in the post-crash stage etc. will be covered in future reports of the Committee. 
This systematic approach is nowhere more applicable than in the field of roads, road engineering and town planning. This area is one which is most fruitful for effecting major reductions in road accidents. An improvement to the road will continue to save lives for the whole life of the road, provided there is proper maintenance. Effective separation of vehicles from other vehicles and from pedestrians has the greatest possibility of a major reduction in accidents. This can sometimes be done at a very low cost, such as by merely closing off a road to traffic, creating a pedestrian mall or simply limiting access to arterials. In other cases, town planning and land usage aimed at minimising the exposure to accidents can be achieved at no cost or even lower cost than their alternatives. The main ingredient is proper planning. 
The Commonwealth Bureau of Roads recommended that the Australian Government should contribute $2,607m for the provision of roads and highways for the next 5-year period. The Australian Government agreed to the Bureau of Roads recommendation, and a total of $6,608m will be spent by the States and the Australian Government during this period. With this in mind the Committee decided to bring forward this aspect of road safety so that the 2 reports could be considered together. Unfortunately, past history shows Commonwealth aid road grants have never been related in any way to safety features and we believe that it is the responsibility of the Australian Government to use the power of direction it has through the Commonwealth aid road grants to ensure that the highest standards of safety are implemented. We were also conscious that the new Government has taken a more direct involvement in the development of new cities and growth centres and is working on blueprints for these areas at the moment. 
The Committee felt that the new Department of Urban and Regional Development and its offshoot, the Cities Commission, should be extremely aware of the need to plan the cities and to redevelop the old cities in such a way that there was a maximum separation of the vehicle from other vehicles and of the vehicle from the pedestrian. Throughout our hearings we were also made conscious of the fact that a large proportion of the developed areas are the responsibility of local councils and private developers. Repeatedly, evidence was given to the Committee that local councils lacked the technical expertise to design communities with the highest degree of road safety. Private developers who put forward to councils imaginative although sometimes revolutionary new proposals which were designed with a high degree of road safety found themselves obstructed rather than encouraged by the rigid rules of local government authorities. They received no encouragement from the State or Federal governments and often reverted to traditional types of grid developments with the subsequent high risk of death and injury. 
Pedestrian deaths and injuries account for approximately a quarter of the road toll and amongst pedestrians, the very young and the very old account for around 60 per cent. The one really well planned city in Australia, Canberra, has the lowest pedestrian death rate in Australiaapproximately one-sixth that of any other major city. Our society will be able to save thousands of lives of future generations of Australians if it applies known technology to the planning and building of our new communities. I would like to cite one example we saw when we visited Western Australia, where the Committee was taken by Councillor Paul Ritter to view the Crestwood Estate, built by an idealistic developer,  Mr Ron  Sloan. This estate will comprise some 1,250 homes and a population of around 7,000 people. 
Features of Crestwood Estate include parks where children can play, can visit their friends without crossing a street while walking through lawns and going through parks and along underpasses. The road system within Crestwood meets the home on the street side while the other side of the home becomes the main frontage opening onto parks and a pathway system, both of which keep children from playing on the streets and allow residents to move or play freely throughout the entire area and to attend school without ever crossing a roadway. Recreation areas and a swimming pool in each village are all accessible by walking or cycling without crossing a roadway but still allow access by vehicle and provide for detached housing. Swimming pools, tennis courts, bowling greens, squash courts and basketball courts will be provided in each area and again will be accessible without the need to cross roads. 
The Committee decided to recommend that the Australian Government should encourage State planning authorities and local government bodies by technical and financial assistance to adopt safer and more efficient town planning principles. The Committee believed that it was essential that private developers who were prepared to build large developments of the Crestwood type be given incentives by the Government. 
The Committee supported whole-heartedly the principles in the Bureau of Roads report that the Australian Government should proceed posthaste with the building of a highway system. There was a monumental amount of evidence that massive reductions could occur in multi-lane divided highways connecting the major cities of Australia. On the autobahns, autostradas and the expressways of the world it has been shown that accident reduction of up to 70 per cent can occur when these highways are built. Our present intercity road system is a disgrace and many of the roads that we now call highways could not be described as better than fourth class rural roads. Sections of the Hume Highway, the busiest highway in Australia, connecting Sydney and Melbourne, have enormous usage and high speed vehicles now pass each other with often only half a metre or less between them at speeds up to 1 10 kilometres an hour and above. It is inevitable that from time to time a mistake occurs and it usually results in a multiple fatality. There are, of course, enormous benefits besides injury and fatality reduction to the community in the building of an inter-city highway system. The Committee adds its voice to the public criticism over the condition of the Hume Highway, which can only be described as a national disaster. 
The Committee looked at the problems of urban freeways and although it was not specifically in our terms of reference we were conscious of the opposition to the building of urban expressways that concentrated on bringing vehicles into the central business districts. The environmental cost of community disruption of these new expressways was considered by the Committee to be vastly in excess of their value of saving lives compared with new alternatives that were put before the Committee. 
Spot improvements to the roads, roadside and traffic management provide a low cost, high benefit method of reducing accidents. They do not rely on a general panacea but are aimed at solving specific problems which can be solved more easily and cheaply. There is a problem of diagnosing these problems but this can be overcome by co-operation between the various levels of authorities. Hobart City Council provided an example of a survey which might be followed. A $5m program is presently under way. Surveys by the Commonwealth Bureau of Roads indicated the need for around $154m for minor improvements. However, because of lack of engineering and specialised equipment this was reduced to $89m. 
My time is running out. There were some other matters I wanted to discuss. I seek leave to incorporate in Hansard the recommendations of the Committee. 
-During the past 2 weeks of this Budget sitting I have listened intently to the speeches of members of the Opposition- and those that I have been unable to hear I have followed in Hansard- hoping against hope to hear some contributions that were original; some contributions that, if not original, at least showed some depth of understanding of the sort of problems that face Australia today. I had hoped and even expected to find some comprehensive plan for how Australia, alone of all the advanced economic countries today, could solve its economic problems. I thought that the first infusion of new blood into the Parliamentary Liberal Party for many years might introduce into this Budget debate the first glimmer of rethinking of its social and economic policies in nearly 3 decades. Tragically for this country, that was not to be. The new Liberals are the same as the old Liberals but without the wrinkles, the paunches and the grey hair. Nothing has changed. The new faces and the old faces are shouting the same old tired cliches about manning the barricades against the terrible Whitlam socialist government. They are loud in their praise of individual endeavour and the holiest of holies- free enterprise. Hopefully they will realise that one needs a little more than cliches to run a country and to solve the economic problems that beset the world today. 
Rarely does one find in this place any real debate on political philosophy. Listening to members of the Liberal and Country Parties using these tired old phrases, one gains the impression that for them the debate is over; that if one can say the word 'socialist' with enough sneer in one's voice and the words 'free enterprise' with enough reverence, there is nothing more to be said. It may have been appropriate in the forties and the fifties. It may even have applied in the early sixties. But for 1 974 it is positively ludicrous. Opposition members do not seem to realise that in the past 10 to IS years a new generation has grown up. It is a new educated generation which is not satisfied with slogans of the Left or of the Right. It wants answers to today's problems with less simplistic and less dishonest catch-cries. I am surprised that members of the Opposition have not realised that more and more people see the absurdities of Liberals being champions of the free enterprise system while at the same time doing their level best to see that the system is anything but free and anything but enterprising. If they genuinely wanted free enterprise- which, as I understand it, means the law of supply and demand and the flow of free market forces free of any form of government controls- they would applaud any move to reduce tariffs, but they do not; they would applaud the end to special government handouts to business by way of tax incentives, depreciation allowances or special write-offs for businesses of any kind, but they do not, they would oppose any form of market control, limited franchises, restrictive trade practices, monopoly contols, price fixing or any of the other cosy little agreements between government and business and between business and other businesses that grew up during their 23 years in government, but they do not. Not only do they oppose these moves, but they scream like stuck pigs when those terrible socialists try to create some of that very free enterprise environment which they claim to admire so ardently. 
What I find so amusing about the debate is that those who profess so loudly in this Parliament their faith in free enterprise know virtually nothing about the subject, primarily because few of them have had any business experience at all. It will probably come as a shock to many Liberal and Country Party supporters to find that probably fewer than half a dozen of them have had business experience. The majority are farmers and lawyers. Let that not be interpreted as an attack on farmers and lawyers, but they are not noted for their business experience. This has been perfectly obvious in the inflationrevaluationdevaluationtariff debate that has occupied so much of our time during the past 18 months and during this Budget debate. Members of the Opposition have totally failed to understand what was happening in the business world and the necessity for the Government to take the steps it took when one takes into account the lack of powers that the Government has available to it through the obstruction of the Senate and the restrictions placed on it by the Constitution. 
Shortly after we came to office an inflationary situation had arisen through factors totally outside the control of the Australian Government. The 1972 Budget, aimed at winning the December election by pumping money indiscriminately into the economy; the huge inflow of foreign capital and available funds which enable anyone and everyone who wanted to take off on some speculative venture to do so without any consideration of the supply of goods, labour and materials that was available; and the international rise in prices of commodities such as wool, wheat, meat and so on and later oil caused a rapid rise in domestic inflation. That did not stop the Liberal and Country Parties from blaming the Labor Party. In fact, if one reads speeches made by members of the Opposition from March to June 1973 when the Government had made no major economic moves that would, at that stage, have had any significant effect on the economy, one is struck by the absurdity of their claim that the then existing inflation rate of from 8 per cent to 10 per cent was the fault of the Australian Labor Government, when it was obvious that at that point the inflation we were suffering was totally as a result of economic policies pursued by them during their last months in office. 
Lacking powers over prices and operating in a free market economy, the Government took the only steps open to it to reduce inflation. It revalued the currency twice and cut tariffs across the board by 25 per cent to reduce prices to the consumer. It also tightened the inflow of foreign capital, much of which had gone into land speculation and development, to take some of the pressure off the building industry which had reached absurd levels of growth and was forcing the price of land and housing through the roof, while at the same time it was building office blocks that were not needed. 
Representing one of those areas that had had one of the highest growth rates in Australia, I had a fair insight into the mad speculation that had gone on during the previous 2 years. Land often changed hands two or three times in a few months with each new speculator putting a few dollars deposit on the land and placing it back on the market after adding a few thousand dollars to the price. The price of land I purchased to build a home on in 1970 had risen by 400 per cent. House building had reached the absurd position where a person wanting a house built could wait from six or eight months for completion. There was a mad scramble for labour as builders outbid each other for skilled tradesmen. I was told of one example where in a hotel, notices were posted each day by local builders offering $35, then $40 and finally $45 per day for bricklayers. Bricks, nails, timber were unobtainable or involved long delays. It became perfectly obvious to anyone with even half a brain that providing unlimited funds for land and building, did not provide homes; it merely fuelled the fires of inflation. 
Another disastrous cost of this situation was that virtually no labour was available for low income houses, housing commission homes or for public works. Areas like the Central Coast where building booms had taken off were already years behind in basic amenities, such as water, sewerage, roads, drainage, kerbing and guttering, welfare, recreational, sporting, health and educational facilities. What hope was there of providing the needs and doing the new works, let alone catching up on the backlog of services from 23 years of Liberal-Country Party rule, and 8 years of State Liberal Government. This inflation caused by the Liberals' handling of the economy had created the situation where anyone who did not have his money in land and property speculation, and instead had it invested in banks, building societies, etc., was losing heavily on his investment. 
The profits being made in this area were similarly having its effect in the retail market where consumer demand was rocketing ahead of our capacity to produce the goods. Only last Christmas the list of items that could not be purchased in the shops was a daily news item in the Press. At that stage the effect of the revaluations and tariff cuts had not been felt. Retailers were having a ball with turnovers up by an average of 25 per cent to 30 per cent. Despite their orchestrated screams about rising overheads they were making bigger profits than they had ever made in their history. They had had 2 bumper years but that was nothing to what they were planning to make out of the imported goods that were due to hit the market for the winter and summer of 1974. What the business world was doing was neither moral nor immoral; it was amoral, because business has no morals- that is at least when it is talking about profit margins. No doubt this will bring forth a cry of horror from the business community. What I have said is no condemnation of businessmen, but simply a condemnation of the system. 
The free enterprise purists will argue, and I agree with them, that there is no such thing as the correct, right or moral profit mark-up. The right mark-up is what the market will allow. No one compensates the retailer when he has to sell his goods at a loss, which he occasionally has to do. No one, he would argue, should therefore, dictate what his profits should be when he can make them. If he can buy a block of land for $5,000 and sell it next month for $ 10,000 why should he be a mug and sell it for $7,500? Why, if he can buy a shirt from Hong Kong at $2 and can sell it in Australia for $8, should he therefore sell it at $3.50 or $4? He does not think of himself as being immoral or as a profiteer; he see himself simply as a good businessman. He did nothing illegal, so why does society condemn him as a profiteer? He would argue that no one was forced to buy his merchandise. Providing he does not misrepresent the product and keeps his side of the bargain then, he believes he should be admired, not denigrated.  His  responsibility to himself and his company is to buy as low as possible, to sell as high as possible and to pay as little as is required in costs, including labour, to maximise bis profit. Anyone who does otherwise, again he would argue, is either a fool or a bad businessman. 
Normally this system of supply and demand operates fairly successfully. I mean successfully in the sense that the competition in the market place usually reaches a level that enables a few to make substantial profits because they are more efficient at what they are doing, the majority to make a comfortable living and a few to go under. The market adjusts itself between over-supply and under-supply, enabling the public to receive goods at reasonable prices. There are, of course, constant abuses of the free market system such as monopolies, cartels, price fixing, restrictive trade practices and straight-out fraud. Governments both here and abroad have tried, albeit unsuccessfully, to moderate these abuses. However, these abuses aside, every now and then the system fails to work, as it has in Australia and other parts of the world during the past 12 to 18 months. 
The Government, lacking power over prices and incomes and able only to fine-tune the economy by exercising the controls it has over the flow of money both into and within the country, and its powers of currency valuation and tariffs, sought to make the market more competitive and less speculative by using those powers. The reduction in the tariffs and the revaluation of the currency should have led to lower prices of imported goods, particularly in the electrical, clothing, textile and footwear industries. That it failed to do so initially was caused by importers and retailers in particular, being able to sell goods they bought at the same prices, and even higher prices in some circumstances, than they had previously. The only difference was that after the tariff cuts they were buying the goods at half the price of locally manufactured articles of a similar quality. 
Let me give an example of how it works. The price of a locally manufactured shirt is $5. The retailer sells it for $8, showing a margin of 60 per cent. After revaluation and tariff cuts, plus the fact that it probably was originally a bit cheaper overseas anyhow, he can now buy it for $3. If there were such a thing as business morality he would sell at, say, $3, showing a better mark-up of 66 per cent The market, however, is buoyant and he sells is easily for $8. The profit margin is not now 60 per cent; it is 170 per cent. This is only a mild example of the son of mark-ups that have been operating over the past 12 months. 
The example I have cited here is typical of every time of business enterprise, whether one is talking about clothing, textiles, real estate, minerals, building materials or whatever. The opportunities open to the retailer to maximise his profits were created by Government action.He will not act unilaterally to co-operate with the Government's objectives. He will be forced by further Government actions to create a climate which forces him to lower his prices. Even in countries like the United States, which has the power to control prices, he will react like the beef producer and withdraw his cattle from the market until the price freeze is over. 
What gives me a pain in the neck when I listen to people like the honourable member for Kooyong is not that this occurs in a capitalist society, but the incessant whining of the business community that the Government should not interfere in free enterprise. If the honourable member really meant that he would be pleading for an end to all Government action -stabilisation schemes, guaranteed floor prices, tax incentives, subsidies, restrictive trade practices protection, award wages and the removal of all tariffs and import controls. Of course he does not believe in that and neither do we. So stop talking all this garbage about free enterprise. What each business sector wants is action on its behalf to maximise its profits. It is not the responsibility of one retailer to look after other sectors of business and also the consumer. What the Government has to do is constantly to balance the needs of each sector of the community to bring about the greatest benefit. Twelve months ago, and even before that, our predecessors were faced with the problem of rocketing land prices. That problem is over. We now have the problem of the crash of some of the speculators and the investors who put their savings into those companies in the hope of making profits out of their speculation. That is the way the system operates. You cannot have it both ways. 
I recently had the misfortune to read an incredibly ill-informed, incredibly stupid speech by  Mr J.  H. Valder,  Chairman  of the Sydney Stock Exchange. Quickly brushing off the international situation and the economic situation prevailing when we came to office in 1972, he blamed the present state of the domestic economy on fear- fear of socialisation. He quoted no facts but simply rattled off a series of cliches and slogans that sounded more like a speech from 1949 than the 1970s. I am sure that he made the Rotarians, to whom the speech was given, feel warm inside, but it was a totally dishonest speech with no other objective, as far as I can see, than to blame this Government for every economic ill that besets this country today. To illustrate his limited and selective use of prejudice he gave as his example Great Britain and said: 
I myself find it hard to escape the conclusion that Australia is being headed in exactly the same direction that Britain has been going for the past decade or so and where the situation generally now seems to have reached an absolutely critical stage. 
The inference is clear. Australia is heading in the same direction as Great Britain because it too has a Labor Government. What garbage. Great Britain has had during the past 24 years, 17 years of Conservative government and 7 years of British Labor Party Government. Since June 1970 there have been only 7 months of a Labor government. Britain's economic problems have continued for years under both political parties- the honourable member for Kooyong knows this full wetland the major reasons for the British voters throwing out the Heath Government was the economic chaos that had reigned early this year and during 4 years of Conservative rule. 
I want to conclude, in answering the stupidity of the Valders of the community and the Liberal and Country Parties, by quoting from a cover story in the 'Time' magazine of 9 September 1974. 1 think that honourable members opposite would agree that this is hardly a radical rag. The magazine stated: 
The US is afflicted by a massive economic migraine, and more than 200 million Americans know too well just how much it hurts. There incomes, savings and life-styles are being assailed by a whole group of aches and pains. There is feverish inflation, constriction of credit and throbbingly high interest rates. The stock market has scarcely been so shaky since 1929. Just about everybody who buys, sells, borrows or invests has that overall feeling of unease. And there is no fast, fast relief in sight. 
The attack of problems seems to be almost diabolically coordinated. Inflation drives up interest rates; then money flees Wall Street to pursue the higher interest rates, pushing stock prices down further; then the high cost of borrowing and the impossibility of selling new stock issues in a collapsing market make it difficult for companies to raise the money needed to expand or in some cases even to stay alive, thus intensifying the threat of recession- or worse. 
That sounds familiar does it not? It is true of Japan, Britain, France and almost every other Western developed country except perhaps West Germany. The solutions proffered by the Conservatives are the same in America as they are in Australia. The article continued: . . . Ford - 
That is President Ford- once again declared that inflation is the nation's primary problem ... He vowed to make a start on fighting it by cutting at least $5.5 billion out of the federal budget for fiscal 1975 . . . Ford offered only bleak counsel: emulate the belt-tightening example of the Administration and 'watch every penny'. 
The article continued: 
The jump in interest rates- as high as 10 per cent on mortgage loans in California- has forced many families to postpone indefinitely their dreams of buying a new or bigger house. Though corporate profits on the whole are still rising smartly, interest costs and inflated operating expenses are driving a growing number of businesses to the wall. 
One could go on. It is utter hypocrisy for the Opposition to try to select economic problems that exist in Australia and say that they do not exist anywhere else. If one had time to read some more selections one would be able to show honourable members opposite that the sort of different solutions that the liberal economists in the United States are suggesting are the sort of solutions that are enshrined in the 1974 Australian Budget. One need only refer to the remarks of Walter Heller to illustrate this point. However, time limits me from detailing those facts to the House. If honourable members read the article to which I have referred they would be surprised to learn just how similar are the problems and the solutions offered by the conservatives on their side and by the social democrats on this side. I support the Budget. 
-Can the Minister for Housing and Construction state how many housing loans through terminating building societies will be made available as a result of the additional $50m advanced to the States by the Australian Government for low income earners' housing at last Friday's Ministers' conference? Is it possible for him to give estimates of the number of loans on a national basis and also State by State? Can the Australian Government indicate whether funds can be directed to the Central Coast area of Gosford-Wyong, which is one of the fastest growing areas of Australia and which is heavily dependent on the building industry for its prosperity? 
I do not suppose the Press has had more of a field day than it has had over the last 12 or 18 months at the expense of the Council for the Arts and the purchases of art from overseas. The Press has been stimulated by our colleagues in the barnyard section of the chamber and in general from the other side of the chamber. It is Australian ockerism at its very worst. A similar sort of thing happened back in the days of the Opera House when the New South Wales Labor Government was lambasted in every way shape and form by the New South Wales Liberal and Country Party ockers as wasters and spenders of money. But as the Opera House emerged members of the New South Wales Liberal and Country Parties were prancing up and down with royalty proudly boasting of what they had done for Australian Art. 
We see exactly the same sort of thing spurred on by the less responsible sections of the Press. There was a headline in the 'Melbourne Herald'- the sort of paper from which we would have expected something better- which stated: 'We will spend an extra $77,000 on that woman'. Other headlines were: ' "Painted Ceiling" here on approval' and 'Gallery's next buy $1.35m'. These are some of the milder headlines. It is a great time for the cartoonists. Like many members of this House, I suppose, I do not propose to have any great knowledge of art. I try in my limited way to appreciate it. I regret very much that my education as a child at a number of schools, both country and city, was sadly neglected in this area. I wish I had had more education in this field at school and after school. I think it is one of the cheapest forms of politics that is being played now with this area in which the Australian Government has shown new initiatives. Honourable members opposite will be able to score off every purchase that is made, I have no doubt. If they want to do that with the possibility of winning a few votes they should go right ahead. When the National Art Gallery openshopefully it will be one of the finest an galleries in the World- I am sure honourable members opposite will be justifiably proud of that gallery and the works of an in it as they were of the Opera House. 
I have heard the suggestion that we might buy Picasso's 'Guernica'. I do not know whether the suggestion is realistic. I recall when in New York last year that there was one thing the family with which I was staying wanted to show me, and it was that work of art. It is one of the great works of art, possibly Picasso's greatest. I hope that the rumour in the newspaper is a reality. I have no doubt it will cost a hell of a lot more than 'Blue Poles'. Probably it will cost enough to send our Country Party colleagues squawking from the barnyards in a way we have never seen before. I notice that some of our colleagues from the other side of the Chamber have constantly reiterated, as I think some Queensland art critic has said, that we ought to be spending the money on Australian art. 
Let us look at what has been done. From the beginning of the national collection until 1971-72 works of Australian art dominated the acquisition program. Between 1965-66 and 1971-72 some $834,365 out of a total of $1,185,180 was spent on Australian art- about 70.4 per cent. Between 1969-70 and 1972-73 an average of $201,610 was spent. That was mostly in the period of the previous Liberal-Country Party Government. In 1973-74, under this Government, spending on Australian art acquisitions for the National Gallery rose to $374,29 1 . Hopefully that refutes the stupid allegations and the half-witted comments made by some previous speakers, in particular the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  who made great play on this matter. Again it was cheap politics, probably good politics, but not strictly an honest collection of the facts. 
I understand that other members of the Committee have been interested in what is happening. They have a lot of other things to occupy their minds in politics and perhaps they have not paid as much attention to the program as they should have but because, I suppose, of criticism and publicity which the program has received we have taken the time and trouble to contact the Council. I understand the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr Ruddock)  recently visited the Council for the Arts. I have arranged to be the guest of  Dr Battersby  when she returns from her forthcoming trip. I want to have the program fully explained to me because I am particularly interested in what it means not only to Australia but also to the people I represent. My electorate is one of the major growth centres of Australia. Some 80,000 adults live there. It is a provincial area between Sydney and Newcastle lacking any recognisable facilities for cultural performances, art displays or exhibitions of any type. I want to see in what way the Council for the Arts can bring forward these works upon which we have spent a considerable amount. 
I have an interesting report which shows that some very exciting and attractive programs are on the way. I should like to see- I think this is true of most of the people I represent- what we can receive by way of exhibitions, displays and so on in the central coast area of GosfordWyong. I am sure that is true of most honourable members here. I am sure it is true of the honourable member for Hume  (Mr Lusher).  I am sure he probably would benefit as much as I did from a visit to the Council for the Arts. It is important that the people involved with the Council for the Arts do not forget the provincial areas such as Gosford-Wyong and Newcastle, and hopefully when it is discovered how desperately short we are of facilities - 
-Yes, and Yass, Gundagai, Griffith - 
-I would not go that far. We have to draw the line somewhere. I know from talking with  Dr Battersby  that quite a number of sponsored programs are visiting parts of Australia but, as has been pointed out, there is a great shortage of facilities in these areas. Perhaps the next part of our program ought to be to build facilities in these areas so that people can share them. 
The honourable member for Franklin  (Mr Sherry)  made an important point. I noticed a lot of hilarity on the other side of the chamber when he said that the purchase of 'Blue Poles' and 'Woman V has created tremendous interest. I understand people are going along in their thousands and standing and scratching their heads and saying: 'Well, I do not know what it is all about. I would not have spent that money on it. ' But the important thing surely is that they are going along to look at the paintings. That is part of the beginning, I would hope, of art appreciation and an interest in art. The Council for the Arts has had more publicity and more discussion in the Australian Press, radio and television than probably any other department over which this 
Parliament has control. Art probably has been discussed more than ever before in the history of this country. I think that is a good thing. Let people go along and hate the works of art or love them, but at least let them go along. 
I commend the Department and the Minister for the wonderful job they are doing in stimulating art appreciation. I do not want to see them buckle down to the ockers and the bazzas in this community, whether they be outside this House or in the Press Gallery. Certainly by all means listen to criticism but do not let us buckle down and become as isolationist and insular as we have been over the past couple of hundred years when this great new initiative has been taken. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Scholes)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Sitting suspended from 6.15 to 8 p.m.  (Quorum formed) 
-It never ceases to amaze me that after 23 years of doing nothing the Liberal-Country Party coalition now has a group of spokesmen who are prepared to sound off on every initiative the Government has taken. I do not think the people of Australia would really take the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr Ruddock)  terribly seriously. After all, we have spent I think $ 1 30m in the past 2 years on urban transport which is one of the many initiatives that we have taken in an area which the previous Government regarded as - 
The honourable member for Chifley is quite right. This is an area which the previous Government ignored for nigh on 23 years. 
Tonight I want to talk about some aspects of road transport that give rise to quite a considerable amount of controversy in today's society. In particular I want to talk about urban expressways. In the report of the House of Representatives Select Committee on Road Safety entitled 'Roads and Their Environment', which I tabled in the House on 10 April 1974, we were concerned that the debate about expressways between the road builders and the ........-...- , for want of a better name, may overshadow the very great benefits of expressways, particularly as regards traffic flow and road safety. We were fortunate in having 2 excellent witnesses before the Committee who we believe put forward some very exciting concepts that could considerably improve the traffic flow on our major urban expressways and highways and provide a compromise solution between the pro-expressway and anti-expressway factions and at the same time save lives. The 2 witnesses to whom I refer were  Mr Christopher  Jay, who is one of the leading writers for the 'Australian Financial Review', and  Mr Ernest  Marty of Non-stop Urban Traffic Systems. 

 Mr Jay in his evidence referred to the fact that cities were built primarily on networks, whether it be water, telecommunication or road networks. What he said was that the road system at the moment was totally inefficient and that it caused congestion, delay, pollution and accidents and, of course, this was something that we had to remedy in the best way we could. He said that commercial interests clustered along the arterial routes causing this congestion and the problem at the moment is poor design of arterial routes themselves. I want to quote from the report and some of the comments made by  Mr Jay  which were summed up in our report. We said:  143. Town planners, preoccupied with traffic movement, aim to discourage commercial development from arterial routes because they are activity generators. This is a partial solution as it only moves the problem elsewhere. Traffic generated by off-highway business will still travel along the arterial, leaving the problem of distributing traffic each side of the arterial. Moreover, through traffic is still affected by conflicts of slowing, turning and cross traffic and public transport. 144. Facilities could still be established along the large arterial roads if an unobstructed line of movement is provided. This would require two lanes of travel in each direction to allow for overtaking unobstructed by traffic slowing down to turn left or right, or  cross  traffic. However, this is not possible with the present design of street networks crossing at the same level, because cross or turning traffic will prevent the continuous movement of traffic and also causes accidents.  145. Arterial highways are not just means of moving through traffic, but should also provide access to facilities as well as fast movement for through vehicles. The problem then is how to have a safe, rapid point to point movement along a highway while providing access to activities located at intermediate points along its length. Separation can be provided horizontally by ring routes, freeways, roundabouts, and intersections; by time through co-ordinated traffic lights; or vertically.  Mr Jay  favoured vertical separation through underpasses or elevated roadways. 146. Freeway engineers have transplanted the design philosophy developed for inter-city freeways running across country to the quite different conditions of the city without allowing for new design criteria requirements. The requirements of high speed design do not apply to city areas because the average trip distance is considerably shorter and time saving due to high speed is not very great. The major improvement factor required is the elimination of constant stopping and starting. The mathematics of time saving through different speeds is illustrated by the following table prepared by  Mr Jay: 
I seek leave to have this table incorporated in Hansard. 

<graphic href="091131197410223_69_6.jpg"></graphic>

-This table shows that by increasing the average speed from 5 miles per hour to 30 miles per hour or from 8 kilometres per hour to 48 kilometres per hour on a 5-mile trip one would save about 15 minutes. The interesting point then is: What does one save by making that traffic travel at, say, 80 miles per hour? There is an enormous cost associated with getting a very expensive freeway that will carry traffic at 70 to 80 miles per hour. Even if this is done one would only make a saving on that same trip of 6.2 minutes. Therefore if we can provide traffic flow which will allow traffic to go at about 30 miles per hour, any further improvement on that speed will make very very little overall saving in terms of time, money, congestion and so on. 
The Committee on Road Safety, with the help of  Mr Marty,  has placed a display in Kings Hall this evening which Ministers and honourable members no doubt have seen. It has been provided by Non-stop Urban Traffic Systems. Our report went on to state: 148.  Mr Marty  of Non-stop Urban Traffic Systems demonstrated the principles of a new system of interchanges invented by  Mr Arturo  Olivero Cedeno of Mexico, which divides traffic vertically through a system of tunnels and allows multi-directional traffic to flow continuously. This system is much cheaper and less space consuming than conventional clover leaf design interchanges. The Olivero system would be applicable to inner city areas as well as outer suburbs and rural areas. It could be applied on existing streets, replace the urban freeway at considerably lower cost of construction and property resumption and carry a large volume of continuous traffic at higher average speeds. 
We need to get the State governments and the Australian Government to have a look at this system. One of our recommendations which one of my colleagues will be dealing with later is that we should try one of these as a pilot project. We have had Non-stop Urban Traffic Systems provide us with a rough estimate of what it would cost to construct a non-stop urban traffic system and then put one of these systems into, say, the Manly- Warringah artery. As honourable members know there is considerable debate in our society at the moment about the disruption to community life and the tearing down of buildings and houses associated with expressways. I support anything that will eliminate the sort of stoppages and confrontations that we saw at Ultimo recently. Naturally these confrontations will continue wherever one decides to put these sorts of expressways. 
It has been said that each of these minor roads is sufficiently close to a suggested interchange point to enable drivers to enter the artery at interchanges without the undue delay or hardship brought about by having to travel the extra distance. The costings are very rough and are merely an approximate indication. We have costed the Manly-Warringah artery at about $10m. I think that the estimated cost of the proposed expressway in that area runs over the $100m mark. We also have suggested that the airport artery- that is, from the Cahill Expressway through finally to Dacey Avenue- would cost another $10m. Those who have to travel it, as I do every time I come to Canberra, know what a monster of a trip it is coming off the Cahill 
Expressway through Taylor Square. We believe that that can be done for approximately $10m. Another one, that is, the north-west artery- subject to the completion of the north-west distributor to link up with Victoria Road at White Bay-we have costed at about $3,750,000. 
What we are saying, in effect- I invite people from both sides of this chamber and of this Par.liament to go and have a look at this system, which could involve the expenditure of $20m or $30m- is that we believe that it would be worth while if a cost-benefit analysis and perhaps a pilot study were conducted to see whether we can utilise this system in place of the very costly and very socially disruptive expressways which are being built in New South Wales and throughout the major metropolitan areas of Australia. I commend the project to the Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  and to the Government. I believe that it may be one of the answers that we are seeking to the sorts of problems with which we are faced at the moment in relation to the urban expressway systems. 
I want to pay a tribute tonight to the Regional Employment Development scheme. This is a scheme which some sections of the Press and some of our opponents on the other side of the chamber have deliberately misrepresented and deliberately maligned, most unjustly I believe. I do not know what is happening in other electorates. I am only concerned with what is happening in the electorate of Robertson. I may say that so far the scheme has worked extremely well and that those who are benefiting from it are extremely pleased with it. I should like to point out the deficiencies in the previous scheme under the previous Government. 
You will get your turn later on. We are not particularly interested in your mumblings and rantings. If you want to speak, why not come into the debate later on? Obviously someone left the barn door open or spiked their hay in some way tonight. I call on you,  Mr Chairman,  for your protection. 
The scheme in which I am interested is the RED scheme. The electorate of Robertson which embraces the Gosford-Wyong district has been largely dependent on the building industry. It is probably the fastest growing electorate in Australia, together with the seats of Mitchell and the one which takes in the Gold 
Coast, the name of which I cannot recall at the moment. The population in my electorate is more than 80,000. As I said, it is the fastest growing electorate in Australia. Consequently, with the enormous amount of building that has gone on and the wild speculative land development from which people are making fortunes an enormous number of people in the building industry and allied trades have been pouring into the district to provide houses and buildings during the past two to four years. When there is a downturn in the building industry quite clearly this area is one that is seriously affected. Our average number of unemployed over the last 3 years has been about 930. This figure rose to 1,530 as at the end of September. That is bad; there is no question about it. 
But the point that needs to be made in this debate is what this scheme does to combat inflation and what benefits are left to the community after the scheme is completed. Under the previous scheme there had to be a 75 per cent labour content in the use of the funds. This meant that people could virtually do things such as painting, mowing lawns, chipping weeds and so on. After the unemployment benefits had been soaked up under that scheme we were left virtually with nice lawns, nice foreshores and a nice lakeside, but the community gained no benefit. This employment scheme has been moderated so that it involves a 50 per cent labour and 50 per cent materials content. It may be that either figure should be 40 per cent or 45 per cent. But so far I think this scheme is working very well. The Regional Employment Development Committee has already given grants to the Gosford area amounting to about $750,000. The initial grant includes an amount of $235,000 to the Gosford Council for a drainage system in Ocean Beach Road, Umina. 
I want to refer to this matter particularly because honourable members who recall the very severe storms that hit the Central Coast will also recall the immense amount of flooding in the area. In the Ocean Beach Road area people were walking around a lake of water covering perhaps half a mile. The water was two or three feet deep. The flooding was caused by bad council planning, a lack of drainage in the earlier years and also bad subdivision planning. This grant of funds has enabled the Council to undertake a drainage program which could not otherwise have been proceeded with for many years to come. So we have 2 benefits flowing from this grant. People are employed and a tremendous problem is to be put out of the way. 
The second grant was to the Wyong Council. Both these councils have suffered from one thing. Previous councils had allowed development to occur without matching public amenities. By 'public amenities' I mean water, sewerage, drainage, roads, transport- you name it. We have had this problem of deficiency because private development soared way ahead of public development. Although the slump in the building industry hurt individual builders and hurt employment we needed a pause in the rocketing rate of growth. We had to catch up on the immense deficiencies in the public sector. The Wyong Council received $ 1 50,000 for drainage, kerbing, paving and the construction of sports amenities blocks. 
Last week approximately $70,000 to $80,000 was provided for a site preparation of the Woy Woy recreation complex. I do not know of any area in Australia that is more deficient in public recreational facilities. This complex which will be a million dollar one when it is completed will have within it a youth centre, a basketball stadium, a gymnasium, squash courts, a preschool kindergarten, a child care centre, a Mealson Wheels kitchen, a senior citizens centre, a day care centre for geriatric cases plus some Scout and Guide halls. This grant has enabled the Gosford Council to prepare the whole of that site. That complex could never have proceeded without this grant. Various other bodies in the community will seek funds, some through Government agencies and some through private and public fund raising, to allow all those projects to proceed. This $80,000 will clear the way for a start on the complex. 
Today I was delighted to hear that a further $285,000 had been granted to the Wyong Council. This money is to be used in 3 programs. An amount of $186,000 is to be used for a drainage system involving $225,000 in the Bateau Bay area. Two very large projects are planned in this area. One is a recreation complex the value of which has been recognised by the Department of Tourism and Recreation which has invested $63,000. But now that the drainage system will be provided the whole complex can proceed immediately. That complex includes a large basketball and gymnasium complex, an  Olympic  swimming pool, a football ground, a hockey field and an athletics field. It involves public works to the value of about $lm. The grant of $186,000 for a drainage system will now allow planning to continue and public investment will follow in this area. 
On the other side of the same project a multimillion dollar retirement village planned by local church groups, which I understand include the Methodist, Catholic, Church of England churches and so on, will benefit from the same drainage scheme. This multi-million dollar program will provide homes for some 600 aged people. These people were stymied because they did not have the funds to drain the area. Now they can proceed post haste. A further $30,000 was provided for cleaning up the recreation areas on the lake and foreshores and $69,800 was provided out of a total of $86,000 for a drainage scheme in the Buff Point area. 
I think the Minister is to be complimented. I think this is a fine scheme and it is unfortunate that it is tied in a way to unemployment. The scheme has created 171 jobs, 151 of which will be directly attributable to grants made under the RED scheme. A further 20 people will be employed by the council. I want particularly to compliment the Wyong Council for its extremely good attitude. The Council has adopted the attitude that if it receives a reasonable grant from the Government it will be prepared to employ people and to make a contribution towards the job. We have heard much in the last few days about how we have to cut down on public spending and increase private sector spending. I would like to know from honourable members opposite why it is that the provision of colour television sets or painted toilet seats is more productive than the provision of schools, drainage schemes, recreation areas, kerbing and guttering and water and sewerage? Why is it that the latter items I mentioned are less productive in thenview than the provision of the frippery and all the other nonsense that is provided in our consumer society? Honourable members opposite cannot answer because there is no answer. It is just as productive- in fact more productive- to provide funds for essential activities than to provide funds for a lot of the nonsense that is provided in the community today. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Drury)- 
Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Has the attention of the Prime Minister been drawn to the statement by the Liberal Party's banking spokesman,  Mr Russell  Prowse, calling for cuts m government expenditure of $700m in education, $395m in urban development, and $50m in cultural and recreational programs? In view of  Mr Prowse  's long history of association with the Liberal Party, dating back to 1949, and the Leader of the Opposition's stated desire to slash Labor's new initiatives, can the Prime Minister indicate what effect that would have on Australia and Australians? 
-This debate will be known as the debate that proved Southey right. The previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Lowe  (Mr McMahon)-  a former Prime Minister- totally ignored the question before the House. He has even disappeared from the chamber. He would not even stay here for the completion of the debate. The honourable member for McPherson  (Mr Eric Robinson)  will follow him on that side in the debate. He is the one and only friend of the honourable member for Lowe, his former phone friend and the only person he was ever able to talk to whilst he was Prime Minister. The interesting point is that the previous  speaker  totally ignored the subject matter of the debate. He ignored the subject under discussion and rarely, if ever, touched on it. Let me quote what was stated by the  Deputy  Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Lynch)  so that perhaps some honourable members opposite will understand what this debate is about. He said in the television interview: 
That obviously means that there will need to be a cutback on the present increase which this Government has budgeted for and, if necessary, of course that will mean a cutback of 8 per cent across the board, but necessarily there will be very high preference and priority given to programmes in the fields of health, education, social welfare and urban and regional development. 
We saw the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  display his usual inane, supercilious grin, that he seems to have cultivated over the last few months, when the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  announced last week that there would be tax cuts amounting to $ 1,200m. The Leader of the Opposition said: 'I was going to do that; you have taken my goodies away from me'. Of course he did not mention that the tax cuts he proposed would not have been distributed amongst the low income earners, as this Government has done, and that they would have been given to most of his affluent friends. What fascinates me when listening to the Leader of the Opposition is not his willingness to be every man's friend when it comes to tax cuts but his unwillingness to specify in which areas the tax cuts would be made. 
During the last election campaign- that is, the 1974 election campaign- the Opposition got itself into an unholy mess because it had no policies. It constantly talked about areas in which it would increase spending but stated that it would make tax cuts. However, members of the Opposition stated that there would be no cuts in spending in areas of Labor's new initiatives. They stated that they would cut down the growth of the Public Service. That was what they stated before the last election. Since the election, they have constantly hinted at making cuts in taxation but they have never stopped talking about new areas of expenditure. It seems to me that this is a game that members of the Opposition play. They go around the countryside saying: 'We are going to cut back on expenditure'. When someone asks: 'What about defence?', they say, 'Oh, yes, we will increase expenditure on defence'. When someone else asks: 'What about private schools?', they say: 'We will give extra money to the category A, B and C schools'. Now, members of the Opposition have criticised us very severely for deferring the abolition of the means test until April, a mere 8 months. We were told that this was a shocking indictment of the Government. The honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  was one of the most vociferous. So it must be obvious that the Opposition would continue our program of abolishing the means test. Honourable members opposite have talked about a new pension for widowers. This is quite an admirable objective and I hope this Government will be able to provide this. But that is a new area for which we have not been able to find funds at this stage. We are told that the Opposition would implement that policy. At least, the Opposition moved an urgency motion on this subject matter not so long ago. We are told that the superphosphate bounty must be restored. 
An honourable member opposite says 'Hear, hear!'. We are told that the petrol price equalisation scheme will be reintroduced. When we talk about these things we must realise that the amounts involved are not chicken feed. Every one of these items involves an expenditure of somewhere between $2 5 m to $70m. We are told that more money will be made available to the States. There will be more money- 
-Somebody has left the barn door open again. We are told that more money will be made available to the States. The States have been loud in proclaiming that the Australian Government has cut back their expenditure. This is quite untrue because they have received more money under this Government than they have ever received before, and for all sorts of measures. But if this 8 per cent cut in expenditure across the board is implemented, let us see what would be the position in regard to Queensland. Queensland would lose $75m per annum in grants made to it from the Federal Government. Would not  Mr Bjelke-Petersen  love to hear that just before the State election? But if the Opposition is ever returned to power, it will chop back the grants to the Queensland Government by $75m. 
We hear that the States are screaming because they do not have enough money for roads. Members of the Liberal and Country Parties protest that we have not given the rural areas money for roads although we have a new national highway which, incidentally, traverses country areas because that is the only way it can join cities. However we are told that there will be more money made available for roads and more money for oil search subsidies when a coalition government is returned to power. The Leader of the Country Party  (Mr Anthony)  asked a question about the oil search subsidies this morning. Of course this is a game that honourable members can play when in Opposition. They can have a marvellous time wandering about the countryside being all things to all men. They can offer tax cuts here - 
-Yes, we are doing it. We have had to cut out some of the benefits and members opposite know what those are. They are the ones about which members opposite have been screaming- investment allowances, oil search subsidies and the superphosphate bounty. That is where the money comes from and I have indicated on what it is being spent. The difference is that members opposite are in Opposition and have the luxury of being able to be all things to all men. Last week I asked a question of the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam)  in which I referred to  Mr Russell  Prowse who, I think, is the Assistant General Manager of the Bank of New South Wales. Certainly he is the bank's public relations man. I understand from a good authority that this gentleman was one of the banking men who worked hard to defeat the Chifley Government in 1949. Now, he clearly has the same job of attempting to destroy the Whitlam Government. 

 Mr Russell Prowse was far more specific in detailing where he believed cuts should be made in expenditure. I know that he has close contacts with the Liberal Party. In his program he did not suggest an 8 per cent across the board cut in expenditure. He said that $700m should be chopped from expenditure on education. Just a mere $700m! That would cut the existing program in half. He suggested pruning expenditure on urban development by $395m. That is an interesting proposal since we are spending only $393m on urban development. He will cut such expenditure by $2m more than we propose spending. The whole urban development program would go if he had his way, but clearly this is an area marked for the axe. He would cut expenditure on culture and recreation by $50m. It is obvious that cuts would be made in culture and recreation, urban development and education. There cannot be the increases in expenditure or the resurrection of all the benefits that I listed earlier while at the same time a nice neat cut across the board is made in other expenditure. It is perfectly obvious that those are the areas whence money would come and all the new initiatives of this Government in the urban field  -  (Quorum formed) 
It is perfectly obvious that members of the Opposition cannot take the facts as they are being put before them. They are enjoying the luxury of being in Opposition. No one listens to them much anyhow so they can run around the countryside saying what they like. The fact is, however, that they will have to face the same situation as they did in the last election when day after day they saw their vote obviously drifting away as the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Snedden)  and the Leader of the Country Party got into an unholy mess trying to work out which cuts could be made in expenditure. 
The Australian people are growing used to and becoming familiar with the Government's new programs relating to schools, pre-schools, kindergartens, health centres, hospitals, sewerage, drainage, sports areas, sports amenities and art centres. They did not have these provisions when the previous Government was in office. Now they know that if a Liberal-Country Party government is returned they will lose those benefits they will start to get angry. Members opposite will get into an awful mess in an election campaign trying to justify their views. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Martin)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I have always been one of those who believed that the hope of our society, our universe, was dependent upon a community of nations getting together and wanting, striving for peace for humanity. I believed that that hope lay with the body that initially was known as the League of Nations and which ultimately became, after World War II, the United Nations. Despite its belmishes I believed until recently that the United Nations was the greatest hope for world peace. That dream ended, for me anyhow, about a week ago when the United Nations representatives, almost to a man, stood and applauded a ganster, a thug, a murderer known to the world as Yasser Arafat. I do not think that the body known as the United Nations has ever hit rock bottom as it did last week when a man who has led a bunch of thugs could stand and get the ovation, almost without exception, of the whole of the United Nations. I want to compliment the 'Daily Mirror' for its editorial of 14 November 1974. It was headlined: 'An Ovation for Terrorism'. I want to read the editorial in toto. The editorial reads: 
In the past six years Palestinian terrorists, have ruthlessly murdered their way across the world. 
They murdered 1 1 athletes at the Munich Olympics. 
They mowed down 32 men and women at Rome Airport. 
And they coldly slaughtered 20 Israeli schoolchildren in the horrifying Maalot massacre. 
And what has happened to the 1 77 guerillas arested? 
Practically nothing! Seventy-one were freed without trial; 35 were freed before completing their sentences; 2 1 were released after short sentences. 
Only 12 are still in prison- the remaining 38 unaccounted for, but probably free. 
Fears of Arab reprisals have forced country after country to release these criminals. 
And the United Nations now give a standing ovation to the man behind almost all these barbaric acts- Yasser Arafat! 
An ovation to the Chief of the Palestine Liberation Organisation which never worried about housing its people when the land is not demands was in Arab hands. 
Arafat stood up in the United Nations yesterday and said: 'I have come bearing an olive branch in one hand and a freedom fighter's gun in the other'. 
Olive branches have played no part in Arafat's career. Hand grenades and machineguns are more familiar to his hands. 
The UN should be ashamed of itself. 
And it is a pity the Australian Governement should be lobbying so hard to have its Foreign Affairs Minister installed as president. 
I do not necessarily agree with the final comment. I am just quoting the editorial in toto. Israel's life is threatened. But let us not forget that this small country of 3 million people, surrounded as it is today by a hostile world of 100 million Arabs, is a creation of the United Nations. In 1947 the United Nations, albeit much smaller than it is today, voted by a twothirds majority to create the state of Israel. Now we have this thug addressing it and saying that the only way in which there can be peace in the Middle East is by the disintegration of Israel. 
Unfortunately in my own political Party, the Australian Labor Party, there are a few- a very few- people who are supporting people like Yasser Arafat. I mention the well known  Mr Hartley  from Victoria. I have a lot of respect for many of the things that Bill Hartley stands for, but I do not happen to agree with him one bit on this issue. I am ashamed that a man who says that he is a social democrat should be supporting these countries of which only one- the Lebanon- is remotely democratic. Perhaps I should also include the small Arab state of Bahrein in that. The rest are autocratic, totalitarian regimes, whichever way one looks at them. 
Let us compare them with Israel, which has in its Knesset 14 political parties. Despite the opposition from the communist countries, there are 2 members of the Communist Party in the Knesset. On the day on which Israel was attacked during the October War they stood up and denounced their own country. There was a bit of a punch-up over it. As Bob Hawke said: 'How bloody democratic can you get?' There were, at the last count, six to eight Arab members of Parliament sitting in the Knesset. There were 2  Deputy  Ministers. There is a totally free Press. No country in the world is more of a trade union country than Israel. The Histadrut runs the health scheme. I forget the exact figure, but I think that SO per cent or 60 per cent of the housing and construction is done by the trade union movement. A democratic socialist party runs the country and has done since 1948- since freedom. 
Which of the neighbouring countries- Iraq, Syria, Egypt, Saudi Arabia and Jordan-meet any of those criteria?  Mr Hartley  and  Mr Arafat  say: 'We want a free, democratic, secular state of Palestine.' That, of course, will bring considerable mirth if one happens to suggest it in Israel. If one says 'free' one is asked: 'Free like which one? Like Egypt? Secular like Algeria or democratic like Iraq?' Whichever way one looks at it, I do not know how any person who calls himself a democratic socialist could possibly support people who have proven on the one hand that they do not practise any of the principles that we of the democratic socialist movement throughout the world or in a democratic country like Australia profess to support. So my criticism is not simply of Bill Hartley. My greatest shame is for the United Nations that it should drop to this level. 
I can tell the honourable member for Murray about that on another night if he wishes. I do not happen to believe that any country should be expelled from the United Nations. 
I hope to be able to discuss that issue with the honourable member at another time. I believed that the United Nations had a great role to play in world affairs, but I believe that this incident is just a forerunner to what will be ultimately an attempt to expel Israel. Why has the world done this? Is it because suddenly the world has been struck with a conscience about the Palestinian refugees? Do not make me laugh. The Palestinian refugees have been sitting there since 1948. Certainly we know that there was no sympathy for them among their own people because they were left there as a political weapon to be used against the Israelis. 
Why did countries like Australia, Britain, Germany and all the other European countries abstain from a vote to prevent this gentleman from speaking? Why did all those European countries give him a standing ovation and vote to allow him to speak? For one reason and one reason only- oil. That is the reason why interest is suddenly being shown in the Palestinian refugees. If they are really concerned about people starving and suffering around the world, why do they not do something about those suffering in Bangladesh, Ethiopia and South Africa? I am one of those who believe that the Palestinian refugee problem is a problem which must be solved by the Israelis together with the Arab countries. They must be accommodated. I believe that the Palestinians have a right. I believe that they have to have a homeland, a State of Palestine which can be called theirs. Again, time does not permit me to canvass that question. My particular point in rising tonight was to express my shame of the United Nations. 
It really is quite staggering to listen to the honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay),  who has suddenly discovered the ex-serviceman. The Liberal Party is always the diggers' friend, but when the Opposition had 23 years to do something for the diggers it ignored them completely. (Quorum formed) I thank the honourable member for Barker for providing me with an audience. I do not know what it is about calling for quorums that amuses the honourable member for Barker. But I suppose we can understand that the only thing that a man of such small* capacity is capable of doing with any expertise is calling for a quorum. It is incredible to sit here and to listen to the friends of the diggers- those opposite who ignored the needs of ex-servicemen for 23 years. We had to suffer listening to them carrying on as the grand hawks of this world, the friends of the diggers, but who did nothing for them. The present Government was attacked constantly because supposedly it was anti-army, antiexservicemen; attacked particularly by the Liberal and Country Parties and the upper echelons of the Returned Servicemen's League. But this is the Government that has done more for exservicemen in respect of pensions, defence forces retirement benefits and housing than any government in our history. Here we have the hypocrisy of the honourable member for Boothby  (Mr McLeay),  a gentle fellow, who had the utter gall to - 
-I ask the Minister for Urban and Regional Development: What is delaying action on the development of the GosfordWyong growth centre? Is the Australian Government prepared to honour its commitment to assist financially with roads, transport, water. sewerage and other services that are deficient due to years of State and Australian Government neglect? Is the Government also prepared to contribute towards the development of the new city of Warnervale-Wyee? I ask again: What is rousing the delay? 
-Honestly I have never heard a greater load of rubbish in all my life than I have heard from the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair).  He can talk under water. No matter what is put up, even if it was suggested that we turn the lights down, he would talk for a quarter of an hour about it. The honourable member put up a lot of spurious arguments which for the life of me I could not understand. Somehow or other he maintained that the Opposition represented more people from distant States than the Labor Party. I did a quick analysis of the situation. From Western Australia we have 5 members in the House of Representatives and 5 senators; the Opposition has the same number. We have 5 members in the House of Representatives and 5 senators from 
Tasmania; the Opposition has no Tasmanian members in the House of Representatives and 5 Tasmanian senators. The Labor Party has 7 Queensland members in the House of Representatives and 4 Queensland senators; the Opposition has 1 1 Queensland members in the House of Representatives and 6 Queensland senators. We have 7 South Australian members in the House of Representatives and 5 South Australian senators; the Opposition has 5 South Australian members in the House of Representatives and 5 South Australian senators. 
-We have  Mr Fulton  and - 

 - Mr Fulton comes from Cairns and there is not much further north than that.  Dr Patterson  comes from Mackay and there is  Dr Everingham  and  Senator Keeffe  who comes from Townsville. If  Mr Calder  from the Northern Territory is included, the number of country members is 43 all. The Labor Party has exactly the same number of members coming from exactly the same sorts of distances as those in the Opposition. I did not mention members like the honourable member for Darling  (Mr Fitzpatrick),  the honourable member for Kalgoorlie  (Mr Collard)  and the honourable member for Grey  (Mr Wallis).  A lot of other members are in the same category. Sometimes distance does not really matter. Unless the travel connections of people coming from New South Wales are correct, the time they take to reach Canberra could be as much as that of a person who has to travel a greater distance. I think  Mr Deputy Speaker  is in that situation. I think he travels by horseback to get here but we are always happy to see him. 
I cannot see the logic in how changing party meeting times from Wednesday to Tuesday in any way affects the situation. If members opposite miss out on discussing some Bills because they are presented at a different time, obviously an advantage is gained with regard to the Bills that are presented a day before its meeting. I do not think the Opposition caused a fuss- which is most unusual- about the question of sitting at 10.30 a.m. During the last session we met on Tuesdays at 1 1 a.m. so under this proposal the Opposition Parties would still be able to hold their party meetings at the same time. It seems to me that this is a typical example of honourable members opposite wanting to snipe at every single thing this Government has introduced. 
The most minor alteration to the system is somehow or other regarded as some sort of sinister plot. I think the worst feature of this is that outside the House honourable members opposite express a view contrary- that they think the Government has been generous and more mindful of the needs of members of Parliament. We have done away with the absurd situation of sitting until 1 a.m., 2 a.m. or 3 a.m. although we still sit until the quite late hour of 1 1 p.m. I do not think there is anybody here who does not seriously think that that is a good move in the right direction to bring some sort of sanity to our sittings. I will not go on as the honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair)  does and talk out my full time. I thought those points he made were irrelevant and not worthy of a man of his background. 
-During the past week this House, this Parliament and this nation, have witnessed the beginning of the end of the institution of parliamentary democracy in Australia. What commenced last May, when the Senate took the unprecedented step of threatening to withhold Supply, thus laying the foundation for biannual elections, has now culminated in the ending of proportional representation in the Senate. That in itself is not as significant as the fact that no longer is this Parliament governed by convention or tradition. No longer need this Labor Government nor any future Labour Opposition be in any way hidebound by the conventions or the practices of the Westminster parliamentary system. Make no mistake- the rule book has been torn up; the democratic system which we hold so dear to us, will be torn down. From now on anything goes and it is the great conservative party of tradition, the Liberal Party- not a dangerous bunch of wild-eyed radicals or anarchists, but the upholders of our institutions- which has wrecked the system. 
That the members of the Liberal Party have done this is bad enough. Their day of reckoning will come in the not too distant future. After 23 years in Government, their utter disbelief that they could be thrown out of office caused them to make a grubby grab for power in May 1974. To their chagrin, the Australian people endorsed their decision of December 1972. Within weeks they were plotting once again to negate the popular decision of the Australian people. At that election the Australian people voted overwhelmingly for Labor candidates in the House of Representatives.  Mr Speaker,  I seek leave to incorporate in Hansard a table entitled 'House of Representatives Elections- 18 May 1974' and a table entitled ' Senate Elections- 1 8 May 1 974 '. 
-by leave-The House of Representatives Standing Committee on Road Safety has recently been giving close attention to the implications and effect in the United States of America and Victoria of the reduction in the number of traffic fatalities as a result of the reduction in absolute speed limits which were applying in 1974. 
On preliminary statistics it has been shown that the number of accident fatalities in the United States was reduced by 9400 or about 17 per cent while in Victoria it was 131 or about 14 per cent. While there is no conclusive evidence available as yet, preliminary investigation would suggest that the reduction in the speed limit has had a major contributory effect in the reduction of the road toll. In a statement issued in Washington on 21 January 1975  Dr James  B. Gregory, the federal highway safety chief, said: 
These statistics clearly demonstrate the life-saving value of lowered speed limits and less driving. Still more can be done and we hope these deaths decline even more dramatically as the States intensify their efforts to enforce the nationwide 55 mph (88 km/h) and continue their efforts to implement effective highway safety programs. 
The House of Representatives Committee is of the unanimous opinion that the full implications of the statistics should be fully investigated as soon as possible. The Committee recommends however that in the meantime all States follow the lead of Victoria and undertake to have implemented an absolute speed limit of 100 kilometres per hour on all highways. The Committee strongly urges that a reduced absolute speed limit come into effect from the commencement of the Easter week for a trial period of 3 months or until the end of the June quarter. 
The Committee considers that the implementation and enforcement of the speed limit would cause minimum discomfort and inconvenience and be of little or no cost to the public. With this in mind, the Committee can see no valid reason why a trial period of reduced speed limit cannot be implemented throughout Australia as a means of reducing Australia 's road toll. This is a unanimous decision of the Committee. I thank the House for giving me leave to make this statement. 
Has the Prime Minister's attention been drawn to the recent announcement that inflation in the United States of America is currently running at 14.8 per cent? Is it also a fact the unemployment in the United States is running at 8.2 per cent? Is it a fact that  President  Ford has now reversed his economic policies and is now advocating measures similar to those commenced by this Government 4 months ago? In view of the fact that the Leader of the Opposition is the only man in the world who has an answer to the twin economic ills of the worldinflation and unemployment- will the Prime Minister lend him to the Americans for a while? 
-An article appeared this afternoon in the 'Sun' newspaper- I know that this matter was raised briefly in the House by the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)-  which was headed MPs Wives-$7,500 Jobs'. 
I hear the honourable member for Wimmera interjecting. I was not present when this was raised this afternoon. I would have thought that he and everybody else in this Parliament would be supporting what I am going to say. This is not an attack upon the Australian Labor Party Government, upon the Labor Party or upon Labor members of Parliament; this is an attack on every member of Parliament. I intend to be very brief. If we do not start to take action against these sorts of lying, vicious articles- this smearing of all members of Parliament- we will all go down together and Parliament as an institution will be denigrated. I have seen some vicious articles by  Mr O'Reilly,  who is a beat-up artist extraordinaire, but this one is the greatest mish-mash of garbage I have ever seen in my life. I know that the Minister for Services and Property quoted from the article. Let me quote some of it. It says: 
Some Federal MPs plan to employ their wives as their new research assistants at $7,500 a year. They say this will be one way of getting a pay rise. 
It goes on later to say: 
Several MPs - 
Not mentioning anyone by name -  claimed today the new staff arrangements were an attempt by the Government to stop pressure for a further pay rise this year. 
The article continues: 
A group of members said today there was no embargo on who they could employ as their extra staff. One said he would be able to employ his wife to perform electoral work. 
I shall refer to my own example, but I know that I speak for many members of Parliament, some of whom are sitting in the House and who have very large electorates. I refer to the honourable member for Chifley  (Mr Armitage),  the honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Keogh)  and the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr Ruddock)  from the Liberal Party. We all have electorates with over 80 000 voters. 
We will not go into that in any great detail. Our electorates have in excess of 80 000 electors. I have the largest pensioner electorate in Australia, the largest repatriation electorate in Australia and the highest proportion of aged population of any electorate in Australia. Other honourable members could get up and argue equally strong cases in relation to the sort of problems that they face. My present secretary,  Mrs De  Vaurno, is the most competent secretary I have ever seen. She works non-stop all day and often works late into the night. She has often to take work home. Very often she goes to my place on the weekend to do secretarial work. When I rang her yesterday and told her that she was going to have a secretarial assistant she almost broke down and wept because the work load has been so heavy. So much so that she has considered giving up her job because she could not keep up with the work.  Her  worth to the pensioners, the business community and to service organisations has been immeasurable. I am sure that most members of Parliament could say the same about their man Fridays in their own electorates. 
Members of Parliament have not been given an increase in staff since 1944. An average electorate has risen from about 45 000 electors to 85 000 electors, and most of them have over 70 000 electors now. The situation is absurd. No businessman in Australia today would even try to cope with that number of constituents with the staff that we have. It is an absolute joke, and it is about time that people like O'Reilly were hauled over the coals for the garbage that they print in their newspapers. 
I am sure that most members of Parliament did what I did when I learned of the news, and I want to put it on the record. I rang the Commonwealth Employment Service and requested a competent shorthand typist with previous secretarial experience, preferably between 20 and 40 years of age but not necessarily so. I said to the bloke: 'Find someone who needs a job. If you can give it to a woman who is a deserted wife, a widow or whose husband is unemployed, it will be all the better.' They were the conditions I stated. Believe me, I cannot get that person into my office quickly enough. We have had to ring the Minister for Services and Property  (Mr Daly)  every month or two requesting secretarial assistance for a week in order to catch up on the backlog of work. 
I feel that I am speaking tonight not for Barry Cohen, M.P. for Robertson, but for every single one of us. I think it is about time that we stopped taking this rubbish from the O'Reillys in the Press Gallery. I am told that members of Parliament should not attack the Press because if they do they get it back twice as bad. That is too damn bad. If we do not attack the Press, it smears us anyway. If we do attack it, it is even worse. The sort of thing to which I refer has gone on, I believe, in other newspapers right around Australia. I understand that this is a matter of privilege and I think that we ought to regard it as a matter of privilege in order to ensure that these people at least tell the truth. If what was published was said about me as an individual I could sue for $100,000, but because it is said about every single one of us nothing can be done about it. There ought to be a code of ethics in the Press gallery. Members of the Press gallery ought to be forced by their own people to tell the truth so that we do not have to put up with this intolerable garbage day after day. 
I listened with interest to what the honourable member for Bennelong  (Mr Howard)  had to say. Unfortunately he has confused the 2 issues involved completely. The fact that we have diplomatic relations with hundreds of countries throughout the world does not mean ipso facto approval of those countries. It has nothing whatsoever to do with it. The fact that we have sporting relations with South Africa is in fact a form of approval. There is a great deal of difference. If an Australian team had gone to South Africa it would have been the only cricketing side in the world today which would have been continuing relations with South Africa. 
We know the honourable member's fascist tendencies. We know his interest in the fascist countries throughout the world. Let me reply to what the honourable member for Bennelong had to say. The honourable member for Bennelong made the point that by retaining the bridges built between Australia and South Africa we would be able to change South Africa's attitude towards multi-racial sport. The history of what he has said is totally at odds with what has happened. The fact of the matter is that South Africa never tried to vary its external or internal policies on sport until the rest of the world decided that it had had a gutful of South Africa and was not going to cop it any longer. When the move was made in the mid-1960s to ostracise South Africa from one sport after another- from the Olympic Games, initially from the Davis Cup, from cricket and so on- it was the first time in something like 70 years that South Africa started to look inwards and make changes. It was also the first time that the sportsmen themselves started to protest. Adcock and other cricketers walked off a ground in about 1970 or 1971 in protest. The fact that South Africa is now trying to make changes has been brought about because countries throughout the world- not Australia initially- said: 'We have had enough. We will not play with you again until you reform yourself internally'. It is quite erroneous for the honourable member for Bennelong to bring up the age old argument about the building of bridges. South Africa did not change its attitude and it was not going to change its attitude until the countries outside ostracised it. 
The honourable member for Bennelong is not the only keen cricketer in the House. There are keen cricketers on both sides of the House. I notice that some keen cricketers are present in the Press gallery tonight. The point is, if one is to be pragmatic about the matter, that if Australia had gone to South Africa and played cricket against South Africa there is a very good chance that it would have lost the support of the other countries with which it now plays cricket. 
-I have listened with interest to the honourable member for Gwydir  (Mr Hunt),  the honourable member for Moreton  (Mr Killen)  and other honourable members on that side of the House, and I am impressed with their sincerity. I believe that they genuinely support the principles behind this Bill. Perhaps in more emotional times I have taken the view that some honourable members over there were supporting racist regimes but I do not think that that would be true of the majority of the members of the Opposition. I just disagree with them and I think that they are naive if they believe that they can do all this through goodwill. 
-And civil law. Well, I think there is evidence to show that, if anything, legislation that outlaws racial discrimination has had some effect in countries where it exists, such as in Canada and in the United States of America where the Constitution is being used to outlaw it. I think there is plenty of evidence to show that the reverse has occurred in countries where there is no legislation. If we reject all theories of racial superiority or inferiority, if we genuinely believe that the only differences between the peoples of the world are physical, cultural and environmental differences then we must ask ourselves why it is that racial antagonism still exists in today's society. Throughout history man has had a basic fear of any group or individual which was different. Anyone who strayed from the accepted norms of the community was ostracised and often persecuted for his difference. We are all expected to behave within certain parameters of accepted social behaviour. If we do not, we will soon find how disapproving the community will become. Even if what we do is not illegal it will still earn the condemnation and often the ostracism of our peer group. For strange, irrational, often subconscious reasons people feel insecure when faced with some new alien idea, concept or culture within our society. Homogeneity is regarded as a great virtue, diversification a vice. 
If we can be so irrational about a different mode of behaviour by a few individuals who are of the same ethnic group, the same religion, the same economic strata, and speaking the same language, is it any wonder that the reaction is so much stronger if those individuals or that group is of a different colour, a different culture, a different nationality, very often speaking a different language? In their article 'The Sociology of Race Prejudice' D 'Alton and Bittman commenced: 
At the time of Wilberforce there was no such thing as race prejudice- other races simply were inferior. There was no doubt of this- it was an objective condition of existence. Superiority and inferiority were given and the proof was in the dominance of one culture over others. That the other cultures provided alternative methods of social organisation was not considered and superiority was defined in terms of power, both economic and military. 
We can be grateful that society has progressed considerably from the days of Wilberforce. Attitudes changed slowly over the years until by the 1930s official attitudes at least had, with a few exceptions, ceased to propagate theories of racial superiority. Tragically, one of those exceptions in Nazi Germany led to the greatest racist aberration in history. The systematic mass genocide of 6 million Jews and other ethnic groups- I mention other ethnic groups because it was not simply Jews who were persecuted and exterminatedled to a recognition by the world that racism was the vilest of all evils and that everything that was humanly possible should be done to stamp it out. 
I do not wish to canvass the whole history of racism throughout the world. Few countries have been free of it. It is all a question of degree. It is an evil whether it be South African whites discriminating against and persecuting their black and coloured countrymen, or Ugandan or Kenyan blacks persecuting those of Indian descent. This Bill refers to what happens within Australia. While great strides have been made within Australia by both this Government and its predecessors, a great deal remains to be done. I pay tribute to actions taken by previous governments and refer to the immigration reforms of Prime Minister Holt and the May 1967 referendum. I believe that our predecessors made considerable strides of which they can be proud. A great deal still remains to be done. It is not enough to say that racism exists in other countries or to make the excuse that racism is an inherent part of human nature. While it exists, and it does, it is up to us as legislators to root it out and to try if humanly possible to see that it does not occur again. 
There are 2 important aspects of this Bill. One is the legislative portion attempting to outlaw acts of racial discrimination. The other is the educative section that seeks to change community attitudes both now and in the future. I am one of those who firmly believe that there is little one can do to legislate hatred and prejudice out of the hearts and minds of individuals, but a legislative framework that makes it illegal to commit acts of racism creates a community atmosphere that will have both a short term and a long term benefit. What was once unethical and immoral now becomes illegal and subject to sanctions under the Act. I imagine that it will remove the last vestiges of racist legislation from the statute books of Queensland. It will make it illegal for anyone to be discriminated against with regard to housing and the provision of goods, services and employment. 
I am sure that many honourable members here would be staggered to know how often such discrimination occurs, particularly as it affects Aborigines. The judgment is made by the person who is guilty of the act of discrimination not on the basis of the person's suitability or unsuitability but solely on the basis of the colour of his skin. When a black man presents himself to a real estate agent seeking rental accommodation he is often told that there is nothing available when this in fact is quite untrue.  His  black skin is, ipso facto, proof of other vices- dirtiness, alcoholism and economic unreliability. I have been told by agents in my own area: 'He may be the best citizen in town but I could not take the risk. I knew an Aboriginal family who brought all their relatives in and chopped up the furniture'. All honourable members would have heard that hoary old tale about Aborigines. I wonder that there is a house left in Australia considering all the furniture that they have chopped up! The same agent would have been appalled at being called a racist. He would have considered that what he was doing was sound business judgment. So it is that all Aborigines are branded with inherent racial characteristics and inherent patterns of social behaviour. 
I had such an experience with an Aboriginal family recently. Some months ago I was able to assist an Aborigine with a wife and 4 children to find a job. He, like many whites at the moment, was finding it extremely difficult to obtain work. Having succeeded in finding employment, with both himself and his wife clearing nearly $200 a week, he found his lease on his flat was due to expire. I might point out that he was paying about $35 a week for very modest accommodation. This amount was about $5 to $10 a week over the going rate for such accommodation. He visited every real estate agent near where his children were going to school in an attempt to find a modest family home. He was told that nothing was available. He came to my office and told a very heart rending story of 40 years of being pushed from pillar to post, of being refused jobs and accommodation and of being thrown out of homes for one reason or another, mostly because he was black. He told me of years of being forced back to the horror of the Queensland Aboriginal reserves. He said: 'I am not going back again. I have got 4 children who are at least two to three years behind white children of the same age. We want to settle down in a place where they can feel secure and where they feel that they belong. If we have to sleep in the gutters we are not going back to those bloody reserves.' I telephoned a real estate agent friend of mine, explained the whole story to him and within a few days he found a home. Similar situations like this occur by the thousands throughout Australia today. In this case it involved an Aboriginal. In other cases it may be an Italian, a Greek, an Asian or a Jew who is involved. 
There have been plenty of instances of similar discrimination in which a person's religion was a barrier to accommodation and employment. No civilised society should permit such a situation to continue. Undoubtedly legislation will not end it. But people will think very carefully before refusing accommodation or employment because of the colour of a person's skin, his nationality, his religion or whatever may be the case. We should not deny the landlord the right to refuse tenants he thinks would not pay the rent or damage his property. We should not deny an employer the right to choose an employee he thinks is best suited for the job. But legislation of this nature will make sure that they are equally careful not to eliminate somebody from consideration on a racial basis. 
I would like to point out the sort of undesirable people that will have their actions curtailed by legislation like this. We have all heard of  Mr Eric  Butler. I doubt whether there is a more despicable type in our society today. The garbage that  Mr Butler  and his confreres push out through their bookshops- racist literature of the very worst type- will be eliminated. It will not be possible to purchase the literature and he will not be able to poison the minds of young and old Australians. We will see the end of these vicious, nasty, racist, immigration groups who took such a role in the last election campaign in the electorate of Riverina. I certainly think that most honourable members on the other side of the House disclaimed any connection with this sort of thing and were disgusted with it. That sort of thing cannot happen again. Under this legislation such groups will be nailed and they will be fined or action of a worse kind will be taken if they continue to push this sort of vicious, nasty literature. 
But racism does not involve only the Eric Butlers in this world. Racism is not confined to one side of the House or one side of the community. On 31 January 1975 an article appeared in an Australian newspaper at the time of the debate on the Palestine Liberation Organisation delegation coming into Australia.  Mr Hartley,  a member of the Australian Labor Party Federal Executive, was quoted as making a statement which staggered me because nobody on either side of the House said anything about it. I want to quote the statement because I believe that it is one of the most vicious racist statements I have ever heard. I think that it is disgusting that it should have come from a member of the ALP. It is even more disgusting that nobody said anything about it. He said: 
I am in no way anti-Semitic but it is easy to see how antiSemitism occurs when a group of this type - 
He was referring to Jews-  exerts political, social and, especially, economic pressure in a way which is far in excess of their numerical position in the Australian community. 
I ask honourable members to pause and consider that. I will quote again the relevant racist portion of the statement:  - and, especially, economic pressure in a way which is far in excess of their numerical position in the Australian community. 
This is straight out of 'Der Sturmer' of 'The Protocols of the Elders of Zion'. In other words, every person in the community of a racial ethnic national group should be very careful when he or she makes any statement or exerts any pressure in the community that he does not say anything which will have an effect out of proportion to the group's numbers in the community. For instance, if there were 5 Asians in Australia they must exert .00005 per cent pressure, or whatever it may be, in the community. The next thing that  Mr Hartley  will be recommending is that we revert to the days when in Poland and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics there was a quota placed on Jews entering universities which was in proportion to their numbers in the community. This statement I have quoted went unchallenged in Australia. I hope to God the day comes that when this sort of statement is made by a socalled social democrat it is hammered at by everybody in the community and that the person who makes the statement is shown up for what he is. 
Australia has an unfortunate history of racism. The white Australia policy is a blot upon all of us. It is not a matter of which honourable members on either side of the House can be proud. It was the first plank in the platform of the ALP in the 1890s. We changed our attitudes. We have revolutionised our attitudes towards this matter. I believe that the members of the Liberal Party did a lot back in the 1960s to change attitudes towards this. We are progressing from that point. Our attitudes have changed. We all agree now that the treatment of Aborigines is a disgrace. We have taken the first steps. We can continue to improve on those first steps in this legislation. For 100 years politicians exploited the threat from the north and the yellow peril. God forgive us if we ever have that sort of thing in Australia again. There may be threats but let us see that they are not made on a racist basis. 
Anyone who has any illusions about our racist background need only read copies of the 'Bulletin' newspaper at the turn of the century. I hoped to have with me tonight a reprint of an early copy of 'Bulletin' which is on sale in newsagents. The cartoons in this early copy of the 'Bulletin' are outrageous. These were common things. The 'Bulletin' was a very popular newspaper back in those days. It was probably the most popular periodical in Australia. It was the most blatantly racist propaganda sheet one could possibly imagine. We have racism in clubs and in pubs. Unfortunately there are still many clubs- probably many of us belong to such clubs- which engage in this racism. I do not but I know that there are members in this House who do belong to clubs which exclude people on the basis of the colour of their skin, their nationality or their religion. 
One has only to go to a football match and listen to the remarks if there happens to be a black footballer or a Jewish footballer playing to hear the overt racist remarks. I went down to Melbourne and watched my first game of Australian Rules with the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp).  As a Rugby convert I was not very impressed. But I was even less impressed when Sid Jackson who was playing was insulted nonstop right throughout the match. I thought that he was a local hero. I am afraid that it happens in Rugby also. George Rebner was a Jewish player who used to play for Balmain. Every time he dropped a ball he copped half a dozen racist comments from the sideline. It is part of our culture and we simply try to ignore it. We would not want to see everybody who said from the sidelines 'Hit him with your boomerang, Sid' carried off to gaol. But this is part of community attitudes that have grown up. 
Since I became a member of this House and for a long time before that time I have yearned for the day when we will start a real education program in this regard. It can be started only in the schools. It is very difficult to root out racism in an adult of 30 or 40 years of age. If he is a racist now I am afraid that he is gone. It starts in the schools. It is a 30 or 40-year program. It is in this section- in the schools and in the textbooksthat I believe we will make the greatest longterm progress. This could be done by making part of the curriculum an overt attempt to eliminate racism- the sort of racism that unfortunately is carried on from the family dinner table, from father to son and so on through the various generations. We will eliminate it in the textbooks of the schools and in the media by consciously making television and radio broadcasts and printing newspaper articles and so on in which the evils of racism are explained to people- not just the evils of it but that it is wrong, that there is no basic difference between people of different colours, skins and religions and so on. 
We should teach people to respect other people's cultures, religions, nationalities and so on. We can do this in that format. We can do it also by encouraging cultural groups to put on plays and various other cultural activities which would help to combat a racist attitude in our society. I am only sorry that the Opposition, while not opposing the Bill, is in a way damning with faint praise. I really think members of the Opposition are wrong. I do not know whether I can convince them that they are wrong but I genuinely believe that legislation used with discrimination, not used with the mailed fist, can be the framework for the next great push in Australia to eliminate racism and racial discrimination. 
If the honourable member for Curtin  (Mr Garland)  is going to raise the question of religious groups being denied the right to vote I would suggest that he check his facts fairly carefully. He is totally out of order and quite incorrect. I assume he is referring to orthodox Jews - 
-They could not vote from sun-up to sundown. This matter was raised by opponents of the honourable member for Phillip  (Mr Riordan)  during the last election. Because of daylight saving orthodox Jews are not able to vote in elections held in December because sundown then occurs at 8.30 to 9 p.m. They would not be able to vote anyhow even under the provisions in the existing legislation. I have noticed that a few people who did not bother to check their facts quite outrageously tried to exploit this situation as if what the Government was proposing was some form of restriction of the right of orthodox Jewry to vote. 
Most of the people who are now in this situation know that they are unable to vote and they cast a postal vote beforehand. I assumed that the honourable member for Curtin was repeating what had been raised in the last election campaign. If that is not correct I withdraw any suggestion that he was trying to exploit the situation. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clause 40. 
After section 1 13 of the Principal Act the following section is inserted:- 113a.5(1) Where a hospital is a polling place, the presiding officer may make arrangements with an appropriate person, or appropriate persons, on the staff of the hospital for the votes of patients in the hospital or in part of the hospital to be taken in accordance with this section. 
) Notwithstanding any provision of this Act: - 
a polling booth shall not be provided at a special polling place; and 
votes may be taken under this section at a special polling place at such time or times as the presiding officer determines, being a time or times between 8 o'clock in the morning and 6 o'clock in the evening on polling day or on one or more of the  S  days preceding polling day, and at no other time. 
-I ask the Special Minister of State a question. Has his attention been drawn to a report that New South Wales State Ministers have accused the Australian Government of welshing on a promise to. provide a year's free pre-school education to all children throughout Australia? 
-One of the pleasures of being a member of Parliament and, more particularly, a supporter of the Government is to see ideas and concepts one raised years ago come to fruition. Last week I participated in the debate on the Racial Discrimination Bill- a Bill I had wanted to see introduced long before I came to this place. Tonight it gives me immense pleasure to participate in the debate on the Road Safety and Standards Authority Bill 1975. 
On 29 June 1971 I presented a report which had taken me 9 months to prepare. It was entitled 'The Australian Way of Death'. It was my own survey of death and injury on Australian roads. In 1970 3798 Autralians were killed on the road and 91 557 were injured. At the conclusion of that report I made certain recommendations that ultimately became the Australian Labor Party's policy. They were propounded at an ALP road safety seminar at the Florida Hotel at Terrigal, a place with which we are all now familiar, in November of that year. My first recommendation was for the setting up of a national highway safety bureau to carry out research into all aspects of the vehicle highway system, to recommend legislation on vehicle safety design, to test and evaluate industry compliance with vehicle safety regulations, to develop a uniform program of safety related standards, to collect and analyse accident data, and to watch over defective vehicles and recommend recall campaigns. 
Later on in October 1972 the expert group to which the honourable member for Gippsland  (Mr Nixon)  referred made a similar recommendation, as did the House of Representatives Select Committee on Road Safety in its first report in May 1973. Not all the matters I mentioned in June 1971 will be fully covered by the Road Safety and Standards Authority, but most of them will be. The purpose of this Bill is to establish the Road Safety and Standards Authority as a statutory body responsible to the Minister for Transport. The present Minister for Transport  (Mr Charles Jones)  in his second reading speech said: . . . the objectives of the Authority are the promotion of road safety, promotion of means for the control of vehicle emissions and consumer protection in relation to motor vehicles. Working closely with the Department of Transport, the Authority will seek to do this through improvement programs, formulation of national standards and traffic codes, the certification of vehicles and components, research into all relevant factors, education and publicity campaigns and a comprehensive information service. 
At long last the Australian people will have a national body taking a national view of this tragic problem which is still killing over 3500 Australians and injuring 95 000 each year. 
The honourable member for Gippsland, who is the shadow Minister for Transport, mentioned earlier that each one of us has been involved in some way. Without mentioning any names, today I counted up that there are 6 members of this Parliament who have lost close relativessons or wives- in the last couple of years. In fact I believe one senator lost a son on the weekend. It shows the magnitude of the problem when a small group of 18 have lost so many people who are so near and dear to them. 
Since 1970 there has been a very marked improvement in the road safety problem in Australia. The worst year on record was 1970. 1 mentioned before that in that year 3798 were killed. In 1974 the figure was 3571. 1 seek leave to incorporate in Hansard a table showing the number of persons killed in road accidents from 1960 to 1974. 
I ask a question supplementary to that asked by the honourable member for Bennelong. Has the Prime Minister's attention been drawn to a series of lying advertisements sponsored by the insurance industry - 
-Has the Treasurer had his attention drawn to the move by Japanese interests to take over the Australian owned company, Diahatsu Distributors (Gossan) Pty Ltd, by back door methods? If so, what action does he propose to take? 

 -Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
I ask a question of the Minister for Social Security. Did he note advertisements over the weekend by the New South Wales Government that indicated that it was seeking a better hospital arrangement under the Medibank scheme? Is it likely that a variation of the arrangement negotiated with the Queensland, South Australian and Tasmanian governments will be conceded at the sudden instigation of  Mr Lewis?  Have the proposals of New South Wales, Victoria and Western Australia been of such complexity as to delay the negotiations with the Australian Government longer than has been the case with the other States? 
-I ask the Minister for Transport a supplementary question to that which was asked by the honourable member for Evans. In view of the fact that the Australian Automobile Association considers that the proceeds of the 22.3c a gallon tax on petrol should be allocated solely for the use of highways and roads, will he consider an extra tax for motorists to pay for the deaths of 3500 Australians killed on Australian roads and for the costs that some 90 000 Australians injured on our roads each year impose upon public hospitals, workers compensation and social welfare benefits? Will he also add another tax to that for the pollution that is caused by the millions of motor vehicles in Australia? 
Has the Treasurer's attention been drawn to reports of reductions in public housing construction, massive cutbacks in road programs and a halt to improvements in public transport being contemplated by the New South Wales State Government as a result of Tuesday 's Budget? Can he compare the increase in payments to the States for which provision is made in the Budget with the increase in Australian 
Government outlays? Can he say whether there is any justification for the reports? 
-I ask the Prime Minister: In view of the fact that the Australian Labor Government has taken the first 2 steps towards abolishing the means test and proposes a third step for people aged 69 years as from 1 July next year, is he aware of any other proposals to abolish the means test? 
-After listening to the honourable member for McPherson  (Mr Eric Robinson)  and the honourable member for Bass  (Mr Newman),  who preceded him, I find myself wondering whether we are living on the same planet. Has there been any admission on the part of any of the spokesmen of the Liberal Party of Australia, either inside the House or outside it, that there is something else going on throughout the world and that there are problems outside of Australia? I am not one of those people who believe that the Government can use this as an excuse. But the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for McPherson, quoted from a report of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development. He quoted from the report that concerned specifically Australia. But I will quote from an OECD report entitled  Economic Outlook  published in July 1975. 1 will quote a few random comments about what is happening in the other 23 OECD countries besides Australia. The report states: 
The last six to nine months have seen a marked easing of inflation but also the sharpest decline in output and the highest unemployment since World War II. 
The report goes on to state: 
By the first quarter of this year, industrial production had fallen from its last peak by some 20 per cent in Japan, 10-15 per cent in the United States, Germany, France and Italy, and 5 percent in the United Kingdom. 
The cost of the recession in terms of forgone output is illustrated by the estimate that, in the 1 8 months from the second half of 1 973, GNP probably fell by about 714 per cent in the United States and virtually stagnated in the rest of the area taken together, compared with typical past rates of increase over an 18-month period of around 6 per cent and  9Vi  per cent respectively. 
It stated further. 
Total recorded unemployment in the area is now about I S million, double the level at the last business cycle peak and equivalent to over 5 ft per cent of the civilian labour force. 
A little later on it stated: 
The present recession in OECD countries is the most serious since the war. It is remarkable not only for its length and depth- a third consecutive half-year of negative growth has now been recorded for the area as a whole. . . . 
I do not mind being attacked as a member of the Government. That is the problem of being in Government. But I would like to hear just one member of the Liberal Party somewhere say that we have a world-wide problem and not point over here and say that it is all the Government's fault. Let us get some intellectual honesty into this debate. We heard the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for McPherson, talk about America and Japan and how they had inflation under control. By the way, there is some doubt about that in relation to America at the moment. But America and Japan have done this at the expense of 9 per cent unemployed. Would honourable members opposite like us to take those sorts of measures here? Some of the things we might have done could have reduced inflation but we could have double and triple the unemployment which we have now. 
The honourable member for Bendigo says that he wants 9 per cent unemployed. We have 4.8 unemployed which is half the proportion Japan and America have. For God's sake, let us have a little bit of intellectual honesty in this debate by admitting that there is a problem. By all means, honourable members opposite may criticise what the Government does, but they would be in exactly the same position and a lot more people would be suffering if the Opposition had had to go through this recession as the Government. The fascinating part about the debate is that we hear people like the honourable member for McPherson talk about cutting this and cutting that, but we do not hear the same story when we listen to Liberal Party State Ministers. They are screaming for more money. They received a 35 per cent increase this year and that is not enough. Every single Minister from the tip of Australia in the north to the bottom of Australia in the south says that the money is not enough. 
If honourable members think those complaints are serious they should listen to some of the Liberal Party candidates out in the field. They would have a deficit of about $8,000 billion. These candidates are saying that what we are doing is only a quarter of what we should be doing. Honourable members should hear the fellow in my electorate. He is advocating spending money as if it were going out of print. The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  to his credit brought much of this talk in relation to this Budget to a halt. He is not saying these sorts of things. I hope this will stop the State Ministers and some of the local candidates from making their more expensive promises. The fact of the matter is that State governments and local councils have never had so much money available for the things which we regard as important. 
In all the fields of endeavour in which we want to improve the quality of life an enormous amount of money has been expended over the past couple of years. I shall mention the funds which have come into my area by way of improvements. In hospital and health care in the central coast electorate of Robertson over $6m has been spent in education it has been $3m; in welfare $1,650,000; in seen and telecommunications work almost $3m; in sport and recreation facilities $2.3m; in tourism $3.3m, with the acquisition of shares in the Old Sydney Town project; in major drainage works $1.5m; curbing, guttering and footpath paving- a lot of these projects carried out through the Regional Employment Development scheme- in excess of $lm; in water reticulation, $1,124,000; and in recreation, council parks and gardens, nearly $700,000. Under the Grants Commission the 2 councils have received over $lm to do with as they wish. These amounts total an extra $27m in the short space of  2Vi  years. This money has come into the central coast electorate of Robertson to improve the quality of life of the people. 
I was an Opposition member for 3 years. I can recall what a Federal member was able to get for his electorate. If he was going well he could get ' the occasional letter box, a telephone booth, and maybe once every 5 years or maybe 10 years he could get a new post office. I can count the number of things my predecessor got. The avenues simply were not available to get them. If one came in here and talked about these things the Government would look at one as if one were stark raving mad and say: 'That has nothing to do with us '. The fact of the matter is that the Australian people now know that an Australian Government can provide these basic amenities and that we are doing it 
-I think the honourable member for Riverina is suffering from shell shock. Every now and then he breaks out into a cackle which shows that he has been too close to the guns for too long. As I said before, under the previous administration one could get an occasional post box, letterbox, Citizen Military Force depot and aged persons home but virtually nothing else. I exclude from all those amenities which I read out before, funds which are coming in through increased pensions, repatriation benefits and per capita grants to schools. I simply mentioned new capital grants, new building programs and innovations which previously had not existed, such as funds for sewerage and funds received from the Grants Commission and so on. 
One of the most disgraceful episodes in politics in our area has been caused mainly because of misrepresentation by Federal, State and local government Liberal Party members. It has occurred over the growth centre proposals for the . Gosford-Wyong area. The history of this matter is quite interesting and a little bit complicated for many people who have not followed it as closely as I have. In 1968 the Sydney region outline plan was released by the State Government. Recently we had a more detailed urban structure plan. In the interim between the 2 plans quite a number of other reports by various government departments, but primarily the State Planning Authority, were released. In the 1968 Sydney region outline plan and in subsequent plans it was predicted that the population would rise to 500 000. This figure has now been dropped down to somewhere between 380 000 and for 420 000. The result of these various announcements by the State Government was wild speculation. Prices went through the roof. Blocks of land rose in price from $2,500 in 1969 to about $12,500 in 1973. Developers, speculators and builders crowded into the area. We had a boom. There was no plan of implementation. No funds were available under the previous Federal administration because it was not interested in urban development. Nor were funds available from the State colleagues who made some beautiful plans but did nothing to implement them. 
The State Planning Authority was aware that this growth centre could not be developed unless some basic problems were first overcome. These problems related to deficiencies in water, sewerage, transport, roads, employment and a whole range of other areas. The basic concept- I believe it to be correct- was to fill in the existing areas, to top them up and to build a new city in the north. When the Australian Labor Government came to office it agreed with these principles espoused by the planners. In the 1973 Budget it offered a total of $3m for land acquisition and planning. Unfortunately it has been unable to get any agreement with the State Liberal members over how the land should be developed. The other day I called on the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  and asked for a detailed account of the negotiations which had gone on between the State Government and the Australian Government since December 1972. It is a remarkable record of procrastination and disinterest on the part of the State Liberals. They want the Australian Government to invest $100m in the new city and the central coast area. In fact in the early stages the State Government commissioned us to do 5 studies which we funded. These have been very informative. They have been on various subjects which I mentioned before such as sewerage, water, transport, job opportunities and so on, and on the Gosford Town Centre. The State Government wants- and it is getting encouragement from some of the local councils- the Australian Government to put in the money to build the infrastructure for the district; that is, to provide a transport system, roads, sewerage, water, parks, schools, hospitals and all the things that make a community. They want these things provided not only in the new city but in the other existing parts of the central coast where population now is. But primarily they want us to put in a large amount of taxpayer's money so that a handful of developers can rip off enormous profits. 
The Australian Government says that it has been prepared to negotiate with the State Government to provide those sorts of funds but on the condition that the area is planned, that the land that is sold for residential purposes is sold at cost to the purchaser and that commercial and industrial land is available on leasehold. This of course has not been acceptable to the Liberal State Government, nor unfortunately to some of our local councillors who dominate that area. The 1974 election in my area was fought on just these issues. It was perfectly obvious to us- we had quite a bit of information- that many thousands of dollars were poured into the local campaign by people who had a vested interest in land in the area. The whole campaign was fought on land acquisition, on leasehold, on the rights of people to make fortunes out of the taxpayers' investment. The history details the fact that the New South Wales Government has been the party that has broken off negotiations between it and the Australian Government. The latest letter from  Sir John  Fuller states that the New South Wales Government intends to pursue development by a private development corporation through the two local councils. 
There has been an amusing part to the last few days' events when the Leader of the Opposition has made his recent pronouncement outlining his shadow Budget. The local candidate against me in the area initially wanted a great deal of Australian Government involvement. Then he disagreed with the State Liberals about their projected growth figures. He said that he did not think we ought to have a growth centre, that we ought to spend the money on existing centres. I think what I have said in the last few moments when I detailed the funds provided shows that that is exactly what we are doing. As I said,  Sir John  Fuller questioned the need for a growth centre. Now he wants a growth centre with a private development corporation but unfortunately the Leader of the Opposition has just pulled the rug out from under him. He said in the shadow Budget which he outlined that there should be no growth centres and no area improvement programs. One of the problems that we face in the area is that because of the boom many thousands of people came to live in the area and many thousands of building workers came to the area. We are suffering at the moment from the recession. There is a very serious unemployment problem in the Gosford area. Some 3177 people were registered as unemployed at the end of July. Admittedly this has always been a high unemployment area, even going back to the period of the boom when we had unemployment figures of about 1000 to 1200. 
What I should like to know is what the Liberal State Government proposes to do. We have been told that this is all our responsibility. As I pointed out, through the Australian Government I was able to get some $27m of extra funds poured into the area in the last  2Vi  years. I got $8m worth of Regional Employment Development scheme funds. As I said, we have had $6m for hospital works. I could go on and detail the amounts again. But during this whole period all we ever heard from the local Liberals was: 'What is the Australian Government going to do?' Most of these areas I am talking about are normal State government and local government responsibilities. I absolve the local councils of being able to do any more. They simply do not have the funds. We have been asked by the local workers, the local chambers of commerce and so on to direct funds into the central coast area. We have been doing that. I propose to investigate all the areas where funds are available and are in the pipeline. I have already had discussions with various Ministers asking them to bring forward projects in the central coast area so that we bump them up at the beginning of the financial year. 
We are following up every possible avenue such as in the fields of postal services and telecommunications, education, sewerage and social welfare. We are following through all legislation in relation to which applications are in and trying to get them approved quickly. But what is the New South Wales Government going to do to help to alleviate unemployment and subsequent poverty in the area? It is not simply a matter of pointing to the Australian Government and saying: 'It is all your baby. We have no responsibility'. If we can provide extra funds and bring forward these projects while the Budget strategy is moving through the economy and starting to work, surely there is a responsibility on the New South Wales Government to do exactly the same thing. 
One of the things that I find frightening in this present debate that exists not only in the Federal Parliament but also in the local community is the lengths to which the local Liberals will go to gain a political advantage. Not only do they site incorrect figures- that is bad enough; by now I am used to it- but they will also issue a Press release almost daily, either through the local radio station or the local newspaper, saying not only that unemployment is worse than it actually is but also predicting that in this month, next month or the month after it will rise, it will double or treble. They are constant purveyors of gloom, doom and despondency. I think anyone who has been in business- there are many in this House, and I have been in business- knows how important is the psychology of business. It is important not just to talk about business confidence; it is important for business to feel confident. Liberals in our area who are prepared to gain political advantage by claiming that unemployment, which is now 10 per cent is actually 16 per cent and that next year it will be 25 per cent and the whole place will fall down around our ears, are providing just the sort of climate which will create that sort of unemployment. 
I believe that they are a disgrace to the community. I believe that what they are doing is undermining the business confidence in the area even further. It is in a depression. Surely to God they have a responsibility both to get their State colleagues to do something and to shut up. I am not trying to ask them to lay off me. They can belt me all over the place. The facts are that the unemployment figures are there. They are announced in the newspapers. These people can follow them. By making such statements they can create unemployment. They may get some political mileage out of it, but the business people in the central coast region will suffer and so will the many people who live in that area. 
I believe that it is about time that this nation and this Parliament started talking seriously about what really is happening down here in Canberra. For the past 5 or 6 months since the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  assumed that role and for the past 5 or 6 weeks since the Budget was introduced, there has been a neverending speculation about whether there would be another election for the House of Representatives. No matter what the Leader of the Opposition says, and no matter what he claims he has or has not said, the facts are that his actions originating at his first Press interview have continued to add to the speculation that when the Appropriation Bills are introduced into the Senate he will attempt to have the Senate block those Bills and hopefully force an election. 
The debate so far both between the Government and the Opposition and in the media has centered on the constitutionality of such an action and the various alternatives open to the Prime Minister  (Mr Whitlam).  Let me make it clear that I do not wish to canvass all those issues. I do not have a clue what the Prime Minister will do nor, I believe, do many of his colleagues. For obvious tactical reasons he is not going to indicate which of the alternatives he will choose. But for the benefit of the debate I would like to put those alternatives into the record. First of all, he may decide to go to the Governor-General and ask him to pass the Supply Bills. Secondly, he may decide to re-present the Bills to the House of Representatives and resubmit them to the Senate. This, I imagine, could be done over and over again while the country waited to be paid. Thirdly, he may choose to have a half Senate election. Fourthly, he may have a half Senate and full House of Representatives election. Finally, he could call a double dissolution. There may be other possibilities but basically they seem to be the major alternatives. 
That is not really what I want to talk about. What has surprised me is that so far the debate has not got past the question of propriety- the constitutionality and the electoral impact of the rejection of the Budget or Supply. What needs to be discussed is the impact such an action will have on the whole parliamentary process and the people of Australia. At the risk of being tedious, let me go back to 1972. The Australian Labor Party had spent 23 years in Opposition. It is an awfully long time. Some men come into the Parliament, served here for years and retired never having known what it was like to have been in government. Some came here as relatively young men, served on the Executive for years and were too old to become Ministers when we got back into government. But I do not want to elicit sympathy. It is not sympathy I am concerned about; it is an understanding of the sort of frustration that can build up within a political party at never having the opportunity to put its policies into practice. 
Whatever happened in the Parliament was nothing to what happened amongst the thousands of Party members and supporters. With the politicising of the youth of Australia during the 1960s and the emergence of a greater degree of militancy the frustration of those on the Left of politics was reaching a crescendo in the period building up to the 1972 elections. Memories are very short but I hope they are not so short that we cannot remember the Vietnam moratorium marches, the anti-apartheid demonstrations, the anti-conscription rallies and the Aboriginal rights demonstrations. I wonder how many people were conscious of the atmosphere bubbling just below the surface. Had it not been for the efforts of individual members of the parliamentary Labor Party and their supporters, these demonstrations could easily have burst into violence. Despite the accusations against people like  Dr Jim  Cairns that he was advocating violence, the reverse was true. The presence of Labor politicians like Bill Hayden, the present Treasurer, and  Senator George  Georges in Brisbane during the Springbok demonstrations was what averted violence. 
For my own part, I can recall attending meetings with anti-apartheid demonstrators at which I was ridiculed and abused for suggesting that the violence of their displays was likely to be counter-productive and that what they were doing was playing into the hands of the then Government which was relishing every bit of the violence because it recognised the electoral backlash it would create against the Australian Labor Party. What we urged, and I believe we succeeded, was for them to channel their energies into getting a Labor Government elected. We put the view that the system- the parliamentary system- had to be given a chance. We argued that all those things they hated could be corrected through the democratic process. The thrust of violence and the threat of violence receded as these groups worked diligently for a Labor victory. They were successful. Within days of being elected we were able to put into effect policies that ended conscription, removed the last vestiges of involvement in Vietnam, cut many of the ties with South Africa and commenced to improve the lot of Aborigines. There were, of course, other issues but these were the major ones. 
The system did work- or so we thought. Little did we realise that the great law and order politicians on our right, like their Chilean compatriots, believed that the system is meant to work only when they are in power. They immediately started to plan how they could frustrate the will of the people and in April 1974 threatened to block Supply if the Prime Minister did not call an election. A trumped up phoney crisis about the appointment of  Senator Gair  to be ambassador to Ireland was used as the pretext to threaten to refuse the Government the funds to carry on. Seventy-three years of federalism had seen the convention that the Senate passed both Budget and Supply Bills. Overnight, the rules were changed. Overnight, unstable government had been introduced into Australia. 
The Australian people rejected this naked grab for power and an Australian Labor Party Government was re-elected with a comfortable majority in the House of Representatives and increased numbers in the Senate. A handful of votes in New South Wales and Queensland stopped the Government from having a majority in the Senate. One would have thought that, having broken the long standing convention by attempting to block Supply, such an exercise would not be contemplated again. But within weeks of their second successive defeat, the then Leader of the Opposition, the right honourable member for Bruce  (Mr Snedden),  was once again talking about rejecting the Budget.  His  bumbling incompetence led to his inevitable downfall and his replacement by the Parliament's No. 1 backstabbar In his initial Press conference, the new leader seemed to give the appearance that the days of the blatant opportunism of his predecessor were over. I forget the exact quote, but he said, in effect, that he believed that a government elected for a term of 3 years should serve its full term. But then, of course, he added the proviso, unless there was some reprehensible action. We have seen every action of the Labor Government being regarded as reprehensible. 
Since that interview there has hardly been a week passed without speculation about the Liberal-National Country parties trying to block the Budget or Supply and once again force an election in the House of Representatives. The Leader of the Opposition even had the gall to suggest that the continued speculation about an election was good for business. Whether or not they will be successful will be determined by what happens over the next few months. What I want the House and the nation to consider is the long term implications should they be successful. Let us assume for the purposes of the exercise that they were successful. What they will have done is not simply wrecked the whole parliamentary system by creating a situation in which any Senate- Labor or Liberal controlled- can force the House of Representatives to an election every six months but also they will have effectively disfranchised approximately half the voters of Australia. They will have permenantly disfranchised 40 per cent to 50 per cent of the people who traditionally vote for the Australian Labor Party. What they are saying, in effect, is that the only political party that has the right to govern is the Liberal-National Country parties. 
If twice they can truncate a Labor Goverment's term of office after having their own term of office interrupted only by their own decision to go to the people, then we must recognise that any future Labor government will not be allowed to serve its full term of office. As soon as the Liberal-National Country parties believe that the popularity of a Labor government has dropped, as inevitably it must at some stage during its term then if those parties control the Senate, as they have done for much of the time since Federation, they will move to disallow the passage of the Budget or Supply once again. So we face the fact that if defeated at an election in the near future the Australian Labor Party will go into Opposition with the prospect of working for the next 3, 6, or 9 years to win office only to find itself tossed out as soon as the Opposition believes it can win. The prospect of working hard for years to gain office for 6, 12 or 1 8 months does not particularly appeal to me, nor will it appeal to the thousands of Labor Party members and their supporters. When they ask us after the next election what they should do, what should we say to them? Work within the system? When the unions ask us what they should do, what shall we say to them? Work within the system or - 
-Last night when I spoke on the adjournment I was trying in what I thought was a fairly moderate tone to engage in some intelligent debate on the crisis towards which this country is moving. Unfortunately, some members of the Opposition seemed to think that I was begging for sympathy or making some form of request for people to go easy on the Government. Let me make it perfectly clear. I want no sympathy whatsoever from members of the Opposition or any of their ilk. I was simply trying to explain what is happening, because no one seems to have gone past the point of what will happen if this country is forced to a double dissolution. If honourable members opposite want me to talk in highly emotional tones, I am quite happy to do so. If they want to go on as they did last night and talk like a pack of yahoos then I will talk in the same language. Otherwise we will talk, I hope, in the intelligent way in which this chamber ought to function. 
I was trying to get members of the Opposition to understand the sort of climate they are creating. I will not go over everything I said last night, but I said that in the pre- 1972 climate certain elements were active in our society. They were people on the left of politics, well to the left of me. I suppose that if labels are being put on people I would be regarded as being in the centreleft of the Labor movement. There are people in the Labor movement and outside the Labor movement- Trotskyites and Maoists- who do not believe in the democratic system. Some of them were able during 1971 and 1972 to get the hearing of quite a large section of the community. People such as  Dr Cairns, Senator George  Georges and Bill Hayden went out on the streets and talked to the demonstrators. They told them that what they ought to do was to have a peaceful demonstration. They were able to avert violence.  Dr Cairns,  rather than being a man of violence, as the picture was painted, was a man of peace. There were plenty of people within that section of politics who were prepared to create violence, but we were able to talk to them. I was not involved so much in the Vietnam moratorium, but I was involved in the antiapartheid movement. I went to university meetings and I was hissed, heckled, ridiculed and abused because I saidMr Fisher- You said that last night. 
But you were not listening last night. I hope you will listen just a little more closely because I am going to do what you did. I am going to repeat this every night so that if you do not listen people somewhere else will listen. What I said to these people was that they would have to give the system a go, that we have been in Opposition for 23 years but the public mood was such that we are going to win the next election. I said that the only thing that could lose us that election was the sort of violence that would create an electoral backlash. I said that if they wanted to see action on the things they hatedAustralia's involvement in Vietnam, conscription and tours of Australia by Springbok sporting teams and so on and so forth- the way to do it was to get behind the Labor movement and work and expand their energies in getting us elected. This they did, and we were successful. The honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Sullivan)  is trying to interject. I wish he would not interrupt me. As I have said before, he has stood too close to the guns for too long. He is suffering from shell shock. 
The point I was trying to make last night is that we were able to convince the great majority of people who took to the streets that the answer was to work through the democratic process. In 1972 we won. In 1974, when the Opposition decided to try to cut short our elected term of office by half, those people were boiling with anger but once again they gave the democratic process a go. They worked hard and they had us reelected. Now we face this second threat. Really, it is enough to make one throw up to hear people say there is not a threat, because if there is not a threat why is it talked about in every political column in every newspaper in the country almost daily. 
I am not the only one who is talking about it. If the honourable member had any brains, any intelligence or any capacity to observe, he would also know what is being talked about. If such a threat succeeds- there is no doubt that it is a possibility, otherwise we would not be talking about it- what are we going to say to these people afterwards? When they come to us after the election and they sayMr Fisher- That is your worry. 
-That is right. It may be our worry but it will also be your worry because there will be no way in the world they will listen to us when we say: 'Work through the democratic process'. I would suggest that those who think that violence cannot break out in Australia disabuse themselves of that idea immediately, because in many countries around the world- America, Britain, France and Italy- violence we have never known- bombings, riots and things like that- are now almost daily or weekly occurrences. If this democratic process is wrecked once and for all- that is what the Opposition is bringing down upon Australia- it will give the people no other alternative but to take to the streets and to violence. 
I am stating what I believe will possibly happen. The honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris)  in the Budget debate raised this possibility. At that time I did not think about it. A lot of us have given it a lot of thought and we now believe it is a distinct possibility. Let me put the next possible scenario to honourable members. What chance in the world do honourable members think that the Liberal and National Country Parties would have of maintaining wage indexation? Absolutely none. Good Lord, we are having enough trouble now with sections of the trade union movement to convince them of the  Tightness  of wage indexation. Within one week of a Liberal-National Country Party government usurping office, wage indexation would be out the door. We remember the great speeches made by people like the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  who talked about law and order and about doing things the right way through the arbitration system. Why would the unions want to use arbitration after what the Opposition would have attempted to do twice- throw the Government elected for a 3-year term out of office? The Opposition parties have twice broken the conventions relating to casual vacancies in the Senate. And the Opposition would then go to the unions and say: 'Yes, do the right thing'. The unions would laugh in the faces of members of the Opposition. There is not a hope in hell of getting that sort of - 
The honourable member for Riverina has earned the reputation in the short time he has been a member of this House of being the No. 1 clown. I pay tribute to the other honourable members who have been here a little longer and who are a little wiser. They at least are giving me the courtesy of listening. I hope I am getting an intelligent response from them. Maybe the honourable member would learn a little if he would just listen. When he has been here a little longer maybe he will be a little wiser. 
I say these things because in the short time I have been a member of this House I have learnt to respect the parliamentary system. When I was first elected maybe I also talked wildly as some newly elected honourable members do. But I believe in the parliamentary system and I respect it. I am not asking for sympathy; I am just asking people to think of the consequences of what they are doing. If such action is taken there is no way in the world that afterwards when people come to me and say: 'We are going out in the streets and we are going to create a violent situation' I will try to tell them that they should try the parliamentary system. What for? To work their backsides off for six, nine or twelve years to get a Labor government elected? For what? So that after another 6 months it can be thrown out of office? 
-What the honourable member does not seem to understand is that it does not matter to me professionally. The end of my life will not come if I leave Parliament. Quite honestly it does not concern me that much. I like being here, but I am not concerned for myself. What I am concerned about is the future of Australia and the future of the parliamentary process. I think it is important that a few of us who have some brains think coolly and calmly about the alternatives. Honourable members opposite ought to think carefully before they drag the country down because the time would come when they would stand and ask: 'Why did we do it?'. 
I wish to comment on the Regional Employment Development scheme. Basically I believe this has been the most maligned of all the schemes introduced by this Government. Now that it is being phased out we find suddenly the same people who criticised it so viciously, so violently, are screaming for its continuance. I should like to recall to honourable members some of the former forms of unemployment relief that were provided by our predecessors. When unemployment existed they provided to the States funds which were used for painting public amenities, chipping weeds, mowing lawns, clearing fire trails and railway lines and raking up leaves. As a matter of fact, the State governments were given $30m for this type of unemployment relief and that is exactly what they used it for. 
I recall one incident in which the State instrumentalities in the electorate of Robertson, which includes the Gosford area, were told that they each had to employ 2 or 3 people. This was for the State. It had nothing to do with the RED scheme. They rang the local district employment officer,  Mr Paslow  and they said: 'We have been told we have to take 3 people. We hope you cannot find them'.  Mr Lewis  and his State colleagues were saying this was the way to reduce unemployment- paint fences, rake up leaves and so on. After the next shower of rain or the next bit of warm weather when the grass had grown there was absolutely nothing to show for it. In essence the RED scheme was the exact opposite to that scheme in as much as when the work was done the community had something of value to show for it. It is more expensive because more funds have to be provided for materials whereas almost all the funds provided under the other schemes were simply for labour. 
The Central Coast has had some of the worst unemployment in the State of New South Wales. I will not go into the reason for this, but it is partly caused by enormous land speculation, an incredible housing boom and also the inherent unemployment that is peculiar to the district. We have always had bad unemployment; it is usually the highest in the State even in good times. It rose to about 3500 around February or March of this year, but under the RED scheme it was cut back to 2800 people. For a period of four or five months there was an average of 700 people employed under the RED scheme. Of course these 700 were not the same people. Some people left this scheme, some came back into it and so on. 
The most significant feature is the work that has been done under the RED scheme. As I said before, the Central Coast was a boom area. The population in the past 3 years increased by about 20 000 or about 20 per cent. Like many of these outer urban areas it was desperately deficient of ordinary basic amenities such as water, sewerage, roads, curbing, guttering, drainage, sporting facilities, recreation facilities, parks, gardens, hospitals and so on. One can go on forever, but the fact is that adequate provision was not made for the population that was pouring into the district. 
Under the RED scheme we received approximately $7.6m over the last 9 months. I want just for the benefit of the record to show how this amount was spent because there have been people who have said that the money was going into racecourses, golf clubs and things like that. There were small grants to some golf clubs, but primarily the money was going into very important areas. This is how the total expenditure was broken up:  Major drainage  works, $1,477,220; kerbing, guttering and minor drainage and foot paving, $1,015,510; water reticulation, $1,124,486; council parks, gardens, reserves and public amenities, $656,327; electricity, $39,021; Gosford hospital and ancillary work, $575,869; welfare projects, $454,794; servicing the RED scheme, $88,869; miscellaneous, $89,600; and sporting and recreational facilities, $2, 1 54,7 1 4. 
We have been able to catch up with some of the bad flood areas on the Central Coast. The Woy Woy area is prone to flooding. This area was seriously flooded out last May during heavy flooding. Flooding is no longer a problem in this area. The Terrigal area, where we held our Federal conference, was severely flooded every time there was a decent downpour. We have spent nearly $400,000 in Terrigal and the work carried out has eliminated the danger of flooding in this area of the Central Coast. The same applies in Davistown which was like a bog after any sort of a decent downpour. We have been able to provide water to 3 major areas on the Central Coast- Gwandalan, Empire Bay and Kincumber. 
In the area I am most pleased about, because the Central Coast is a retirement area, a tourist area and a playground of the 2 cities of Sydney and Newcastle, we have been able to upgrade sporting and recreational facilities in a way that was inconceivable under the previous Administration or State government administration. We got absolutely nothing for such works. I believe leisure is very important to all people and I believe it is going to play an increasingly important role in our society. It is about time that we started to provide these amenities and not think simply in terms of kerbing, guttering and similar works. Let me mention just a few of the major things that we have been able to do. At the weekend I was able to attend a very large tennis tournament in Gosford. We were able to cater for 700 visitors who came to the area because we built one of the finest tennis complexes in the southern hemisphere. We have added to what the Gosford tennis club already had. There are now 24 courts, 12 of which were provided under the RED scheme. 
In the Woy Woy area, which has 30 000 people, a population larger than that of any country town apart from the major cities in New South Wales, there are absolutely no facilities for young people. We are on the verge of opening a $600,000 youth centre. Of that cost $454,000 will have been provided by the Australian Government. At long last children in the Woy Woy district will have something to do after 5.30 at night. I believe that this is a great social advance. This youth centre will have basketball courts, squash courts, a coffee lounge, arts and craft faculties and so on. I could describe the way in which we have rebuilt, refurbished or redecorated 6 major surf clubs in this area. Is there anyone who would disagree with the view that surfing is not only a sport but is also a community service of untold value to Australians? I know from my own experience. My third son is alive today thanks to the surf club movement. I have been delighted that we have been able to do this for the surf club movement, the cinderella sport of Australian sports. 
I want to say in winding up my remarks that some of the criticisms of the workers under the RED scheme have been totally unfounded and are completely untrue. Contrary to the argument that I have heard put forward, that these people are not working as hard as they should be, we have had reports from one after another of the sponsors who have come to us and said: 'When the scheme started we thought we were going to get the wrong sort of workers- lazy people who would not work. We have been staggered. We have been getting better people than we have normally been able to get. We have had some amazing references from people who said they had got their jobs finished early and they had been able to do more work than they had anticipated. Of course there have been one or two cases- maybe half a dozen cases- of people who have bludged on the system. When there are 800 workers you are bound to have a few bad eggs, but overwhelmingly the sponsors have said how delighted they have been with the effort by workers under the RED scheme. 
There has been criticism about costs. On the contrary I have found that when the work is done by a sponsor, a member of a club who acts as a supervisor, costs have been lower than when the work has been put out on tender to a master builder. The gap between the cost when the work has been done by what is called the sponsor and when it is done by the ordinary contractor is staggering. We have been able to get the job done for half the price. Of course there is room for improvement. The scheme was started with a bit of a rush, but by the time we had finished I believe the people who were working on the RED scheme, the staff from the Department of Labor and Immigration, had learned a lot about it. We all had learned a lot about it. I pay credit, particularly for the tremendous job done by the Department of Labor and Immigration, to people such as Greg Castles, Kevin Steele and  Mr McKenzie,  all of whom have done a fantastic job in getting this scheme going. I cannot speak highly enough of their work. As I said before, I believe that there is room for improvement and that we can improve this system. If I had time I could mention to the Committee half a dozen ways in which we could improve it so that there would be less criticism of it in the future. But I believe that the RED scheme is one of the great social breakthroughs. I do hope that when Treasury funds permit this scheme will be reintroduced. I believe that that will probably happen in the future. 
It is fascinating to see speakers on the Opposition side now converted to the cause of overcoming the problems of urban development and decentralisation. In the light of their record in government, what they say now is very interesting. They never did anything when they were in government, with one exception for which I give them credit. The only decentralisation success seen in Australia since Federation is right here in Canberra. Great credit goes to  Sir Robert  Menzies, who in 1953 decided that Canberra was going to be the administrative capital and he moved government departments here. As a result we have the only new big city in Australia with a population approaching 200 000 people. I give credit for that, but in every other field nothing has happened. 
The reason is very simple. For years honourable members opposite paid lip service to decentralisation. Country Party politicians, with due respect, were the worst at it. For years they paid lip service to every little village that they were in favour of developing in the name of decentralisation. Nothing ever happened. Of course nothing could happen because the whole economic history of the world is such that since the Industrial Revolution the move has been to the cities. As we have moved from a highly agricultural society into an urban industrial society the numbers of people in the country have declined and dim.nished to a great degree. There is nothing very much that one can do about it. It is a myth that we can take people back to the village farm and have hundreds of thousands of small tenant farmers. It is rubbish. 
As I said before, it is a fact of life that people want to live in cities. They want to live there because of the advantages that cities give thememployment opportunities, business opportunities, education, sport, culture, recreation, and so one could go on. This is what attracts people to cities, and there is nothing we can do to stop it. What we can do is what the Minister for Urban and Regional Development  (Mr Uren)  and this Government are trying to do. We can try to create cities, as we are doing, in attractive environments and attractive locations. We can stop our existing cities developing into megalopolises and great conurbations and we can contain them by directing growth into new cities such as AlburyWodonga, Bathurst-Orange and Monarto, or we can contain and plan the growth on the outer urban fringes of the existing cities such as in the south-west sector and in Gosford-Wyong. 
A better example of why we cannot make decentralisation work by sending people out to the country is the sort of trouble the Government is having now with the people it is trying to get to move to Albury-Wodonga, which is a very attractive place. It is just hopeless. People say: 'Decentralisation is a great thing. We have to decentralise'. When asked where they would like to go they say: 'No, not me- him. He has got to go and live in a country town'. That is the fact of life and we have to live with it. As soon as politicians, all of us, all over the world stop yacking about how we are going to get Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd to 
Gulargambone and stop trying to build up the myth that this is what is going to happen, the sooner we will get some honest thinking in politics. 
I want to deal with the problem in my own area of Gosford-Wyong. In the original negotiations between the Australian Government and the New South Wales Government the GosfordWyong area was set aside as a growth centre. It is recognised that this is an area where many thousands of people live and want to live. It is a great retirement area and is handy to the 2 big cities of Sydney and Newcastle. We managed to reach agreement with the State Government on Albury-Wodonga, Bathurst-Orange and the south-west sector, but unfortunately no agreement has been reached with the New South Wales Government with respect to GosfordWyong. I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a letter and documents from the Minister so that there will be on the record details of the negotiations that have gone on since 5 December 1972, with the latest position having been reached on 8 August 1975. These documents show how this Govenment and the Minister have attempted to get some negotiating basis on Gosford-Wyong. 
The DEPUTY CHAIRMAN- Is leave granted for the incorporation in  Hansard?  There being no objection, leave is granted. (The document read as follows)- 
There has not been any lack of attempt by this Government to get the New South Wales Government to agree to the terms and conditions. The State Government is very happy for us to give it $ 100m and for it to put in roads, water, sewerage, drainage, schools, and so on and so forth, and build a nice new city in the north; but then it wants to let the people who now own the land to sub-divide it and flog it off. If ever there were a golden handshake  par excellence  that would be it. It wants the Australian Government to spend the money on the land of sub-dividers and developers so that they can make a million quid. To put it in colloquial terms, not on your Nellie, if I have anything to do with it. I am perfectly happy if the New South Wales Government wants to develop the land, build the roads, schools and hospitals, but let it put the taxpayers' money in and then it can rake off the profits, but not our money and its profits. The point that the letter and the chronological List of negotiations brings out is that the Minister has done everything possible to get the New South Wales Government to the negotiating table to work out conditions. We believe that land which is purchased by the Australian Government and which is developed with Australian Government funding, if it is residential, should be sold to the people who buy it at cost or a little above cost, or if it is commercial or industrial, it should be leasehold and owned by the planning authority, the development corporation, which would be known as the GosfordWyong Development Corporation, so that some of the profits that are earned on this land will come back to the people who provide the tax. 
The latest development in the negotiations as set out in the incorporated documents is as follows: 

 Sir John Fuller replied to  Mr Uren's  letter of 8 July 1975 explaining that the New South Wales investigation of the various planning alternatives is still in progress and is currently considering the Gosford and Wyong Shire's proposal for a consortium of private and public investment interests undertaking the planning and development of the region. 
So if anybody has frustrated this program it has been the New South Wales Government because of its interest in private developers. I know for a fact that my opponent in the last election campaign got 90 per cent of his funds from the real estate developers, that they poured money into his coffers in a $25,000 to $30,000 campaign against me. We know that this money is going into the State Liberal coffers, and that is why this private developers corporation is being promoted. It is a scandal. It is a disgrace and it ought to be exposed. 
In my view it is graft, and I have stated: this over and over again. Finally, let me say that I hope that something can be worked out because I am very keen that this area should be developed and that Gosford- Wyong should not just become another Parramatta, Auburn, Westmead string of urban towns following one into the other. I would like the Minister to consider the fact that the people of the GosfordWyong area are suffering because of the dog in the manger attitude and what I believe to be the corrupt policies of the New South Wales Government. They are not eligible for area improvement grants because the area is part of a growth centre. They are not getting growth centre funds because they cannot get agreement. It is a  Catch 22  situation. I think that something ought to be said, finally to the State Government. We may go on for years negotiating. I believe that in the meantime the Gosford- Wyong area has a claim to area improvement funds. I ask the Minister to give this matter consideration because we could lose out interminably. I say thank God for the regional employment development scheme which was able to give us some funds to do tilings in this area. 
-Has the attention of the Minister for Education been drawn to a Press statement by  Sir Eric  Willis, the New South Wales Minister for Education, in which he claimed that I had an incredible hide to claim that the total  i  cost of work at a number of schools in my electorate was financed by the Commonwealth and that it was not possible to apportion to the Commonwealth a specific amount from the total cost of a particular project? Has the Minister seen my original Press statement in which I listed the expenditures from the Schools Commission report? Is  Sir Eric  Willis 's statement correct? 
-I direct my question to the Prime Minister. In view of the call by the Opposition for him to resign because it believes that this Government has lost the support of the people, I ask: Can the Prime Minister recall the views of a former Prime Minister,  Sir Robert  Menzies, the father of the Liberal Party, on such a proposal? Is there any precedent for assuming such a lack of confidence without any such motion being moved in this House? 
I want to raise a matter that occurred in my electorate just prior to the 1975 election and I do so because of the publicity that has been given to the recent charge against one of the Government's supporters who was formerly a Minister. About 3 weeks prior to the election date I received a visit in my office from the  Deputy  Shire  President  of the Gosford Shire Council, Councillor Don Leggett, who informed me that he was one of 4 nonmembers of the Liberal Party who had been approached to stand as Independents in an attempt to drag votes away from the Labor Party in the traditional Labor Party area of Woy Woy. He named the other 3 gentlemen concerned. Their names are:  Mr Tonkin,  a solicitor,  Mr Judd,  a chemist, and  Mr Smith,  an insurance salesman.  Mr Leggett  informed me that he had no intention of standing and that he had been offered all his expenses paid if he stood. A few days later, because there had been some rumour that  Mr 
Tonkin may stand as an Independent,  Mr Tonkin  announced in an article that he would not be a candidate. I did not hear anything at all of the man named Judd, I think it was. But on the day nominations closed- surprise, surprise-  Mr Phil  Smith was announced as an Independent. Over the next few weeks we saw  Mr Smith,  who I understand is a man of fairly modest means, undertake a very expensive campaign which I would estimate cost roughly somewhere in the vicinity of $2,000 to $3,000. 
Very clearly this seems to be another case where a man has been bribed to take a place on the ballot paper in an attempt to take votes away from a Labor candidate and I would like the matter investigated by the Attorney-General  (Mr Ellicott).  I think this sort of thing has been going on for so long that we have almost come to the point where we accept as a normal part of electioneering that in seat after seat the expenses of candidates are paid in an attempt to siphon off votes from various candidates. 
-I have no doubt it has happened in many electorates. I was not going to raise this matter but now that the matter has been raised I think the whole question of electoral practices should be brought out into the open. When similar cases such as this occur I think the matter has to be investigated. It may well be that  Mr Smith  paid his own expenses; I would be surprised, but I may have been wrongly informed by the gentleman concerned for whom I have a great deal of respect. Very clearly anybody who spends the sort of money that  Mr Smith  was able to spend- particularly after what I have been told- to get a couple of thousand votes needs to have his head examined. Normally speaking these candidates bob up and spend a few hundred dollars, but he waged quite an expensive campaign. I have every reason to believe that what I was told is correct- that he was a paid candidate- and of course honourable members will get no prize for working out where his preferences went. I do not want to take up all my time. I think this is a matter that needs to be investigated and now that we have one such case pending before the court I think this matter should be investigated by the Commonwealth Police and the Attorney-General. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-Thank you,  Mr Speaker.  I was worried you would not be able to spot me. I ask the Minister representing the Minister who is responsible for tourism- I am not sure who it iswhether his Government intends to honour the commitment of the previous Government to take up 75 per cent of the shares of Old Sydney Town- I am wearing this jacket in honour of the redcoats- to ensure that re-creation of the birthplace of the nation survives. 

 -Mr Speaker, firstly I congratulate the honourable member for Casey  (Mr Falconer)  on his maiden speech and you,  Sir, on  your election as  Speaker.  However, I am a little bemused as to why you have restored the practice of wearing a wig because I recall that you had one of the finest heads of hair in Parliament. Frankly I think that you would look a lot better without that grey rug around you; but that is your choice. 
As I look around the House at the new faces commencing their parliamentary careers I am reminded of my own initiation into this place some  6'A  years ago. I remember that at that time there was a sense of excitement and adventure, some considerable awe and respect and some contempt for certain members of the House whom I will not name so as not to embarrass the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron).  I was one of the 59 members of the Australian Labor Party who were elected to the Twenty-seventh Parliament of Australia despite the party bias in the electoral system that had caused us narrowly to fail to win that Parliament. For the eighth consecutive time in 1954 and 1961 we had well won the majority of the 2-party preferred vote but again because of the electoral system we failed to win office. 
-In 1963 we lost. There is no question about that. We lost on a number of occasions. I am merely suggesting, if the honourable member would listen, that on 3 occasions we won the majority of the 2-party preferred vote and we still failed to win office. Despite some feeling of injustice I still had faith in the system. I was not cynical like many people in this Parliament and outside the parliamentary process who just have no faith whatsoever in Parliament and the democratic system. Many people on the extremes of politics from the radical left and the radical right regard this place as a farce and a waste of time. They believe that Parliament is a talk shop where people get up, talk a lot, and do little to solve the problems of society. I did not believe that then. My belief in the parliamentary process never wavered during the 4Vi years up to May 1974. I fought against those who despised Parliament, those who wanted to take the battle out into the streets. The first time my faith wavered was in April 1974. After 18 months in office and 23 years out of office, the refusal of Supply threatened the life of the first Labor Government for a very long period of time. But my confidence was restored by the vote of the people. It was further restored, with all due respect to you,  Mr Speaker,  by your removal from office as Leader of the Liberal Party and the statements that were made by the present Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  who was the incumbent Leader of the Opposition. I believed him when he said that he had a faith that a government once elected to office should serve its full term. I thought we would have no more of that nonsense. 
My faith in the parliamentary process and the democratic system was finally shattered by the events prior to and leading up to 1 1 November. I do not wish to canvass all of the events of those last few weeks. They are now part of history. But as we get further away from these events and the dust settles we will realise what a disgraceful page it is in Australian history. On that occasion a government twice elected by the people with a majority in the House of Representatives was dismissed. It was dismissed by a non-elected official. A Governor-General entered into politics on one side. There was a conspiracy with the Chief Justice to remove the elected government. 
In deference to your wishes I shall withdraw it. The Governor-General refused to receive his Ministers. He refused to take the advice of his Ministers. He refused to take any of the alternatives to sacking the Government, the elected government of this country. 
Any doubts we may have had were pushed aside by the revelations of  Senator James  McClelland last night about the conversation he had with the Governor-General prior to 1 1 November. Amongst the alternatives which the Governor-General did not take was to ask the Senate to make a decision. For some weeks we had had a situation where the Senate had not accepted or rejected the Budget. It had simply refused to make a decision of any type. The Governor-General refused to grant a half Senate election. He refused to see the  Speaker  of the House of Representatives with a message from the House of Representatives informing him that the caretaker Prime Minister he had appointed did not have the confidence of the House. These are disgraceful things for those who believe in the parliamentary process and the democratic system. 
The least that the Governor-General could have done, having decided to call a double dissolution, was to have left the elected Prime Minister and the Government in office. I do not accept for one moment that the GovernorGeneral had the right to do even that, but that was the least that he could have done. I received a letter today from a person in my electorate whom I respect very much and have grown to know over many years. This man, who is a chemist from the Long Jetty area, asked me why we do not get on with the job; why do we not forget it all; why do we not get on with the job of governing the country. I will write and say to this person for whom I have immense respect that he is wrong, totally wrong. I will tell him that the issues are far greater than he imagines and that I still believe that democracy can be brought back to this country. I will tell him that I am concerned about the legacy that has been left by the actions of the present Government and the GovernorGeneral. 
If we accept the interpretation of the Constitution by the Governor-General that the Constitution grants him absolute power we will have a situation in which he can, if he wishes, dismiss any government at any time that he likes. The Constitution grants equal power to the Senate. We now have 2 Houses competing against one another. The Senate can throw the present Government or any other government out of office at any time it likes. No government without a majority in the Senate can hope to see out 3 years in office. No government without permanent power in all 6 States can guarantee control of the Senate. An aircraft accident could occur in which four or five senators from one political party were killed. If the party to which they belonged did not have the numbers in the State Parliament that Parliament could appoint four or five senators who represented another political party. The present Government has a very handsome majority but if five or six of its senators were replaced by Labor senators it would no longer have a majority in the Senate. If five or six senators from Tasmania or South Australia were involved in an aircraft accident the Government could be out of office. Do not think that it will not happen. Honestly, does anyone seriously suggest for one minute that if a senator from a Labor State dies a Liberal will be appointed in his place or vice versa? We have now wrecked that convention. 
Part of the legacy is that 43 per cent of the Australian people now have no respect for the Constitution or the parliamentary system. I would argue that the time has come when the Australian Labor Party should start looking at framing a new Constitution. I believe there are too many holes, too many flaws and too many inadequacies in the present Constitution for it to stay for very much .longer. When I say 'very much longer' I mean that it may survive for 10 years or it may survive for 20 years. I believe that because of what happened to it over the past few months and all the other inadequacies that have built up over many years the time has come when the Australian Labor Party, when returned to government, should put up a new Constitution with many changes and also without the inadequacies I outlined a few moments ago. 
The problem is that only the Liberals are allowed to govern. We have had that shown to us very clearly. The only government that the Liberals will accept is a government of their own colour. If a Labor government is elected, then anything goes- any breaches of the rules, any breaches of convention, even a  coup d'etat,  to get rid of a Labor government. I am afraid that I for one have totally lost faith in the parliamentary process. 
I know the barn door has been left open again. In the short space of 18 months the honourable member for Riverina has earned the reputation of being the biggest dill in the place. The holiday has not helped him much. 

 -Mr Speaker, I would be quite happy if you would deal with him, but if you do not, I am afraid I will have to. The Liberals are not satisfied with the gerrymandering of electorates for State parliaments, the malapportionment of Federal Parliament or 23 years of continuous government. Still the Constitution is prostituted to get Labor out of office. When I look at the smug faces of new honourable members opposite at least I know I will be here to see most of the smiles wiped off, because I do not think we have ever seen a greater collection of oncers in the history of the Australian Parliament. It has been said that the people have decided. It is strange that the same people who now are claiming an endorsement of the GovernorGeneral's action and a mandate for their programs did not accept that the Australian Labor Party had a mandate in 1972 and 1974. They reserved the right to select what they thought the Australian people had endorsed, and in their view that was virtually nothing. 
I believe that the Australian people fell for the line pushed by the Liberals and the Australian media that Australia alone could have been isolated from the world economic crisis. I was amused a few days after the election when I saw what was said by one of the tycoons of the business world,  Mr Rod  Carnegie, a man who is held in great respect, and I think by the general manager of Broken Hill Pty Co. Ltd.  Mr Carnegie  said:  'Mr Fraser  will solve the economic problems of this country if the world economy improves. If it does not, he will not solve them.' I have a lot of respect for  Mr Carnegie,  but I thought it was strange that he waited until the day after the elections to make those predictions. I think what he said is probably pretty right. If the world economy improves then the Government will be able to solve the economic problems of this country. If the world economy does not improve, it will not. 
I want to deal in the latter part of the time available to me with the Australian media because I do not think I have ever been so disgusted as I was by the role that they played in getting Labor out of office. We know that they are, normally speaking, subservient to the conservative forces, but this time they absolutely excelled themselves. This time they outdid themselves in their obsequiousness and their sycophancy to the conservative forces. Without exception, they carried out the most vicious, lying, distorted campaign in Australian history. I quote- not accurately, because I do not have the book with me- the words of Donald Home in the book he has just released titled  Death of a Lucky Country.  He said something to this effect: 'For the first time in my life I was ashamed of being a journalist'. The campaign was so vicious that it brought about the first journalists' strike in history, when they struck on the question of the content of the newspapers, not on wages or industrial matters. I did a very brief content analysis of the headlines of the major newspapers in New South Wales. I shall quote a few of them. They are part of the build-up to the election from 1 1 November. Forget the muck and the filth that was raised before then. We will go through a few of the headlines. In the  Daily Telegraph  of 16 November this headline appeared: 
Hayden stole official file. 
November 22: 
Letter bomb to Kerr. 
November28: 
More jobs, tax cuts and housing aid. 
That was promised by  Mr Fraser.  The headline on 1 December read: 
Welfare bludgergets $700 a week. 
December 3: 
Whitlam- shock new charge on loans. 
December 4: 
Secret survey shocks leaders: Labor faces loss of 37 seats. 
December 6: 
Fraser 's plan 200,000 cut in jobless. 
December 12: 
Home repair loans. 
Day after day the headlines were either attacking the Labor Government or praising the Liberals. There was absolutely no balance. The headlines in the  Daily Mirror  were even more scurrilous. The  Daily Mirror,  of course, is fortunate to have the services of that brilliant journalist,  Mr Trevor  Kavanagh. Its headlines on 19 November read: 
Joh Murder Bid 
Who was the guilty party there? Obviously the Labor Party. The implication of all the headlines about the bombs was that it was the Labor Party who had planted bombs to get rid of BjelkePetersen. We will get rid of him, but not that way. Let me read the headlines. November 27: 
Hawke's betrayal. 
December 2: 
New poll: Libs by 25 seats. 
The next day: 
Gough guilty: New poll blow. 
December 5: 
Labor hope shattered. 
December 8: 
Libs grip tightens: Sydney poll latest. 
December 10: 
Biggest majority in history 
December 1 1: 
My fears for Tammy '-Fraser tells of violence. 
December 12: 
Budget bombshell: $4,525m in red. 
Let us look at the headlines of the  Sun. 
November 16: 
Fraser blasts at Labor bungling. 
November 17: 
Cost of living up 5 per cent. 
November 19: 
Bjelke office bomb. 
November 20: 
More bombs: Police fear. 
November 21: 
Grim Christmas for school leavers; 70,000 on dole. 
November 25: 
Government car for Gough 's boy. 
November 27: 
Amazing poll: Libs home: Hoax bomb to Fraser. 
November 28: 
Fraser soars. 
December 1: - 
Gough 's smear: No more dirt. 
December 3: 
False says Gough: Loans blow-up. 
December 4: 
Labor gloom 
December 5:  5 1 seats win. 
December 9: 
Loans kickbacks says Joh. 
And so on and so on, day in and day out, headlines aimed at only one thing- destroying any chance the Labor Party had of gaining office. The newspapers were giving a totally biased view of what was happening in the election campaign. There was a total failure by the Press at any stage to examine Liberal Party policy, to examine what  Mr Fraser  was putting forward. We are now receiving the legacy of that failure to question. Never in our history have we seen an election campaign in which a man was allowed to get away with so much. We are now seeing the reversals of promises made to those sections of the community that the Liberals had to win over. In almost every area what was said during the election campaign is being reversed now, reinterpreted now or has an escape clause now. 
To the trade unionists the Liberals did a complete about face on wage indexation. To the 5 million wage earners in Australia they told a he which enabled them to gain the support of millions of wage earners which they would not have gained had the truth been told. The first present the pensioners got after the Christmas break was the knowledge that funeral benefits had been abolished. Look at the building industry. In my area, where I had a substantial swing against me, most of it caused by the lack of activity in the building industry, people are now looking, quite staggered, at the fact that while there is still some activity in the home building sector there is no activity whatsoever in the public sector. Their feeling is that by the middle of the year there will be a serious slackening off in home building and certainly a considerable drop in the public sector. 
The Liberals made promises to the sick, but what did it do with pharmaceutical benefits? I invite honourable members to do a little bit of content analysis of  Hansard  of last year and recall the screams that went up when the Labor Government increased the charge for a prescription from $1 to $1.50. That charge has been increased by another 50c. 
Unfortunately time does not permit me in this debate to speak at length on the fraud that has been perpetrated on the Australian people by the policy of federalism under which the new Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  proposes to provide more money for the States and local governments. That is a subject with which I will have to deal at greater length in the future, but I regard it as one of the great frauds that is being perpetrated at the moment. An effort is being made to convince people that more money will be available to local government authorities and to State governments when in fact the net result of the withdrawal of Australian Government assistance from so many areas must be a situation in which there is no more money being spent in local government areas. 
My yellow jacket is my personal tribute to  Mr Murdoch  and his Press. I ask the Treasurer. Why have the funds promised for the 75 per cent teachers' subsidy for pre-schools for the February quarter not yet been received by the New South Wales Government? 
I will be fairly brief. I think that most honourable members will be in agreement with the words spoken tonight, but what is going to happen when those people in the Press gallery get stuck into members of Parliament in general and individuals in particular? Will there be on the part of honourable members the strength of character to stand out for a principle or will they go to water as they have done in the past? About 6 months ago when the Tribunal's decision, which is totally out of our hands, was announced, there was a headline in the  Daily Mirror- I  do not have it with me at the moment- which said: 'MPs Pay Grab'. I forget the amount which was mentioned but some outrageous amount was headlined, and there were editorials on the particular pay grab even before the recommendations had been discussed by the Government or by the Parliament. There was a big glaring headline saying we had already accepted $1,000 or whatever the amount was. Later that day the Government, reacting to the political pressure of the newspapers and frightened of the criticism, rejected that increase and the following day there was an editorial in the  Daily Mirror  which said, in effect, how sickening it was for the Government to show that it was being noble and self-sacrificing by rejecting the rise. So we were damned for taking it and we were damned for refusing it. The honourable member for Angas  (Mr Giles)  indicates that he recalls that particular editorial. How can we win? 
I find it humiliating and embarrassing that every time the question of a pay rise comes up, whatever is decided, I and my family are abused in the streets. The new members here will find that as soon as the question of a parliamentary salary rise comes up they will be harangued in the street by their friends and by their opponents saying how wrong it is. I really do not mind what salary the Tribunal finally determines. I just wish that it was taken out of our hands and decided, as it is in other States. I believe that in Queensland now an automatic adjustment is made to take up the cost of living and allow for any changes in expenses that may have occurred. 
The honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins)  tells me that the salary of Victorian members is fixed at $500 behind ours. We have the situation now where State members are receiving as much as or more than Federal members, but they have about one-third of our workload and about a quarter of the representation. Frankly, I find it humiliating and embarrassing to be placed in this position every year when the question of salaries and electoral allowances arises. We had hoped when we set up this Tribunal that parliamentarians' salaries would be taken out of the political arena and an assessment made so that we were not placed in this humiliating position. But nothing seems to have changed. The moment that wage increases are mentioned the Press will set up an enormous campaign, the Government will go to water and parliamentarians will be forced into this humiliating position once again. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Bourchier)  adjourned. 
I preface my question, which is addressed to the Minister for Transport, by stating that I am sure the Minister will be aware that since the introduction of seat belt legislation in Australia, 80 per cent of vehicle users are wearing seat belts but that the 20 per cent that are not wearing seat belts are involved in 80 per cent of the deaths and injuries in road accidents. I ask: Why has the Australian Government, through the Australian Design Rule Committee, rejected the new passive restraint seat belt in the Volkswagen Golf which ensures that everybody who sits in the vehicle is wearing a seat belt? 
I have mixed feelings about the motion. I shall be supporting it, as my Party is, but I have mixed feelings about the setting up of the Standing Committee on Road Safety once again. The previous Committee, of which I was  Chairman  for the past 3 years, brought down a number of recommendations in the 2 reports that it made to this Parliament. The first report was the more significant, I believe, in terms of the impact it would have had on road safety in Australia. That was in 1973. The report was titled  ROAD SAFETY. A National Authority. The Constitutional Position. Statistical Needs.  It must be realised that we proposed a national road safety and standards authority. After some to-ing and fro-ing the Australian Labor Party Government set up the National Authority on Road Safety and Standards. It was just getting going in AlburyWodonga. One of the first cuts by the present Government was the abolition of that Authority. I have seen some remarks by the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  that the whole staff was from the Department of Transport and that they will still be doing the same job. That is a load of nonsense. The basis of the Road Safety and Standards Authority was that it should be independent of government. It could analyse data. It could look at the road safety situation. It could look at vehicle standards. It could carry out its own research and experimentation without interference from industry and without pressures being exerted on governments. It could bring down recommendations and could report to this Parliament. Then the Government would have to bear the responsibility of making a decision upon the recommendations. Now the Authority is back in the Department. It is subject to pressures to which it would not have been subject if it had been independent. 
I do not want to see a Committee set up as something to keep Liberal Party and National Country Party back benchers busy or keep them off the back of Cabinet. I hope the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr Ruddock)  is a member of the Committee because he was an excellent member of the previous Committee. I hope he feels, as I do, that this is not something to keep members opposite from stirring up trouble. The previous Committee's major recommendation has been ignored by the present Government. The unanimous recommendation of all Liberal, Country Party and Labor members was that the Standards Authority be set up. If the members of the Committee are to make reports and work their butts off over the next 2 years so that the Government can just keep its back benchers off its back I do not want to have anything to do with that Committee. The reports must be considered, and the recommendations of this Committee, as far as practicable, must be put into practice. It should not simply be something to keep Liberal and Country Party back benchers from being a nuisance to Cabinet. 
That money is peanuts compared to the sort of money we are talking about, and you well know it. The previous Committee, of which the honourable member for Parramatta was a member, was the hardest working committee in the whole of the Parliament. I say that without fear of contradiction. I would hope to get considerable support from the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter),  if he were here, and from the honourable member for Parramatta. It was the hardest working committee. I will give some evidence. It had 27 public hearings since it presented its first report. It took 5000 pages of evidence. It had 126 witnesses. It did an exceptionally good job. Tragically, from my view, we were not able to present our third report, which was to have been on automobiles. Our first report was  ROAD SAFETY. A National Authority. The Constitutional Position. Statistical Needs.  We had completed the second report which was  Roads and Their Environment.  We were about to complete our third report, on automobiles. Because of the enormously wide field that automobiles covered, we were proposing to deal with buses, trucks, and bikes in this year, 1976, and after that to go on to the behavioural side of the road safety problem which, up to that point, we had not dealt with except in a superficial way at the beginning when the Committee 's  Chairman  was  Mr Fox. 
I want to make sure this Committee is not just a sop and that the Government is not saying that it is in favour of road safety as it is in favour of motherhood, the Easter bunny and all those nice things, simply because it sounds good. We want action on road safety like the sort of action we got as a result of the work of the previous Committee. The Government took notice of our recommendations. When the Government was dismissed we had compiled, for our proposed report, all our previous recommendations and the action taken on them by the Government. I was very delighted to note that of about 30 or 40 recommendations- I forget the exact numberaction had been taken on about three-quarters of them. We had a very good result. We were still pressing for a result on those things on which we had not achieved a result. One of those things was our concern that the Postmaster-General's Department, as it then was, had not taken notice of the recommendation regarding telegraph poles. They constitute one of the most dangerous time bombs in road safety. The way they are placed motorists can wrap themselves around those poles at any time. That is something upon which we had not been able to get the previous Government to act. The very fact that the Committee was in existence enabled it to achieve results. The Committee got a tremendous amount of publicity. The public, the Press and the other media are interested in road safety. They do not know much about it. Often their views on what ought to be done are very superficial and rather childish in many ways. Nevertheless, the public is interested. The honourable member for Prospect  (Dr Klugman)  and the honourable member for Parramatta will recall the publicity we got when we went to various States. Melbourne in particular always took enormous interest. When we went to Perth and Adelaide the Press, the radio and television gave us a very wide coverage. 
Recently I was speaking to a top official in the road safety field. I said: 'Over the past three or four years what progress has been made?' He said: 'Significant progress has been made'. I said: 'To what do you mainly put it down?' He said: 'Apart from seat belt legislation, the activities of the national Committee'. I said: 'Thank you. You flatter me. I did not think we had that impact'. He said: 'You do not realise what you have done. The glare of publicity is placed on State officials, bureaucrats and public servants in the various departments. They had the fear of God in them when they had to appear before the Committee and face the grilling of members such as the honourable member for Parramatta and others. They found themselves really getting into a nervous sweat weeks before they had to appear before the Committee. They would go to their departments and Ministers to make sure that the things that you would be asking them had been done before you asked about them. They did not want the whole of the media looking at them and saying: "Look at these deficiencies" '. We were able to expose deficiencies by virtue of our having a public hearing and by having public servants from a wide range of departments appear before us. That road safety official believed that that was one of the great things which the previous Committee was able to achieve. 
I ask the Prime Minister: Has the Government instructed the Bureau of Statistics to exclude indirect taxes when compiling the consumer price index? As pensioners are faced with a drop in the value of the pension since this Government moved from the Labor Government's policy of aiming for pensions to be 25 per cent of average weekly earnings to a formula based on the CPI, will he instruct the Bureau to provide two sets of figures for the CPI, one paying regard to indirect taxes and one not, so that pensions are not further eroded? 
It is now almost 4 months since the present Government was elected to office. In that short period of time it has earned a reputation as the Government that has broken more promises in a shorter space of time than any Government in Australia's history. Nowhere has this been more obvious than over the failure of the Government to make a decision about the future of the Old Sydney Town project at Somersby near Gosford. Since 13 December a cloud has hung over the future of this magnificent project that is crippling its development and shattering the morale of its staff and all those who are involved in and concerned about its survival. The reason for the doubts and uncertainties can be traced back to just prior to the election. An article appeared in the Sydney  Sun  on 3 December 1975 headlined 'Threat to Sydney Town-The Labor Party's Fill, says  Senator'. It  stated: 
Liberal-Country Party  Senator Peter  Rae says the Old Sydney Town project could be closed down. He said this might happen if the coalition parties won the coming Federal elections. 

 Senator Rae was outlining his parry's policy on tourism. He said many areas of Labor's economic policies would be changed following their '3 years of mismanagement'. ' For instance, Old Sydney Town worries me ', he said. 

 Senator Rae said the project had been the 'Labor Party's own Opera House or Fl 1 1'. 'Already $3&amp;m equity has been invested- with more needed to complete the project', he said. 'This seems an incredible amount for one project when there was only a relatively small Commonwealth budget allocated for tourism'. He said a decision will have to be made whether people 'poured money into that sort of investment'. 
The candidate of the Liberal Party of Australia for the electorate of Robertson,  Mr Chalmers,  panicked at the report and apparently contacted  Senator Rae.  A report appeared in the issue of 6 December 1975 of the  Central Coast Express  stating that the report in the Sydney  Sun  was false and that the Liberal Party, if elected to government, would maintain the Labor Government's commitment to Old Sydney Town. Councillor Chalmers also sent a telegram to the management and staff of 1 50 of Old Sydney Town on 10 December 1975 that repeated the assurances in the newspaper article. That was almost 4 months ago. Despite a question in the House during the opening week of this Parliament and numerous newspaper articles and television programs on the subject there still has not been any statement by the Government on the future of Old Sydney Town and whether it intends to honour the commitment by the previous Government. 
The idea for the re-creation of the birth-place of Australia was the brainchild of  Mr Frank  Fox, a Sydney architect. For some 4 years prior to the Labor Party's gaining office,  Mr Fox  and his advisers had worked incessantly to overcome the difficulties of the Gosford Council and the State Planning Authority and to gain the large financial support required to bring the scheme to fruition. The first official visit of the former Minister for Tourism and Recreation,  Mr Frank  Stewart, was in acceptance of my invitation to inspect the project. Frank Stewart was as impressed as I had been with the project and we were determined to ensure that, if possible, the Labor Government became involved in the project. Not long afterwardsin May 1974- the opportunity to do so presented itself and the Government bought the shares of Travelodge Australia Ltd, which comprised 25  lh  per cent of the shares issued, for $317,000. At the time of the purchase of the shares a feasibility study had been done by PA Management Consultants Pty Ltd. An independent valuation by the Australian Mutual Provident Society was commissioned and the land was valued at $900,000 or $3,000 per acre. 
Why don't you pull your head in. You are the biggest dope in the House, with your mate here from Riverina. I raise this point because the Auditor-General's Department and Price Waterhouse Associates Pty, appointed by the Government, have argued that the value of the land is approximately $450,000. The reason for the difference in the valuations is easy to understand if one recognises that the AMP valuation was done in 1972 at the height of the real estate boom and that the Price Waterhouse valuation was done in December 1974 at the bottom of the real estate depression. During the period from May to November 1974, prior to the unofficial opening, the Labor Goverment provided moneys totalling $700,000 in the form of a loan to the project. At that stage it was apparent to the new Board that the company was poorly managed from a business point of view and grossly undercapitalised. By the time Old Sydney Town opened it was obvious that the interest payments would be crippling and that a restructuring was necessary. At the opening the then Prime Minister stated that the Australian Goverment would invest a further $3.5m in the Old Sydney Town project. 
Frank Stewart proceeded to implement the Prime Minister's undertaking and made available moneys totalling $lm, pending approval of the 1975-76 Budget which contained provision for $3,075,000 for the purchase of the 78 per cent shareholding. The $400,000 in the Supply Bill was additional loan moneys. All the Government loans would be repaid once the Budget was passed. The balance outstanding from the Prime Minister's commitment of $425,000 was proposed to be provided in the 1976-77 Budget. It is most desirable that a further, building program be continued gradually over the next few years to bring people back for a second, third or fourth visit. At the moment the first windmill, the Sydney gaol and St Phillip's Church are under construction, and the King's Head Hotel is due to start soon. Under the restructured arrangement the new shareholding will be: The Australian Government 78 per cent, the Bank of New South Wales 12 per cent and Frank Fox Development Pty Ltd 10 per cent. At the official opening of Old Sydney Town on Australia Day 1 975, the then Prime Minister had this to say: 
We have since sought ways of strengthening the viability of the project to ensure not only that rising costs can be met, but the relevance, authenticity of the original idea can be maintained. We as a Government are satisfied of the real and ultimate importance to all Australia- to all Australians, and to visitors- that this project should be brought to fulfilment. 
Therefore, the Australian Government has decided that over the next three years we shall invest a further $3. 5m in the Old Sydney Town project. 
The new capital of the company would be around $6m and the purchase of shares would be used to repay government loans. I stress this point to emphasise that the total Australian Government commitment would be around $4.5m if the appropriation and Budget commitment was adhered to. Old Sydney Town has been operating for one year and four months. Until 31 January 1976 there had been 588 000 visitors, of which 316 000 were adults and 245 000 were children, and there were 27 000 pensioners. By any yardstick that is a remarkable performance. These initial figures compare favourably with the only other major attraction of this type, Sovereign Hill at Ballarat. It is anticipated that by 1977 three-quarters of a million people per annum will be visiting Old Sydney Town. An interesting comparison can be made with one of Australia's most famous attractions, Taronga Park Zoo, which after being established for years attracts only 800 000 visitors per annum. 
A further example of the gross misrepresentations that have taken place over the viability of Old Sydney Town is exemplified in an article which appeared in the Gosford  Star  of last week.  Mr Chalmers  claimed that Old Sydney Town had made a loss for the financial year of $223,799 or $4,303 per week and that in 1975 a loss of $295,402 or $5,680 per week. The loss of $223,000 for 1974 was sustained during a period when it was not even open but was in the construction stage. The other loss was sustained when it was open for only a 7-month period. One wonders just how dishonest one can get. There is no doubt that the project is presently running at a loss. The major reason for its losses is the crippling interest rate which it has to sustain. These losses will fall to virtually nothing with the new arrangements that have been made to open 5 days a week instead of seven. Immediately there will be a saving of at least $2,000 a week. The present Board is of the view that within a matter of months, given relief from the interest charges, it will be operating without any loss. That would be a remarkable achievement for a venture not yet 18 months old. 
However, it should be remembered that the objective of the Government investing in Old Sydney Town was not to make huge profits. Our commitment was based on the fundamental belief that, in Gough Whitlam 's words, 'The project should have genuine validity as a recreation, a genuine recreation, a living recreation of the origins of modern Sydney and modern Australia . . .'Old Sydney Town is a monument to Australia's beginnings. It will have immense value to every Australian, new, old and young, to enable them to learn of Australia's humble start. Hundreds of thousands of Australian see this as one of the great educational, historical and cultural ventures undertaken by the late Government, not to mention the enormous benefit it will be to tourism, both intranational and international. When one considers the hundreds of millions of dollars spent on education, the millions of dollars poured into the arts, sport and recreation, and the funds now being spent on museums, few of which would have anything like the attendance at Old Sydney Town, is it not absurd to suggest that a few hundred thousand dollars of losses is sufficient justification to scrap the project? 
There is an ironic twist to Old Sydney Town's fate under the Liberals. Whilst the Federal Liberal Party is attempting to dismantle the greatest memorial to the birth of a nation ever created, the State Liberals and their counterparts in the Sydney City Council are planning to hold the 1988 Olympic Games in Sydney at a cost of hundreds of millions of dollars- the staging of the Montreal Games in 1976 will cost between $ 1,200m and $l,400m-to celebrate the bicentenary of the establishment of the first settlement at Sydney Cove in 1788. The ultimate irony must surely be the amount of money that Australia is now spending to celebrate America's bicentenarysomething of which I approve- whilst it considers abandoning the greatest memorial to its own beginnings just 12 years before the twohundredth anniversary of Governor Phillip's landing at Sydney Cove. 
I want to be very brief and to speak for only two or three minutes. I cannot let the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  get away with some of the things he said, particularly with regard to aged persons' accommodation. I was quite involved with this in my own area; I got very involved with the problem that the Government was facing. I do not have the exact figures in front of me at the moment, but over the past 5 years spending on aged persons' accommodation rose from about $ 18m or $20m in the last couple of years of the previous Liberal Government to about $22m or $23m in the first year of the Labor Government. It would have been a little extra except for the Brisbane floods. In the second year of the Labor Government it rose to $40m and in the third year it rose to $70m. When I was discussing the matter with the Minister for Social Security, because of the increase of the subsidy from $2 to $ 1 to $4 for $ 1 and the lack of restrictions in meeting any rise in building costs the value of applications in the pipeline had risen to $270m. 
Let us be honest. I do not think the honourable member for Mackellar, the former Minister, is aware of this: There is no way in the world in which this Government or any other government is going to have a rise in this area from $ 18m or $20m to $270m in the space of three or four years. I have not worked it out, but it would be a rise of about 900 per cent. It would be absurd to suggest that. Obviously the Government had to put priorities and select its projects. I was very fortunate in my area because we were able to get $1,023,000 for about 90 beds for various hostel, nursing home and aged persons accommodation and that was more in one year than had ever been spent in the previous 8 years by this government. There are more aged people on the Central Coast than in any other part of Australia. 
Finally, let me say to the Minister for Repatriation  (Mr Newman)  and to the honourable member for Mackellar that we have been hearing from the Liberal Government for 27 years about how it was going to abolish the means test. In fairness, the honourable member for Mackellar, as the appropriate Minister, did taper the means test. That is a step in the direction of abolition. But the only Government that has ever done anything in this regard has been the Labor Government, which abolished the means test for people over 70 years of age and was proposing to bring the age down to 69. 1 thank the House and I thank the Minister. I just wanted to make those couple of points. 
-At the end of March 1976, 278 010 Australians were out of work. That is the actual raw figure. Calculated on a seasonal basis, the number of unemployed was 275 555. Both of those figures are approximately 5000 to 10 000 above the number of unemployed in March of last year. In New South Wales the raw figures show that 111 892 people were out of work. Calculated on a seasonal basis, the number was 115 049. During the debate on the economy in 1974-75 the Australian Labor Party Government was attacked over and over again for what was described by the then Opposition as the creation of unemployment. We were told that we were wrecking the building and construction industry and that the serious unemployment was all our fault. During the election campaign of 1975 a euphoria was created by the present Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  who said that the advent of a Liberal Government would bring about prosperity for the building and construction industry and an end to unemployment over all Australia but specifically in that area. We were told that this would be done by lowering interest rates and making special funds available for the building industry. In other words, nirvana was just round the corner. 
We have now had almost 5 months of a Liberal Government- nearly 6 months since the end of the Labor Government- and things are worse than ever. There is no sign of unemployment abating; in fact in March of this year it worsened. There is no sign of help for the industry and no sign specifically of help for the unemployed. What concerns me particularly is that a skilful campaign is being mounted in the media to get Australians to accept a high level of unemployment. An article- which unfortunately I do not have with me- appeared in the last couple of weeks which indicated that we would be faced with unemployment at around the 300 000 level for the next couple of years. That ought to have brought a huge outcry from the people of Australia because it is not so long ago that we were told that unemployment at anything above the level of 100 000 was intolerable. Now we are being asked to regard 300 000 as an acceptable level. In other words, the view of the conservatives of this country that a pool of unemployment is a good thing to keep the worker on his toes, to keep him fearful of losing his job, is something which we have to learn to live with. 
Let me refer also to the way in which the unemployed are being treated. The Liberals have created a 'Catch 22' situation regarding the unemployed. When Labor was in government we were told that we had created unemployment. In the same breath or in the next breath we were told that if people were unemployed it was their own fault, that they were out of work only because they were too lazy to look for work. Which is it to be? Honourable members opposite cannot have it both ways. Either there was a serious recession and serious unemployment created by the previous Labor Government and people were genuinely out of work or there is not a recession and plenty of work is available. As I said, they cannot have it both ways. 
I want to cite the particular problems of the area which I represent, the electorate of Robertson and the central coast of New South Wales, because I am more familiar with them. I received quite a caning about unemployment from my opponent during the election campaign. We were told how bad it was when about 3000 people were out of work. In  4Vi  months since the election of a Liberal Government unemployment has risen in my area to 3855. But,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I want you to note the next figure, the number of job vacancies. There are 32 jobs vacant in the central coast area registered with the Commonwealth Employment Service 32 jobs and 3855 out of work. I have been recording the figures religiously since I was elected to this place in 1969, and there has never been a figure of job vacancies so low. There are virtually no jobs available for the nearly 4000 people out of work. This means that 15 per cent of the work force of a very large section of New South Wales has no work at all and no likelihood of work. 
I mention my area specifically because for many years it has been one of the major home building areas of New South Wales. I think it became the largest home building area in New South Wales because of the enormous growth rate caused by people coming to live there in retirement and the influx of young commuters. Two attempts have been made to doctor figures by cracking down on 'dole bludgers'. I use that expression advisedly because that is the expression with which the Press and the Liberals have been able to con the Australian people into accepting that the 270 000 unemployed are all bludgers when there are no jobs available for them. 
It has been said over and over again by spokesmen from the honourable member's side. I shall get the quotes later if he wishes. We were told a little while ago that the unemployment figures were large because a large number of school leavers were on the market. Nobody today would argue that school leavers are still included in these figures. The seasonal figures and the raw figures are almost identical. The people out of work at the moment are those who are genuinely looking for work. 
What has this Government done to solve the problem of unemployment? The sole measure to stimulate the economy has been the jawboning of the Prime Minister He is trying to talk the economy up. When someone like the Prime Minister starts telling me to go out and to spend that is the signal for me to stick my money in the bank. What reason would there be for people to go out and to spend when in the same breath the Prime Minister tells them they ought to accept lower real wages? With a rate of inflation of around 13 per cent annually and the value of wages eroding every month, at the same time the people are being told that they should accept an increase in wages of half the percentage of the rise in the consumer price index or no increase, which would mean there would be an actual drop in the value of their wage. This is a complete breach of faith with those people who voted for this Government on 13 December last year. Yet at the same time he is telling the people to go out and to spend. They are to accept a lower value of salary and at the same time to go out and to buy all the things the Prime Minister said he would like to see bought. Everything else that has been done by the Liberal and National Country Party coalition has been aimed at deflating the economy. I shall quote an article from this morning's  Australian Financial Review.  One of the much-heralded measures that was to be taken by this Government was the introduction of the investment allowance. This morning 's  A Australian Financial Review  states:  $470m subsidy leaves business cool. 
The 40 per cent investment allowance, estimated to cost $470m in a full year, is having little influence on investment decisions, according to a business survey. 
The latest quarterly business survey by the Australian Chamber of Commerce and the National Bank was issued last night. 
A meagre 8 per cent of respondents who are expecting an increase in capital expenditure said that the allowance greatly influenced their decisions. 
As the previous Treasurer, the honourable member for Oxley,  Mr Hayden,  said time and again and as the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr E. G. Whitlam)  has said, we will not get businessmen investing until they have used up their present capacity. This is true pretty well right throughout the manufacturing industries. Most businesses are operating at only 70 per cent or 80 per cent capacity and they will not build a whole lot of new plants just to please the Government. 
There have been much-heralded government cutbacks. Why would people spend when they have a Prime Minister who heralded his accession to office by continually talking about how much he would cut back on government expenditure? The Australian savings bonds syphoned off $ 1000m from the Australian economy- funds that ought to have been going to the housing industry, into the building societies and the savings banks but funds which instead went into the Australian savings bonds. We saw a fast back pedal on that when the Government saw exactly what effect the bonds were having and the reaction of industry to them. 
We have had non-stop talk about a tough Budget. As the Prime Minister so quaintly put it, it will be hard on the Government but not on the people. I would love to know what that is supposed to mean. Apparently he has forgotten about government by the people, of the people, for the people, and so on. In other words he thinks that governments have nothing to do with people. I suppose if one does not have children who go to schools, or if one does not get sick and need to go to a hospital, or if one does not get a pension the next Budget will not be hard. 
Enormous cuts in government expenditure have been foreshadowed. The Prime Minister said that he will give the States and local government more. Evidently section 96 grants, the tied grants which provide funds for schools, sewerage programs, growth centres, hospitals, health centres, aged persons' accommodation, senior citizens' centres and so on will be virtually obliterated. That is the only way in which the Prime Minister can have any rational Budget if he is going to do the extra things for the States he has promised. Who builds the things I have just mentioned? Eskimos? They are built by people, by Australians, by people in the building industry. If these people are to face those sort of cutbacks on top of what has already been cut back out of the Hayden Budget of 1975 things must worsen. It is natural therefore that business will not invest and the people will not go out and buy. 
I think the Prime Minister has been told by the Treasury to stop painting pictures of gloom and talking of cutbacks in government expenditure and to start, as I said before, jawboning up the economy. He is surprised and disappointed that people are not rushing out and spending every cent they have. I am not surprised after the talk from the Government over the last few months since it came to office. I would like to quote from an article that appeared in the  Australian Financial Review  on 23 April written by Christopher Jay, a very prominent writer on economic matters. It is headed: 
East coast building may face prolonged recession. 
The article states: 
In its relentless determination to allow no relaxation in its hardline anti-inflation approach, the Federal Government now looks like forcing the east coast building and construction industry into a prolonged recession. 
Figures on major construction projects in Australia in March, prepared by industrial economists John Jackson and Associates, confirm that the slight upturn suggested in the December quarter of 1 975 has been dissipated. 
In addition, the April bulletin of the Building Industry Advisory Council of New South Wales confirms a continuing drop in building industry employment, work done and new approvals, as shown on the accompanying graph. 
Further on the article states: 
The non-housing sector has usually accounted for 60 per cent of the total building work in New South Wales with Government work usually accounting for about 15 per cent of the total. 
But with the various ministries in Canberra perfectly well aware of the severe problems in the building industry, attention should be shifted to the unnecessarily severe line being enforced to debar assistance to construction. 'Whilst a floor seems to have been reached to the downturn in building and construction in view of the relative stability of commencements in the past 6 months, the fact remains that the intake of new work for the March quarter, 1976, is down 39.7 per cent in real terms compared with 1974 and this indicates the magnitude of the current underutilisation of resources . . . 'The request for aid put forward by the various organisations in the industry and rejected by Cabinet on April 13, has been well documented in the national Press . . . The need to axe unproductive expenditure is obvious and should have been apparent to the previous Government. But rejection of the application for special aid ignores the differentiation between capital investment and current expenditure. It fails to recognise that building and construction goes much deeper than its direct contribution of about 8.6 per cent to the gross domestic product, and that there will be a multiplier effect in reverse throughout the various supply industries.' 
I condemn this Government for not making any attempt at all to provide unemployment relief funds. We do not even have the awful schemes that existed under the McMahon Government such as those involving painting, clearing fire trails and mowing lawns, the benefits of which disappeared altogether after rain. We know the Government's hatred of the Regional Employment Development scheme because it was a Labor initiative but it provided an amazing amount of work for a large number of people. In my own area some 850 people had jobs under this scheme. 
-There is a dignity about work that the honourable member for La Trobe ought to appreciate. We slowed it down; but I believe that at this time, with the present rate of unemployment, there would have been moves to reintroduce it. There is a need once again to provide unemployment relief, particularly in the areas of high unemployment, such as the area I represent, Wollongong, Newcastle and other parts of the State, as well as in the rural areas in which there is high unemployment. Nothing is being done by this Government and nothing is being done by the States. I think the Government stands condemned. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I ask the Prime Minister a question. Does his Government support the Kissinger 10-point plan to wage psychological, economic and diplomatic warfare against the Smith regime in Rhodesia until it yields to black majority rule? 
It is very obvious tonight that there are a lot of nervous Nellies in the Parliament. All the new boys and oncers have come in here and it is running down their legs as they see the swing in New South Wales. 
-I meant that there was a lot of sweat. 
It is very obvious that the new lightweight from St George is a very worried man after last Saturday's results. There was a 7 per cent increase in the Australian Labor Party vote, there was a 4 per cent swing overall on a  2-party  preferred vote but there was over a 7 per cent swing from the last Federal election. 
-We will have a look at the honourable member's seat. He is sitting on only 56 votes and I can assure him that that will not be enough to keep anyone as lightweight as he is in this place. Fancy this new honourable member for St George having the hide to attack one of the finest members who has ever been in this place, the former honourable member for Grayndler. The honourable member for St George is not even fit to polish  Mr Daly's  shoes, let alone criticise him. Unfortunately there is not a great deal of time left. Let the honourable member for St George enjoy the  2V4  years that he has left here because that is all he will ever see of Parliament. 
-During this debate already I have heard a number of interjections about what growth centres will cost. I put it to the House that it is much cheaper to invest money in growth centres now than to take the attitude that we cannot afford it at the moment and that we should let the existing metropolises and conurbations gradually become a worse inefficient mess than they now are. In my own area of Gosford-Wyong I have seen the sort of problems that occur and are likely to keep occurring over the next few years because past governments, local and State, have not bothered to provide and plan for the future. My own area, apart from a number of major towns, has dozens of small hamlets that have been allowed to grow because a developer has been able to buy a piece of land, open up a couple of hundred blocks and sell them. Over a few years homes have been built on them and gradually the population has grown to perhaps 300 or 400. 
In the Gosford-Wyong area there are 50 or 60 communities of this nature. This type of development is grossly inefficient because each and every one of those little communities must be provided with the basic amenities of life. They must have and they demand decent roads from their councils and State governments. I notice the honourable member for Farrer  (Mr Fife)  listening. As a former State Minister, he would be well aware of the sort of demands made on him by communities such as those I am talking about. They require water, electricity, sewerage and telephones. If State, Federal and local government provide those services a little at a time, when, as m my area, a bitumen road of seven or 8 miles is laid to service a little hamlet of 200 or 300 people, or when the Australian Telecommunications Commission has to lay 6, 7 or 8 miles of cable to provide 80 or 90 telephones it is grossly inefficient and uneconomic. 
Instead of making inane, stupid interjections why does the honourable member not get up in the House and make a speech? We would like to hear from him. 
-In the long run it is far more efficient to plan communities of 20 000, 30 000, 40 000 or 50 000 people, as has been done in Canberra. Admittedly, it requires an outlay of a great deal more initially but in the long run it saves millions of dollars. The honourable member for Calare  (Mr MacKenzie)  made the point that after 3 years of expenditure on Monarto there is still nothing to show. Of course there is nothing to show. I was told that in the Woden and Belconnen suburbs in Canberra it was about 9 years from the start of planning before everything started to go through the pipeline, and people were actually living on the site. If towns and suburbs of 30 000, 40 000 or 50 000 are to be planned, it cannot be done in the  ad hoc,  hit and miss way in which we have allowed our metropolises to grow over the last 170 or 180 years. 
I press on to the question of population growth. This matter has caused a great deal of speculation in Australia in recent months since the Borrie report came out. Professor Borrie said that he thought Australia's population would not rise to 25 million as previously predicted but would stay at about 17 500 000. Professor Borrie may be right. I hope he is more accurate than he was in his 1948 prediction when he said that Australia's population would be 8 million by 1970. It was, in fact, nearly 13 million. He predicted that the American population would grow to 150 million. He was about 70 million out. Perhaps this time he has more accurate figures than he had then. Professor Borrie 's predictions just after the war were grossly inaccurate. We do not know whether Australia's population will be 17 500 000, which is an increase of about 4 million, or whether it will be the original prediction of nearly 25 million. The point is- this has been taken up in a number of articles recently- that while it may be true, as Professor Borrie says, that the population will not exceed 17 500 000 there has been a drift in the population away from the major metropolitan areas of Sydney and Melbourne. People are now getting fed up with city life- the crowded, ugly, squalid and polluted areas of our 2 major citiesand are shifting into the outer fringe areas to places such as Gosford-Wyong, Bathurst-Orange and Albury-Wodonga. 
-If the honourable member would listen and try to comprehend what I am saying, he would realise that the population of Sydney has remained fairly static in recent years. The growth has been in areas such as GosfordWyong. We have to remember that there are 2 sorts of growth centres. There are the natural growth centres, the places where people are going of their own free choice, such as GosfordWyong area, the Blue Mountains and Campbelltown and there are those that have to be stimulated by forms of incentive, such as the Albury-Wodonga and Bathurst-Orange areas. The people are choosing and want to choose a better life. I now quote from an article in the Sun-Herald of 21 March 1976 written by Chris Anderson: 
The figures show that between 1966-71, Sydney had an average surplus of departures over arrivals of about 2000 people. 
By 1972-73, the net loss was estimated to have reached 24 000 in that year alone, and later statistics indicate continuation of the trend. 
Government officials estimate that on average now at least 500 families a week in Sydney are deciding to quit city life and figuratively head for the hills. 
The figures show they are migrating to places like the growth centres of Bathurst-Orange, Albury-Wodonga, the north and south coasts, and the smaller State capitals of Adelaide, Perth and Brisbane. 
Of the 24000 net loss to Sydney, it is estimated that 12 000 went to other parts of New South Wales and 12 000 interstate. 
There is a natural growth factor in the increasing population of the areas I have mentioned, but a lot of people want to get out of the metropolitan areas and we need to provide them with the planned communities so that they can do just that. I pointed out earlier that it is more expensive not to do anything about it now and let areas like Gosford-Wyong and the Blue Mountains grow like topsy-turvy, as Sydney has done. The sprawling urban areas of Sydney now extend right up to the Blue Mountains. We should plan properly and provide the sort of communities that we have been able to achieve in Canberra. The growth rate of my electorate is running at about 6 per cent to 8 per cent. Between the elections of 1974 and 1975 it was the fastest growing electorate in Australia. It grew by almost 9000 electors and probably by about 12 000 people in the short space of 1 8 months. 
Between those elections my electorate grew the fastest in Australia. It is one of the most beautiful areas in Australia. It has magnificient facilities and it is attractive to people. Instead of living in the western suburbs of Sydney, in the hot and dry areas out past Parramatta and out in the plains, people had the advantage of being able to live in places like Gosford and Wyong, to live near the beaches in beautiful areas, and they are doing so, but no plans are being made. As I pointed out in a letter which I had incorporated m  Hansard  during a speech I made on 8 October 1975, the former Minister for Urban and Regional Development, the honourable member for Reid  (Mr Uren),  made gallant attempts during the whole period that he was in office to get the co-operation of the New South Wales Government, but there was a stalemate because we were dealing with the plans of the New South Wales Department of Decentralisation which wanted to build a city in the Warnervale-Wyee area. We had tried to get a growth centre established but the New South Wales authorities simply would not sit down and talk. They wanted to leave it to the developers and to those who owned the land, those who were buying land in the area and who would be able to make a fortune. They wanted us to spend $100m on the building of roads, schools, parks and hospitals but they wanted to leave the land in the hands of a handful of developers who would be able to make a fortune out of taxpayers' investment. The report we have from Gosford is that there is going to be a Labor government in New South Wales in a few days time and I can only hope that  Mr Wran,  who will be the new Premier, will proceed with plans and do something about the Gosford-Wyong area, which his predecessor did not do. Unfortunately we now have a Federal Government that obviously is disinterested in decentralisation, disinterested in growth centres and in providing these sorts of funds that only governments can provide to build proper planned communities for the people of New South Wales and for the people of Australia. 
-Has the attention of the Prime Minister been drawn to an article in this week's  National Times  entitled: 'Fraser Makes States Sob- With Good Reason' by John Edwards? Is it correct, as the article states, that under the new federalism arrangements the States will receive about $120m less than they received under the pre-Fraser formula and as a result, under the April agreement the States automatically revert to the old formula? 
I want to confine my remarks today primarily to the report of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Road Safety which was tabled by the honourable member for Kennedy  (Mr Katter).  I believe that that report is the most important report on road safety ever brought down in this Parliament. The inquiry which resulted in that report represented the first occasion on which the automobile industry has been placed under close scrutiny. I believe it has immense implications for those who use the roads and those who build the cars which are driven on them. Although we are debating cognately that report and the Road Safety and Standards Authority (Repeal) Bill, I shall be devoting the majority of my comments to the Committee's report on passenger vehicle safety. 
Before I do that, however, I want to pay tribute to the work of the Committee and of the Committee staff in particular. I know that it is normal procedure to do so, but I cannot speak highly enough of the work done by John Porter and Bill Dee who were on the staff of the Committee, and many others, including the consultants to the Committee,  Mr Graham  Alexander,  Mr Jim  Bell, and  Mr Peter  Wherrett of Australian Broadcasting Commission television fame. The Committee had completed its hearings and was prepared to consider that draft when the Government was so ignominiously dismissed on 1 1 November last year. As  Chairman  of that Committee I was extremely impressed with the work of its members. I refer to  Mr David  McKenzie, the former member for Diamond Valley,  Mr Dudley  Erwin, the former member for Ballaarat,  Mr Adrian  Bennett, the former member for Swan, the honourable member for Melbourne  (Mr Innes),  the honourable member for Kennedy and the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr Ruddock). 
During the 18 months from the tabling of our second report on roads and their environment, the Commitee held 27 public hearings and took more than 5000 pages of evidence. More than 120 witnesses were heard. It was, by any standards, an extremely hard working committee, and I believe that the report it brought down is first class. If its recommendations are implemented this will have the effect of reducing the road toll significantly and keep Australia in the forefront of reducing death and injury on the roads. The report, like its 2 predecessors, is unanimous, but the Australian Labor Party will vote against the decision to repeal the Act which set up the Road Safety and Standards Authority which was to be establised at Albury-Wodonga. Its establishment was a unanimous recommendation of the first report of the House of Representatives Select Committee on Road Safety and it was fully endorsed and supported by the Liberal and National Country parties when in Opposition. Our objection to transferring the functions of the independent statutory authority back to the Commonwealth Bureau of Roads, under the control of the Minister for Transport and his Department, is that we believe that the fearless investigation and capacity to report without favour on every aspect of road safety will not be possible unless the Bureau is an independent statutory authority. The shadow Minister for Transport, the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris),  and the next  speaker  in the debate, the former Minister for Transport, the honourable member for Newcastle  (Mr Charles Jones),  will deal with that matter in greater detail. 
In its report the Committee, half of which is made up of new members elected to the Parliament in December 1975 and who have not heard the evidence placed before the 3 members of the sub-committee and the former Minister for Transport, notes the Government's action and proposes to review the Bureau's work after a period of time. The Committee has made in its report 52 recommendations in all. I seek leave to  have those recommendations incorporated in  Hansard. 
-I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Industry and Commerce a question that is supplementary to the one I asked him during the first week of the parliamentary session this year. Has his Government or the Department finally decided whether it will honour the commitment that the Liberal Party made to Old Sydney Town prior to the last election? 
I ask the Treasurer a question. Has the honourable gentleman's attention been drawn to the comment in the  Australian Bulletin of Labour,  published from Flinders University, that he has been badly advised about the relationship between Australian and United States wages? Was he aware when he was making a comparison of United States and Australian average weekly earnings that the United States figures included females and juniors and the Australian figures only males? Is the Treasurer aware that the average wage in the United States is still 25 per cent higher than the average wage in Australia? In the light of this information, will the Government cease misleading the Parliament and the nation about wage relativities as a basis for its policy aimed at reducing real wages? 
-I commend the honourable member for Balaclava  (Mr Macphee)  on his very thoughtful contribution earlier tonight. It is a very great shame that more of these contributions are not made in debates instead of the mud-slinging that goes on. I would like to get the attention of the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street).  I am pleased that he is at the table. I want to talk about present and future unemployment in Australia. Whatever is said politically about what will happen to the economy, it may be that the present Budget strategy will work, and it may not. We do not know, and anybody who says that he knows is either a fool or a liar or both. Hopefully the strategy will work. My own guess is that unemployment will be pretty severe for the next 6 months at least and probably longer. Let us hope that we can have a rational debate about unemployment schemes. 
I am pleased that this Minister is responsible for employment. I think he is one of the more reasonable Ministers and a man who is likely to listen to ideas. I recognise the constraints that are placed on the Minister because of the philosophy of the Budget. I would like to see a scaled down Regional Employment Development scheme so that areas of high employment receive treatment. It is my own view that the RED scheme with its flaws- I intend to detail those flaws- is the best scheme yet devised to combat unemployment in areas where it is severe. I think the scheme left more socially useful things for the community after it was finished. I hope the Minister will agree that there was very unfair media coverage of the RED scheme. One or two projects that were sloppy got unfair publicity and that tended to spoil the public's view of the whole of the RED scheme. 
I think that of those present in this Parliament now many would privately agree and some would publicly agree that the RED scheme gave enormous benefit to their communities. I particularly commend members of the National Country Party for the way in which they co-operated on the scheme. I think the important thing is to recognise its strengths and its weaknesses. I have been examining for many months its strengths and weaknesses. I am about to release a paper which gives a reassessment of the scheme. I worked probably more than any other back bencher at a grass roots level on matters involving the scheme and I believe that we can help the Department by showing it the mistakes of which it may not have been aware. I am quite happy to do so. Most of the flaws that occurred were inevitable because the scheme was a new initiative. It is easy to criticise new initiatives. I recall the old cliche: 'A person who never made mistakes never made anything'. Basically one of the problems was the mistake of the previous Cabinet in not recognising- accepting the prediction of the previous responsible Minister that unemployment would rise- that the RED scheme ought to have been introduced in Australia at a time when it could have been tested and the flaws eliminated. The Cabinet made a mistake. I believe the mistake was understandable. The Cabinet was not able to see the likelihood of high unemployment occurring in 1974-75. I think we ought to look at the problems that the scheme faced and try to eliminate these problems in a future RED scheme. 
I hope the Government will give some thought to a scaled down scheme. What were the sorts of problems that were faced with the RED scheme? It was extremely difficult to produce fully costed and designed projects that fitted the criteria of being socially useful and economically viable. The community simply was not ready. It was announced one day; projects were approved a fortnight later. It took time to produce the sorts of schemes that the Minister had in mind. Many projects initially were approved that were not intended- such projects are kerbing and guttering and footpath paving. The scheme started very quickly and it suffered from the particular problem of not having had some advance planning. 
There was insufficient staff at the Department of Labor and at the Commonwealth Employment Service. This was simply because of the constraints being placed on the Public Service by the Government at the time. I felt immensely sorry for the departmental people who suddenly had to cope with this enormously big project, without extra staff in some cases, or less staff. This was equally true at the local level. The scheme never had the inspection that had been planned. I believe that too many areas were included in the scheme which was initially intended, as I said before, to solve unemployment in particular areas where it was really high. It finished up being an unemployment scheme for the whole nation, and I believe that that was wrong. I can understand the sorts of worries that the Government had about solving unemployment. I think we all recognise that it should have been localised- I am talking about six, eight or ten areas in Australia where it is really high- at that stage with a minimum budget. 
It took time for councils and non-government bodies to understand exactly what the scheme was all about. They just did not believe me when I went to my local council, and it was months before I was able to get the message through to all the private organisations, sporting clubs and so on. I believe that there should be a limit on each grant. I think that a mistake was made in saying that we should just pay double whatever the wage content was. We should have said: 'That is the amount you are getting and that is it. There will be no increased costs'. We found, particularly after the scheme had been going for some months, that hundreds of applications were made. I think that only in very special circumstances should extra costs be granted in any future RED scheme. This is one way of stopping the open-endedness of the previous RED scheme. I believe that every organisation, except in very special circumstances, should make a contribution. There were cases with the RED scheme where groups that had bank accounts of $ 10,000 or $ 1 5,000 of their own money put aside for a project made application under the RED scheme and received a grant for the total cost of the project. They got full taxpayers' money and kept their own money for something else. I think that that was wrong. There was not one of them that I knew of that was not prepared to put in a minimum of, say, 10 per cent into a project. 
Unfortunately, a lot of mythology surrounded the RED scheme. It was a knocker's paradise. The. pub know-all was able to sound off, usually wrongly, in a grossly untrue or deliberately malicious manner. Wrong projects were approved and there were wrong priorities in some cases. For instance in my area there are some golf clubs. Unfortunately, golf has a silvertail image. I was a very keen golfer. 
-It did employ people but there was a lot of criticism about golf clubs. I think the scheme lost because of that. Tennis clubs did not have the same image. I am not joking; I am being quite serious about this. I think that little mistakes like that often cause considerable criticism. Social priorities, of course, are a subjective judgment. The problem was that applications were dealt with in the order in which they were lodged. For instance, a low priority scheme in social value, say a tennis complex this again would be a subjective judgment- may be lodged in January and a high priority scheme, say in aged persons nursing home, may be lodged in March or April. The machinery was such as it ran through the pipeline that the tennis court one would be approved before the nursing home. The public criticism would be 'You are mad. How can you make a judgement of this nature?' 
There was jealousy between groups. One surf club would get it and one would not. One tennis club would get it and one would not. One council or one area would get a drainage scheme and another would not. That was unfortunate. It caused problems. I think that that could easily be overcome by looking at areas and applications  in toto,  not singly. A package deal should be prepared for a whole community. The regional council, the Federal member of Parliament, the State Council, the State member of Parliament and the local community should get together and say: 'We will spend $3m in this area over so many months. We will have a package of projects which includes a full range of things that covers all the activities in the community'. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Dr Jenkins)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
I direct my question to the Treasurer. In a speech to the Victorian Division of the Securities Institute of Australia on 10 September, did the Treasurer claim that rises in stock market indexes indicated that not only was the economy on the mend but also that business confidence was rising? In view of the major falls in recent weeks, does this indicate both failure of his strategy and a decline of business support for his policies? 
-I ask the Prime Minister whether the reports that he proposes to sell the present Mercedes Benz car purchased by the previous Prime Minister and replace it with 4 armour-plated cars at a cost of $50,000 each so that he will' have one available whenever or wherever he travels in Australia are true? In view of his austerity campaign, why does he require such outrageous expense to ensure his safety when he already has the thickest hide in Australia? 
-Has the attention of the Prime Minister been drawn to the record $146m spent by Australian tourists overseas in the 3 months to 30 September this year? If this trend continues will there be an annual outflow of approximately $600m which will seriously affect Australia 's balance of payments? I understand that the Government has set up a back bench committee to look at tourism. Will the Prime Minister consider the possibility, as there is interest in tourism on both sides of the House, of setting up a select committee - 
If the honourable members on my left have finished interjecting, I will ask the Prime Minister the question again. In view of the interests of members of both sides of the House - 
-I ask the Treasurer Has yet another responsible body, namely, the Institute of Applied Economic and Social Research of the University of Melbourne, forecast that 1977 will see rising inflation, increased unemployment and a breakdown in wage indexation? Does the report claim that the economy has remained stagnant, that output has increased only marginally, that unemployment is rising and that the growth of real gross domestic product for 1976-77 will be only 1 per cent? In view of the constant and repeated claims by responsible economic analysts, such as this type of organisation, that the Government has missed the boat to economic recovery, will the Government review its policies to restore confidence? 
-I ask the Prime Minister a question which is supplementary to a question I asked him a couple of weeks ago. Has he given any further consideration to my suggestion that a select committee of the Parliament might be set up to inquire into tourism in Australia? 
-The Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Newman)  started his speech by saying that he would not have won his seat in Parliament if it had not been for the policies of the previous Labor Government. I put it to the House that if he was fighting that same election campaign now, he would not be here after an election. The Opposition and this country are fed up to the back teeth with listening to the tired old excuses of this Government that the problems facing this nation are the fault of the Labor Government. The Liberal-National Country Party Government has celebrated its first year in office and things are worse now than they ever were before. I do not know how long the Government expects to get away with blaming the Labor Government for all the present inadequacies of the economy. Its support is running out fast. The Government's supporters are absolutely appalled at its failure to come to grips with the problems of the economy, particularly the problems referred to in this matter of public importance, that is, problems experienced in regional areas. 
I understand that last night or this morning the well known businessman,  Mr Rod  Carnegie, in an address to the Government parties, predicted that unemployment would hit 600 000 within 3 years unless the Government reversed its economic policies. When this Government was elected to office it made a lot of promises, particularly in the area of Gosford- Wyong which I represent. Gosford-Wyong is one of the prominent regional areas in this country. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  on a local radio station said that a Liberal Government would end unemployment on the Central Coast. That statement would bring a hollow laugh if it was repeated today. I seek leave to have the unemployment figures for the last 2 years incorporated in  Hansard.  I have shown them to the Minister - 
I want to raise a matter concerning an article that appeared in this evening's Adelaide  News  written by a man- I will not give the title of gentleman because we have had to suffer this man's deceit over a long period in this House- by the name of Trevor Kavanough. I think if we are looking for a prize Press idiot, this man would take the cake. I have had to quote from his articles before in the House. Either he is an idiot or he is an outright liar. He consistently reports, so-called, in the newspaper things that do not happen and things in which there is absolutely no element of truth- things which are totally the creation of his fantasy. I recall that some months ago I sent him a telegram concerning an article about the first Caucus meeting after the election. But tonight I understand that the Adelaide  News  carried a headline 'Shadow Cabinet in Switch on Uranium' written by  Mr Kavanough.  The article indicates, according to him, that the policy put by the shadow Minister,  Mr Keating,  was defeated and 'represents a major victory for the Caucus left wing'- whatever that may be- 'and for the anti-uranium lobby'. The article went on to state: 

 Mr Keating in a 24 page statement proposed that 
-Why do honourable members opposite not listen and stop acting like the clowns they are. They should listen and they might learn something. He stated: 

 Mr Keating in a 24 page statement proposed that Labor should continue with its decision to honour contractual agreements made by the Gorton and McMahon Governments and agreed to by the Whitlam Government. 
According to  Mr Kavanough, Mr Keating  's proposals were defeated. After the Caucus meeting this morning, the Leader of the Opposition,  Mr E.  G. Whitlam, released a copy of the resolution moved by  Senator Button  and seconded by  Mr 
Keating. After the caucus meeting this information was relayed to members of the Press and it included the names ofthe mover and seconder of the motion. The resolution was as follows: 
That it is the opinion of the Parliamentary Labor Party following the publication of the Fox Report on uranium mining and the Fraser Government's decision of 1 1 November 1976 
That existing contracts for uranium mining should be honoured, provided that no new mining developments are permitted to take place; 
That the Labor Party should continually press for stricter international safeguards and controls over the handling of nuclear materials; 
That it be made clear that the next Labor Government will not be bound to honour any future contracts entered into by the present Government; 
That if, in Government, the Labor Party is satisfied that the hazards associated with nuclear power have been eliminated and satisfactory methods of waste disposal developed the question of uranium mining be re-considered in the context of full public debate; and 
That the Fraser Government deserves the utmost condemnation for its haste in announcing decisions on the mining of uranium without giving the Australian community dme in which to debate this highly important subject, thereby disregarding the Commission of Inquiry's final recommendation. 
That was the resolution moved by  Senator Button,  seconded by  Mr Keating  and announced by the Leader of the Australian Labor Party. How this clown, who to use his own words was being groomed for obscurity until a leader writer was suddenly needed here in Canberra and who finished up as the leader writer for the  Daily Mirror  and, I gather, the Adelaide  News,  could possibly get a story like that if he attended the Leader's briefing is beyond my belief. According to him also,  Mr Keating  will not even be allowed to speak in the debate which starts tomorrow; a whole group of other people will speak when the debate commences. This will be a whole group of people who are opposed to  Mr Keating  's views. All I can say is that if this is the sort of defeat that  Mr Keating  has had, I hope he keeps on getting beaten, time and again. It is about time that something was done about the total misreporting of people like Kavanough who cannot write a line about the events in this place that is not totally distorted, whether it concerns the Opposition or the Government. It is not interpretive writing. Members of the Press are entitled to interpret events how they like. But total misreporting does no credit to this place or to the members of the Press Gallery. 
-I second the amendment. First of all I want to congratulate the Government - 
Motion (by  Mr Bourchier)  put: 
That the question be now put. 
asked the Minister for Environ  ment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice: 
1 ) What funds were allocated through the State of New South Wales to the Shires of Gosford, Wyong and Lake Macquarie under the National Sewerage Program in each of the years 1972-73, 1973-74, 1974-75, and 1975-76 and what funds are to be provided in 1976-77. 
Are there plans for funding in future years; if so, what are they. 
-I ask the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations: In view of the fact that the Government appears to have rejected any reintroduction of the Regional Employment Development scheme, will the Minister give consideration to subsidising local government works up to 25 per cent of the total cost, provided that adequate guarantees are available to ensure that these works are extra and not part of the council's or shire's normal or planned program? I suggest the figure of 25 per cent because I estimate that this would be the amount of government expenditure provided through the saving of unemployment benefit. So the actual cost to the government would be nil or very close to nil. 
-Has the attention of the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs been drawn to a statement in this morning's  Australian  that thousands of Australians who paid months in advance for overseas package tours will have to pay an extra 20 per cent for accommodation and on land expenses? As this has been confirmed by spokesmen for the Australian Federation of Travel Agents, will the Minister check to see whether a discount was given on package tours when the Australian Labor Party Government revalued? As I do not recollect this occurring, is not the present situation an example of 'heads I win, tails you lose '? 
-At the end of November there were 272 518 people out of work in Australia, or 4.5 per cent of the work force of 6 million. I think all honourable members agree that there will be approximately a quarter of a million people coming on to the labour market in the next few months. I do not think there is any disagreement on that point. It has been said that there will be about 200 000 secondary school leavers and 50 000 tertiary students. At the moment there is utter confusion over the state of the economy in this country. 
The honourable member, who has become noted as the- I will not say what we think of him. 
He is a big mouth and he is very keen to express his views on anything and everything. I suggest that he read the  National Times,  a fairly reputable Fairfax production, to see what it thinks about where the economy is going. Do not take my word for it. According to the  National Times  and many other economic pundits in Australia there is utter confusion and chaos. At the moment no one knows- this is where the confusion comes in- what will happen with regard to tariff cuts. Each day there is new speculation that the Government will make some tariff cuts. Nobody knows to what level interest rates will rise. There is talk about attacks on wages and the possible abolition of the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission by the present Government. At the moment there is a great deal of uncertainty. 
The most optimistic forecast as to the possible level of unemployment next year is that there will be at least 350 000 unemployed. That would be the most conservative, optimistic estimate of unemployment. Some say that the figure will be 400 000, others go above that; but I do not like to suggest those sorts of figures because I think it undermines what little confidence there is in the economy. I think everyone agrees that the figure will be between 350 000 to 400 000 by February of next year. The question is: 'What is to be done about that sort of level of unemployment?' I notice that the Minister last Friday took some pleasure from the figures that were released. He said that there was little underlying change in the labour market during November. He said that the number of registered unemployed rose by 10 528, or 4 per cent, compared with increases of 18 368, or 7.4 per cent in November 1975 and 41 308, or 27.6 per cent, in November 1974. He then said that the smaller than usual increase in registered unemployed was predominantly influenced by the smaller number of school leavers registered in New South Wales. 
The implication was that there were not as many people as usual coming on to the labour market and that this was a good sign of something. I think that that basically is a misinterpretation of what is happening. The Government has deliberately told the young unemployed, or the young school leavers, that they will not be eligible for unemployment benefits until February of next year. It is therefore natural that a lot of them, as they will not be able to obtain unemployment benefits, are not registering. I think it is inevitable that in December and January, as we get closer to the date when they will be eligible for unemployment benefits, there will be a much greater increase in the number of school leavers registering and that the numbers will rise very much to a much higher level early in 1977 than they have during this latter part of the year. 
The Minister for Productivity  (Mr MacPhee)  made some points about what the Government is doing regarding youth unemployment. He mentioned the special Youth Employment Training Program. When this scheme was first introduced I must admit that I applauded it. I thought: 'This is a good move by the Government '. At this stage I still think it has some merit. I recognise that like a lot of schemes, it has limited possibilities but I am concerned about the scheme after discussing it with one of the biggest employers of labour in my electorate. I will not name him. He said that he was taking advantage of the scheme. As there was wastage, as people left for whatever reason, they were being replaced by the subsidised youth. I pointed out to the gentleman concerned that that was not the objective of the Government. In fact I would suggest that if that is going on in a lot of areas it is a disaster. This person was not doing this in a secret or dishonest way. He merely thought that the scheme was meant to help him. It is meant to help young people. If people are sacked- or even if they are not sacked, if the employers just wait for wastage to occur when people leave or die or whatever- and then are replaced by subsidised people, the result will be worse because there will be married people with families going off jobs and, at the other end, single people replacing them. I have great sympathy for young people who are unemployed but the problem of the married man with a family is even more serious. I would suggest seriously that some investigation be undertaken on this matter to see how many of those jobs that have been created by the Youth Employment 
Training Scheme have been created in the circumstances that I have outlined. 
The Government has, I understand, rejected all other forms of job creation schemes. I find this quite surprising and quite staggering. At this stage, we have heard nothing about job creation schemes. A few weeks ago I produced a paper on a re-assessment of the Regional Employment Development Scheme. We have already mentioned this paper in the House. I will not go over it in great detail. It has been well received. I thank the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  for the kind words he said to me about the re-assessment. I hope that the Government will look seriously at this scheme. 
I am sure that I speak for my colleague at the table, the honourable member for Gellibrand  (Mr Willis),  in saying that we are prepared to sit down with a committee of Government Ministers to discuss methods of getting people jobs. In that way we could ensure that there is no point scoring and no political scoring on the unemployment situation. There are pockets in Tasmania, North Queensland, the central coast of New South Wales and in other areas of Australia where unemployment is not just 4.5 per cent or 5 per cent but is closer to 10 per cent or 1 5 per cent and where kids have no hope of getting jobs in the next 6 months. I hope that we look at this type of regional employment development scheme on a modified scaled-down version as suggested. The fact that the re-assessment has come from this side of the House should have no bearing on whether or not it has value. I am sure that the Minister's own Department has done the same sort of re-assessment and come to similar conclusions if not the same. 
I do not want to see reintroduced into Australia the sort of job creation scheme, which was called I think the  RER  scheme, where people went around painting fences, clearing fire trails and chipping weeds. That was simply a waste of money. I think the Minister for Productivity is nodding his head in agreement. I think that is the most grotesque form of unemployment scheme one can possibly imagine. It is denigrating to the people who are actually doing the work because they know that what they are doing is useless to the community. They know that the minute it rains or the grass grows the whole thing is down the drain. 
In answer to the honourable member's question, let me tell him about the response to the special youth training scheme. I meet with  Mr Passlow  an officer of the Commonwealth Employment Service, about every 2 weeks to discuss the employment situation. My electorate has one the worst unemployment levels in Australia. He told me that 200 people inquired immediately when the special youth training scheme was introduced. I suggested that we look at even a watered-down version of the Regional Employment Development scheme whereby an amount of money now being paid out in unemployment benefits- it works out at about 25 per cent of the total cost of special works projects- be granted to local government bodies for special projects. This would mean that the local bodies would have to put in 75 per cent of the cost. I have been informed by one council in my area that it is prepared to undertake a major sewerage and drainage scheme if it gets the 25 per cent subsidy. On a job costing $lm the council would be saving $250,000 if it borrowed the extra $750,000 and undertook the job this year rather than in three or four years ' time. 
-I regard this as a very serious matter, as I regarded the previous proposal that all the Commissioners of the Australian Broadcasting Commission were to be sacked. A very great danger in this sort of legislation is that we will politicise broadcasting, which is exactly what the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has claimed he does not want to do. I am pleased to see that the Government has decided not to go ahead with the sacking of the ABC Commissioners. But once the practice is started of sacking commissions and setting up new bodies, or of sacking all those appointed by. a Labor government or by a Liberal-National Country Party government, then that part of government becomes politicised. 
We would create a situation whereby automatically when there was a change of government there would be wholesale sackingsmembers of all statutory bodies, committees and commissions who were appointed by the previous government would be fired. This could be done by sacking them and setting up a new body. The result is the same. Once we start to bring that practice into government- it is a very dangerous practice- we will have a situation such as the one that exists in the United States of America whereby when a new government takes over it brings in all its Democrats, Republicans and so on, and the reverse happens when the other party wins. We do not want that to happen in Australia. I believe that the fact that it does not happen in Australia is one of the strengths of our system. I hope that in this case the Government will change its mind about this Tribunal, as apparently it has done about the Australian Broadcasting Commission. 
I was surprised at the comments of the honourable member for Hotham  (Mr Chipp).  He expressed surprise at the comments of the shadow Minister, the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass).  We are all being surprised by one another. I happen to remember that, when the honourable member for Hotham was the Minister for Customs and Excise in a previous Government, he led the way in liberalising censorship. At that time he had great difficulty in defining the phrase acceptable community standards'. The same criticism that is now being made could well have been levelled at him at that time. I agree with his comment that the amendment moved by the Opposition is vague. But this aspect was vague at the time when he was a Minister. The phrase 'acceptable community standards' was difficult to define then and it is difficult to define in an amendment of this kind because it is a vague concept. 
I think all honourable members know what we want to see in this Act. We want to see certain standards maintained and an attempt to lift the standards of television and the media. I do not think we should apologise for taking that attitude. I notice that the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson)  is smiling. Perhaps he is not smiling at me. Is it wrong to say that we should be slaves to the rating system? We have all turned on commercial radio and television, particularly radio, and have flicked from station to station. We find one station after another pushing out the same sort of program, whether it be in Canberra, Sydney or Melbourne. 
I like listening to a certain percentage of popular music. I can tolerate even a little of Bay City Rollers. The point is that there is another listening audience. All honourable members will be aware that the eight or ten commercial radio stations in each city are aiming at that particular rating which gives them the percentage of the market which enables them to obtain advertising and make profits. The difficulty is that those stations are aiming their programs at 5 1 per cent of the listening audience. Those who want something different-who, in the case of radio want more current affairs and talk-back programs and, in the case of television, want more current affairs programs, serious music, ballet and so on-miss out because those programs do not get good ratings. 
I would be opposed to any words that would enable any suggestion of censorship to be read into our amendment. I do not think that we can define in exact terms what we seek. It is the same sort of problem that the honourable member for Hotham had when he was the Minister and talked about 'acceptable community standards' about 5 years ago when he did such a good job of liberalising censorship in Australia. He had that problem as would any government. A problem which concerns me- it is not connected directly with the debate today because we are now getting down to a bit of the nitty- gritty- is the public debate which has taken place during the past few weeks about broadcasting. Almost all the debate has been about the ABC and criticisms of it. 
The ABC quite rightly has been criticising the legislation because it has a great fear of what this Government has in mind. Government back benchers in the last few days seem to me to have come to their senses. I am not surprised that the ABC and the Opposition are fearful of what the Government has in mind after the vicious attacks that were made upon the ABC by the Government's spokesman, when it was in Opposition, the present Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon),  who did not stop trying to label ABC staff as a bunch of left wing radicals, 'pinkoes', 'commies' and other abusive terms. 
-Do not interject; go back to getting girls to jump out of cakes. We do not want the poor man's Hugh Hefner displaying his wisdom. The problem that concerns me is that the Liberal and National Country Parties have hated the ABC for as long as I can recall. They have never stopped abusing it. They have never stopped trying to denigrate the ABC and accusing it of left wing bias. That is why I am sceptical of the sudden change of heart displayed by the Government. I propose to speak to a number of other amendments but I did want to make the point that somebody has to oversee the standards of radio and television and must attempt to lift the standards just a little; hopefully, the cultural level of programs will be lifted too. That might smack of elitism, perhaps it does. I do not think we need to apologise for it. We do not apologise for it in our education system. We do not apologise for it in a range of other areas. I do not see why we should apologise for it in our attempt to improve the quality of the media in Australia. 

 -Mr Deputy Chairman, I seek leave to move two amendments together. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)-Is  leave granted? There being no objection, leave is granted. 
I move: 
In proposed section 31(1), at the end of proposed paragraph (b) add the following words: "of whom one shall be the elected representative of the Australian Broadcasting Commission staff". 
Omit proposed sub-section(2). 
One of the initiatives of the Labor Government of which I am proud was its success in starting in a small way to get worker participation and worker involvement in the running of at least one government organisation, namely, the Australian Broadcasting Commission. This was a small and very tentative step towards something about which I think we shall be hearing more in the years to come.  Mr Marius  Webb was elected by the ABC staff as its representative on the ABC. I have never had the pleasure of meeting  Mr Webb-  I do not know him- but I had the pleasure of watching him the other night talking to  Mr Malone  on the television programme  State of the Nation.  I was most impressed with him. He struck me as a very articulate and intelligent human being who appears to be doing his job of representing the staff of the ABC extremely well. People to whom I have spoken have found him to be a delightful person, a person with some radical views in some areas, but a person who is doing what the ABC staff wants. 
I am absolutely staggered that provision for a staff elected commissioner is not to be included in this legislation. Surely the Government can tolerate one commissioner to represent the staff out of eleven ABC commissioners. If the Government does not accept an amendment of this nature, very clearly any advocacy its members have for worker participation and worker involvement is just a bad joke. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  when talking about the general trends in industrial relations said that we want to have communications with the unions. The very first time the Government has an opportunity to enshrine in legislation this principle, which has been working in practice, it does not do so. 
The honourable member interjects and mentions farmers. My experience of this Government is that farmers are represented on almost every board imaginable. We are now talking about ABC staff and worker participation. I understand that  Mr Marius  Webb is to be allowed to remain on the Commission. The Government has had second thoughts about sacking him. As I was saying, it is tragic that the Government has not taken this opportunity to appoint as one out of eleven people a permanent member of the ABC. 
I want to turn to the question of the number of women on the Commission. Frankly this is the most outrageous proposal in the whole legislation. The number of women on the Commission was to be two. It is now, according to the Government- 
-It was one. It was then to be two; it is now to be not less than three. 
-Well, there are so many different amendments. The point is that it is not a question of whether there should be one, 2, 3 or 5 women; the number of women has been specified. This is sexism; it is tokenism at its best. It is male chauvinism at its worst. For some reason the Government has written in the number of women who should be allowed on the Commission. Is it any wonder that the younger women of today tear their hair out when they see this sort of sexism in legislation. The honourable member for Leichhardt  (Mr Thomson)  finds this amusing. I hope he can find time to explain to the women of Leichhardt how it is amusing. If the honourable member cannot see this situation, I am sorry, as there is no hope for him. The situation is exactly as I have described it. It is sexism. 
I do not mind if there are 1 1 women on the Commission or if there is none. The object of the exercise is that women on merit should be able to serve on this Commission. I am sure that there are plenty of women who have that merit. But if we specify a number, whether it is 2, 3 or 5, quite clearly that is the minimum number. What will happen is that two out of eleven members to be appointed will be women. That will be the minimum. The Government has done its bit to show that it is interested in women's affairs and women's involvement. Good Lord, cannot the Government see that! Why should there be any mention of the number of women at all? What we want is a society in which women are getting the opportunity to advance and to take an equal place with men. They have been denied this right for so many years. I hope the Government will change its mind in relation to this clause and tear it out. Honestly, the Government is leaving itself wide open to be kicked in the pants. 
-On 17 November I made a strong speech in which I attacked a member of the Press, a  Mr Trevor  Kavanagh, for what I thought at the time to be a grossly misrepresentative article. I do not wish to go into the details of the matter. The article was about uranium. I had been given misinformation in a telephone call from Adelaide in regard to the article. The headline in the article concerned stated that the Caucus had made a decision regarding uranium. It turned out that the person who telephoned me gave me misinformation. It was the shadow Cabinet which made the decision regarding uranium. It was later changed by the Caucus. The reason I raise this matter is that  Mr Kavanagh  on numerous occasions has written a large number of very distorted articles which are grossly untrue and which are marked by beatups 
First of all, let me say that I apologise to  Mr Kavanagh  for my speech on his article. I have never yet attacked a person in this House without reason. However,  Mr Kavanagh  wrote a letter to me. It was a private letter. He criticised me in quite strong terms and called me a craven coward or something to that effect. I assure this House that whenever I have been wrong I apologise, and I apologise in this case. Let me say however that I do not withdraw my remarks about 

 Mr Kavanagh as a journalist. I was so incensed by him because of a series of articles that were grossly distorted and in many cases untrue. Early on 22 December 1975 1 was moved by one of the most dishonest articles that I have ever seen. It was headlined: 'Labor Delays Decision on Leadership*. I was so moved that I sent a telegram to  Mr Kavanagh  telling him what I thought of his journalism. I would like to go through the article and pick out all the errors. It reads: 
The meeting became extremely heated as members of the shattered Labor Party levelled abuse and criticism at some leading figures. 
This did not occur. It is untrue. The article went on: 
It is understood  Mr Whitlam  himself came in for considerable criticism for suggesting he should stay as leader only until  Mr Bob  Hawke, the  President  of the ACTU, can enter Parliament and take over. 
That did not occur. There was no criticism of  Mr Whitlam.  The next section reads: 

 Mr Whitlam 's supporters hit back with rebukes against  Dr Cairns  and  Mr Cameron,  the 2 sacked Ministers who criticised  Mr Whitlam  's leadership after the election debacle. 
That did not happen. Neither Minister was attacked or criticised at that meeting. The article continued: 

 Dr Cairns was rebuked for stating that  Mr Whitlam  's leadership had been 'elitist'. 

 Dr Cairns did not say that, nor was he rebuked in any way. This is typical of the articles which have appeared written by  Mr Kavanagh.  I said previously that he was a fool or a har. I said that anyone who wrote an article which was totally fictional and imaginary had to be either a fool or a liar. I could go through the article and pick out more inaccuracies. Though I apologise profusely to  Mr Kavanagh  for the error I made before I do not withdraw by one iota my criticisms of his journalistic standards. 
asked the Minister for Post and Telecommunications, upon notice: 
1 ) What was the total amount spent on advertising on commercial television during each of the years 1974-75 and 1975-76. 
) What was the (a) amount and (b) percentage spent on the advertising of (i) cigarettes, (ii) liquor, (iii) pet food and (iv) confectionary in the same years. 
-I wish to make a personal explanation. 
-Yes. On Monday 7 February in the Sydney  Daily Mirror  a front page article appeared titled: '$46,000 MPs Want More'. The article claimed: 
Federal MPs will move into the equivalent of a $50,000 a year bracket if they succeed in their demands for a $3,000 rise. 
The front page article was followed up by a column by a  Mr Jack  Darmody on page 4 that listed all expenses and salaries paid to MPs including electoral allowance, postage, staff salaries, air travel and telephone expenses and claimed that this added up to a salary of $46,000. I was extremely incensed at the pack of lies and distortions and said so in a telegram to the editor of the  Daily Mirror  requesting that I or one of my parliamentary colleagues from either side of the House be given the right to reply. Shortly afterwards I received a call from  Mr Darmody  suggesting that rather than my replying by article and his replying to me and so on why did I not go to his office and we could have an interview so that I could put the record straight and state the case on behalf of MPs. While it never occurred to me that  Mr Darmody  would write any abject apology I was naive enough to believe that he would at least correct the specific untruths in the article. On the contrary he totally ignored these matters and chose to further distort the truth by writing another article on Monday 14 February again on the front page- an article titled 'Your Tax Pays For MPs Homes'. 
The snide and smart-alec remarks made about me do not concern me greatly. One has to expect this sort of thing in public life. What should concern this House is the grotesque distortions by a journalist that enables him to claim that members of Parliament are receiving a salary of $46,000. Specifically the most outrageous claim, which I pointed out to him was untrue, made by  Mr Darmody  was to add the cost of research assistants and electorate secretaries, at a salary of about $8,000 each, to our own salaries. He claimed the right to do this on the ground that an MP could employ members of his own family in these positions if he so wished. Apart from the absurdity of the claim that a wife's salary should be added to a member's salary I am unaware of any MP who does employ a member of his family. I certainly do not. He then added the electoral allowance of $5,000 which is provided for members for the myriad of expenses that are incurred by MPs-cars, donations, books, magazines, etc. To this he added the living away from home allowance of $37 paid when an MP is in Canberra or on parliamentary business. I explained to  Mr Darmody  that most MPs stayed in modest hotels costing approximately $20 a night and that the balance would go to pay for meals, laundry and so on. When he asked whether MPs could use this $37 a day to buy a flat I said that they could and that some did. This then appeared as the basis for the second article Your Tax Pays for MPs Homes'. To all this  Mr Darmody  had the gall to add the cost of air travel when an MP is travelling on parliamentary business. I will try to be brief and I thank the House for its indulgence. I pointed out that the $1,000 postage was not money but the use of a franking machine to that value- used solely for the purpose of writing to constituents. I pointed out the absurdity of bis claim that this would enable MPs to send thousands of free Christmas cards. 

 Mr Darmody in his follow up article chose to ignore the untruths and distortions that I pointed out to him. He deliberately deceived me by giving the impression that he would give me the opportunity to present the truth. I was open and frank with him. He was deceitful and dishonest with me. The article created the impression that I had gone in to reveal all about MPs. All of us know that these salaries and allowances are public matters. There is nothing new or secretive about them. They are provided for in the Remuneration Tribunal's findings that are tabled in Parliament each year and are the subject of much public discussion. I do not know what can be done about this type of misreporting. I hope that some other sections of the media will take up the matter in the interests of fair and honest journalism. 
-The honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Donald Cameron)  who preceded me in this debate made a very interesting and amusing speech. I agree with him that his suggestion provided an easy way out, not for the Government, but for the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  and the honourable member for Canberra  (Mr Haslem)  and the honourable member for Fraser  (Mr Fry).  If that proposal were adopted he would very smartly in the next general election rid himself of three of his colleagues. I do not see at least the honourable members for Canberra and for Fraser embracing that idea with a great deal of enthusiasm. 
I am one who believes that we really should tear up this present Constitution and write a new one. It has been said by many people in the country that the present Constitution, if taken literally- many want to take it literally and choose to take it literally when it suits them-is one of the most undemocratic documents possible. I have listened to and read with great interest the works of  Mr Donald  Home, a man for whom I have tremendous respect. He does an excellent job on this Constitution when he takes it literally and points out the absurdity of the powers of the Governor-General, who in fact would be an absolute monarch if the Constitution were taken literally. I cannot remember the exact words he used, but, as an example, he indicated that under the Constitution the Governor-General is the Commander-in-Chief of the armed forces. A lot of people in this country and in this House think very highly of the Governor-General, but I do not think many of us would agree that he is fitted to become the Commander-in-Chief of the armed forces. I do not think he has the required military background for such a position. But if we cannot have a new Constitution, the least we can do is to change the most obvious sections where there is agreement between the major parties that is required. 
These proposals for constitutional change are contained within 4 Bills, relating to simultaneous elections, the filling of Senate casual vacancies by a representative of a political party of the same colour as that of the previous senator, the retirement of judges at the age of 70 years and the right of Australian Capital Territory and Northern Territory electors to vote in referenda. Already fallacious arguments are being thrown about by those who see the opportunity to do a bit of grandstanding or those who are such constitutional fundamentalists that they are opposed to any change. I am always fascinated by those who argue that the Constitution should not be changed simply because it is the Constitution. They have a fascinating reverence for the founding fathers. I think it probably could be saidperhaps some people may argue with me- that at the time of the writing of the American Constitution there were some particularly eminent philosophers, the likes of whom probably have not been seen at the time of the writing of the constitutions of most countries. There may be some form of reverence towards the American Constitution, but they at least do make considerable changes to it. 
Having read the Constitution thoroughly and having read a lot of constitutional debates, I do not believe that our founding fathers were a particularly brilliant group of men. I think they were an exceptionally competent group, but I believe that if we had to write a Constitution tomorrow we could do as good a job with the people who are in this House today as did the Deakins, the Bartons, the Kingstons and the various other people who are now referred to as the founding fathers. I am not one of those who believe that there is any need to revere the Constitution in the way* that some of those who are now opposing change do. I think the most fallacious of the arguments against change is that we should not change the Constitution simply because it is the Constitution and because the founding fathers said so. It is as if the Constitution were handed down from the Mount- as if it were a bible or something like that; as if a flash of light in 1 89 1 , 1897 and 1898 passed on some greatness to these people and they wrote this magnificent document that cannot be changed. That is the basis of some of the arguments being put up in this chamber by the opponents of these changes. They say: 'Do not change the Constitution because it is the Constitution- it is revered, it is holy'. Another argument that has been put up against these proposals is that they constitute an erosion of States' rights and of Senate powers. 
Let us briefly go through the 4 Bills before us now. I fail to see how the retirement of federal  judges  at 70 years of age constitutes in any way an erosion either of States' rights or of Senate powers. To the best of my knowledge neither the States nor the Senate have any say whatsoever in the selection of judges. It just eludes me how anybody can possibly argue that case with regard to changing the Constitution. 
It has been argued by one of the senators in the upper house- I think it was  Senator Wood-  that all these proposals constitute an erosion of States' rights. This has not been argued by people in this place. But I have read today claims that all these Bills constitute an erosion of the powers of the Senate and of the States. Another referendum concerns the right of electors in the Australian Capital Territory and Northern Territory to vote in referenda. We would be drawing the long bow to suggest that that is an erosion of States' powers. It is true that it does add a large group of Australians to those voting at referenda, but I doubt very much that many people in the States would argue that there was any substantial erosion of any powers. 
In regard to simultaneous elections, again I fail to see how that is an erosion at all of either the Senate's powers or the States' powers. I agree that on the question of the filling of Senate casual vacancies there is definitely a possibility of the erosion of the sort of powers we saw exerted at the times of the filling of the vacancies caused by the retirement of  Senator Murphy  and by the death  of  Senator  Milliner. Because of that action this Bill has been brought in. I think most fairminded and decent people believed that the action taken was a prostitution of democracy. While I agree with some of the comments in the newspapers and the media that there is a certain hypocrisy and cynicism in the Government's actions now, at least the Government has seen the light The Constitutional Convention saw the light and the Liberal and National Country Parties now agree that in the long-term interests of democracy and the nation the change is admirable. 
Let me make some further points. Some argue that we ought to oppose these Bills because of the short-term political gain. I find that an obnoxious proposition. I have always taken the view that if a thing is right it should be supported and if it is wrong it ought to be opposed. One should not oppose a change now because there is a little to be gained by forcing the Government to a Senate election next May or by being assured of a third Labor senator from Victoria. These are very short-term benefits. In the long term all political parties and the nation will benefit from these proposals being passed. I was interested to note the comment by  Mr Knox,  the Liberal Attorney-General I think from Queensland. 

 -The Deputy Premier and Leader of the Liberal Party in Queensland put the proposition that it is political suicide for the Government to propose this change because it will cost the taxpayers $3m. That is typical of the sort of argument one gets from Queensland governments. The cost of having Senate elections every 3 years would be way in excess of the $3m cited by  Mr Knox.  The cost of continuing separate Senate elections would go on  ad infinitum.  I do not know the cost of a Senate election but it would be at least as much as a referendum plus of course the many millions of dollars spent by political parties. This referendum will be a once only cost, and that will be the end of the matter. In the next 20 years we will save $ 1 8m to $20m. 
-That is without inflation, of course. There are those who argue that we should not have referenda because they will be defeated if any one of the proposals is opposed. I refer honourable members to the 1967 referenda. The perceptiveness shown by voters surprised me. We were always led to believe that people went and marked the ballot paper and did not think. There was an effective if somewhat dishonest proposal put up about the nexus. This was campaigned for by the media. Clearly the people of Australia distinguished between the 2 questions. There was a overwhelming yes vote, I think, of 90 per cent on the queston of Aborigines. I was involved in campaigning very strongly for the yes vote with my colleague the honourable member for Wills  (Mr Bryant).  The people voted quite differently to defeat the proposal on the nexus. I think it is the wish of this Parliament that the people of Australia will not listen to those who say oppose all change and put the fear of God into people that any change is bad. People should look at the proposal, think about it, listen to arguments put by the Labor Party, the Liberal Party and the National Country Party and by those who are proposing a No vote, and think about each question. If they do that we will get a very interesting start in constitutional change in Australia. I conclude my remarks by briefly reading these comments from the  Australian Financial Review: 
There is more than a whiff of cynicism mixed generously with hypocrisy in the Government's referendum proposal for filling casual vacancies in the Senate. 
The proposal to be put to the country asks for a constitutional change which would mean that casual vacancies in the Senate are filled for the unexpired term of the former  Senator by  persons of the same political party. 
Merely by putting the proposal to the electorate the Government acknowledges that the constitutional devices it employed to oust the previous Government were not entirely satisfactory. 
Had the Senate not been stacked with men appointed by the State Premiers in defiance of the convention that vacancies should be filled by persons of the same political party as the departed Senators then  Mr Fraser  would not have been able to block the supply debate. 
I move: 
That this matter be referred to the Privileges Committee. 

 Mr Speaker, is there some doubt that this may be moved? 
This article was one of a series of articles written by the same gentleman. He made outrageous claims about the behaviour of members of Parliament. I believe the article that you mentioned,  Mr Speaker,  questioned the motives of members of Parliament. It questioned our behaviour and brought every single one of us under suspicion. I understand that some honourable members have received correspondence from their electorates pertaining to these articles. I feel very strongly that we have a right to protect our good names collectively. So I have moved that the matter be referred to the Privileges Committee. 
It ought to be one of the simplest things in the world to draw up a democratic process that is acceptable to all the people on both sides of this House. But that will only be achieved when there is full acceptance of the principle of one vote one value. I listened with interest to the arguments of the honourable member for Evans  (Mr Abel)  and previous speakers in this debate on the proposed amendment that Distribution Commissioners in making any proposed redistribution shall ensure that no division with an area of S000 square kilometres or more shall have at the time of a redistribution an electoral population which is greater than the electoral population of any division with an area of less than 5000 square kilometres. That is a rather wordy description, but in essence it means that this legislation will continue to maintain the principle that some people in the community are entitled to bias in their favour to make up for some deficiency that exists within their electorate. 
I agree with the honourable member for Evans that the person who represents a seat like Kalgoorlie and the person who represents a seat like Evans, a small inner city seat, have disadvantages but we on this side of the House have always expressed the view that those disadvantages should be compensated for by giving the person greater access to the electorate by way of travel facilities, increased staff and so on. I am one who would be quite happy to see members living in very large electorates given almost unlimited assistance. But the point I want to take up with previous speakers and in particular the honourable member for Evans, is that once we depart from a principle of equality of votes where does it end? We now have a 10 per cent tolerance either way. We used to have a 20 per cent tolerance. Now we have this 5000 square kilometre criterion. 
There is nothing to stop a government that has control of the numbers in the House of Representatives and in the Senate from passing legislation which makes the difference virtually anything it likes-20 per cent, 30 per cent, 50 per cent or 1000 per cent. If the Government has the numbers it can do it, and of course, it has been done in the various States. That is what concerns me. What happens if there should be an autocratic, authoritarian government which decides that it will lose the next election, whips through a redistribution and stops what we call the democratic process. I am one of those people who have seen the evils committed by Labor Governments in Queensland and I do not think that all Labor governments in the past have been saints. I am not referring to this House because in the past the very few redistributions that have been undertaken by Labor governments in the federal sphere have been very fair, but some State Labor governments have done equally bad things. It has been done in Western Australia, Victoria and most of the other States barring Tasmania, which has the one truly democratic State Legislative Assembly because it has a proportional representation system. What concerns me is that a government can do this. It can go ahead and redistribute itself into government more or less  ad infinitum  and we have seen it done in the other States. The simple fact is that even if the Labor Party did get the majority vote- I agree that at the moment it would not be a legitimate government in Queensland, Western Australia or Victoria because it does not have the majority vote- it still could not win office. It could not win in any of those 3 States if it obtained 50.1 per cent of the vote. 
All I ask in this democratic country is that if a party obtains the majority vote, it be in government. The history of this Parliament is that there is a bias in favour of the Liberal- National Country Party coalition. It is not enormous. It is nothing like the bias that exists in Queensland but it is enough to deny the Labor Party government when the result is close. 
-I am not arguing about the legitimacy of the Government at the moment. It won an overwhelming majority at the last election in 1976. 1 am arguing about the legitimacy of the Government in 1954, 1961 and 1969. The result in 1954 was not the fault of the LiberalCountry Party coalition. It was the fault of the Labor Government which drew up the boundaries in 1949. The worst Gerrymander against the Labor Party was done by the Labor Party in 1949. But it has been maintained by succeeding governments and in 1 96 1 the Labor Party should have been the legitimate government. It had a clear mandate from the people but it failed to win because of the electoral system, not the malapportionment which gave the other side an inbuilt majority of three or four seats. In 1969 it was touch and go. The Labor Party lacked a majority- my recollection is that it was by 7 seats- yet it obtained a majority of the vote. In 1972 the Labor Party should have won by a greater number of seats than it did and in 1974 it should have obtained a bigger majority than 5 seats. I suppose it is a pointless exercise, but I believe that I am a true democrat. I believe that if the other side of the House wins, it should be the government and alternatively, if this side wins, it should be the government. 
I think that this Bill is an improvement on the past although I do not like a lot of things contained in it, for which the Opposition will oppose it. It is an improvement because at least the 10 per cent variation that the Labor Party introduced when in government has been maintained. Eventually in this country I want to see the power to change the electoral laws and the power to undertake redistributions taken out of the hands of politicians. There ought to be a statutory authority. The Electoral Office should be a statutory authority employing permanent public servants to draw up electoral boundaries which they present to the Parliament and which cannot be changed by the Parliament. Seats should be decided by the law of one vote, one value, as they are decided by the Constitution, and whatever boundaries are drawn up by the Electoral Office, whether it be at three or five or seven-year intervals, should be the ones that apply. The elections would be fought on that basis. Some of the things that were said about the Labor Party's redistribution were outrageous. Some members of this House who are now on the Government side stomped the country and told grotesque untruths about the redistribution and yet all political scientists of repute in Australiapeople who really understand what redistributions are-said that the Federal redistribution undertaken by the Labor Government was eminently fair. Malcolm Mackerras, a man who was previously a member of the Liberal Party and is one of Australia's most eminent political scientists said that it was an extremely fair redistribution and that it redressed the bias that had existed in past redistributions. But Government supporters, who were then in opposition, stomped the country. They made claims that were simply outrageous that the Labor Party was putting forward electoral processes that would keep it permanently in office. 
They were able to do this because the vast majority of the population do not understand redistributions. That is not to their discredit. The vast majority of politicians understand what is happening but if one asks them to explain what effect a distribution has in each individual electorate or State, they could not do it. A member will know what is happening in his electorate and in the neighbouring electorate- probably there is selfinterest involved in that- but he does not really have the knowledge, nor does he take the time, to study every single electorate closely to see whether it is 100 per cent fair. If he does not do it there is no way in the world that the general population will undertake that sort of study. I doubt whether there are 100 people in the nation who could sit down and look at a redistribution and say accurately whether it is fair or unfair. They would have to work on somebody else's interpretation of that redistribution. Another important point that I want to make is that I wish that the Government had the courage to go to the people to reintroduce the question of the breaking of the nexus between the Senate and the House of Representatives. 
The honourable member for Denison says that the people threw it out. That is quite right. If honourable members cast their minds back to that 1967 referendum, they will recall that the Government did not introduce legislation to increase the size of the House. It first went to the people and some Democratic Labor Party and independent senators conducted a quite dishonest campaign amongst the people of Australia, saying that the Government was trying to increase the numbers of members of Parliament. It was not. The Government can, as we all know, increase the size of the House of Representatives tomorrow. It is within its powers and it could do it tomorrow if it introduced the legislation. However, of course, it has to increase the size of the Senate. What the Government, supported by the Labor Party, was trying to do in 1967 was to increase the size of the House of Representatives without increasing the size of the Senate. It was, in fact, a referendum to decrease in the long term the number of politicians but these quite dishonest politicians went out, campaigned and reversed the question. The proposal did not get much support from the media and it was defeated. If, as the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman)  says, it is not possible to change that question and that we would have the same sort of dishonest arguments if we went to the people again, the answer should be to increase the size of the Senate. 
To me it is patently absurd that in 1949 there were 123 members of the House of Representatives and that 28 to 30 years later there will still be 123 members. If we are concerned about the size of some seats, surely the best way is to increase them. I do not want to see any country seat abolished. I do not want to see a decrease in the number of country seats by maintaining the number at 123 and because of the increase in the urban population. It will make the seats that we now have bigger and bigger. This must go on. Kalgoorlie will get bigger and Kennedy, Leichhardt and all other country seats will get bigger. What is wrong with increasing the size of the House of Representatives to 144 members and increasing Senate representation to 12 senators from each State? The argument against that proposition is that the result of Senate elections will always be a 3:3 split and so you will never get a decision. I think that is nonsense. 
At the last double dissolution election everyone said that the Labor Party had to achieve a 5:5 result. We achieved that result in one State and the result was 6:4 in every other State. What could be done is simply to divide the States into electorates for the purpose of Senate elections. They could be divided into 6 electorates; they could be divided into 2 electorates. If they were divided into 2 electorates, that could be done by having half the population in each and having 3 senators elected from each part. In the case of Queensland, 3 senators could come from, say, the north and 3 senators could be elected from the southern part of the State. Frankly, I think it would be a better thing if senators, instead of just representing a whole State, represented a particular area which was more of interest to them. There are all sorts of combinations and computations. But we are stuck with 123 members because of what Malcolm Mackerras described as the High Court lunacy when referring to its recent ruling. I am surprised that the Liberal and Country Parties have not looked at that possibility. 
It has been said that a government would be scared of public disapproval if it increased the number of politicians. Surely we have got enough gumption to go to the people and say: We are going to increase the size of the House of 
Representatives from 123 to 144 members', or something like that After 30 years surely we can justify a small increase in the size of this House. The States are doing it. Every time they have a redistribution, which is every 3 or 4 years, they add a couple of electorates. If there is an argument for fewer politicians, it ought to be an argument for fewer State politicians. As the member for Robertson, I represent the Gosford- Wyong area which has a population of 90 000. There are almost 3 State electorates within my boundaries, and the State members who represent those electorates have the same salary and almost the same conditions as I have. Who has the easier job? The New South Wales Legislative Assembly has 99 members, which is almost as many as represent the whole of Australia in this place. I think that the situation is patently absurd. 
Finally I want to express my concern to the Attorney-General  (Mr Ellicott)  about this question of the election at large. I am surprised that nothing more specific has been spelt out in that regard. Perhaps the Attorney-General is proposing that some subsequent legislation will be introduced to clarify the position. I understand that the Chief Australian Electoral Officer does not know what he would do if there were an election at large. I am also concerned at the possibility of an unscrupulous government at some stage or other deliberately deciding that it will not carry out a redistribution and have an election at large because it may benefit from it Let me give an example. In 1969, 1972 and 1974 New South Wales strongly voted for the Labor Party. In 1972 we got about 27 or 28 of the 45 seats in that State. Let us assume that we had narrowly missed out on achieving office and that the present Government was in power and it decided that if an election at large were held it could be assured, under proportional representationthis is what I assume an election at large would be because I cannot see any other way of doing it- of about 42 per cent to 45 per cent of the vote. That means it must get almost half of the seats. So a government could decide not to carry out a redistribution in a particular State because it was assured of picking up 4 or 5 seats in an election at large. Maybe I am drawing the long bow; maybe I am looking at obscure possibilities; but it is a distinct possibility, and it concerns me. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, upon notice: 
What was the breakdown of Regional Employment Development Scheme expenditure in terms of ( a ) welfare facilities, (b) sport and recreation, (c) tourist facilities, (d) water reticulation, (e) major drainage, (f) kerbing, guttering, footpaving, minor drainage, (g) hospital and ancillary services, (h) servicing the RED Scheme and (i) other expenditure. 
I ask a question of the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. In view of the reported comments of Government back benchers that people should work for their unemployment benefit, has he further considered the question I asked him late last year in which I suggested that new- I emphasise the word 'new'- local government works be subsidised up to 25 per cent of the total cost? The Minister will recall that I recommended 25 per cent as I believed this would be the amount of money saved through unemployment benefit. 
-This Government is moving towards the half way mark in its present term of office. It came to office on 13 December 1975, almost 15 months ago, through one of the most disgraceful breaches of parliamentary convention and constitutional law in the history of the world 's democracies. It came to office claiming that the election of a LiberalNational Country Party coalition would eliminate inflation and unemployment. It claimed that the existing economic problems of Australia had nothing to do with the international situation and were all the fault of the Australian Labor Government. In the election campaign the present Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  aided and abetted by a sycophantic media was able to get away with one of the most dishonest and deceitful campaigns in history. The policy speech he delivered to launch the campaign was so deliberately vague that almost everyone listening to it was able to put into it whatever they wanted to hear. 
Re-reading the document 16 months later, one is struck by something which eluded us all at the time- the Prime Minister is a very funny man. He has missed his real calling; he obviously should have been a comedian. Let us recount the historic opening call. He said: 
The Australian people face an historic decision on December 13. On that day, we will be deciding the future of our country. Let us all as Australians determine to restore prosperity, defeat inflation and provide jobs for all. 
Fifteen months later there is not a reputable economist in the country who is not predicting an inflation of between 15 per cent and 20 per cent by the end of the June quarter this year. By the end of February last we had achieved an unemployment level of 346 668 people, some 5.7 of the work force. These figures are higher than ever achieved under the Labor Government despite attempts to cook the figures and to discourage people from registering as unemployed. I am reminded of a Utile old lady who said:  'Mr Fraser  told me that if I voted Labor there would be more unemployment and inflation. I did, and there is'. 
There has been something rather sad and a little pathetic about the speeches from Government supporters opposite in this AddressinReply debate, particularly the speeches by the fresh faced, identi-kit types who turned up in droves after the last election. After listening to the fairly predictable maiden speeches of most of the newcomers, what struck most of us apart from the appalling mediocrity of most of them, was their unquestioning confidence that the return of the Liberals to the Treasury bench meant the solution to all of Australia's economic problems- 'We are here, everyone can relax; Australia's problems are over', they seemed to be saying in unison. What was so pathetic was that they believed it. They recounted Labor's sins and with unabounded confidence informed the nation, to quote again from that famous speech of their leaden 'We have a comprehensive strategy to restore prosperity'. Their leader told them so. How could it be otherwise? 
Ringing phrases were quoted from the Messiah's sermon on the mount. The honourable member for Canberra  (Mr Haslem)  interjects that his leader said that it would take 3 years, 3 years that honourable members opposite were not prepared to give the Labor Government. The policy speech continued: 
The major element in the strategy is to bring about growth in production in the private sector ... A government which understands and can manage the Australian economy is essential to Australia's prosperity and to the revival of business confidence . . . Only under a LiberalNational Country Party Government will there be a return to business confidence. Only under a Liberal-National Country Party Government will there be jobs for all who want to work . . . Price and wage restraint is an essential element in our strategy for prosperity and employment. 
So it went on. Day after day we listened to the new chums heralding the return of the golden age under the new prophet, the new saviour. Anyone from this side of the House who questioned their chance of success, let alone their dubious methods, was scorned and ridiculed. Then came the job of putting those high sounding phrases into practice. It had been easy to make the speeches, it was not so easy to deliver. 
A year has passed since those maiden speeches and the same new boys are making the same speeches. The economy is worse than ever. Not only has the Government not brought about the golden age; each month brings a further slide into the abyss. What makes it even worse is that when the Labor Government was in office it had the world economic situation to contend with. Now with the world situation improving Australia is going the other way. What makes the present speeches look so pathetic and tragic is that Government supporters really cannot believe or even comprehend what the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  have done to them. They keep on shouting at one another about the Labor Government which has been out of office for 16 months. I am reminded of the little boy who shouts in the dark to boost his confidence. This year, however, the smugness and the conceit have gone. The speeches are less plausible. They are not quite so sure where to direct their anger. Instead of directing it at the Prime Minister and the Cabinet they reiterate  ad nauseam  the Labor Government's imagined sins mainly to bolster their own sagging confidence but primarily in the hope that somehow the Australian public which voted them into office will give them another chance and a little bit longer to pull themselves out of the incompetence, inefficiency and general economic mismanagement that has marked their 15 months in office. 
The beating of breasts and the abuse of the Labor Government might do something for the morale of the newcomers and the oncers but I can assure honourable members that as far as the Australian public is concerned it is going over like a lead balloon. Because of the way in which the present Government campaigned, telling the people of Australia that it alone had the answer to Australia's economic problems- it raised the hopes of the majority of these people that its election to office would immediately start to put things right- it is now reaping the rewards of its dishonesty. It would be fair to say that nobody expected the Government to solve problems in 3 months or 6 months or even 9 months but people did expect some sign of improvement by the end of the year and no one, not even the Opposition, thought with the signs of an improvement in the world economic situation that things could get worse, even when one examined the outrageous contradictions that were evident in what the Prime Minister was saying in the election campaign. Let us look at just how things have deteriorated since the Government took office. We were told that when the Labor Government was in office unemployment was at the highest level since the depression. The Labor Government was dismissed from office in November 1975. At the end of that month there were 265 567 people unemployed, or 4.3 per cent of the work force. At the end of February 1976, exactly 12 months ago, there were 303 739 people unemployed, or 5 per cent of the work force. A few days ago the figures for February 1977 were released showing that there were 346 668 people unemployed, or 5.7 per cent of the work force. Since the Labor Government's disgraceful sacking, unemployment has increased by 30 per cent. This is from a government which had the gall to berate the Labor Party about high levels of unemployment and about breaking records. At least the Labor Government showed some concern for the unemployed. At least it tried to do something about creating jobs. 
This Government, tied as it is to the Ayn Rand-Milton Friedman-Malcolm Fraser philosophy that 'life is not meant to be easy' and that 'there is no such thing as a free lunch'unless one is a politician attending Parliament House the other day- refuses point blank to help the unemployed but instead does everything possible to create unemployment. It has refused to consider the reintroduction of the Regional Employment Development scheme which at its peak created 32 000 jobs directly and probably half as many again indirectly. This is despite the fact that the Labor Party provided the Government with a frank and honest reassessment of the scheme, recognising its strengths and weaknesses, admitting that there were areas for improvement and offering complete cooperation with the Government and the trade unions if the scheme was brought back. Instead, the Government satisfied itself with wasteful cosmetic schemes such as the Community Youth Support scheme and the Special Youth Employment Training program which do little or nothing for unemployment in general or for the unemployment of youth in particular. 
The Community Youth Support scheme may have some benefits as a social welfare scheme because it is designed to provide unemployed young people with an orientation to work and make them more acceptable to employers but it will have absolutely no benefit in combatting unemployment. Except for a few jobs for social workers and youth advisers it will not create one job for the young themselves. It is a confidence trick aimed at giving the impression that the Government is concerned at the number of young peole who are unemployed. Incidentally, what little value the scheme does have as a sound measure is being eroded by the incredible bureaucratic bungling and red tape that is being created by the Department of Employment and Industrial Relations for the Commonwealth Employment Service and the community organisations that are making applications. In my electorate of Robertson one organisation has had to make 3 different submissions because each time it applies, the submission is returned with the information that the guidelines have been changed. But the Department will not tell them what the changes are. Apparently, the members of the organisation are supposed to be psychic. 
The Special Youth Employment Training program which provides $6 1 a week subsidy for employers has some merit. Once again it shows the inherent prejudices of the Government in happily providing free enterprise with subsidised labour to produce pink toilet seats or green telephones which it regards as the valuable products of the private sector whilst denying the same assistance to the public sector which it regards as wasteful to build roads, schools and railways. Again, ample evidence is already emerging that some employers are misusing the scheme by sacking married men with families and taking on subsidised youth to replace them. I have considerable evidence of these sorts of actions in my electorate. I do not say that the practice is widespread but it does exist. That is the present picture regarding unemployment. It is not a pretty picture and regrettably as the Government's more recent blunderings take effect it is unlikely to improve and may even get considerably worse. 
What is so despicable about this particular Government is that not only has its economic policies added to the unemployment but also with the aid of some of its back benchers, the media and some Cabinet Ministers it has constantly waged a campaign to denigrate the unemployed by the use of the term 'dole bludgers' and to play on the prejudices of the members of some sections of the community who are fortunate enough to have a job. Quite frankly, I become a little tired of the smug self-satisfaction of people who have a job. There are 94 per cent of the people at work even though some 6 per cent are out of work - 
-I like people having jobs. I do not like their smugness when they are fortunate enough to have a job, and I do not like their attitude towards those who are not so fortunate. Apparently, the unemployed are only genuinely unemployed when Labor is in government. A fascinating insight into the Government's economic muddle-headed thinking was provided today by the answer given by the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  to a question I asked him. I said: 
In view of the reported comments of Government back benchers that people should work for their unemployment benefit, has he further considered the question I asked him late last year in which I suggested that new- I emphasise the word 'new'- local government works be subsidised up to 25 per cent of the total cost? The Minister will recall that I recommended 25 per cent as I believed this would be the amount of money saved through unemployment benefits. If this figure is correct, what possible objection can the Government have to the provision of funds to local government if it will mean simply a transfer of expenditure from one Government department to another? 
I am delighted to see that the best Minister for Labor that we have had in years has just come into the chamber. He is the man who introduced the Regional Development scheme. I am not quite sure whether the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations misunderstood my question or whether he deliberately tried to confuse the issue. What I was saying was that if local government bodies were prepared to undertake new public works with a subsidy of only 25 per cent, which is an amount equal to what would be paid out in unemployment benefits, why not allow them to undertake such works and pay them a 25 per cent subsidy? The balance of 75 per cent would then be paid by the local government bodies. The Minister replied in part: 
One area of great concern has been the level of Government spending. It reached record levels and record rates of increase under the previous Government, which resulted in record levels of Budget deficit. Even if the cost of employment creation schemes is reduced by the 25 per cent that I mentioned a moment ago due to factors such as savings in unemployment benefit and increases in tax, such schemes are extremely expensive. No way has yet been found in which such schemes would not add to the Budget deficit that I mentioned a moment ago. 
I have always regarded the Minister as one of the more intelligent of a rather thick bunch of Ministers. 
I am referring to the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations. Surely he did not mean what he said. If 25 per cent of the cost is saved by a direct transfer from unemployment benefits to a job creation scheme, how can that lead to an increase in the deficit? It surely must have no effect whatsoever. The Minister's comment that 'even if the cost of employment creation schemes is reduced by 25 per cent' makes me feel that he did not understand the question. The cost of the scheme would not be reduced at all; it would remain the same. The cost to the Federal Government would be reduced by a rninimum of 75 per cent because the 75 per cent would be paid by local government. The 25 per cent contributed by the Federal Government would not be extra cost at all because, by the Minister's own admission, that amount would be saved in unemployment benefits and taxes. 
Now let us have a look at inflation, that other major area in which the Government promised so much and has delivered so little. For the record I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a table showing inflation rates for the years 1975 and 1976. 
-I doubt that there has been any area of government action in which Liberal-Country Party governments have been so consistently wrong as they have in the field of foreign affairs. Their track record is abysmal. What is worse, they have been wrong for the basest of motives, namely, their own political aggrandisement. They have consistently and persistently taken decisions in our relations with other countries that have sought to advance their own political fortunes in Australia, either in terms of playing on the prejudice of some sections of the Australian community or in terms of enhancing trade and profit. The question of morality has rarely entered into their deliberations. 
Where they have not been completely wrong, they have been slow in recognising the changes that have been occurring throughout the world. They failed to recognise the aspirations of the subject peoples of the colonial empires in South East Asia and Africa. They backed the colonial powers and alienated the emergent nations. Every attempt at independence was seen as a communist plot and the more they supported the oppressors and exploiters the more they made certain the self-fulfilling prophecy of communist domination. Instead of supporting moderate national forces they threw in their lot with the rich landowners, the military and the gangsters who fawned on the colonial powers. Twentythree years of Australia being identified as the opponent of self-determination was finally put to rest by the advent of the Australian Labor Government armed with the best foreign policy this country has ever had. 
The Liberals had been wrong about Indonesia, China, Vietnam, Cambodia, Laos, South Africa, Rhodesia and New Guinea. Now they show their immorality again with their attitudes towards East Timor and their absurd posturing in relation to the Indian Ocean. Mercifully  President  Carter has just pulled the rug out from under the feet of the Fraser Government by proposing that the Indian Ocean should be demilitarised. Whilst I find myself staggered at the Liberals ' neanderthal attitudes on many aspects of foreign policy and the tardiness with which they finally come to terms with reality, occasionally they get on the right track. I find myself generally in agreement with their views on the Middle East. However, I would like to see Australia playing a more constructive role in urging Arab nations to come to terms with Israel's right to exist. 
It has never ceased to amaze me how little debate has occurred in this Parliament on the Middle East. It would be fair to say that since World War II it has remained one of the major trouble sports in the world and a potential source of World War III. During my 8 years in the House there have been numerous debates on South East Asia, Timor, South Africa, Rhodesia, Russia, China and a host of other countries. Yet there has never been a debate about the Middle East. There seems to me to be no obvious reason for the omission. More debate about the Middle East may lift the general level of debate throughout the nation which in recent years has been carried out at an incredibly low level. The debate is a slanging match between pro-Arab, proPalestine Liberation Organisation forces and Zionists in the language of 1948. One realises how absurd it is only when one goes to the Middle East. I would say in fairness to the Arabs and 
Israelis that debate on this issue in their region is about 25 years ahead of debate in Australia. I am not talking about debate in the Parliament but debate in Australia generally. 
I have never been quite able to understand the term 'even-handedness'. I do not know what it means because no one has ever explained it to me. It seems to me to mean that we do not say anything at all about the situation in the Middle East. I find this attitude staggering. We have a view on every other country and every other problem. I do not suggest that we need to be neutral. We have a view on South Africa and Rhodesia. We have a view about the cold war. But here the term 'even-handedness' means that we are not going to say anything. I have no objection to Australia chiding the Israelis if they are not doing the right thing or chiding the Arabs if they are not doing the right thing. I think it is in our interests to have a view and to say when we think the Arabs are wrong and when the Israelis are wrong. 
I have been to the Middle East twice in the last 2 years. I am staggered- I suppose I am not staggered historically- at the lack of trust. I have been fortunate to have been able to speak to people from both sides. I think that the Israeli point is easily understandable. I do not have time to canvass the whole history of the Middle East because that would take at least an hour. 
-No, but I was able to speak to Egyptian politicians in Madrid during the recent Inter-Parliamentary Union Conference. I am not sure that I would be welcome in Egypt. However, I would be delighted to go if I was given the chance. As honourable members know, in 1948 the Arab countries refused to recognise the United Nations partition of 1947. There was a concerted attack by a number of Arab nations on the fledgling state of Israel. In the period between 1948 and 1956 there were constant and repeated attacks by the Fedayeen, which was the forerunner of today's PLO, upon the Israel moshavim and the kibbutzim. There was a buildup of Arab forces prior to 1956 in the Gaza and Sinai areas. There was a blockade in 1956 on the Gulf of Aqaba, which was preceded by the nationalisation of the Suez Canal. Of course, Israeli forces then moved into Sinai, routed the Egyptians, forced the lifting of the blockade of Aqaba, captured the town of Sharm el Sheikh, removed military bases at Gaza and Sinai and brought relative tranquility to the area. 
Unfortunately the big powers claimed that they would guarantee the Israeli security and safeguard her right to free passage through the Suez Canal and into the Indian Ocean. Without access through the Gulf of Aqaba and of course Suez, Israel has to go right around Africa to get into the Indian Ocean. These guarantees, of course, turned out to be quite useless. The major powers simply were not able to guarantee these conditions and Israel was once again excluded from the use of the Suez Canal. In 1967, when it suited the Egyptians, the United Nations peacekeeping force was forced out overnight. It was told to get out and it went with its tail between its legs. Of course, for years prior to that there had been constant Arab rhetoric about its intention to destroy Israel, to push it into the sea. Rhetoric about the extermination of Israel was heard constantly and daily by the Israelis. 
As I said before, in the period 19S6 to 1957 thousands of raids took place upon Israeli border settlements. As a result many hundreds of Israelis were killed. When war broke out in 1967 and Egyptian forces threatened to crush Israel the Israelis were determined that this would never happen again. They were determined that never again would they have to face a situation as they did on the Golan Heights where Syrian guns were able to be turned daily onto the Israel kibbutzim and kill a farmer here and a school child there. They were not going to allow the PLO terrorist forces to come from Gaza which is only about 40 or 50 miles from Tel Aviv. They would not allow them to cross over and carry out terrorist activities. They were not going to allow the same sort of thing to happen on the west bank where some hundreds of thousands of Arabs lived and carried out terrorist activities against Israel. 
I have spoken to members of a kibbutz on what was the old border. They told me of the frightening experience of 1 967 when they looked up in the morning and saw hundreds of Syrian tanks facing them a few hundred yards away from their families and children. They said to me that there was no way in the world that they were going to permit that sort of thing to happen again. Admittedly in this day of modern warfare maybe the distance between you and the enemy's guns does not mean a great deal. Perhaps it is easy for some people in Australia, who are thousands of miles away from this trouble spot, to pontificate. But we have to take into account the psychological effect that such a situation has on people who are sitting a few hundred yards away from guns trained on homes and families. It is something else again when one's wife and children are sitting in that home. It is easy for politicians or people outside of the political arena to say that Israel should do this or Israel should do that. But it is not their children or family who will be exterminated if war breaks out again and if terrorists are allowed to return to the same areas and continue to do the same things. 
I think that we need to understand a number of things about Israel. It is a terribly tiny nation. On the basis of the pre- 1967 boundaries, in length it would probably run from Taree to Wollongong. Its maximum width would be no greater than from the New South Wales coast to Penrith or Katoomba to a minimum of 10 miles. The Israelis know that a concerted military thrust would cut it in half in half an hour. I believe that there is a fervent, desperate desire in Israel to come to peace with the Arabs. The Israelis know that they have more to gain from peace than have the Arabs; because the Israelis cannot afford to lose one war, whereas the Arabs could go on losing wars simply because of their numbers. The second thing that needs to be remembered is the small population of Israel-3 250 000, including the 250 000 Arabs. Then, of course, there is the national consciousness, which would take me hours to explain. So many Jews were killed during the last war- some 6 million- in what is called the holocaust. There is a lack of trust of the Arab nations and a hatred of the PLO and the tactics it has used, which have gone beyond what is normal warfare and a people's right to attempt to win back their rights, if that is what the Arabs think they are doing. They have gone as far as the murder of children, the murder of athletes and the blowing up of innocent civilians- people who often have had nothing to do with the thing, who are not Jewish, Israeli or whatever. 
I find it fascinating to listen to the pro-Arab rhetoric of those who talk about Israel being a racist, imperialist, fascist,  Zionist-  they use the term '  Zionist'  as an insult- and expansionist country. There are elements in Israel that are expansionist. Israel has its nuts, the same as we in Australia have. There is a full spectrum of political views from the extreme Right to the extreme Left. Some of them horrify me. I have talked to people of the extreme Right in Israel, and they are as nutty as a fruit cake. But they are not the government. They do not represent the general view of the present Labour Government, of the Likud which is the Opposition. So, to play up, as some people do, the odd statement by someone on the lunatic fringe as being the view of the 
Israeli Government is like- I cannot think of a good analogy at the moment. 
When I hear people talking about Israel denying the Palestinian people the right to selfdetermination I think of the countries about which they are talking- Syria, Egypt, Lebanon, Jordan, Saudi Arabia, Yemen, Libya, Iraq and Tunisia. Almost without exception they are totalitarian, authoritarian, one-party states, countries with military juntas or absolute monarchies. They have the gall, the temerity, to talk that way about Israel- a country which has all the civil rights and freedoms that we have in Australia. These countries have virtually no civil liberties. They do not allow the right to strike. Most of them do not have trade unions; or, if they have, they are tame cat unions set up by the government. They have no free elections, no freedom of association, no free Press. The rights of minorities in these countries are virtually nonexistent. I mention particularly the rights of the Jews who live in Syria and Iraq. 
When I was in Israel I was able to meet and have talks with the communist mayor of Nazareth- a man who was elected in free elections but who is opposed to many of the things Israel has done, and he says so. He told me so during a public meeting. The mayor of Nablus is a pro-PLO mayor elected in free elections. As Bob Hawke has said: 'How bloody democratic can you get?' Israel allows the free election of people who oppose the government and people who say that they will destroy Israel. In Israel there was public debate about the rights of the Arabs. Some claimed that they were not getting the full rights, and maybe they were not; but there was a free debate at which the Prime Minister was on the podium and was cross-examined and attacked by Arabs. What a great thing it is that this should happen in a society and that there should be those freedoms. Those freedoms do not exist in many Arab countries. I can only hope that people in Australia will start to take a more intelligent attitude on this matter. 
I ask the Prime Minister a question. As he would be aware, Standing Committee D of the Australian Constitutional Convention meets this Friday with the prediction that there will not be any resolution of the difference of opinion regarding the Senate's powers to block Supply or a Budget. Has the Government considered a referendum which would seek to change the Constitution so that in the event of the Senate refusing to pass Supply or a Budget a joint sitting of both Houses would be held to attempt to resolve the situation? If in the event that the Budget was once again defeated by a joint sitting, an automatic double dissolution would occur. 
I oppose this Bill. I do not wish to go over the matters canvassed extensively in an excellent speech by the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris).  I think he put very cogently the argument that the Bureau of Roads should not have done to it what the proposed Road Safety and Standards Authority had done to it when it was incorporated into the Department of Transport. It lost the autonomy that the Labor Government had proposed for it. I have always felt that, while there can be far too many statutory authorities, in matters such as this where important research and important facts need to be put before the people of Australia so they can judge objectively the effects of the recommendations, it is important that these statutory authorities be able to do so without fear or favour. They should not be under the influence of Ministers, industry or lobby groups. They should make their decisions without unnecessary influence. 
I want to canvass the question of transport in a broader sense- roads in particular. One of the most depressing aspects of any debate on transport in Australia or, for that matter, the whole world is that most of those who participate in the debate simply do not seem to be able to come up with acceptable, practical answers to the problems which all of us know our society faces at the moment and the far worse problems which must occur in the future. It is depressing because the public debate has been going on in Australia for the last 10 to IS years at least, and with the exception of a few cosmetic adjustments very little has been done to stop the inevitable catastrophe that must occur. Basically the debate goes like this: Every year the number of privately owned motor vehicles on the roads increases, costing thousands of millions of dollars of taxpayers' funds to provide more and better roads, improved pollution control methods and safer vehicles. Each year, despite the improvement in vehicle emission controls and improved safety devices, the cost in lives continues, and the chaos and congestion on the highways gets worse. 
We know from overseas experience just how desperate the situation has become. Those of us who, fortunately or unfortunately, have visited Los Angeles, Tokyo, London, Madrid and a host of other cities know just what a nightmare the motor vehicle has become. 
-I said 'fortunately or unfortunately'. It eats petrol, steel, rubber, money, lives, space and people's sanity in a way that would have seemed inconceivable 30 years ago. It caused almost single-handedly the economic crisis of the last 3 to 4 years, because the problems with oil and petrol flowed over into the whole problem of the motor vehicle- our inability to use the existing high consumption vehicles, the need for vehicles  in toto  the decline in the use of oil and so on. We are still suffering from the 1973 Arab war and the aftermath of the oil price rise by the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries. The problem can be backtracked primarily to the motor vehicle. 
We know what is happening, but we do little or nothing about it. Certainly there has been some questioning of our priorities. To the credit of the State Labor governments of New South Wales and South Australia and the former Federal Labor Government, there has been greater emphasis on public transport, and less on private transport. It still seems to me that there is no long-term planning of the general direction of transport in Australia. Our approach is on an  ad hoc,  day to day or, at best, year to year basis. Urban freeway projects in Sydney and Adelaide have been abandoned, and more money has been allocated to rail and bus transport. There have been some worthwhile attempts to ban the use of private motor vehicles from sections of towns and cities and to turn those areas into plazas for the use of people instead of vehicles. For the most part, our approach has been tentative and lacking in exciting experimentation. 
I do not pretend that I have the answers to the problems. I do not pretend that the Labor Party has the answers. I do not think it is so much a question of a party having a socialist solution or a free enterprise solution; I think it is a question to which we do not know the answer. I think we could use a little more adventure and excitement in our approach to the subject. Firstly, I think it is essential that we look at our transport problems as a whole, not separately in terms of road, rail, sea or air transport. We must see that our transport planners and our urban planners work closely together, not as separate entities concerned with expanding their own empires and to hell with everybody else. We ought to be looking at the future of the private automobile and its role not for the next 3 or 5 years but for the next 50 years. 
When I look at the vision and imagination of our forefathers 100 years ago I am staggered that they had the courage to spend hundreds of millions of dollars on railways, roads, and telegraphic communication. The public investment in railways in the latter part of the nineteenth century was unbelievable. A small country, in population terms, managed to raise the finance, mostly from Britain, to spread a network across a continent. Most of the railway network that now crisscrosses the nation was completed during that period. A similiar situation applies with roads and the telegraph. During the 1920s another upsurge of public investment occurred in radio, irrigation, soldier settlement schemes and urban facilities. The interesting thing was that the investment was not by Labor governments; most of it was by conservative governments. I notice the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Wentworth)  nodding his head. Much of the expenditure was unnecessary. Much of it was wasteful. Much of it was blatent, unabashed pork-barrelling, but the money was expended. The heavy borrowings from Great Britain were one of the major causes of the economic problems which faced the Scullin Government during the Depression. 
-If the honourable member knows anything at all about economic history, he will know that is a fact. I am sure the honourable member for Mackellar would agree with me. 
-He does not. 
-Perhaps the honourable member for Oxley, who knows more about economics than anybody else in this House at the moment, would agree with me. 
-I said 'anybody else in this House at the moment'. The honourable member for Mackellar is trying to score a cheap political point. I am talking about members in the House at the moment. Obviously the honourable member for Adelaide  (Mr Hurford)  is a match. For all the overcapitalisation there were great benefits for Australia. Despite what I said about over investment and the pork-barrelling, there were great benefits for Australia. The network of roads, railways, telecommunications and urban investment laid the basis or the infrastructure for the expansion that was possible when more profitable times came in the 1 950s. 
Why is it that we were so adventurous during the period 1870 to 1928-29 and so lacking in vision in the period when we had 3 times the population and 100 times the income? The gamble was taken then when we rode almost totally on the sheep's back with a little help from agriculture and mining. When Australia has a far stronger economic base because of its vast array of natural resources our present Government baulks on making the public investment that is essential to develop our highways and to tackle the problems of urban congestion. 
The honourable member makes an aside about taxation. This has always been the problem. Either you tax people or you borrow money. I believe that our proposal to borrow large sums of money from overseas would have been a way of financing it just as conservative governments borrowed hundreds of millions- and in today's terms billions- in the 1 870s to build railways. 
-I have no objection to Arab money- none whatsoever. Is the honourable member casting a racist slur on the Arabs? In the 1870s and the 1880s the surplus capital was in America. Later on it was in Britain. Today it is in the Arab countries. I am quite happy to do business with the Arabs. The question is: Will they do business with me? The Whitlam Labor Government initiatives in tackling the problem of constructing a national highway of international standards was one of the many superb achievements that was long overdue and received little or no recognition by the media or the public when it was announced and when it was commenced. It should have been received in much the same way as the Snowy Mountains scheme. It is to the eternal shame of the present Government that when it was in office from 1949 to 1972 it made absolutely no attempt to construct a national highway, instead it allowed the major links between Australia's major cities Brisbane, Sydney, Canberra, Melbourne and Adelaide to deteriorate into fourth class rural roads. Huge trucks, semi-trailers and private cars competed with one another on narrow gutted roads that must have been embarrassed to be graced with the name 'highway'. Hundreds and hundreds of people were killed and injured on these roads because the federal Government in its allocation of funds preferred to pander to the whims of pharochial interests instead of getting on with the job of building a multi-lane divided highway that connected the major cities of Australia. In a speech I made in the House on the 10 November 1971 - 
-I know. The Minister has quoted from it often. It is one of the few things that I give the Minister credit for. He does not do many intelligent things but he reads my speeches and he uses them. I commend him for that. In that speech I pointed out that on the Hume Highway between Sydney and Albury approximately 100 people were killed every year. For many complex reasons it is difficult to estimate how many people are killed travelling on existing highways, or rather how many people's lives would be saved if there was a major 4-lane divided highway connecting the cities. These difficulties in calculation occur because not all those people on existing highways would necessarily be travelling on a new highway. Those who travel on alternative routes may choose to use the new highway when it is constructed, and so on. However, overseas experience has shown that whenever a new, autostrata, autobahn or expressway replaced a conventional 2-lane road the death toll dropped by approximately 70 per cent. 
Let me make it clear that the number of people killed and injured is far less than it would have been if it had not been for the Australian initiative of introducing compulsory seat belts legislation and the work of Ralph Nader in forcing automobile manufacturers to stop producing death traps and start producing vehicles that gave the occupant a chance of survival if involved in a crash. These 2 factors coming together as they did in 1970 and 1971 have significantly reduced the number of people killed and injured in Australia. If one looks at the 'passenger motor vehicle safety' graph on page 160 of the report of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Road Safety one can see that since 1970 there has been an effective 25 per cent reduction in the number of vehicle occupants killed and a 21 per cent reduction in injuries. For Victoria, where enforcement of seat belt legislation has been tougher the figures are 38 per cent and 4 1 per cent respectively. This is a staggering result in that State. 
Australia has made great strides in cutting our toll, or should I say stopping the numbers from increasing, as they must have done with increased population, and increased number of drivers more cars and more mileage driven. Had the death toll continued to climb from 1970 onwards, as it had climbed inexorably during the past 30 years, Australia would have been losing between 4250 and 4500 people per annum, instead in 1975 there were 3694 killed and in 1976 there were 3584. These are still horrifying numbers, particularly when one multiplies these figures by 19 to 20 times to obtain the number injured. But it is a vast saving when one considers what it might have been. This saving has been due to seat belt legislation and improved motor vehicles. Although the national highway programs have been going for 3 years, by the very nature of highway construction and the need for planning, designs and construction, the effect of the $243m spent in the years 1974-76 and the $ 156.8m being expended in this financial year have had little impact as yet. 
Those of us who drive down to Canberra from Sydney along the Hume Highway must have witnessed the changes that are taking place, particularly at Yanderra where new work covers 30 kilometres. We will see a very significantly changed highway when that section is opened. That is the sort of thing that has to happen all over Australia. The prospects for this highway look good and improvements will take place as a result of the national highway program. We have to give a higher priority to national highways. They are of benefit to all Australians. 
During the period of time in which the Labor Government was in office grants were adjusted between urban local, urban rural, arterial roads and so on. The Labor Government initiated the first expenditure on national highways. I noticed that the Minister for Transport, who is at the table, gave a gentle serve the other day to gentlemen from Victoria. They are a grossly dishonest bunch of people when it comes to making their own alley good. They will say anything or do anything. They will take anything that is given to them. One might give them $ 100m extra in one area, but if there is a drop of $lm in another area they will never stop telling all the local people what a pack of so-and-sos you are. The Labor Government increased expenditure on national highways and dropped expenditure in other areas. Of course, national highways are of benefit to all Australians. They benefit people from the city and people from the country. It is true that they do not benefit every country town. 
But a highway from Brisbane to Sydney to Canberra to Albury to Melbourne to Adelaide and then of course, later on, to further extremities of Australia will benefit almost every Australian, whether he is in the city or the country, whereas some of the expenditure on urban and local roads benefits very few people- usually the local shire president and his mates. 
I am concerned at the failure of the Government to provide long term commitments in respect of our highways. Unfortunately we in Australia are suffering from the Malcolm Fraser, Milton Friedman, Ayn Rand philosophy that there is no such thing as a free lunch. This, of course, is a lot of simplistic rubbish. There may be no such thing as a free lunch, but a good lunch means that you build up your strength for later in the day. Planning expenditure on things such as this- roads and highways- saves lives and saves money for years to come. It has an effect on the economy because of savings in freight and the capacity to move freely around the country. I might say that I am enjoying the interjections which the honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Sainsbury)  is trying to make. I will discuss them in greater detail with him later so that the honourable member can make a contribution himself. 
-I can hear the honourable gentleman nodding his agreement. The advantage to the defence system is invaluable. I hesitate to think- I am sure the honourable member for Riverina  (Mr Sullivan)  will agree- what would happen if we ever had to move troops, tanks and equipment from one end of Australia to the other quickly. If some of the roads were blown up we would have to ask the Russians or whoever we were fighting to wait a few weeks until we got the roads fixed. Of course tourism, an area of great interest, will be greatly advanced with decent highways. 
I have been talking primarily about inter-city highways. Time does not permit me to go on and speak for as long as I would like about urban roads and urban arterials. I still think we have to come up with solutions to diminish the traffic congestion in the cities. I do not know the answers. We ought to be looking at perhaps reintroducing trams and at the number of buses. We ought to be looking at railways. There are many problems. 
-The Minister is right. Maybe we need to reintroduce them in Sydney. There is a problem with railways. We have seen the enormous expenditure on the eastern suburbs railway in Sydney without result. What the answers are I do not know. The BART system in San Francisco, which was hailed as the great answer, apparently is not producing the results that were expected. We need to look at staggered working hours and penalties to discourage motorists and stop giving into pressure groups who want us to go on spending as we are. 
-I ask the Prime Minister: In view of the fact that prices are determined by employers and wages are determined by the Commonwealth Conciliation and Arbitration Commission and employers, exactly how much say will trade unions have in the wage-price freeze? If he is so confident that - 
-At the opening of the Inter-Parliamentary Union conference a few weeks ago the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  made an address. I wish to quote from that address. He said: 
There are still some who argue that sport and politics have no relationship. 
They argue that as sporting teams come and performteams selected on a racial basis- that is not something which should concern governments or in which governments should take some action. 
That kind of view is no longer credible today. 
It is not the government of the host country that has introduced sport into politics. It is the government of the other country that has made arrangements for sport to be so structured internally that people of one race alone can participate. 
Accordingly, if a government operates its own social and economic system in that form, other governments cannot be expected to continue with the outdated proposition that sport is separate from politics. 
It is clear that, where a sport is practised on a racist basis, governments must carry responsibility. It is the government that has then introduced politics into sport. 
When I read that speech I wanted to stand up and clap. I commend the Prime Minister for his statement. I want to add to that statement a comment made in the editorial column of the  Sydney Morning Herald  on Wednesday, 13 April 1977. In commenting on the Prime Minister's speech the editorial said: 
Most Australians will agree wholeheartedly with this view, and with their country's official stand (a bi-partisan policy) that it will refuse entry to racially selected sporting teams. 
As I say, I commend the Prime Minister for his statement, but I can assure the House that the Liberal-National Country Party Government and some parts of the Press of Australia are not going to get away with it as easily as that. I was reminded of the 1970-71 campaign, in which I was a participant, to attempt to prevent the Springbok rugby and cricket tours. I was staggered at the about-face by the Government and some of the Press of Australia in regard to the Prime Minister's speech. One wonders at the question that was asked yesterday by the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  in which he sought Australian recognition of the Transkei state. I would like to know where some government members stand on that issue. At the time of the Springbok tour my colleagues and I were attacked in a vicious way by members of the Government and by members of the Press. They accused us of every type of ratbaggery imaginable because we made the point that it was the South African Government which was mixing politics and sport. The Prime Minister's statement could not nave provided us with more unequivocal support for the case that we were trying to put at that time and which was opposed by honourable members opposite. I think you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  were one of the people who spoke against us on this issue, as did the then honourable member for Boothby and the current Minister for Construction  (Mr McLeay)  and the then honourable member for Bradfield.  Mr Turner.  I read in great detail the speech made in the House at that time by the honourable member for Deakin  (Mr Jarman).  I have it with me today. 
It is time to remind the people of Australia of the position taken by the Liberal and National Country Parties and the position taken by the Labor Party, which is now the respectable position as it is put by the Prime Minister of this country- not as it was in those days. Not only were Labor politicians attacked but so too were members of the trade union movement, including  Mr Hawke, President  of the Australian Council of Trade Unions, church leaders such as the Reverend Alan Walker and a number of bishops and archbishops and sincere people who joined probably their only political involvement ever in the anti-apartheid movement. Rugby union internationals such as  Mr Boyce, Mr Abrahams  and other sportsmen were subjected to all sorts of vicious attacks. People opposed to the tour were called communists, rat-bags and stirrers and whatever other insult could be coined at the time. Nothing was too bad to say about them. At that time not one Liberal Party or Country Party politician opposed the tour. Even some of the so-called small '1' liberals who were much vaunted at the time did not make a stand. In fact one of them who was well known took a position in support of the tour. 
I would like to quote some statements made by Government members at the time, some of whom are now prominent members of the present Government. A Press release dated 28 May 1971 issued by the present Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  said: 

 Mr Lynch said that the Government certainly did not agree with apartheid, but did believe that tours by South African rugby and cricket teams should go on. 'Because a person disagrees with a particular policy of a foreign Government I do not believe he has the right to say to that country's sporting teams "You cannot come to my country" ', he said. 
This is what was said by our present Treasurer. The present Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  issued the following Press release on 25 June 1971 when he was Minister for the Interior: 
Australia was not only a sport loving country but a sporting country. It did not reject the cultural qualities of another country whatever might be its policies, he said. 
The Press release went on to state: 
The ACTU has enjoyed the respect of Australian Governments and the Australian people and it is irresponsible for the  President  of that movement to now try and force upon the Australian community a political attitude towards a sporting group from another nation. 
We may or may not agree with the South African Government's policy of apartheid but surely we do not attempt to disrupt the law and order of this country because a group of athletes has been invited to take part in sporting activity in this country. 
I would like to quote from one of the numerous Press statements issued by the man who above all others was responsible at the time- the Prime Minister of the day,  Mr McMahon.  A Press release issued by the then Prime Minister on 27 June 1 97 1 in part states: . . . that politics and sport should not be tied together and that sporting organisations should not be under duress from any source for politicial motives. A few trade union leaders have no right to attempt to interrupt sporting arrangements. 
The Press release went on to state that the then Prime Minister believed that the great majority of Australian people shared the Government's view. 
The right honourable member for Lowe  (Mr William McMahon)  issued another Press release as Prime Minister of the day when the South African cricket tour was cancelled in September of 1 97 1 . The release stated: 
The Government has consistently expressed the view that visits of international sporting teams should be arranged between the sporting bodies concerned and that politics should not be introduced into sport. 
The Press release further stated: 
I appreciate that the great majority of Australians wanted the tour to proceed, but I recognise the Board's problem in arranging a successful tour in the face of difficulties. 
I could go on for hours quoting the statements of the people who today, finally, 6 years later, have come to the view that was put by the Australian Labor Party and which was denigrated by every Liberal Party and National Country Party member in this place and in the State Parliaments. Our view is now the accepted bipartisan view. I compliment the Government on the fact that it has finally come to its senses. Like all conservative governments it finally gets there, even 10 years after the Labor Party as in this case or after 100 years as in other cases. 
Does the honourable member want to support the present view or the past view? I would be happy to give him time in which to make a statement. 
While most of the Press supported the view of the Liberal-Country Party Government at that time that tours of racially selected South African sporting teams to Australia should go on, there were at least some members of the Press such as the  Melbourne Age  and the  Australian,  which was at that time in its heyday, which at least presented a similar view to that proposed by the Australian Labor Party. This is just another episode in the history of the conservative forces of this country coming to the right decision after having managed to make as much political mileage as they could. I would like to take a few seconds to refer to an article that was written by  Mr Michael  Richardson of the  Age  in which he pointed out that the then Government's attitude was a political stunt to try to salvage some electoral prospects. He said that the Government of the day could see the advantage of such an attitude. I would also like to refer to an article written by Bruce Grant in the  Age  who was one of those to support our view. The article stated: 
One of the more elegant arguments against protest is that it is legitimate provided it remains unsuccessful. 
It is all right, so the argument runs, to try to stop the Vietnam war and to try to stop the white South African rugby tour, provided you do not stop the war or the tour, because then you are undermining the authority of government. 
I conclude on that note. Thank God the Government members have finally come to their senses. It is a damn shame for this country that we had to go through their stupidity of 1 970-7 1 . 
-I direct a question to the Prime Minister. Did he or any of his Ministers during 1975 meet with or have discussions with any members of the United States Central Intelligence Agency? 
I preface my question to the Prime Minister by reminding him of the excellent work being done by the House of Representatives Select Committee on Tourism set up as a result of the interest shown by honourable members on both sides of the House. Has he received my letter suggesting that in view of the widespread concern about continually growing unemployment the Government set up a select committee of the House of Representatives to investigate the various types of unemployment relief schemes that operate within Australia and also the various schemes operating in the United States, Canada, Great Britain, and other European countries? 
I congratulate the sub-committee of the Joint Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence on the excellence of its report on the Middle East. It is an excellent document showing an informed, sensitive and humane understanding of the problems which beset the area. It is a document that deserves to be read by everyone in this House and by everyone who wants to see a peaceful end to the long period of conflict in the Middle East. Anyone reading this report and unfamiliar with the politics of the Middle East may well throw up his hands in despair at what appears to be the impossibility of finding a solution that will satisfy everyone-Egypt, Syria, the Lebanon, the Palestine Liberation Organisation and Israel, not to mention the many other neighbouring Arab countries which abound in the region and the two super powers that wield such influence there, the Soviet Union and the United States. 
Only a fool or a super-optimist would believe that it is going to be easy. Yet I believe it is possible if one ingredient that is totally absent at the moment is injected into the complex discussions and negotiations that must occur over the next few years if there is ever to be any end to the continual state of war which exists between the two parties. That ingredient is trust. Sitting in the warmth, comfort and security of Australia, thousands of miles away from hatred and mistrust that permeate the whole of the Middle East, it is difficult for rational people here to understand why it is that a compromise solution cannot be found, at least at this stage. 
Let me try to illustrate how the various parties feel about each other. I wish to speak as though I was an Israeli living in Jerusalem or Tel Aviv. He would say something like this: 'For almost 100 years we Jews have fought a running battle with the Arabs to re-establish a homeland for ourselves in the country from which we were expelled some 2000 years ago. We paid outrageous prices to Arabs for desert and malaria infested swamp. After years of struggle against marauding Arab bandits and disease, against the Turks and the British, against the indifference and prejudice of the rest of the world, we finally established a viable Jewish community in Palestine. However, it took the murder of 6 million Jews by the Nazis to move the rest of the world to create a Jewish state of Israel. 'The same Arabs who sold us the useless desert suddenly became envious after our hard work and industry turned the wasteland into fertile farms. Suddenly they wanted it back and they harassed our settlements, murdered our people and opposed us at every turn. They also exaggerate their claim about having been here for centuries. Many have but hundreds of thousands of them are here because they were attracted by the prosperity we created. We also remind people that for 400 years Palestine was ruled by the Ottoman Empire. The internal warfare against us escalated to external warfare when Israel was proclaimed a state in 1948. The armies of Egypt, Syria, Jordan, Iraq, Saudi Arabia and Lebanon launched a massive attack against our new nation that had been but a few hours before a mandated territory administered by the British. The rest of the world stood by and did nothing more than express messages of sympathy at our imminent annihilation. Despite being outgunned and outmanned we defeated the Arab armies and established the state. 'It was Israel that accepted the United Nations partition of the mandated territory of Palestine into two states, one Arab and one Jewish even though their proposals were considerably less than we thought was fair. The Arabs it was who refused to accept the United Nations partition as they have refused to accept our existence from that day to this. Since 1948 they have done everything possible to reverse that decision. We have been blockaded at the Straits of Tiran to stop our lifeline to the Indian Ocean and refused access to the Suez Canal. We have had massive armies brought right up to our borders within sight of our farms and homes. We have had thousands of our young men and women killed in four wars which were started or instigated by the Arabs. We have had hundreds and thousands of innocent civilians and women and children killed by terrorist guerrillas in schools, hospitals, homes and shopping centres. It is not only in Israel that our people are threatened. They have been blown up, assassinated, hijacked and terrorised all over the world. When we retaliate the world and the United Nations condemn our action and ignore those who trangress against us and brand us as aggressors and racists. 'When the Arab nations threaten us with annihilation as they did in 1 967 and 1 973 the world stands by and watches saying how sorry it is but doing nothing. When the Arabs use their oil as blackmail with those countries with whom we have friendly trading and cultural relations the vast majority buckle under and expel our consuls, ambassadors and even our technical experts who were providing assistance in many of the under-developed countries. Throughout all this we have created the one truly democratic state in the Middle East. Our neighbours are either one party states, absolute monarchies or military juntas without any of the basic human rights that exist in genuine democracies. Arabs living in Israel openly participate in public debate about our shortcomings. They stand for public office, speak their minds on radio, television and in the Press and generally have rights that they themselves, let alone Jews, do not have in Arab countries. 'Despite the fact that we live in a permanent state of war and are under constant threat from internal terrorism, the slightest restriction of any Arab is evidence of Israel being a 'fascist state'. When crimes 10 times worse are perpetrated against the Jewish population of Syria or Iraq the world is silent. Israel took in over 1 million Jews expelled from Arab countries after the war of 1948 whilst Arab countries refused to accept less than half that number who left Israel at the same time when their leaders told them they could come back in a few weeks after all of us had been massacred. They preferred to let these poor Arab refugees remain in abominable conditions near our borders, encouraging them in their hatred for Israel and using them as a valuable weapon in the propaganda war. From these hell holes of hatred have sprung the nucleus of the terrorist organisations of El Fatah and the PLO. 'If Israel, a small, relatively poor country, could absorb almost 2 million people in 30 years, many of them from Arab countries, why could not the 100 million strong Arab nations, many of them amongst the richest in the world, absorb less than half a million people into their community? With our scarce resources we have rehoused some 40,000 Arabs in new homes. We have provided the majority of Arabs living in occupied territories with employment at six times what they would have received in Arab countries. Every move has been opposed by the Arabs and the Arab countries. Similar movements of people have been going on throughout history. Why was this time any different? What sort of people are they who would allow hundreds of thousands of people to suffer for years like this to make a political point? What has the rest of the world done while we have fought to survive? Some have expressed sympathy for our plight and admiration for our courage and initiative. But you cannot fight 100 million Arabs with sympathy and admiration. Frankly, we do not want people to die in our cause. 'Unfortunately, the history of the Middle East has shown that when the crunch comes Israel is on her own. The only people who are prepared to die to defend Israel are Israelis. That is how it should be. Therefore, before you tell us how we should be more tolerant, more flexible and less intransigent in our attitudes towards our Arab neighbours and the PLO just remember that if we make one mistake, if we lose one war then we cease to exist. The Arabs can afford to lose a dozen wars and still survive. Before we make concessions to the Arabs, before we withdraw from the defensible borders that were created during the 1967 war, before we start talking about the rights of the Palestinians you show us that the Arabs and particularly the PLO are prepared to accept our right to exist and are prepared to enter into normal, peaceful relations with Israel. 'We have no intention of returning to the situation that existed prior to 1967 when Nasser massed his huge armies in the Sinai and ordered the United Nations peace keeping force out of the buffer zone between Israel and Egypt. We have no intention of allowing the Jordanians back into the West Bank area so that they can train their guns on Jerusalem and Tel Aviv and in a quick push of 1 S kilometres cut our nation in half. We will not allow the Syrians to return to the Golan Heights so that they can daily fire rockets at our farmers and school children in the Galilee below. We will not permit these things to happen until we know that by doing so we will ensure a permanent acceptance of our right to exist as a nation. Frankly, we do not believe that the Arabs want peace and that they are ready to accept Israel as a permanent part of the Middle East. 'We have been told by our friends that the present Arab leaders are more moderate than their predecessors. With due respect to our friends that is a bit like saying that Hitler was more moderate than Eichman. We believe our friends, those few we still have, in their anxiety to find nice, neat solutions to the conflict are being mesmerised by some very polished Arab politicians who have not changed their views concerning Israel or its ultimate destruction but have simply changed their tactics. After having failed to destroy Israel through war, boycott, oil blackmail and international pressure, they are attempting to change their own image by saying how anxious they are to have peace and are portraying Israel as the intransigent warmonger intent on grabbing more and more Arab territory. 
We do not believe that the Arabs have any intention of accepting Israel's presence and believe that their diplomatic initiatives are aimed solely at forcing Israel to make territorial concessions and returning to the boundaries of pre- 1967. When they have succeeded in winning this battle they will then return to Gaza, the Sinai Peninsula, Sharm el Sheikh, the Golan and the West Bank, enabling them to destroy Israel in a surprise attack of their own choosing. If our friends think we are being unduly cautious and bloody minded we would remind them that if we agreed to what they ask and we are proven right they will pick up their papers one morning and see the headline "Israel destroyed- 3,000,000 Jews massacred". They will be shocked, appalled and sad; they may even weep a little about our tragedy. But within a few days they will recover from their grief and life will go on- for them. Another 3,000,000 Jews will have been added to Hitler's 6,000,000 murdered and another tragic page will have been added to Jewish history. They may be prepared to take that risk with our lives but I hope they will understand why we will not. There will be no more Warsaw ghettoes, no more Masadas- thank you very much. If you want to gamble then gamble with your own life.'  Mr Deputy Speaker,  what I have just described is the view, I believe, of 99 per cent of Israelis. Whatever the differences of opinion within Israel- and believe me the old story about .when three Israelis get together you will get four opinions is not far from the truththere is total unanimity on these fundamentals. 
The Arab view would go something like this: 'We Arabs have lived in this area since time immemorial. Palestine is our homeland and it means as much to us as it does to the Jews. It is not our fault that they left here 2,000 years ago and it is not our fault that the world has persecuted them. We are not responsible for Hitler's crimes so why should we suffer the loss of our homeland and our right to self determination to assuage the conscience of the rest of the world regarding anti-Semitism. Certainly we have opposed them at every step. Why shouldn't we? Wouldn't any people oppose an alien culture, a foreign country being imposed in their midst? When the British departed in 1948 hundreds of thousands of Palestinians were forced, by the brutal Israelis, out of their homes and to flee for their lives. Since then we have lived for one thing- to return to our homeland and we will do anything that is necessary to achieve that objective. The world ignored our plight when for 20 years we rotted in refugee camps on the borders of Israel. Only when our brave young men hijacked planes and attacked Israel did they listen to our problems. We have been accused of being terrorists by the Jewish controlled media but as far as we are concerned we are no different from the Jews who forced us to leave our homeland, who bomb our villages and who kill our people. And anyhow, this is total war. The front line is wherever and whenever there are Israelis or supporters of Israel. Any weapon is legitimate. ' 
I know that people will accuse me of over simplifying the position and will say that there are dozens of shades of grey in between, but I believe that these are the two apparent irreconcilable problems of the Israelis and the Palestinian Arabs and their supporters. Shortly after this report was completed and just prior to it being presented to the Parliament there was the first change in government since the inception of the state of Israel. The Labor Party, after 29 years, was defeated and the Begin Government, or the Likud Government under  Mr Begin,  came to power. There is no way that any rational humane person can support the policies of  Mr Begin  and some of the fanatical right wing that surrounds him.  Mr Begin  's proposition that the West Bank, which he refers to as Judea and Samaria, should be annexed because they were historically a part of Israel 2,000 years ago is outrageous in the light of the present political situation in the Middle East. The argument that 20th century nations should be defined by biblical boundaries is nonsense despite its appeal to religious fanatics. It was an argument used to create the establishment of Israel but the fundamental reason for the final acceptance by the United Nations of the creation of the state of Israel was more related to horror of the Nazi holocaust and the need for a home for Jewish people as a haven against sporadic but virulent anti-Semitism and a recognition that some 650,000 Jews were living in Palestine and desiring a nation of their own separate from the Arabs. 
It is equally wrong and short sighted for the Israelis to claim that the world does not care what happens to them. Despite the cowardice of the vast majority of nations over Arab oil blackmail, Israel should never forget that it was world opinion, through the United Nations, that created the state. Without the United States Israel would be in a perilous position and there is still enormous goodwill throughout the peoples of the world despite what may be the official view of their governments. In many ways the Arabs have only themsleves to blame for the Begin proposals. For 29 years they have had the opportunity to negotiate a just settlement with the Israeli Labor Government and they rejected it.  (Extension of time granted.)  The Palestine Liberation Organisation's demand that there should be a 'democratic secular state' of Palestine incorporating Israel is guaranteed to bring a horse-laugh in Israel. When the PLO was asked which of the 21 Arab countries it thought would be the model for a democratic secular state it used to say Lebanon, and we know what has happened to Lebanon. If at any stage during the past 29 years, and particularly during the past 10 years, the Arabs had shown their willingnes to accept Israel then I have no doubt that by now there would have been a Palestinian homeland. By now the Golan would be back in Syrian hands and the Sinai would be back in Egyptian hands. Even the difficult problem of Jerusalem is soluble if there is a will and if there is mutual trust. Defensible borders are necessary only if the people on either side of those borders are enemies. If they trust one another, if they have normal relations with one another, borders mean nothing. 
It does not need members of the parliamentary Labor Party to tear this Budget to pieces. That has been done effectively by the conservative Press of this nation and the Liberal and National Country parties' own supporters. Exactly 20 months from the date of this Government's election to office with the greatest majority any government has had since Federation its reputation is finally in tatters. No government has promised so much and provided so little. I do not think even the Opposition believed that the Fraser Government would be as hopeless or incompetent as it is. The Treasurer  (Mr Lynch),  fresh from the latest attempt by the Liberal Party charm school to change his image, was at his deceptive best in presenting this latest monstrosity. Oozing goodwill and sympathy for the underprivileged on incomes above $25,000 he presented his revolutionary new Budget that will effectively redistribute wealth from the poor to the rich. There could have been no more appropriate adjective to describe this Budget than 'revolutionary'. A Budget designed to soak the poor to benefit the rich ought to cause a revolution. 
Initially, the reaction that night amongst members in the House and journalists was that the Government was being extraordinarily generous and that clearly the Government was setting its sights on an early election. But by Thursday and Friday when the economists had had time to do some more accurate calculations, it became patently obvious that the Budget was the most monstrous piece of deception ever inflicted on the Australian people. If any businessman had attempted to sell his product in the same manner as the Treasurer, he would finish up spending five to 10 years in the 'Big House'. 
As I said before, it does not need honourable members on this side of the House to tear this document to pieces. Just look at what his friends have to say about him and his boss. Firstly, an article in the  Australian Financial Review  from the Fairfax stable states: , 
Looked at after a day's reflection, the Lynch Budget for 1977 is a dangerous document. It cannot be dignified with the description of being an economic policy, because in its own terms it is not. The Budget identified two problems plaguing the Australian economy: inflation and unemployment. But when you look at it, the Budget itself did not address itself in any meaningful way to either of these ... As far as inflation is concerned the Government contented itself with doing little-except increasing oil prices- that would exacerbate the situation. 
The  Review's  stablemate, the  National Times,  had this to say: 
In 1975,  Mr Fraser  promised that he would govern on behalf of all Australians, yet his Budget this week is another step in redistributing income from the poor to the better off. The Budget is the most transparent move in an otherwise largely unnoticed redistribution of wealth which has been going on since  Mr Fraser  came into power ... He has set himself a target of sharply changing the balance of power in our society by diminishing the power of the unions and setting out to redistribute the national wealth up the salary scale to those who he believes are the productive members of society. 
There is nothing that illustrates more clearly the callousness of this Budget- from the hand of Ayn Rand's greatest admirer, the Prime Ministerthan the total absence of any meaningful assistance for the unemployed. Two years ago, the Liberal and National Country Parties, furious at the electorate's rejection of them after 23 years and aided by a vicious hostile Press, created an hysterical atmosphere that resulted in the dismissal of the Whitlam Government. There was, we were told, absolutely no reason for Australia to be affected by the economic crisis that had affected every Western economy as a result of the October 1973 Middle East war. We were told that inflation and unemployment had nothing to do with this world wide depression. It was entirely the fault of the Labor Government. 
At that time, the inflation rate was 12.1 per cent and 14 per cent for the September and December quarters of 1975 and unemployment stood at 270,000. The economy was, however, showing signs of improvement and, had the Hayden Budget been allowed to work there is no doubt that Australia would have been able to take advantage of the general pick-up in the world economy that occurred in 1976. Regretably Australia was to find itself with a Prime Minister with an economic pholosophy influenced by a combination of the weird political ideas of an 80-year-old Russian nut by the name of Ayn Rand, and the man who the Chilean Government called in as their economic adviser, Milton Friedman. In Chile there is still massive inflation coupled, however, with unbelievable unemployment that has resulted in widespread starvation and misery. The RandFriedmanFraser philosophy that there is 'no such thing as a free lunch' has now been expanded to incorporate breakfast and dinner. 
Unemployment has now reached a frightening 337,391 and if that is not bad enough even the most conservative estimates indicate that it will go well over the 400,000 mark by early next year. Some have predicted it could reach 500,000. These are not the predictions of members of the Opposition but are those of every reputable economist including Professor Hogan, the Liberal Party's top economic adviser. Their own Budget indicates that this is what will happen, predicting a growth rate of 1 per cent only in the workforce whilst acknowledging that those seeking work will grow by 2 per cent. We must remember also that the Government's tougher approach to people who are unemployed means that the figures would look far worse if one were comparing like with like. 
The Government's reaction to this growing array of unemployed- the people who were promised that with the return of a Liberal government there would be plenty of jobs- is to provide an extra $15m for the Special Youth Employment Training Program by extending eligibility to young people aged 25 years. I am not opposed to this program in the sense that it is better for young people to be employed for six months and to receive award wages while gaining some training than it is for them to be unemployed and feeling that society has no use for them. 
There are so many weaknesses and objections to the scheme that one questions its usefulness in comparison with alternative unemployment relief schemes. First of all, of the 15,000 or so people who have been employed under the Special Youth Employment Training Program, known as 'Sweet Pea', how many have been retained in permanent employment after the six months period of subsidy of $63 per week has expired? How many young people have been simply replacing older employees who have been sacked by unscrupulous employers seeking to gain the $63 subsidy? What attempts are made by the Commonwealth Employment Service to police the scheme to ensure that unscrupulous employers are not simply exploiting the scheme as a job replacement measure? Is it a fact that the CES is so short staffed because of ceilings that it simply does not have the people to check to see whether the scheme is working as it is intended to work? 
What guarantees have we that the jobs people are being trained for bear some relationship to the employment skills Australia needs both now and in the future? We know that despite the high rate of unemployment there are still many fields in which there are shortages of skilled workers. One needs only to look at the list of skills provided for prospective migrants by the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs to know that a training scheme should be related to those shortages. However, the greatest deficiency in the scheme is the fact that despite some value in providing employment absolutely nothing of value is left to the community after the six months training period is complete. In fact, it might have a deleterious effect on the young person who finds that the employer puts him off at the end of the six months period because to keep him would require the employer to pay the full wage without any subsidy. 
The Education Program for Unemployed Youth is simply a program to keep occupied the young people who cannot get a job. In that sense it has some value. Regrettably, it is not getting the support in the community that it deserves because it could provide some activities for young people who must become bored after long periods of unemployment. But to suggest that somehow or another it is a scheme that has anything to do with solving unemployment is utter nonsense. 
Obsessed with its ideological hatred of any form of public sector expenditure this Government has continued the slashing of public works programs, which was begun with its 1976 Budget, in such a way as can only ensure that unemployment will continue to grow. Regrettably, the Government is a victim of its own propaganda. When in opposition it successfully, if dishonestly, convinced the Australian people that the sole cause of Australia's economic malaise was the deficit. We were told that inflation could be cured by slashing government expenditure. Unfortunately, the then Opposition did not explain to the hundreds of thousands of small and medium size businessmen and the millions of employees just how much their prosperity was tied up with government expenditure. 
Their propaganda was so effective that many of the small businessmen did not stop to ask what was going to replace the sudden stoppage of public works when hospitals, schools, preschools, aged persons accommodation, welfare housing, growth centres, sewerage works and employment creation schemes were stopped or cut back. The then Opposition did not explain to these people how their customers were going to help to restore the economy when their wages were cut back, when their overtime dropped or when they were relying solely on unemployment benefit. 
In a very perceptive column in the  SunHerald,  Neil O'Reilly pointed out just how convinced the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  is that he should do the opposite of what the Labor Government did. He seems to have a very simple philosophy, namely, if the Labor Government did something he will do the opposite. Nowhere is this more obvious than in this Government's treatment of the unemployed. I doubt whether any Opposition could have been more frank or honest than we have been in our assessment of some of the mistakes we made when we were in government. I know that most politicians in this Government would choke if they tried to admit that they had made a mistake. That, tragically, is a problem that Australia will have to suffer until this Government is defeated. Within months of our election defeat I started a study of one scheme with which I had become closely involved during our period in government, namely, the Regional Employment Development scheme. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
Prior to the suspension of the sitting I said that I had started a study of one scheme with which I had become closely involved during our period in government- the Regional Employment Development scheme, which is known as the RED scheme. Late last year we released a 22-page reassessment of the scheme, with 18 recommendations, about half of which were changes designed to improve the original scheme. Let me make it clear that, although we found ways of improving the RED scheme- which was introduced by the then Minister for Labor and Immigration, the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)after  the scheme had been operating for over 1 8 months, this is no criticism of the initial concept. Only by experience of a new initiative can we find ways of improving it. It would have been impossible to foresee the problems that would arise. Those problems were immediately latched on to by the Opposition and the Press and were exaggerated beyond their importance. 
It is easy not to make mistakes if one never tries anything new. Conservative governments find it easy to say that they have not made any mistakes, simply because they have not made anything. We also pointed out that almost as much money, $130m, was expended by the McMahon Government on its rural unemployment relief scheme which was introduced in 1971 and that this money was devoted to socially wasteful projects such as mowing lawns, chipping weeds and painting fences. After the unemployment was over and the grass had grown again there was nothing of value left to the community. Not only did we make the study available for general comment but we provided a copy to the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  who, I am quite sure, must have found some valuable information in the study. 
The most important recommendations we made were that a permanent local committee of community involved citizens should be set up on a regional basis to examine and list in order of priority important community projects with a high labour content so that in the event of that region having an unacceptably high level of unemployment a wide choice of projects would be ready to commence once the Government had gazetted that region as eligible for unemployment funds. This would maintain the important aspect of community involvement and would remove the unfair but persistent criticism of the RED scheme that the Government had its priorities wrong. Under the previous scheme, because projects were initiated by the community- that is, the local government body or local non-profit making organisations- and because projects were approved or rejected in the order in which they were submitted, the situation often arose that a surf club project submitted in January was approved before a water reticulation scheme or a nursing home submitted in April. By having a long list of projects designed, costed and approved by council and listed in order of the local community's evaluation of its social priority, the Government would be assured of total community support when it decided that an area should receive, say, $2m for 15 projects for 600 workers for 26 weeks. 
We also suggested that the scheme should be monitored by random inspection; that the majority of the funds, approximately 75 per cent, should be allocated to local government; that funding should be available for projects already covered under other legislation- for example, senior citizens centres and aged persons homes; that there should not be any extra funds provided, except in very special circumstances, after the initial grant of twice the wage content; and that every grant should include a minimum contribution of 10 per cent from the local government body or 20 per cent in the case of non-government organisations. We also recommended that although the employees should be obtained from the Commonwealth Employment Service, as in the initial RED scheme, if the employment situation changed sponsors should be able to obtain staff through the normal employment market. 
Although dozens of copies of the paper were sent to various people and organisations throughout the country and were studied by the Government, I have not yet come across anybody who disagrees with our basic alterations and recommendations. I have the feeling that the Minister agrees with our position, if the persistent rumours that he has been trying to get Cabinet to approve employment creation schemes with a marked similarity to the RED scheme are true. Unfortunately he finds himself with a leader who has a passionate obsession with doing exactly the opposite of what the Whitlam Government did. To have reintroduced the RED scheme would have been an admission that something the Whitlam Government had done was good, and I am sure that he would choke saying the words. I am sure I speak for my colleagues on this side of the House when I say that we do not care if the job creation scheme is called red, pink, blue, green of any other colour or is called the Malcolm Fraser memorial scheme. Our main concern is that something should be done to relieve the plight of the unemployed created by this Government. 
-We terminated the RED scheme, but it was proposed to reintroduce it early in 1976. When it was obvious that this Government would not reintroduce the RED scheme I suggested, in a question to the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations, that he consider subsidising new public works projects by local government bodies up to 25 per cent of the total cost. The figure of 25 per cent was reached by calculating the amount of money that the Government could save in unemployment benefits, plus the claw-back through income tax. This seemed to me to be the most reasonable proposition to put to a government obsessed with cutting back public expenditure and reducing the deficit. 
If local councils were prepared to undertake new works not already programmed in their budgets and were prepared to provide evidence that they were employing extra workers, surely the Federal Government should be willing to subsidise them up to the amount that it would be saving in unemployment benefits and receiving in income tax revenue. Of course, councils would have to find the other 75 per cent of the funds required, but in discussions with local councils of the Central Coast I found an immediate and welcome response. The attitude was that much needed projects that were planned for future years could be done now, with the added incentive of a 25 per cent discount. They pointed out that there was no way they could attempt the large number of projects they had undertaken under the RED scheme where the double wage grant to local bodies concept meant they could undertake many projects at minimal cost to themselves, but they certainly would be able to undertake some projects under this 25 per cent proposal. 
This proposal was rejected by the Government, although in a letter to me the Minister agreed that a 25 per cent subsidy would cost the Government nothing. He said that the effect of local council borrowings would be inflationary. If ever there was an admission that the Government had used the age old method of creating unemployment to combat inflation, it is contained in this letter. Finally, after failing to convince the Government of the merits of some of these job creation schemes, a few weeks ago I wrote a long letter to the Prime Minister suggesting that he consider setting up a select committee to study alternative unemployment relief schemes and to report back immediately to the Parliament. In the letter I said that I was confident that the Labor Party would support such an inquiry and would approach it with an open mind and a spirit of co-operation. I suggested a select committee because of my experience on the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Road Safety and on the House of Representatives Select Committee on Tourism, where I found that members of different political persuasions, working together and receiving expert advice, inevitably came up with unanimous decisions instead of political decisions. I felt that in the atmosphere of a select committee we could assess the various unemployment relief schemes that operated in Australia in the past and that operate now, together with schemes operating in other countries, and come up with the best schemes for Australia. 
Apart from the RED scheme and general public works, I suggested that certain schemes might be considered. They included the New Zealand special works scheme; Public Service employment involving the placement of unemployed people in worthwhile work in various government departments and instrumentalities; work sharing where companies and employees agree to share available work through reduced hours to prevent lay-offs; and employment programs for disadvantaged people which provide funds for technical support to job creation projects for those unlikely to be employed through normal labour market activity. Such projects are geared towards providing employment that will contribute to the continuing self-sufficiency of participants as well as to community development. It is like Canada's local employment assistance program. Finally I suggested early retirement subsidies whereby workers nearing retirement are offered a specified tax free wage if they give up work to make way for a younger unemployed worker- for example, Britain's job release scheme. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Wentworth)  adjourned. 
I am staggered at this debate tonight. I listened to the absolute smug certainty of the 91 members on the other side of the House. There are no doubts at all in their minds- none whatsoever. I must confess that I have been one of the many members on this side of the House who have had to go through a great deal of reading, research, listening and arguments. We have considerable doubts as to what we should do on this question. 
For this we have been attacked. We have been attacked by the conservative side of politics and by those who seek to mine uranium. They say that this is some sort of weakness on our part. I would have thought that discussing, debating, agonising and anguishing over a decision such as this were virtues. It is quite staggering to find not one person on the Government side who has any doubt about the mining and exporting of uranium. 
From my readings on the matter I find it very difficult to decide. I find on one side nuclear physicists and scientists who tell me one thing. On the other side I find the same type of peoplenuclear physicists, scientists and environmentalistswho tell me the other. I am not a scientist. I do not have any special skills. I cannot tell which side is telling the truth. I have to work out my own decision. On the other side of the House, the same arguments are put to the same sort of people without the technical skills, and they are all absolutely certain. The experts themselves are in disagreement. So I say: If we are wrong, what is the loss? We have lost a little money- maybe a few million dollars. If honourable members opposite are wrong, the whole bloody world will go up in smoke. I am prepared to sit back and wait for a while because I am not sure. I would rather wait until I have assurances on things such as the storing of nuclear waste and the elimination of risk of gene mutation, because I think they are serious problems. It is not a problem for the chatter boxes in the National Country Party because most of them suffer from that sort of problem already. I have fairly good breeding stock on my side. I do not want to see my grandchildren finish up like members of the Country Party. So I am prepared to wait. 
We on this side have been accused of being emotional. I would have thought that the destruction of the world was something to get emotional about. I would have thought that was a greater virtue than being worried about whether we would make a few miserable dollars out of this question. It is really heart-rendering to find the 91 members of the Liberal-Country Parties suddendly discovering that there is a Third World. For the 8 years that I have been a member of this place they have never shown any interest in the Third World. Suddenly they are concerned about it. One member on that side was concerned about it- the honourable member for Holt twice removed. He took some interest in it. He is out of the place and is replaced by a new member. 
-The honourable member for Hotham says that the honourable member for Denison  (Mr Hodgman)  and the honourable member for St George  (Mr Neil)  have shown some anguish. I will concede that there are two members opposite who have shown some interest in this matter. I withdraw my previous statement. There are only 89 members opposite who are absolutely sure that we should blow up the world. The honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Baume)  made some interesting points. He said that it was absurd for us not to sell uranium to the countries which he listed because they could get it anyhow. I said: 'Why are we bothering to sell it if they can get it anyhow?' The honourable member for Paterson  (Mr O'Keefe)  interjected and said: 'Because they are running short'. If they are running short, one good way of stopping them eventually from using it is for us to make an ultimate contribution by stopping it now. Ultimately they will run out, and ultimately we will make a difference as to whether they will have nuclear power. 
There is a sense of deja vu in this debate. I can recall that in 1971 the McMahon Government was running into all kinds of problems with the economy and was in one hell of a mess politically. It was patently obvious to everybody in Australia that it would be defeated at the next election. Suddenly we had an issue on the Springbok football team's tour and the debate in Australia about apartheid. The public opinion polls were running something like 85 to 15 in favour of the Government. So the Prime Minister of the day suddenly thought 'Here is an issue on which we can run and win an election '. I have no doubt that at that time he was right. He was prepared to do that, and to hell with the issue and the concern about the people of South Africa. A similar thing is happening here now. The present Liberal-Country Party Government is realising that it is in enormous political trouble. The public opinion polls show that it would lose an election if one were held tomorrow. The only thing that the Government appears to have going for it is the public opinion poll which shows a marginal percentage of people on its side in respect of uranium. So the Government believes that it can create a nice union bashing, Labor Party bashing issue on the question of uranium. That is the basest motive for this campaign. Of course, there is also the love of making a quid for some of the friends who contribute to the election campaign funds of honourable members opposite. 
I sense that this issue is one that will be seen through by the people of Australia. The Australian people have been taken in from time to time by sudden issues. But when the people of Australia see what is an obvious phoney- they see a government being destroyed by its incapacity to handle the economy, and suddenly it switches the issue to the question of uranium, knowing what the reaction of sections of the trade union will be and knowing that it can create a climate of union bashing- they will see the hypocrisy and the absurdity of this as a major election issue. Perhaps I should not mention what I am going to mention now but it is something about which I am concerned because the question was raised earlier about the possibility of nuclear war breaking out in the Middle East. I do not think there is any doubt that both the Arab countries in the Middle East and Israel have nuclear weapons. I do not know how many honourable members are familiar with what one might call the ethos of Israel- the attitudes of the Israelis to what one might call group survival. But for those who are not familiar with the history of this area, I shall go back to biblical times. 
-If the honourable member will just be a little patient he possibly will learn something tonight. Almost 2,000 years ago, at the time of the destruction of the Second Temple, the last of the Jewish zealots held out in a place called Masada. They held out against the Roman legions in that spot for three years. Finally, when there was no chance of defeating the Roman legions or of surviving, the 600 Jewish zealots committed suicide. 
The honourable members of the National Country Party, who are laughing, may think this is terribly funny and amusing. It is not amusing if one happens to be an Israeli. I am trying to make a point which I think is valid. If the honourable member will just be patient he will understand what I am trying to say. Those 600 zealots died at their own hands. Some 15 or so years ago Professor Yigal Yadin unearthed that archaeological site at Masada and it is now a national shrine. It is linked in the Israeli mind with the destruction of the Jews in the holocaust in which six million died. During that period, which is a tragedy in human history and in the history of the Jewish people, it was often said by those people who survived the holocaust: 'Why did you let it happen? Why did you not at least take some of them with you?' Except for the Warsaw ghetto, most of the Jews went calmly to their death. If one returns to Israel now one finds a particular attitude of mind there. Most of the people there now think that should worse come to worst there will not be any more walking quietly to the gas chamber; there will be another Masada. I believe that if the situation arises in which Israel is pushed to the point where its ultimate destruction is imminent we may well see another Masada. Honourable members might find that hard to believe, but that is the attitude I have found to exist amongst a section of Israelis. It is unfortunate but it is understandable. There will be no more walking calmly to gas chambers. They will go but they may take the rest of the Middle East with them. If we are contributing towards that situation by providing uranium which enables nuclear weapons to spread and proliferate I think we should stop doing so immediately. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order!  Honourable member's time has expired. 
-This day of good food and fine wine, of mirth in the House and of the visit of the Chinese delegation is a day that Leslie Haylen would have enjoyed. The tragedy is that he is not here to enjoy it with us. I am not one of those who served with him in the House but I rise because Les Haylen had quite a profound effect on my life. The first political function of any description that I ever attended was a meeting- I cannot remember the date; I tried to look it up this morning- in the late 1950s when there was a resurgence of nazism and antisemitism in Germany which was repeated in this country in Melbourne with the desecration of some of the synagogues. I went to a public meetingit was the first time that I had been involved in anything political-at the Anzac Hall in Sydney. The only politician that I remember being there- there may have been others- was Les Haylen. I remember him for the superb speech that he made on that occasion. It was a brilliant and impassioned speech, a speech from the heart, denouncing nazism and anti-semitism. I was deeply moved by it and I was influenced greatly to join, at a later date, the Australian Labor Party. 
I met Les Haylen that night and, although I did not see him as often as I would have liked to, I retained his friendship up until the last time I saw him, which was a year or so ago. I just want to add on behalf of the younger members here that I believe Les Haylen made a great contribution. Other honourable members have repeated many funny anecdotes for which he was famous in this place, but he was also famous, in my book anyhow, for the feelings that I believe are important to the Labor movement- hatred of authoritarianism, fascism and all the things that go with them. I join with the rest of the House in paying my respects to his wife and two children. 
Question resolved in the affirmative, honourable members standing in their places. 
I ask the Minister representing the Minister for Administrative Services: In view of the Government's stated interest in conserving Australian energy, which was repeated here today by the Deputy Prime Minister and the Prime Minister, can he explain why the Government has just purchased a fleet of cars for the servicing of Parliament House which are guzzling petrol at the rate of 1 1 to 1 2 miles per gallon? 
-Yesterday at question time I asked the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  who represents the Minister for Administrative Services the following question: 
In view of the Government's stated interest in conserving Australian energy, which was repeated here today by the Deputy Prime Minister and the Prime Minister, can he explain why the Government has just purchased a fleet of cars for the servicing of Parliament House which are guzzling petrol at the rate of 1 1 to 1 2 miles per gallon? 

 Mr Street replied: 
I do not know where the honourable member got his figures for the petrol consumption of the cars. 
I replied: 
From the Commonwealth drivers themselves. 
The Minister said that he would check the matter out. This morning a report in the  Daily Telegraph  stated: 
A spokesman for the Minister for Administrative Services,  Senator Withers,  who manages the government car fleet, denied the claims. 
He said the Government was moving away from eight cylinder cars into more economical six and four cylinder vehicles. 
The Fairmonts were bought recently to replace Ford Fairlanes the spokesman said. 
Then  Senator Withers  made the stupid sort of remark that we have come to expect from him. I checked with the Commonwealth car drivers to find out whether what I had been told was true. What happened before was that I noticed that there were a number of new cars in the Commonwealth pool. I asked the drivers what they were like. Three of them said the same thing on different days. They said that they were beautiful cars but they had to fill them up at least twice a day. They had to go back to the bowsers and fill them up because they were doing 1 1 to 12 miles per gallon. That was the basis of my question in the House. 
Today I asked two drivers about the cars. They both made the same statement as was made the other day. They said the cars were consuming petrol at a rate of between 1 1 and 14 miles per gallon by comparison with the previous cars which consumed petrol at 23 miles per gallon. Perhaps this is a minor issue. It seems to be fairly insignificant. It is significant because this Government at the moment is apparently basing its whole uranium policy on the shortage of energy. The  President  of the United States of America,  Mr Carter,  saw fit in April this year to issue an energy statement in which he made a significant attempt to remove from American roads vehicles which consumed a considerable amount of petrol. I quote from an article in the  Australian  of 22 April 1977 which referred to the energy policy introduced by President Carter. It stated: 
The tax would begin at $52 on cars that get 18 miles to the gallon and progress to $449 on cars that are less fuelefficient. 
Each year the efficiency standard would go up by one mile per gallon and the tax would increase. 
At the same time buyers of 1978 cars which do 18 miles to the gallon would get government rebates of $47. 
The rebates would progress to $473 on cars which are more fuel-efficient, with efficiency standards and rebates going up from year to year. 
I refer to President Carter's energy statement. He said: 
The citizens who insist on driving large, unnecessarily powerful cars must expect to pay more for that luxury. 
We can be sure that all the special interest groups in the country will attack the part of this plan that affects them directly. They will say that sacrifice is fine, as long as other people do it, but that their sacrifice is unreasonable, or unfair, or harmful to the country. If they succeed, then the burden of the ordinary citizen, who is not organised into an interest group, would be crushing. 
The point is that the Government must set an example in fuel consumption. Unless it does, the ordinary people of Australia will not bother to buy vehicles which will consume less petrol. This is a disgraceful example of the hypocrisy which occurs in government. It is telling the rest of the community to conserve energy while it is purchasing cars consuming 1 1 to 12 miles per gallon. 
asked the Minister for National Resources, upon notice, on 24 August 1977: 
In view of the proposed 1 lc per gallon increase in the retail price of petrol, will the retail price of diesel motor spirit increase by 8c per gallon; if not, what will be the amount of the increase. 
-This evening, I will follow some of the comments of the previous speaker concerning the purchases of the Australian National Gallery, particularly the furore that has arisen over the purchase of  Grand Nu.  I appeal to the Government and the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in the Arts  (Mr Staley)  who I think is doing a good job and is sensitive to the problem that has arisen over the purchases of the National Gallery. I hope that we can end the sort of political point scoring which has occurred over the purchases of art masterpieces. When we were in government there was no doubt that when any Liberal Party politician or National Country Party politician wanted to get a laugh or score a point at the expense of the Labor Government he could do so by making a reference to the National Art Gallery's purchase of the Jackson Pollock painting  Blue Poles. 
Every time that the Labor Government was unable to accede to a request for money from some section of the community, or whenever it was forced to impose a tax, the aggrieved person or organisation would make a sneering reference to  Blue Poles.  It was held up as a classic example of the Government's order of priorities. I would hate to count the number of times that someone abused me over  Blue Poles.  I do not question that it lost us a lot of votes. Unfortunately we are paying a price for that now and the chickens are coming home to roost. The brou'haha over  Blue Poles  has reached the point now where the present Government has been forced to veto any purchase of an art masterpiece. The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  is determined that his Government will never be ridiculed over any purchase in the way that the Labor Government was ridiculed over  Blue Poles. 
Obviously that was the reason for the veto by the Government of the decision of the Australian National Gallery to purchase the famous painting  Grand Nu  by the French artist Georges Braque which was painted in 1908. Braque, along with his friend and contemporary Picasso, is recognised as the leader of the modern art era.  Grand Nu  is recognised as one of the masterpieces of that era. The purchase price of $1.3m was vetoed by the Government with the result that this unique and famous painting, one of the few available for purchase because it is in a private collection and not in a museum collection, now appears to have been lost to this country. 
I would like to quote a few points from an article that appeared in the  Australian.  It is a report of an interview with a gentleman named  Mr Alec  Maguy, the person who wanted to sell the piece to the National Gallery. The article was written in Nice, France, by  Mr Kevin  Dowling. Dowling described the painting as 'a piece of French history, a painting as precious to France as the works of Picasso are to Spain'. Later on in the article he said: 
The big, busty nude in sage green and purple is by France's greatest contemporary painter, who shared the life and times of the turn of the century with that other master of the unexpected, Picasso. 
Further on Dowling quoted Maguy as having said:  'AH posterity will be able to enjoy her for centuries to come. But the politicians who make music-hall with her now will be gone in another six months '. 
Well, perhaps not six months but none of us will live as long as the works of Georges Braque. Further on bowling said in this article: 
The shock he feels has been echoed this week by the French Press and the Paris an establishment, which cannot understand why anybody should not want to admire Braque 's idea of the perfect woman- even if she does have angles where most girls have curves. After all, scholars from all over the world nave written more than SO books about this one painting alone . . . 
I think it is a great tragedy for Australia that we come down to this level of political debate about what clearly is one of the great masterpieces of the art world. I am not putting myself forward as an expert; I am accepting the words of the people who know, the people who have studied and have become expert in this field. 
Probably it is true to say that very few people in Australia were aware that there was a national collection until the purchase  of Blue Poles.  Most people would have been forgiven for thinking that there was nothing else in the collection but  Blue Poles.  I want to quote to the Committee now from a book which the National Gallery provided for every member of parliament. It was an excellent production. In it the art critic Robert Hughes, a brother of a former Attorney-General, said: 
The collection has been going erratically since 1914 when the painter Tom Roberts proposed to Andrew Fisher, the then Prime Minister, to set up a gallery of portraits of notable Australians. In the 1930s the Government entrusted to the Commonwealth An Advisory Board the task of buying typically Australian paintings for a proposed national gallery. This Australian emphasis remained for another three decades and when  Sir Robert  Menzies was Prime Minister he personally approved every painting that was bought. So by the mid-1960s there was a fairly solid, but undeniably conservative, collection of Australian an only. Moreover, it had been put together on a shoe string. Under Menzies' successors Harold Holt and John Gorton the funds got better. In 1 967-68 there was $75,000 available for buying. By October 1 97 1 , when the then Prime Minister Will McMahon announced his Government's intention of appointing James Mollison as the Gallery's first director, the budget had risen to $392,000. In Gough Whitlam 's 1973-74 budget that had multiplied to $4.8m and in 1974-75 to $5m. 
Tragically Australia has missed the opportunity to acquire many great works because of a Philistine attitude towards paying for masterpieces. Over the years opportunities were lost to purchase works by Cezanne, Braque, Gaugin, Matisse, Picasso, Van Gough and Modigliania, most of them for virtually a song. In the  National Times  of 11 September, in an article entitled 'Lost Masterpieces', this was stated: 
Braque 's  'Grand Nu' is  the latest casualty of this attitude that an works are too expensive. The importance of the work itself has not been disputed. It, along with Picasso's  'Demoiselles d' Avignon'  launched cubism- the key to understanding much present day an.  'Grand Nu'  could be more important than Picasso 's work painted a year earlier in 1 907. 
It is regarded as a turning point in the history of an and that is why it is an appropriate piece for the National Collection. 
The problem is that after the political point scoring that went on over  Blue Poles,  every time the National Gallery Council makes a decision to purchase a major work of art it is going to be subject to the sort of cretinous statement that emanated from  Mr Joh  Bjelke-Petersen who described  Grand Nu  as looking like a 'pregnant Sumo wrestler'. We also had the statement of the Acting Premier of Victoria,  Mr Thompson,  who said that it looked like a 'muscle-bound frontrow forward'. Lord save us from the day when Australia's art purchases are decided by the likes of the Queensland Premier or the Acting Premier of Victoria. A report of what the Minister Assisting the Prime Minister in the Arts,  Mr Tony  Staley, said, stated: 
The Government 's eventual aim should be to free the Gallery to make its own artistic decisions and that he did not believe the Government should presume to make artistic judgments when it had a distinguished Council and a Director of world renown. 
Amen to that, and I wish the Minister all the best. I only hope that somehow or other this Parliament can stop this. I am sure that we on this side of the chamber are prepared to say: 'Hands off any political point scoring on this issue'. In 1 98 1 the National Gallery will open in the magnificent new building now being constructed on the shores of Lake Burley Griffin at a cost of $26m. Let the Government set the amount of money for the Council to spend on art purchases and then let the politicians get out of its way and trust in its judgment. The quality of our National Gallery will be measured not by how many paintings it has but by how good are the paintings in it. 
-The speech by the honourable member for Diamond Valley  (Mr Brown)  was unique at least for one thing: It is the first time that I have heard any member from the Government side of the chamber admit that the unemployment which occurred when the Labor Party was in office was not totally the fault of the Labor Government. I commend him for that, if for nothing else. In many senses he made a good speech, although I disagree with him. It makes one wonder how a person of his ability is still on the back bench when so many lightweights are now on the front bench. 
I disagreed with him when he talked about the causes of unemployment. The topic of this discussion is 'The social and economic consequences of prolonged and increasing unemployment'. I want to take up with the honourable member the difference between the situation which existed during the period from 1972 and 1975 and the situation which exists now. During the period from 1972 to 1975, whilst unemployment did increase under the Labor Government it also increased quite dramatically all over the world. Let me cite a few figures: In France during that period unemployment rose from 394,000 to 1 ,0 1 5,000. It almost trebled and it has been static ever since. In West Germany it rose from 274,000 to 1,074,000; in Belgium it rose from 92,000 to 218,000; in the United Kingdom it rose from 611,000 to 1,274,000, and so on. Since then, however the level of unemployment has continued to rise in Australia whereas in the United States it has dropped by 1.6 per cent, in West Germany it has dropped by 0.4 per cent, and in the United Kingdom it has dropped by only 0.5 per cent. That is the difference between what has happened in Australia and what has happened in the rest of the world. 
Let me remind honourable members of the statements made by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  when he was making his policy speech on 27 November 1975. He said: 
Only under a Liberal-National Country Party Government will there be jobs for all who want them. 
The Treasurer  (Mr Lynch)  said: 
There will be a sustained drive to put Australians back to work and to create employment for thousands of school leavers who face the dole lines under the Whitlam policies. 
What a change there has been since those halcyon days of 1975 when the Government was swept into power! All these commitments and all the reasons for dismissing the Labor Government from office have gone by the board as unemployment has continued to rise. Let us consider a few figures. The Australian Bureau of Statistics figures indicate that at the end of August 355,000 people-5.7 per cent of the work force- were unemployed. That means that 60,700 more people were unemployed than at the same time last year. Of the young people between the ages of 15 and 19 years 1 18,200 are unemployed, representing 37.2 per cent of the total unemployed. This figure represents 16.7 per cent of this age group, of which 37,000 are still looking for their first job. 
The Commonwealth Employment Service figures show that 333,978 people are unemployed, or 5.4 per cent of the work force. Whichever way we look at it, that figure is high and it is higher than it was before. Honourable members should remember that young people under the age of 21 years make up only 12 per cent of the work force yet they constitute 36.2 per cent of total unemployed. A further 90,000 young people will be looking for work at the end of the current school year. 
Obviously the policies of the present Government are doing nothing to cure the problem of unemployment. In fact, they are compounding it. The Government could and should adopt measures to alleviate the employment problem. Instead it is diverting attention from this overriding problem by feeding speculation about an early election. If the experts are right, if the Reserve Bank and the economists are right, if Professor Warren Hogan, the Liberal Party's economic adviser, is right, we can expect the unemployment level to reach between 400,000 and 450,000, or 7 per cent of the work force, this financial year. So much for the present Government's pre-election promise to reduce unemployment to 1.5 per cent. 
This Government has reached a new high in its attempt to deceive the Australian people. Having totally failed to fulfil the promise it made to cure inflation and despite all the lies now being told about how the Government has reduced inflation, the latest consumer price index increase of 13.4 per cent is only 0.2 per cent below the increase at the end of 1975 when the Government came to office. Having the dubious honour of seeing unemployment rise to the highest level since the Depression the Government is now proceeding to change the method of measuring both of these indicators. If it cannot win by doing anything, it changes the rules by which we measure unemployment and inflation. We now have no seasonally adjusted figures. Because they would be embarrassing to the Government they have been abolished. We have a new thing by which to measure inflation called an implicit price deflator. It sounds almost pornographic. Nobody had heard of it a few weeks ago and suddenly it is a new measure because it makes inflation look good. Now the Government is attempting to abolish the Commonwealth Employment Service statistics and instead use the Bureau of Statistics because they will make unemployment figures look more favourable. If there is to be an election, the figures will be delayed until after the election so that they will not embarrass the Government. 
The honourable member for Diamond Valley said that we had done nothing about looking at causes. I made the suggestion to the Prime Minister in the opening week of this session that we set up a select committee of the Parliament to look at job creation schemes and at the problems of youth unemployment, the committee to report back to the Parliament quickly. He said that it was an interesting idea but nothing has come of it. We have made an offer, I will not say in a bipartisan way but in a united way, to help solve the real human problems that occur with unemployment. My colleague the honourable member ibr Gellibrand  (Mr Willis)  made some reference to various mental health authorities in Victoria and I would like to refer to those details again because they are worth repeating. A study conducted by the Victorian Mental Health Authority in Ballarat and Dandenong in 1975 found that the rate of attempted suicide among the employed was very high in both areas. In Ballarat it was more than 12 times the average rate among unemployed and in Dandenong seven dmes the average rate for the area as a whole. The findings of this study are similar to those of other studies conducted in Australia and overseas which have concluded that unemployment can lead to severe mental and physical illness and can be a major cause of death. As unemployment increases, so do the rates of mental illness, suicide, heart disease, death from ulcers and infectious diseases and infant, maternal and foetal deaths according to a social historian at the New South Wales Institute of Technology,  Mr Keith  Windschuttle. Also unemployment has been found to be the cause of or a significant factor in many cases of marital breakdown, domestic violence and emotional disturbances in the young. 
We must recognise that unemployment is our worst social problem. The young and the inexperienced have been particularly badly affected by the current labour market situation. Unemployment amongst the young is unacceptably high and is likely to stay that way unless the Government takes positive action to alleviate the situation. The transition from school to regular employment is an especially critical time. So many of us are so far away from our school days that we have forgotten what a scary time it can be between 17 and 18 years of age faced with the prospect of going out into the world, having to start a new job, a new life, a new career away from the security of family and parents, having to perform in a quite different way from the way we performed at school. We have forgotten what a traumatic experience that is for young people. But how much worse must it be if they find, when uncertain of themselves as adults, that they cannot get a job. If they cannot get a job for a few weeks that is not such a problem but when it comes to months or years is it any wonder that they lose confidence in themselves and possibly turn to taking drugs as a form of relief or to a complete escape by way of suicide? It is no wonder that they are in a serious situation. Some of us are so far removed from that period that we have forgotten what it can be like. There has been no move by the Government to introduce local employment schemes. I have not time to go through them but there have been many suggestions made from this side of the House and it was quite unfair of the honourable member for Diamond Valley to say that they had all been just a matter of spending money. Obviously some money will be involved but, with the help of the former Minister for Labour, the best Minister for Labour we have ever had, the Opposition has put forward some very good suggestions to the Government. 
-In past years there has been a continuing growth in Federal legislation aimed at providing an ever widening range of community facilities in health, welfare, sport, cultural and recreational areas. Tonight I want to talk about a program that the Australian Labor Party has developed, which we call our community development program, which loosely brings in a number of pieces of legislation which now cover this area. I will name just a few of them: The States Grants (Home Care) Act, the sport and recreation grants, the area improvement program, child care and preschool services, hospital and health services, community arts, the Regional Employment Development scheme and the Australian Assistance Plan. I realise that some of these are not covered specifically in the estimates we are talking about tonight. However, they are relevant because they were covered in the Bailey report, particularly under that section of the report relating to community assistance and recreation programs, or what is known as CARP. 
The Bailey report has caused the Labor Party considerable concern. In fact, it has caused a number of people in the community considerable concern. In effect, what it does is suggest the withdrawal of Commonwealth involvement in most of these areas and the handing over of the responsibility to the States. We believe that that would be disastrous. With due respect to our colleagues in the States, they have a record of spending taxpayers' money in areas where it can do them the most political good rather than in areas of the greatest need. Whilst I may be critical of things that the Commonwealth has done over the years, including past Liberal governments, I think it is fair to say that Commonwealth governments in the past have been less likely to pork barrel than State governments, who are quite unashamedly pork barrellers in the way in which they hand out funds. That situation is not restricted to Liberal governments; it happens on both sides. I think that is one of the reasons why the Labor Party will oppose quite strongly the recommendations in the Bailey report to hand these matters over to the States. 
I make it clear at the outset that the program we have suggested does not attempt to prescribe specific services that should be provided through these programs. Our basic aim is to ensure that there is greater flexibility in the provision of community amenities and that maximum value is obtained for the taxpayers' dollar. There is evidence that, due to the variety of State and Federal departments administering different legislation, the opportunity to cut costs by combining many of these facilities into one or two multipurpose centres has not been available. I am thinking now of all the funds that are made available through the various programs. For example, if a community decides that it requires a health centre, a senior citizens centre and perhaps a pre-school kindergarten, which can easily be built in the one complex, administrative problems make such a proposition difficult, if not impossible, despite the obvious advantages of having that section of the community most in need of health care within easy access of health facilities. There is obviously a limit to the number of community facilities and services that can be provided in one complex. There is also a limit to the funds governments are prepared to make available in one area of public spending. We propose that there should be more multipurpose centres which would cut costs significantly while at the same time ensuring more efficient use of the limited resources available. 
It is essential that two factors be given top priority in the future provision of these facilities. 
Firstly, facilities should be provided to communities in the order of greatest need. Secondly, legislation should be provided so that when the need for a range of facilities is identified there is provision for them to be included in a multipurpose centre or complex. I found when we were in government that it was impossible to get the different departments of government to combine in providing one project in which three or four things could be incorporated. They would say that it was impossible and that the easiest thing to do was to build each one separately. That might mean simpler administration for the Government. It might be easier to work it out in that way, but in terms of the taxpayers' dollar it is clearly a waste. There is no formula in the Bailey report for assessing local needs, and if we are to avoid the trap of channelling limited funds into areas because of the ability of the people of that area to work the system, then we are going to face a considerable amount of injustice in the way in which funds are spent. 
Obviously there has to be some objective assessment of the relative needs of an area to improve the social environment and the opportunities of its citizens. A similar situation arose when the assessment of needs in education expenditure was considered by the Whitlam Government. The solution was the Schools Commission, which offers a model for determining priority areas of need in a community development program. The Schools Commission set out the desirable level of educational standards and where the areas of greatest deficiencies were, and then drew up a scale of funding that would ensure maximum expenditure in the areas of greatest need. There was a right of appeal for schools which felt that they had been placed in an unjust position on that scale. 
What is happening in our community is that the most articulate groups are able to find out quickly about existing legislation, take advantage of it and get in and avail themsleves of the grants. The less articulate groups miss out. That is not a criticism; it is a natural thing to happen. The Government has a responsibility to make sure that the funds which are available go first to the areas of greatest need. I think we need a "body, not necessarily a commission, to assess on a regional basis the needs of areas and to grade communities as I suggested the Schools Commission did. 
I shall give an example of what I mean. There are two bases for assessing these needs. One is the straight socio-economic basis. Obviously there are poorer areas and wealthier areas. The second basis applies to new developing areas in which there is a need for funds for water, sewerage, drainage, roads- a basic infrastructure. This would apply to areas such as the outer urban areas of Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane and so on. Those areas are not able to provide such facilities as sport and recreation facilities, libraries, community arts programs and health centres because they are still building their basic infrastructure. Therefore, we have two methods of grading communities in their capacity to provide funds for new facilities. 
We suggest that these areas should be graded on a one to ten basis. Instead of what we have now, which is either matching grants on a basis of two for one or three for one or a dollar for dollar basis or a per capita grant, we would provide funds for these facilities on a one to ten basis. Areas such as Redfern, Liverpool, or Coburg, or a deprived area or outer urban area such as my area in Gosford where there is a great need for an infrastructure, would fall within Category 1, Category 2 or Category 3 and would get 100 per cent or 90 per cent assistance. Other more affluent areas, such as Woollahra, Toorak and so on, would receive some funds but they would be graded at the bottom of the list in Category 9 or Category 10 and would receive 10 per cent or 20 per cent assistance. The Labor Party sees this as the only fair and just way in which to provide funds in the future. That is what we outlined in the community development program which  Senator Don  Grimes and I announced yesterday. 
There are one or two other things which I think governments can do but which they have not done in the past. I have found that when a community wanted to build, say, a health centre, a pre-school, a kindergarten or a youth centre and went to the Government for funds usually they engaged the services of a local inexperienced architect and he designed what was probably the first building he had ever designed for that area. I believe this causes a great deal of waste of funds because often what he designs is too big or too small. I could give some horrible examples of where a sum of $100,000 was wasted because something was built 18 inches too narrow, or it was found after it had been built that it did not have the right fire excapes because the architect had never built a community hall like that before, and the whole thing had to be done again. We need panels of advisers- not people telling these communities what to do but advising them so that if they want to do something they can go to the Government and get technical advice. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Martin)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
 It must be perfectly obvious to any businessman who has been listening to the previous  speaker,  the honourable member for Henty  (Mr Aldred),  that he has never had any experience in business at all. In fact, he is a defrocked public servant who has managed to find his way into this place. I suggest that after he loses his seat at the next election he might try his hand at business instead of getting onto the taxpayers' backs as he did for many years. Of the 350,000 businesses mentioned by the Treasurer  (Mr Lynch),  how many will be assisted by extending the charter of the Commonwealth Development Bank or by widening the activities of the Australian Industry Development Corporation? I venture to suggest very few. 
I venture to suggest further that those who will receive assistance are those businesses which are well established, soundly financed and which probably get adequate finance from existing sources. In other words, while I welcome any assistance of this nature, with the Government providing loans and equity to small business, as an excellent socialist measure, I suggest that the vast bulk of the 350,000 small businesses in Australia will miss out completely. The small businessmen of Australia are sick and tired of the performance of this Government. They are bitterly disappointed by the free enterprise slogans of the Liberal and Country parties which have provided them with nothing for the return they traditionally give at election time. 
I mentioned a defrocked public servant. At least he is not a snooty-nosed exlawyer like the honourable member for Canberra. 
The Government has provided small businessmen with nothing for the return which they gave at election time. The honourable member for Henty will be the second one out but the honourable member for Canberra is absolutely certain to lose his seat at the next election. I do not know why he bothers to try. There are very few who do not realise how dishonest were the vague promises made during the 1975 election campaign, that the return of a LiberalNational Country Party Government would ensure a return to the halcyon days of 1971 and 1973. The time has come for politicians to stop deliberately misleading the hundreds of thousands of people involved in small business by giving the impression that they intend to do something specific for them. At the moment they are perpetuating a cruel hoax by raising the hopes and then dashing those hopes when nothing eventuates. 
There are things that can be done and things that cannot and should not be done for small business. The Government should come clean and spell out its philosophy and then show, by action, its policy program so that small business will know what to expect from the Government. We do not want these pie in the sky promises which we received today and which we have been receiving from this Government for the last two years. There are many problems associated with providing assistance to small business. These need to be understood by everyone in Parliament and in the business community. The first problem is in defining exactly what we mean by 'small business'. Do we mean to assess the size of a business by the number of employees or the size of its turnover or profit? It can vary from a one man operation to a factory employing 100 or more people. Any definition of 'small' will be a subjective one. So definitions will and do vary enormously. 
Secondly, should a business be assisted simply because it is small? It might be small and highly profitable. Should we then assist only those businesses which are losing money? They might be losing money because they are grossly, or even marginally, inefficient or simply because the product they are producing is no longer in demand or because they cannot compete with overseas products for any one of a hundred reasons. The assumption that all businesses are well run is rubbish, although very few businessmen would know this or admit it to themselves, let alone to anybody else. We have to face the fact that there is as much variation in the quality of businessmen and their businesses as there is in the quality of people. 
Many people who go into business or take over the family business simply are not suited educationally, psychologically, intellectually or emotionally, to be in business. They should never have gone into business in the first place. In my 20 years in business I have struck many people who are excellent workers- good people- but they would have been far better off working for someone else. Are we to use taxpayers' money to prop up people who ought to get out of business? Are we to penalise the talented businessmen who is doing well by subsiding the inefficient businessman who cannot make a profit and who, if the free enterprise system is to work as its protagonists argue, ought to go under and make way for the more efficient? 
The whole essence of the market economy is that the strong will survive and the weak will go under so that what emerges are strong viable enterprises which provide the market with what it demands at the lowest possible price. If the Government believes in free enterprise as expounded by Adam Smith, Milton Friedman and John Singleton, why does it not say so and stop pulling the small businessman's leg? Is it because the Government's economic advisers know that in order for the free market economy to function efficiently a substantial number of small businesses must go under, but to say so would be political suicide? The Government knows that this is so and we know that it is so; why does the Government not admit that it is so? 
The statistics on small business are very vague, but I accept the figures that there are between 250,000 and 350,000 small businesses in Australia employing about two million people- 42 per cent of the work force. We can describe as small businesses 97 per cent of all manufacturers and 99 per cent of all retailers. It would be impossible to list in a speech the thousands of different types of businesses that are covered by these statistics. Some very positive contributions are made by small business, not the least of which is that almost 100 per cent of them are Australian owned. They also make an important contribution to innovations in products, techniques and services, and as such are a breeding ground for new industries. 
If there is competitiveness in business it is mainly in the small business sector where they serve as a check on monopoly profits and monopoly inefficiency. Small firms contribute to a variety of products and services offered because they are able to exist in a limited or specialised market which a large firm would not find worthwhile or economic. They are important also as specialist suppliers of parts, sub-assemblies and components for large companies as well as providing a productive outlet for enterprising people who prefer to be self employed. 
One can start to understand the problem of governments helping small business. The emphasis is on 'small' because that is what the debate is about, or at least that is what many small businessmen believe it to be about. It is certainly what Liberal and National Country Party members have encouraged them to believe. Of course, business- big, medium and small- must pick up if the economy begins to revive. That is primarily where the Government has failed. Governments can introduce and have introduced measures to help business, such as the 40 per cent investment allowance and the recommendations of the Mathews Committee of Inquiry into Inflation and Taxation regarding stock valuation adjustment. But these measures apply to all business and not just to small business. It is doubtful whether the investment allowance was of any value to anyone. In fact, it might well have harmed the employment opportunities for many people because under the scheme businesses purchased equipment that was labour saving. 
One can assist particular industries, the majority of which may be small. For example, one may decide that the nation is best served if a particular industry is protected by tariffs or subsidies or given export incentives simply because it is in the national interest to do so. Quite clearly this cannot be done for everyone because of the cost to the taxpayer and to the consumer, who will pay for it through higher taxes or higher prices. Besides, these forms of assistance would apply only to manufacturing and rural industries; they would have little relevance to the retailing or service sector. In fact, the previously mentioned measures which might help one small business might well hurt another small business. This is constantly forgotten by so called spokesmen for small business who are really arguing for a section of small business- for the industry in which they are personally involved. They equate their personal interest with the national interest. 
An increase in tariffs might delight a manufacturer, make life difficult for a retailer and send an importer to the wall, while sending up the costs of other manufacturers and of the rural sector. I will go along with some industries being given assistance if it can be proved that a particular industry is vital to Australia's future development, defence needs, large scale employment and a host of other factors, but already there is adequate machinery to argue their case to the Industries Assistance Commission. The Government can provide assistance, if it wishes, even if the IAC does not recommend aid. So the avenue for assistance is there for specific industries. 
I think the most important thing we must do in this Parliament is to understand why so many small businesses fail. Perhaps then we will be able to provide some sensible suggestions as to how they can be helped without raising their hopes with political rhetoric such as we have heard here today. Before we go into these failures, let me point out that even in very tough times many businesses do very well. In fact, the very good ones often do even better during a recession than they do during booms. Conscious that things are tough they become more efficient. They are more careful in watching their overheads, scrutinising every expenditure; they look for new markets; they introduce new technology; they take advantage of their opponents ' mistakes and troubles- cruel but in the best traditions of free enterprise. Finally, when the recession is over, they come back stronger than ever. 
Why do businesses fail? Sometimes it is for the very obvious reason that businessmen make bad decisions - they make mistakes. The vast majority of them start off in business without any training in running a business. They may have worked for someone else in that particular field, but few have had any formal training to enable them to cope with making the decisions which mark the difference between working in an industry and actually running a business in that industry. Most of them have no training in keeping a set of books. Few understand stock control, merchandising, store layout, advertising and promotion. The Minister at the table, the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Eric Robinson),  is one of the few Liberals who is genuinely a businessman. I believe he is a very good businessman. Most people who go into business lack the funds to employ - 
The honourable member who interjects has never been in business. If he would listen he might learn something. He knows nothing about business. Here is his chance to learn so that when we loses his seat he will have something to do. Most people who go into business lack the funds to employ someone who has the professional expertise to carry out feasibility studies or market research, and the decisions they make are often based upon gut feelings rather than upon any sound business judgment. Amongst the many hundreds of thousands of people who go into business on this basis there is a percentage who have what can be described as a 'feel' or an 'intuition'- they are naturals. They can see a business opportunity. They can assess the market, the likely demand, overheads, profits and return on their investment. They have sufficient skills, energy, finance and drive to succeed, and they do succeed. They will succeed irrespective of government assistance. 
How can we possibly legislate to assist people who make bad decisions? Businessmen and business women make incorrect judgments about location, about market demand or about the quantity of goods to manufacture or to purchase. There is no way in the world in which we can stop people from making these errors under a system which permits people to open up business whenever and wherever they like. In my view there are far too many small businesses in Australia competing for a very limited market. However, it is impossible in a democracy to restrict people who want to chance their hands in business and that is the way it should be. 
If we really want to assist small business the greatest room for improvement is in the area of training. That is the area in which Australia is grossly deficient. If a person wants to enter a trade or a profession a wide variety of courses is available to him through the universities, colleges of advanced education and colleges of technical and further education, but if someone wants to go into business the only way in which most people can gain experience is through trial and error. Small business courses do exist but they are minimal and are not given any status, nor is there widespread knowledge about their availability. 
How many hundreds of thousands of young people who leave school and who do not go into a trade or profession but who finish up in the retail trade receive any adequate training? Of course, you could not start training young people who are just out of school to run a business. It would probably be years before they had the practical experience and finance to be able to attempt a venture on their own. However, there is no reason a young person who is waiting to go into retailing could not go to college for a couple of years to learn the hundred and one skills required to fit him to be a businessman- salesmanship, marketing, merchandising, display, stock control and so on. As he gained experience, further management courses would be made available until he had the experience and knowledge to attempt to run his own business. 
In many of the countries where governments provide financial aid to small business, one of the requirements to qualify for assistance is that the businessman must show that he has had adequate training in his field of business. In other countries a person has to have qualifications just to be allowed to go into business. I do not believe that sort of measure would be acceptable to Australians. The principal way in which this Government can get small business moving is to get economy as a whole going- in other words, to do the opposite to what it has been doing. If the economy is reflated the good small businesses will survive, and that is what we hope will happen in the future. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Martin)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
-Will the Prime Minister inform the House whether his Government has exciting new legislation that will reduce or eliminate industrial disputes? If it has, will he explain how the Government suddenly discovered a formula that has eluded successive parliaments in Australia for more than 100 years? Will he explain whether these new revolutionary ideas require the endorsement of the Australian people? 
-I ask the Treasurer whether he is aware that insurance policies have had incorporated in them since 1966 a nuclear exclusion clause which reads: 
This policy does not cover claims of whatsoever nature, directly or indirectly caused by or arising from, or in consequence of or contributed to by- 
1 ) Nuclear weapons material. 
Ionising radiations or contaminations by radioactivity from any nuclear fuel or from any nuclear waste from the combustion of nuclear fuel. For the purpose of this exlusion only, combustion shall include any self-sustained process of nuclear fission. 
Does this indicate that insurance companies have some reservations about the possibility of nuclear disaster? Will the Government ensure that people's property and more importantly their lives are covered should a nuclear accident occur? 
I want to raise a matter that was brought to my attention in my electorate last Saturday night. My wife and I attended the 21st birthday party of a friend of ours. This matter was raised with me by accident rather than by design when we were discussing the difficulties of obtaining employment in the Central Coast area. I knew that the position there was very bad. I did not realise that the unemployment rate in the area was the highest in the State. In Wyong 1 9.4 per cent of the work force is registered as unemployed. In Gosford the number is about 10.9 per cent. The figure is about the sixth highest in the State. 
-I am trying to get rid of the mugs who sit on that side of the House so that we can get a government that will do something about the position. 
-If you would contain yourself, Yap Yap, as you are affectionately known, I could get on with the job of putting this case. The young lady concerned had just lost her job. She had obtained another job, for two days a week. She was very concerned - 
-You should take some interest in the problems of the unemployed. Very shortly you will be one of them, and you will know what it is like. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Lucock)Order! The honourable member for St George will remain silent. 
-Thank you for your protection,  Mr Deputy Speaker. 
-I do not need protection from you at any time. 

 -Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Social Security, upon notice, on 25 October 1977: 
What would be the annual cost of increasing the rent allowance for pensioners to $ 10 per week. 
I direct a question to the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development. Has his Department been consulted in the recent negotiations by trade officials to lift the ban on the importation of kangaroo skins into the United States? If so, what was the view expressed by his Department? 
-There seems to be emerging amongst Government supporters a tactic that the simple solution to our economic problems is to keep telling people how much better things are getting and how much they will improve, and that that is all that needs to be done. A little more than two years ago the Liberals came to office with a massive majority, wedded to the philosophy that if inflation could be slashed and public sector spending cut to ribbons, then the private sector would take up that slack and prosperity for all would return. The nation was told over and over again that the fault lay with 'Labor's profligate spending' and if that could be ended and the money thus saved put back into the hands of the taxpayer, then all would be well. World economic conditions, we were told, had nothing to do with the recession that occurred during 1974-75. 
The general election of last year was held because the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  was told by his economic advisers, when it looked as if he would be forced to have an election in May of this year, that things would be worse than ever and that he would have great difficulty in convincing the Australian electorate that his economic policies were working. Since the election, we have seen the Press wage a campaign aimed at talking up the economy. One survey after another has been released to prove that people thought things would get better. If anyone, particularly members of the Opposition, suggested that there were a few unanswered questions about where we were going, then they were regarded as something akin to traitors. If there were any faltering in our surge towards the new boom, it was the fault of the Labor Party, the trade unions, the dole bludgers, women who wanted to work, importers, the European Economic Community, Japan and the United States, the lavatory attendant at Parliament House and the Easter Bunny- everyone, it seems, but the Prime Minister and the Liberal-National Country Party coalition. 
There has been a slight reduction in the rate of inflation from 13 per cent to 9 per cent; although some of it is undoubtedly due to a slowdown in the overseas rate of inflation. There have been tax cuts, but they have found their way into the pockets of the rich and the well-off. The less affluent section of the community will be clearly worse off after the proposed rises in health fund premiums come into effect. It is interesting to note the about-face by the media which, during the election campaign, headlined the Prime Minister's claims that a man on $200 a week with a wife and two children would gain $6 a week and which, a few weeks ago when the tax cuts came into effect, provided printed tables showing that the gains would be $3 a week. 
Those are the few pluses for the Government. Now let us look at the other side of the coin. The number of unemployed has risen from 265,567 in November 1975 to 445,300 in January 1978, or 7.2 per cent of the work force. The Prime Minister claims that the rate of unemployment will drop from February onwards. Now that the Government has abolished seasonally adjusted figures, the Prime Minister plays a delightful little game. When the number of unemployed rises in December, January and February, he says that it is the fault of the school leavers; when the number drops in March it is because of the Government's economic policies. Each time the unemployment rate has fallen it has not fallen below its previous pre-Christmas peak, with the result that each year the underlying rate is higher. 
An interesting sidelight to the debate about unemployment is that on the one hand Government supporters are claiming that Labor caused unemployment by cutting tariffs by 25 per cent in 1973, and on the other hand the Prime Minister and the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  are using the 25 per cent tariff cut as evidence, when arguing with overseas trade delegates, that we are not practising protection. They want the best of both worlds. The reliability of surveys indicating a rise in production can be gauged by the information released last Friday week, which showed that of the 3 1 key indicators in manufactured items for which seasonally adjusted statistics are available, 19 were lower than in January 1 977- and 1977 was one hell of a year. 
There is a strange contradiction in our Prime Minister's free enterprise philosophy. It does not extend to allowing Australia's industries to compete with overseas industries. In recent months a number of Australian industries have been protected by the most monumentally high tariff walls in our history- tariffs way in excess of those applying in any other country. At the same time, the Prime Minister has the gall to attack the European Economic Community, Japan and the United States for doing the same thing to protect their own producers. I do not intend to get into a discussion about the merit of free trade or protection. I simply illustrate the hypocrisy of accusing other countries of being protectionist when Australia is the arch protectionist of them all. 
What fascinates me is that the Government will go to any length to protect industries where it is patently obvious that they have little chance of viability without massive tariff protection, yet it does little or nothing to encourage those industries where growth is guaranteed and where Australia could successfully compete with overseas countries. I refer in particular to the tourist industry, which surely must wonder what it has to do to get any assistance from this Government. It is probably impossible to find an industry which has had such a remarkable growth or such an assured future. The World Tourist Organisation has estimated that world-wide travel expenditure on tourism in 1976 was SUS250 billion. Australia, largely due to the neglect of the Liberals, has slipped behind in the race to acquire its share of the tourist dollar. Expenditure by travellers in the Pacific and South East Asia in 1976 was $US5.8 billion. Australia's share was less than 10 per cent of that total and less than one per cent of the world total. 
The argument against helping the industry is that Australia does not really need to worry about the fact that we have a substantial and growing deficit in tourism because we have a trade surplus in a number of other areas. This attitude, expressed by Treasury officials when giving evidence before the House of Representatives Select Committee on Tourism, seemed to me to ignore the fact that we are having increasing difficulties in selling our traditional products overseas. It also ignores the fact that as the rural, mining and manufacturing sectors become less labour intensive, there is a need to create more and more job opportunities in the service sector. There is also mounting evidence that consumers are opting to spend more and more of their surplus savings on leisure and travel rather than on consumer durables. 
Tourism is particularly attractive in coping with unemployment because it is a labourintensive industry. It provides employment directly through accommodation, entertainment, travel agencies and transport operators, and indirectly through retail sales, construction and a myriad of service industries. Women, migrants and the unskilled are the major beneficiaries. 
As a large number of our major tourist attractions are well away from the capital cities, few industries can aid decentralisation more than tourism. The industry is a clean one and if carefully planned and organised can be a factor in preserving our heritage and our environment. It is in the industry's long term interest to see that our heritage, our wildlife, our scenic attractions and our foreshores are not despoiled or polluted either by tourism or any other industry. 
The tourist industry has had enormous problems, particularly in defining itself. Because of the wide variety of people who are in one way or the other involved in tourism, it has had a problem in presenting to the Government evidence of its contribution to the economy. Treasury argues that the tourist dollar is merely a transference of a dollar from one part of the nation to another. It may be that some portion of the internal tourist dollar is transferable expenditure, but it ought to be obvious even to biased Treasury officials that the international visitor represents a 100c in the dollar gain to Australia. So also does the Australian who prefers to travel inside his own country rather than travelling overseas. 
One of the major tasks now being attempted by the Australian National Travel Association is to provide evidence of the job creating nature of tourism. A simple question which should be asked of the Treasury officials is this: What would happen to hotels, motels, travel agents, tour operators, restaurants, cafes and clubs, civil aviation, shipping, railways, buses, taxis, car hire firms, coach firms, entertainers, sporting facilities and other allied tourist enterprises, including the clothing, footwear, handicraft industries and so on, if tomorrow every Australian decided to stay at home and not to go on vacation for a year? Pigram and Cooper, in their report to the Select Committee, entitled 'The Economic Significance of Tourism to Australia ', had this to say:  . . . the Treasury argument fails to appreciate that tourism and travel are often financed from savings that might otherwise remain unspent. In technical terms, tourism, by creating new opportunities to spend, can provide a stimulus to the community's marginal prosperity to consume, rather than save. This expenditure is not all together a transfer of normal spending patterns, but to a considerable degree reflects the generation of 'abnormal consumption' and thus not additional expenditure in the economic system. 
In the same paper evidence was presented from Canadian research that tourism creates in that country approximately 320,000 jobs directly and more than half that number again indirectly. 
I have been referring only to the economic benefits of tourism, but what of the benefits to the health, welfare and education of our people, not to mention the goodwill and understanding gained from international visitations. The Australian Parliament has been talking about tourism for more than a decade, and during that period, with the exception of the time when the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Stewart)  was the responsible Minister, it has done little or nothing about it. When we were in government the Australian Tourist Commission was at last given a decent budget to promote Australia overseas and to encourage Australians to see their  own country first. Funds were made available for the development of tourist attractions such as Sovereign Hill, Old Sydney Town and Lachlan Village, just to mention a few. Things were starting to happen- not enough, I grant you, but at least it was a start after years of talk. 
At the time of the 1975 election a then shadow Minister for the Liberal Party,  Senator Rae,  promised that the Liberals, if elected, would do better.  Senator Rae  got the sack and the Prime Minister then proceeded to cut back on the little that was being done. None of  Senator Rae's  promises were fulfilled. The ATC had its budget slashed and grants to heritage attractions were stopped. The only action taken by the Liberals in the interests of the industry was the setting up of the Select Committee, and that was as a result of some questions I asked the Prime Minister. The establishment of the Committee was a good move, but, in itself, it achieves nothing. The litmus test for the Government will be whether it will act on the Committee's recommendations. The Committee is an excellent one, with a first class group of members from both sides of the House included in its membership. It is keen; it has worked hard; it is knowledgeable; and I believe it is realistic in that the Committee does not see itself as a fairy godmother to the tourist industry but as a group of politicians who have the vision to see the potential in tourism if a few significant changes are made and the Government indicates that it is taking the industry seriously and will give it a little help and a little encouragement. 
Of course, we realise that if we had unlimited funds we could create a boom in industry, but that would be unfair to the taxpayer and unfair to the industry itself. An industry which needs massive government aid does not deserve to survive. The Select Committee made a number of modest recommendations, which I seek leave to have incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The recommendations read as follows- 

-I thank the House and the Minister. Of those 17 recommendations, I understand that the Government intends to adopt three- recommendation No. 4 dealing with the registration of travel agents, recommendation No. 8 enabling the provision of small business finance through the Australian Industry Development Corporation to include the tourist industry, and recommendation No. 13 providing for the upgrading of Brisbane Airport. Of the other recommendations, five, in my view, are absolutely essential if the Government is to be taken seriously by the tourist industry, and vice versa. 
Recommendation No. 2 provides for a matching $2m grant over two years to the Australian National Travel Association for the promotion of domestic tourism. In simple terms, it would be a joint promotional effort by the Australian Government and the industry to urge Australians to 'see Australia first'. Recommendation No. 5 will cost the taxpayer nothing to implement. It urges the Government to play a leading role in getting the States and Territories together to ensure that we have staggered school holidays. That does happen to a degree now, but there is still an absurd amount of overlapping which results in the same limited amount of facilities being overtaxed during May, September and January. A little co-operation ought to result in school holidays being spread over the months of April, May and August, September and December, and January and February. The result should be cheaper accommodation for tourists and more profitability for the industry. Recommendation No. 5 highlights the training needs of the tourist industry and the need to upgrade the quality of service. 
Recommendation No. 10 deals with an area which the Labor Party feels is essential in the revitalisation of the accommodation sector. Because of quick changes in fashion, hotels, motels and other income producing buildings associated with tourism have a relatively short life- approximately 25 to 40 years- in comparison with office buildings and factories. The hotel which was the height of fashion a few years ago loses its appeal and has to be replaced. To encourage entrepreneurs regularly to update their facilities, thus enabling them to compete with overseas accommodation, the Committee has recommended that the Government introduce a depreciation allowance on tourist buildings. 
Recommendation No. 12 deals with regional routes for domestic airlines. In my view, it is an innovation which should cost the Government nothing to implement and which should lead to increased profitability for our own domestic airlines. It could be the great breakthrough that could lead to major development in at least two of Australia's greatest international attractionsthe Centre and the Great Barrier Reef. The present domestic two airline policy provides for Ansett Airlines of Australia and Trans-Australia Airlines to provide all the interstate civil aviation services. Qantas Airways Limited provides the international services. The result is that Qantas can fly to New Zealand, Noumea, Fiji, New Guinea, Singapore, Bali and so on and can arrange any number of these destinations in a package deal. However, Qantas is prohibited from flying to Alice Springs or to the Great Barrier Reef or to Hobart. On the other hand, the domestic airlines have access to all the internal destinations but cannot fly to any of the countries situated close to Australia. 
If, for example, any of the three airlines wanted to package a three week holiday which included Alice Springs, Ayers Rock, Singapore, Bali, New Guinea and the Great Barrier Reef, they would be unable to do so. Similarly, if they wanted a package which included New Zealand, Tasmania, Melbourne and Sydney, that could not be done either. It is quite impossible to have a mix of international and domestic travel. The situation is absolutely absurd. One has to choose between one or the other. When Australians realise that the cost of an economy class air fare from Sydney to Ayers Rock is $252, that the air fare from Sydney to Cairns is $302, and that they can have an eight day package deal to Fiji, including accommodation, for $397 or an eight day package to Noumea for $305, it is not surprising that they choose the more exotic international trip. Even packages to Brampton Island at $391 for eight days are more expensive than the package deals I mentioned earlier. I believe that Australians would jump at the opportunity to include in an overseas trip a visit to some part of Australia that they may not opt to visit on its own. 
Another major benefit of regionalising flying for Australia's airlines would be that gained by international visitors. At the moment if a couple fly into Sydney and want to visit the Barrier Reef they are faced with an extra charge of $600, plus the cost of accommodation, just to get to Cairns. That added burden, on top of an outlay of at least $2,000 to get to Australia, is just too much. How much better it would be if they could transfer at Fiji or Noumea to a smaller jet belonging to TAA or Ansett and fly direct to the Barrier Reef for a few days and then on to Sydney, Canberra, Adelaide, Alice Springs, and then on to 
Bali where they could resume their trip by larger jet. It is essential that we implement recommendation No. 12 if we are to reduce the $300m travel gap that exists because Australians prefer to travel outside Australia and if we are to encourage more international visitors to see Australia 's greatest tourist attractions. 
There are two other particular matters which I want to put to the Government and which have not yet been dealt with by the Committee. If Australia is to develop its major tourist attractions, particularly those for which it is internationally famous, funds must be provided as they are in many other countries to develop selected areas. I speak specifically of the Barrier Reef and Ayers Rock. The establishment of international standard accommodation can be achieved only if governments assist with infrastructure costs. Enormously expensive capital costs are associated with building in these wilderness areas. 
The Government has a lot to answer for to the tourist industry for dismantling the plans of the Whitlam Government to develop the Ayers Rock-Mount Olga area. The present situation there is absolutely disgraceful. Superb proposals put forward in 1969 by the consultants Harris, Kerr and Forster were being implemented by the Labor Government in 1975 when the Liberals were returned to office. The proposals were immediately abandoned. Similar proposals were prepared for the Barrier Reef and were promptly pigeon-holed. Australia must do something to upgrade its world class attractions, and this can be done only by government action. 
Finally, we must continue to fund a limited number of man-made attractions such as those I mentioned earlier that depict various aspects of Australia's heritage. I refer to Old Sydney Town, Sovereign Hill, Swan Hill, Lachlan Village, the Western Zoo at Dubbo and a number of others. I am not excluding any on purpose. No doubt honourable members know of many similar attractions. I have not the time to include all of them in my remarks. Time, unfortunately, does not permit me to dwell on many other aspects of tourism that I hope to cover in the future. If this Government is serious about tourism the least it can do is implement the minor proposals I have suggested today. Many of the suggestions would not be expensive to adopt. They simply demand government action and administrative decision. A decision concerning the airlines would cost us nothing at all. Most of the other suggestions could be adopted at minimal cost. We hear a lot of talk about tourism. It is up to the Government to start to take it seriously and do something concrete about it. 
-The Minister for National Development  (Mr Newman)  seems to be confused on the question of what is the subject under debate. He confused ad hoc decisions that have been made, the flogging off of Australia's resources, with what we are asking about; that is, an energy policy. I think he gave himself away in the last few minutes of his speech when he said that this country will have an energy policy. Maybe it will have, but it has not got - 
Yes, the Minister corrected himself quickly. The Government has had over two years in which to implement its energy policy, and it has done nothing. All we hear are truisms about the need to develop alternative energy sources and the need to introduce energy conservation measures. But nothing happens. Australia needs a coherent, integrated energy policy and needs it now. The Carter Administration implemented a comprehensive energy policy within four or five months of gaining office. The Fraser Government, at least in practice, has adopted the mistaken attitude that all is fine on the energy front- we will just export our coal and uranium and import oil. Such complacency is appalling in view of the experience of other developed countries such as the United States of America, which was once regarded as being energy rich. 
The establishment of a national energy authority responsible for co-ordinating research and development has been recommended by numerous bodies reporting to the Government, including the Senate Standing Committee on National Resources and the National Energy Advisory Committee. But where is this authority? The silence from Canberra is deafening. The Government has done little to promote alternative energy research. The use of solar energy has great proven potential for Australia both for domestic use and for export. But the Government has chosen to ignore solar energy research despite the certain knowledge that our oil supplies will be virtually exhausted in 15 years. We will then face an oil import bill exceeding $2, 500m a year. 
At the moment solar energy research is fragmented, piecemeal and poorly funded. The major recipient of federal solar energy funds is the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation which in 1976-77 operated on a budget for solar research of approximately $ 1.27m. Under the Australian Research Grants scheme funds for solar research total $150,000. The figure has been increased to only $249,950 for 1978. The Universities Commission was allocated $180,000 in 1976 for solar research. In comparison with federal expenditure on nuclear energy research, for example, funding of solar energy research is scandalously inadequate. The Atomic Energy Commission spent over $19m on research in 1976-77. The United States Government spent more than $300m on solar research last year. One doubts that the Fraser Government is seriously concerned about our dwindling supplies of conventional energy sources. If the current attitude of this Government continues predictions that solar and wind energy will be uneconomical for the rest of the century and beyond will probably turn out to come true- a self-fulfilling prophecy. 
Over 20 years ago CSIRO was an international leader in the field of solar energy application. It had developed the important, attractive technology for water heating using flat plate collectors. The potential of this industry has been shockingly neglected. The State governments have taken a lead in promoting solar research and development, largely in response to the Federal Government's inactivity and lack of concern. The New South Wales Government made a grant of over $lm to the Science Foundation for Physics at the University of Sydney for research into solar energy. A major breakthrough was in danger of being lost overseas because of the Federal Government's lack of interest before the State Government picked up the tab. Last year the New South Wales Government announced subsidies to farmers who switched to solar power. With the help of Premier Wran, Sydney University Professor Harry Messel has acquired an Arabian loan of $ 1.08m to finance the University's major solar energy research project which was jeopardised by lack of funds. As  Dr Swindell,  lecturer in science at Mount Gravatt College of Advanced Education, said in a letter to the  Australian  of 5 November 1977: 
It must be embarrassing to the Minister for National Resources,  Mr Anthony,  and  Senator Webster,  that many of the States have financial commitments to solar energy which indicate a far more visionary understanding of the impending global energy crisis than has been displayed by the present Government. 
The essential role of private industry has been totally ignored by the Federal Government. These are the people best geared to link innovation to the final marketable product. A Sydney businessman,  Mr Kevin  Chilman, has recently won a contract to sell a solar-powered, prefabricated house to Saudi Arabia against a huge German company, Dornier, and a huge French company. He stated recently 
I've been asking the Federal Government for months to give funds to research and develop some of this key equipment, but without any success. Unless we hurry, our three years lead in solar power will disappear overnight ... It would be tragic if Australia, a potentially very lucrative market, failed because of lack of Government aid. 
There is a strong argument for increasing rather than reducing research and development spending at a time of recession if it is accepted that a nation's international competitiveness is assisted by leadership in science and technology. One of the problems we are creating for the future is that the more we become committed to existing forms of energy the more difficult it will be to change in the future. The argument will be that as we have this or that form of investment, it will be wasteful or uneconomical to switch to another form. We can see already the enormous political muscle of the uranium miners and the way they weighed in with advertising and funds to the Liberal Party during the recent election. It would be interesting to contemplate the debate in Australia about future energy resources if General Motors or Westinghouse had hundreds of millions of dollars invested in solar energy. 
The Government has failed to implement an energy conservation program. Its only significant measure in this area has been to raise the price of local crude oil to world parity. But increased prices are unlikely to lead to any marked reduction in consumption where viable alternatives are not readily available. It will merely result in people spending more of their money on petrol to the detriment of the economy. And, according to the Industries Assistance Commission report on crude oil pricing, import parity pricing is unlikely to stimulate exploration expenditure for new oil. Even if sizable oilfields were discovered and brought into operation in the next few years, the gap between production and consumption would continue to widen alarmingly, given the rapidly increasing level of demand. Oil in the future will be expensive, available from a declining supply and controlled by a concentrated bloc, conscious of its power over the industrial economy increasingly dependent on liquid fuel for its survival. The Government should be initiating a national program to educate the public in energy conservation. We have been far too complacent about energy prospects for the future, largely because we have been cushioned from the crises affecting other developed countries by our Bass Strait oil supplies. But known reserves are now at the peak of production so we will shortly have to come to terms with the worsening situation, and the sooner the better. 
The Government, as has been said before, should be encouraging the use of more efficient cars as well as conversion to liquefied petroleum gas fuelled vehicles. At present most of our LPG is being exported to Japan despite the fact that its usage here would represent a saving in energy purchases from overseas, savings in currency, employment of Australians and less dependence on foreign prices. The United States has proposed tax deductions of up to $400 for householders who install approved solar heating appliances. Nuclear technology in the United States has had 25 years intensive development under enormous government subsidy to reach the point where it can build commercially viable reactors to produce electricity which is anyway competitive in an economic sense, whereas solar energy has, with only a few years subsidy, at a fraction of that provided by the government for nuclear technology, improved from its position of a little over a decade ago where it was thought capable of fulfilling only a few per cent of energy requirements, at 10 times the cost, to the stage where it can now clearly produce the major proportion of heating requirements at costs which are competitive and may soon fall below the costs of electrical heating. 
The Government has been tentative and equivocal about making a commitment to a program of energy conservation. Last September, the Minister for National Resources welcomed the mild proposals on energy conservation made by its National Energy Advisory Committee. But, less than two months later, the same Minister maintained in the Parliament that the continued use of large and increasing quantities of energy' was essential for Australia's economic wellbeing. He, and his successor in energy matters, the Minister for National Development, cannot have it both ways. If the Government is serious about this matter it will act. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Martin)Before calling the honourable member for Kalgoorlie I call on the Minister for National Development who wants to make a correction to something he said earlier. 
-On Sunday morning as the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden),  the honourable member for Werriwa  (Mr E. G. Whitlam),  the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  and I made our way towards Sydney to celebrate the 100th anniversary of the Central Synagogue, the Great Synagogue of Sydney, I learned of one of the most horrifying, vicious, brutal, senseless massacres that I think this country or any other country has ever heard of. I refer of course to the murder of the 37 Israelis by 11 Palestinian terrorists who came ashore between Netanya and Hertzliyya on the Haifa Road. I cannot for the life of me understand what objective they had in mind in murdering innocent men, women and children. It is said that the objective is to wreck the peace talks now taking place between Egypt and Israel. I was one of those, probably along with every other member in this House, who welcomed the initiatives taken by  President  Sadat of Egypt. We were delighted, even though we recognised that there were enormous problems ahead, that at long last the Arabs and the Israelis were going to sit down together. If the Palestinians believe they they will weaken the Israelis resolve, then I suggest that they seriously underestimate the people with whom they are dealing. 
It is said that they are trying to teach the Israelis a lesson for their arrogance. Well, I do not know what the outcome will be, but I suggest that it will be neither of these things. If anything, I believe it will strengthen their resolve and the result will be, regrettably, massive retaliation which in turn will result in possibly hundreds, though hopefully not, of innocent Palestinian men, women and children being killed. The philosophy of the Israelis has been that when Israelis are killed in a senseless way they will retaliate. I suppose one could understand if the Palestinians were to attack military objectives. It is a war situation in that region. I suppose that soldiers and military targets are reasonable objectives but senseless killing just goes on. Bombs are exploded in plazas and school children are killed as they were in places like Kiryat Shimona and Maalot. This has gone on year in year out for the last 30 years. I think it has repulsed the whole world, and it does nothing whatsoever to help the cause of the Palestinians. It only stiffens the resolve of the Israelis to carry on. I have no doubt, and I do not think anybody in this House or in the world has any doubt, that there will be retaliation. Hopefully there will be retaliation against military targets, against the guerrillas themselves but not against the children. Those honourable members who are familiar with the Middle East situation will know that it has been the practice of Palestinians to have their guerrilla hideouts in villages so that when the Israelis retaliate they hit villages with the result that women and children are killed. The most sickening part of the whole incident was the sight of the spokesman for the Organisation for the Liberation of Palestine- PLO- being interviewed on television and saying to the world that they had killed soldiers, they had hit military objects. This might be a lesson to those people- there are many in politics today- who are sucked in by Palestinian propaganda, a good deal of which is terribly deceitful, terribly dishonest. The Palestinians have been able to get away with this sort of thing by dressing it up with some pseudo academic appearance to give it some - 
Yes, to give it some respectability and putting the propaganda over as fact, history and truth. This is the sort of thing that is said. Here was this man saying that they had killed Israeli soldiers and they had hit military objects. This is a warning, I say, to those people who are unfortunately taken in by much of the Palestinian propaganda. I suggest that this whole House ought to condemn, and I believe would condemn, this horrifying action. We express our sympathy to those in Israel who have lost kin. 
I ask the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs: Is he aware of the fortunes, running into hundreds of thousands of dollars- some suggest millions of dollars- now being made by former importers of clothing, footwear and textiles who, because they imported large quantities during the past few years, have been allocated tariff quotas which now they are able to sell? Is he also aware that these are the very people who created the need to establish quotas in that period by importing large quantities of cheap goods from low cost labour countries? Is he further aware that, because of the moving base for the establishment of future quotas, these people will remain a privileged elite, able to make fortunes without any effort, forcing up prices and denying access to import quotas to genuine traders? 
-While I share the concern of the honourable member for Holt  (Mr Yates)  about the hostilities that have erupted in the Middle East as a result of the senseless murder of 37 Israelis last Saturday, at this stage I doubt that the lives of Australian nationals are seriously threatened. It would appear that the action taken by Israel has been confined to the southern portion of Lebanon where I would imagine there are few Australians. No one can tell, in an explosive area like the Middle East, whether the situation will escalate. I suspect that it will not and that the Israelis will withdraw fairly soon. Whether Australians are threatened or not we should all be concerned at the recent eruption that has occurred, and we should be doing everything in our power to see that peace is restored as quickly as possible. 
The present conflagration has its genesis in the events of last Saturday. A small contingent of Palestine Liberation Organisation terrorists made their way ashore near kibbutz Ma'agan Mikhael 56 kilometres north of Tel Aviv. After the killing of a young girl they made their way to the Tel Aviv-Haifa road where they commandeered a couple of taxis heading south towards Tel Aviv. They fired at passing pedestrians. Then they stopped a bus, shot at passengers, and ordered the 15 to 20 survivors back on board. They then commandeered a second bus and once again shot and killed passengers. They then drove towards Netanya junction where they went through a road block. They went to Hertzliyya where they were finally stopped. Hertzliyya is on the outskirts of Tel Aviv. They finally blew up the bus. In toto some 37 Israelis were killed and 82 wounded. This was described by the PLO as a military operation. I can only describe these terrorists as a murdering band of thugs who take as their victims civilian men, women and children. Once again they have struck at the heart of Israel and its citizens. 
This pattern of ^discriminate killing of civilians has been maintained ever since the attempted establishment of the state of Israel. It is impossible in a debate of this nature to recount the hundreds of incidents that have taken place even during the past 30 years but let me recount a few of the more heinous of these crimes.' In April 1974 three PLO terrorists seized a school in the town of Maolot in northern Israel near the Lebanese border and murdered 22 children and six adults, including a soldier. We all know what happened at Munich- 1 1 Israeli sportsmen were killed at the Olympics. There were the horrors of Kiryat Shimona and Lod Airport. One could go on recounting the events ad nauseum. The majority of rational, humane people in the world have been horrified at the senseless, brutal and cowardly murders. Had the attacks been aimed at military targets or military personnel it is possible that there may have been some sympathy, even some admiration for the courage of the combatants, but it takes a sick, twisted mind to applaud the slaughter of innocents. Unforunately, in Australia and other parts of the world we have a few sick, twisted minds. 
There are those who would argue that despite the horror of the PLO slaughter Israel should not have retaliated. Sincere as these people may be, I ask them seriously: What would Australia have done if at regular intervals bands of terrorists landed on Australian shores, assassinated our men, women and children, and then retired to the sanctuary of a friendly neighbouring country? Australia at first would demand that the country in which sanctuary was being taken punish the offenders or at least stop them. If that failed again and again there is no doubt in the world that Australia would take unilateral action. No government in the world would tolerate the non-stop indiscriminate murder of its citizens and not take some punitive action. If I hear another person say, as the interviewer did last night on  This Day Tonight,  that somehow this is the Judiac tradition from the Old Testament of 'an eye for an eye, or tooth for a tooth' I will, to put it bluntly, throw up. I cannot think of any Christian, Moslem or Jewish nation tolerating this sort of situation. 
Let one thing be clear. The Israeli raid is not a raid against Palestinians or Lebanese. The PLO has well-trained, well-armed paramilitary forces sheltering in armed camps deliberately surrounded by civilian population in southern Lebanon. Israel's action was to eliminate these bases once and for all. What is so sickening, so nauseating, so completely unbelievable is that there are some individuals and nations who are absolutely mute when the PLO commits one of its acts of terror and who hysterically condemn Israel's retaliation as aggression. I have no doubt that these people will fall over themselves ignoring the PLO and condemning Israel. Because of my loyalty to the Australian Labor Party I shall resist the temptation to say what I think of  Mr Hartley  and his nauseous performance on  This Day Tonight  last night. 
Did you have something to say? 
Let it suffice that I dissociate the Australian Labor Party from anything he had to say. His view is not the view or the policy of the Australian Labor Party. He stated: 
The Israelis don't care about the lives of their own people. If they can reject one Palestinian demand they would be prepared to wipe out half of Tel Aviv to achieve that end. 
He also had the gall to compare the activities of the PLO with the heroic Maquis operations against the Nazis during World War II. What he said is an insult to every member of the Australian Labor Party and to every citizen of this country.  Mr Hartley  and his handful of supporters speak for no one but themselves. They are also in total conflict with ALP policy. To those who argue that Israel should sit down and negotiate with the PLO I remind these well meaning people of the covenant of the PLO and the statement made after the Six Day War in 1967 at the Khartoum Conference. I repeat that it stated there would be no peace with Israel; no negotiations with Israel; no recognition of Israel; and no abandonment of Palestinian rights. 
How do you negotiate with someone whose prime objective is your obliteration? How do you negotiate with someone who says that no matter what you may concede he will not accept anything less than the annihilation of you and your country? The people who support the PLO are not arguing for a peaceful solution in the Middle East; they are supporting the elimination of a nation at best, and genocide at worst. The PLO has as its objective the completion of the grisly objective started by Hitler. There is nothing to negotiate. There is no one to negotiate with. Those who are genuine supporters of peace would be applauding and supporting the initiatives taken by President Anwar Sadat of Egypt and the response by the Prime Minister of Israel, Menahem Begin. They would be urging both sides to continue to seek compromise positions so that the long awaited peace that we have all fervently prayed for would become a reality. 
For obvious historical reasons I was one of those who doubted that the Egyptians wanted peace but when  President  Sadat made his magnificant gesture by offering to go to Jerusalem to address the Knesset I wrote to the Egyptian Ambassador in Canberra and asked him to convey my heartfelt congratulations to the  President  of his nation for his courageous gesture. This was a real breakthrough. This still remains the great chance for peace. This was the first time that any Arab leader- let alone the most important leader in the Arab world- had indicated publicly that he accepted Israel's presence and was prepared to sit down and to negotiate face to face with the Israelis. I am also one of those who believe that the Israelis would have been better off not establishing settlements in the Sinai even though I recognise some of the fears they have concerning the possibility of a post-Sadat Egyptian regime- or for that matter a Sadat regimemaintaining a military presence in the Sinai. 
I am thoroughly convinced that eventually the West Bank will have to be totally independent of Israel so that the Palestinians have a homeland of their own. Whether that homeland is a separate entity, part of Jordan or joined in a federation with Jordan, is yet to be determined. I would not be so presumptious as to suggest from this distance what will be the ultimate solution. However we should be pushing the parties to discuss every possible alternative. Impressed as I was with  President  Sadat's initiative I think his demand that Israel accept all his demands just on his assurance that there will be peace is a little too difficult to accept. One of the major reasons for Israel's action in the southern Lebanon is simply that assurances of other people's intentions are not enough. 
From the very establishment of the state of Israel no country- not even the United States, Israel's staunchest ally- has been able to guarantee Israel's security. In 1948, 1956, 1967, 1973 and on hundreds and hundreds of occasions when Israeli citizens and settlements both at home and abroad have been under attack, the only nation that could or would come to their rescue was Israel itself. Every time one of these murderous attacks takes place the rest of the world expresses sympathy for the dead Israelis and deplores the action of the PLO- but it does nothing. In fact a considerable number of nations who ought to know better or ought to be depended upon to take moral positions sit on their backsides and say nothing. Who else but Israel has taken or will take action to see that these constant attacks do not take place? In the absence of any action by any other nations Israel alone is forced to act as the policeman. Let us not forget how Russia, one of the countries which originally voted for the establishment of the state of Israel, has been the major supplier of military hardware that has enabled the PLO to remain a force in the area. 
I make the point that there is a great deal of difference between supplying sovereign nations with arms and supplying terrorists in other countries with arms to attack another sovereign nation. Let us not forget as well the relationship of other Arab nations with the PLO. In September 1970 King Hussein destroyed thousands of Palestinians who were threatening to topple his regime. In the last couple of years Syria has killed many thousands of Palestinians after their invasion of Lebanon. In recent weeks there have been clashes between Egyption forces and the PLO over the murder of Egyptian editor, Yousef Sibai. The PLO is almost as detested by the Arab nations as it is by Israel. It is an internal threat to many of the Arab countries. I conclude by quoting from an article by someone with whom I have had the pleasure of dining,  Mr Ari  Rath, editor of the  Jerusalem Post.  The article appeared in the  Sydney Morning Herald  this morning. I think it makes a lot of sense. It is headed: 'PLO outrage explodes a myth and gives peace efforts a push'.  Mr Rath  states: 
For, in a sense, the cold-blooded killing of innocent Israeli civilians, women and children by Al Fatah desperadoes was aimed against both Israel and Egypt. If anything, it has dispelled, once and for all, the myth- entertained by many Western countries- of a so-called more 'moderate' Palestine Liberation Organisation leadership under Yasser Arafat. 
Israel 's massive military action against PLO terrorist bases inside Lebanon is not likely to affect the Middle East peace process and one can expect it to be regarded as a limited, local operation with specific military aims, anticipated criticism in the Arab and Western Press notwithstanding. 
It is an irony of fate that it was President Sadat of Egypt who had to point the way for the US, Western Europe, Australia and many pro- Western nations in Asia, Africa and America towards a more sober and realistic assessment of the true role which the PLO has been playing in the Middle East. 
Some of  Mr Sadat's  recent pronouncements on the PLO's murderous character and designs were often similar to Israel 's- unfortunately largely unheeded- voice of warning. 
For these are the new political realities in the Middle East which were created by  Mr Sadat's  historic visit to Jerusalem last November; any Arab leader who is prepared to embark on a genuine peace initiative in the Middle East, based on the full recognition of Israel and her vital security needs, must repudiate the destructive designs of the Arab rejectionist front of the PLO and Gaddafi kind. 
The sooner this lesson is learned by all concerned, the closer we will come towards a peaceful settlement in this strife ridden part of the world. 
Later he states: 
For some reason, world public opinion often tends to apply certain double standards when it comes to preaching to Israel this kind of self-restraint which, if heeded, could only be taken by the PLO as surrender to its terror tactics. 
There were no calls for self-restraint when the Syrian Army fought mercilessly against PLO-E1 Fatah units in Lebanon, as these seemed to threaten President Assad's hegemony over Lebanon. 
The world, with Washington in the lead, also fully understood King Hussein's massive and often ruthless battle against the Arafat-led PLO back in September 1 970. 
I commend the honourable member for Holt for raising this matter of public importance. Perhaps we were not in total agreement but I do hope that in the days and weeks ahead the nations of the world- Russia, the United States of America and Australia- will do everything they possibly can to bring the parties to the negotiating table and to create the peace that we have all longed for in the Middle East. 
-The Opposition supports the Bill, but it does so with some reservations. It has some reservations, not because of what is contained in the Bill but because of what is not contained in it. The Opposition has moved an amendment to the Bill. In his second reading speech the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  pointed out that, as a result of the report by the Bureau of Agricultural Economics entitled 'The Australian Softwood Products Industry 1977', it was necessary to reduce the annual new planting levels by the States to avoid an over-supply situation. The report stated that the Government had decided that 'a continuation of the program of Commonwealth assistance is not justified at present, and thus it will not now make further agreements to that effect'. The Bill will provide $4.2m for a new five-year program of maintenance or tending only. 
I thought that an interesting insight into the mind of the conservative was gained by listening to the speech last night of the honourable member for Barker  (Mr Porter)  when he referred to the report of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation entitled 'The Operation of the Softwood Forestry Agreement Acts 1967 and 1972'. The Committee made 21 findings but, when referring to the report, the honourable member for Barker chose to mention only the first three that supported what appeared to be his case for increased support for softwood plantings. He used those three findings to support his case against what he described as 'rabid conservationists'. This has been the theme of all the speeches of honourable members opposite. We heard it from the honourable member for Eden-Monaro  (Mr Sainsbury).  They cannot help having a dig at people who are conservationists. 
Your speech was far more reasonable than the one - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  The honourable member will address the Chair. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, everybody is interjecting now, even the honourable member for Diamond Valley, who does not have a tree in his electorate. 
I move: 
That the debate be now adjourned. 
With your indulgence,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I would like to direct a question to the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Groom).  A number of honourable members on this side of the House- in particular, the honourable member for Blaxland  (Mr Keating),  myself and a few other honourable members- are very anxious to visit the area of the proposed national park. I was wondering whether the Minister could make facilities available so that we could spend some time in the area in order to see the problems that are outlined in the Bill. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
I intended speaking in the adjournment debate on one subject but as there are only two minutes remaining I will raise instead another matter. One of the difficulties that honourable members may be having with adjournment debates is that they do not know whether they will be called to speak. There does not seem to be any pattern of selection of honourable members to speak. I suggest to you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  for you to take up with  Mr Speaker,  that we use a system somewhat akin to that used at Question Time and have kept a list of honourable members who speak in the adjournment debate. I am not being critical of anyone here tonight, let me make that clear, but I think it would be an idea if we had a list kept to avoid the situation where an honourable member who has not spoken in the adjournment debate for three weeks comes into the chamber and does not get the call, yet somebody who has already spoken four or five times in adjournment debates in that period is given the call. The list system as it is used at Question Time is good. Such a list for adjournment debates would not prevent anybody from speaking if there was nobody else here wishing to speak, but it would give honourable members a fair opportunity to speak in the adjournment debate. I had intended to raise another matter and I notice that the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Groom)  is in the chamber. I thank him for coming in and will raise the matter tomorrow night. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
The House adjourned at 10.59 p.m. 
I understand that the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Baillieu)  who has just spoken belongs to the Melbourne business establishment. It is no wonder that capitalism is on the verge of collapse. He has been in the House for  2Vi  years and is yet to make a contribution which has been noted by this House. He must be the original lightweight in a pack of lightweights. I want to mention, in my role as spokesman on sport for the Opposition, two incidents, both of which have occurred in Melbourne over the last couple of weeks. One concerns a soccer match - 
-I know that if it is where the honourable member for La Trobe comes from it is a good place to stay out of. The first incident occurred last Sunday at a soccer match between Fitzroy and West Adelaide. A referee was attacked by a crowd of some dozens of people after he had allowed the match to go on for a couple of minutes past full-time. The Melbourne  Sun  states that he was punched several times on the head and body before collapsing to the ground where he was repeatedly kicked. After he had been taken to a dressing room five spectators burst through the door of the room. He was king hit and finished up with a broken jaw. I am not really surprised that the honourable member for La Trobe is giggling about this sort of thing, because he spends most of his time in this House giggling inanely like an idiot. I am sure that he will explain to his electors in La Trobe that he approves of the punching of referees. We will see what they have to say about it. 
I asked the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Groom)  to come into the chamber tonight. I do not know whether he cares to comment on this matter which I think is something that ought to be stamped out of Australian sport immediately. I notice that there is the possibility that a heavy fine of possibly $1,000 will be imposed on one of the clubs. I suggest to the soccer association in Victoria and to the Australian Soccer Association that we do not want to see this sort of incident in Australian sport. Ideally what ought to happen is that the teams be warned that if this type of thing happens in the future they will be kicked out of football altogether. That is one way to deal with it- just tell them they are no longer in the soccer league. 
The other matter I wanted to raise also concerning sport is the battle going on in Victoria over Sunday football. I find it quite staggering that a government decides what sport will be played in a city or in a State on Sunday. It is not as though the Victorian Government is saying that sport cannot be played on Sunday because quite an amount of sport can be played on that day. In fact, the soccer match to which I was referring was played on a Sunday and other soccer matches and Australian Rules matches are played on Sundays. 
No. It is not a Federal matter but it concerns me in my position as Opposition spokesman on sport. It is a matter of some concern. I think it is outrageous that a government should try to determine what sport can be played in a State on Sundays. I think it is an infringement of the civil liberties of Victorians that they should be told what sport can be played in that State on Sunday. Frankly, I do not know why they take any notice of the State Government. I would have thought that if the State Government allows other sports, such as Victorian Football Association matches and soccer matches, to be played on Sundays the thing to do would be to go ahead and play other football matches and see what happens. I suggest that the Victorian Government would do absolutely nothing about it. I think it is an outrageous infringement of people 's civil liberties and is something that ought to be condemned by this House and the Victorian Parliament. 
Is the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development aware of the Iwasaki proposals for a mammoth tourist development at Yeppoon? Has an environmental impact statement been prepared and, if so, has the Minister seen it? If he has, can the Minister tell us what effect the project will have on the environment? 
It is not a State matter because it involves foreign investment, but I know that you would not understand that. 
It is a rare and privileged occasion when the honourable member for Cook  (Mr Dobie)  stands up to make his annual speech. Talk about Silent Sam. I had forgotten what his voice sounded like. He ought to speak more often; he has quite a resonant voice. But I could not let some of his absurd remarks pass. I was not proposing to speak in this debate but he started to give us some of the Liberal rhetoric about free enterprise and equated- I emphasise this- a socialist government to a government which automatically cut tariffs and therefore ruined businesses. That is a fascinating exercise. I would have thought that any government that was an anti-tariff government and believed in free trade was essentially a free enterprise government. The Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  is smiling, It was the height of absurdity for the honourable member for Cook to make that claim. Whether one is in favour of free trade or protection is a separate question. 
I could not allow the honourable member for Cook to get away with that piece of absolute nonsense. He said: 'I want total free enterprise. All I want is government subsidies, tax concessions, long-term low-interest loans, tariffs and quotas, but I am a free enterpriser'. That is the sort of rubbish that we hear from some honourable members. If they would only be consistent and genuinely profess to be free enterprisers I could understand it. The honourable member for Cook and the honourable member for Henty  (Mr Aldred)  are all of a sudden spokesmen for the small business community. I do not know how much experience they have had. I understand that the honourable member for Henty is a defrocked public servant and the honourable member for Cook is a former bank manager. In my book no bank manager is a member of the small business community- ask anyone who is involved in small business. The honourable member claimed that there had been a massive resurgence of confidence in business. I can assure him that I, as a small businessman, and a successful one, and one of the few in this House who knows what genuine small business is all about, am aware that what he says is not correct. I am not talking about someone who has inherited a business but someone who started one. 
Yes, in certain areas I am, certainly. 
Members on this side of the House believe in a mixed economy. If the honourable member would read the Labor Party's platform and stop talking the sort of nonsense that he does, he would understand what this is all about. How many members in this House are genuine small businessmen who have had to start with nothing and work from the bottom up? I am one who did and I made a success of it. There are quite a few on this side of the House, for instance, the honourable member for Parramatta  (Mr John Brown).  If one is good at business, generally speaking, one does not need government handouts. I do not need help from any government. Undoubtedly, sometimes there are occasions when government help is needed but generally speaking a genuine free enterprise businessman should not ask for help. That is the whole essence of it: One does struggle and fight and make one's own way. 
If the Government creates too many precedents like this one, everybody will expect help. That is in fact what has happened. That is what worries me about this series of legislative changes. The expectations of small businessmen are raised. The moment this new legislation comes in and development loans and such like are offered every small businessman suddenly believes he is eligible for that funding and that he has a genuine case. I am concerned that, once this happens, a lot of businessmen will be disappointed. When they learn that they are not included on the list they will go to see their bank manager and their federal member and anyone else whom they think might help. When the former Treasurer introduced legislation similar to this measure, I made a speech in which I said a lot of people would be disappointed. I have been answering some of the comments made by the honourable member for Cook who said how wonderfully business confidence had returned. 
-I am sorry, but you did. You said: 'I go around talking to businessmen and they say that things are going very well '. 
If the honourable member were to look at his speech I think he would find that he did make some comments about how wonderful business is. I can assure him that retail business is in a terrible state. Sections of it are very bad and depressed. As for the motor car industry, one need only look at the figures to see how bad it is. The building industry is in a similar situation. One could go on and on and on. 
-The honourable member for Holt pulls a face and nods his head. I can hear him from here. I try not to look at his face but he is pulling a face and endeavouring to give the impression that things are fine. 
There is no evidence to suggest that the Government's policies are working. The effect of them has not yet been reflected in the market place. 
-We have waited for nearly 2te years but still there are no signs. Recovery is a long time coming. The Government knows that there are all sorts of problems that it is not facing up to. We are in for a fairly long period of stagnation. Whether they are all the fault of the Government, just as they were not all the fault of the former Labor Government, one does not know. There are problems with international economy. The Treasurer knows that; indeed, everyone knows it. I think Bob Hawke put it nicely when he said: 'It is about time you came clean with the Australian community and perhaps then you will get some co-operation'. The Minister keeps telling the people that a boom is just around the corner, as the honourable member for Cook  (Mr Dobie)  also implied, and then wondering why, if things are so good and business is picking up and confidence is returning, people are asking why the hell they are supposed to take wage cuts? I shall not proceed further. I merely wanted to answer some of the comments made by the honourable member for Cook. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 10 April 1978: 
1 ) How many women's refuges are currently operating in each State with Australian Government assistance. 
What is the current projection of Commonwealth expenditure in 1977-78 for refuges in Victoria and South Australia. 
-I have to rise to answer the honourable member for Mitchell  (Mr Cadman).  I do not know whether he was not listening to me or whether he has not read the Bill. I did in fact specify the various government agencies. 
It is not in my amendment, but clause 1 8 of the Bill states: 
1 ) The Co-ordinating Committee shall consist of- 
the Supervising Scientist; 
the Director of National Parks and Wildlife; and 
such other members as are from time to time appointed by the Minister. 
The Minister shall cause to be prepared and kept a list setting out the name of each Department, authority, incorporated company or other body that in his opinion has an interest in uranium mining operations in the Alligator Rivers region . . . 
The Bill provides that the Minister will include each department, authority, incorporated company or other body that has an interest. I said that that would mean that the various Territory agencies and all the Commonwealth bodies automatically would be on the Committee as specified in relation to the area. I then said that the Opposition feels that, as well as those bodies, the following groups ought to be included, and I will not run through them again. I do not know what the honourable member for Mitchell was talking about. Not only did I go through and list them all, but there is provision in the Bill. 
I move: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: 
Whilst not opposing the second reading of this Bill the House (a) opposes mining in the catchment area of the Alligator Rivers, portion of which is within the proposed boundaries of the Kakadu National Park and (b) urges the Government to proceed forthwith to acquire the Goodparla and Gimbat pastoral leases'. 
I move: 
That all words after 'That' be omitted with a view to substituting the following words: the House declines to give the Bill a second reading (a) until the Minister initiates consultations and provides all necessary material to relevant Ministers of all States and the Northern Territory on the hazards and dangers associated with uranium mining and nuclear activities and ( b) until such time as any State Government determines that it is safe to mine uranium and that proper international safeguards exist, no action should be initiated by the Commonwealth to make provision to enable mining to take place within that State or Territory'. 
-The view of the Australian Labor Party on uranium mining is well known and has been covered fully by previous speakers in the debate concerning the amendments to the Atomic Energy Act. The three Bills that we are now debating deal primarily with uranium mining in the Northern Territory and in particular in the Alligator Rivers region. These three Bills- the Environment Protection (Alligator Rivers Region) Bill, the National Parks and Wildlife Conservation Amendment Bill amending the National Parks and Wildlife Conservation Act 1975 and the Environment Protection (Nuclear Codes) Bill- are based on recommendations of the second Ranger Uranium Environmental Inquiry, better known as the second Fox report. As is well known, the second report dealt specifically with the effect of the Ranger proposals in the Alligator Rivers region whereas the first report had dealt with the larger question of uranium mining, including the dangers of mining and milling, the operation of nuclear reactors, the problems associated with the safe disposal of nuclear waste, the dangers of the diversion of fissile material for terrorist purposes and the dangers of the diversion of fissile material for nuclear weapons, that is, the problem of nuclear proliferation. 
In this debate I shall restrict my comments to the questions raised in the second report and the impact of the three Bills now before the House. Firstly, I would like to deal with the proposed amendments to the National Parks and Wildlife Conservation Act 1975 which will be the vehicle for the long awaited proclamation of the Kakadu National Park. I think it is important to repeat what has been said and is known about the Alligator Rivers region, the major portion of which is proposed to be included in the Park. Probably a direct quote from the second Fox report will suffice. The report on page 1 7 states: 
The distinctive  subregions  and the large seasonal changes give rise to a wide diversity of plant and animal habitats. As a consequence, the Region is rich in numbers or species of both flora and fauna. Zoologically and  botanically  it is representative of a large pan of the far north of tropical Australia. However, because of the diversity of the native species which occur in the Region, it is regarded as one of the biologically richest in Australia. For example, more than 950 species of plants were recorded in the environmental factfinding study, and they occur in a wide range of vegetation types, including a variety of forest, woodland and scrub communities. More than one-third of the bird species known in Australia have been sighted in the study area, and the large populations of waterfowl on the coastal floodplains are one of the Region's outstanding features. It is also rich in other vertebrate fauna. The insects are the only invertebrates studied in detail; 4,500 species were collected and identified during the fact-finding study, and many more are believed to bc present. Of the aquatic fauna, only the fish are well known. Forty-two species have been collected in the study area, representing about a quarter of all recorded Australian native freshwater fish. 
That is a quote from the Fox report, but the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Groom)  was equally laudatory. He has said: 
The Alligator Rivers Region is important in the context of world conservation. An area of outstanding beauty and grandeur, it also has great significance because of its social, cultural, biological, anthropological and archaeological attributes. 
One could hardly have been more laudatory than was the Minister and I compliment him on his comments. There is no question of disagreement on the value of the proposed Kakadu National Park. 
One then needs to turn to the second Fox report to see what effect uranium mining would have in the Alligator Rivers region. We should remember that the second Fox report dealt primarily with the proposed Ranger uranium mine at Jabiru. Nevertheless it took into account the proposals of Pancontinental at Jabiluka, Noranda at Koongarra and Queensland Mines at Nabarlek. It pointed out that any contaminants from the proposed mining and processing operations at Jabiru or Jabiluka would now into the Magela drainage system and thence into the East Alligator River. Let me just quote a few sections of the second Fox report to indicate how little knowledge we have concerning the effects of uranium mining in the Alligator Rivers region. On page 59 in referring to the hydrology of the Magela system, the report states: 
Not enough information about the local oceanography exists to enable the way river water diffuses into the sea to bc determined. 
On page 60 with regard to water quality, the report states: 
Information is not available on the chemical form of the metals in Magela Creek water, a major factor influencing their toxic effects. 
On page 63 in referring to water quality in the dry season, it states: 
The Commission has little information on the flow conditions in different catchments likely to result in backflow, when and for how long such conditions exist, or the balance between backflow deposition and flushing of material from these billabongs. 
On page 66 in referring to the fate of natural contaminants, it states: 
If the present fate of natural contaminants in the Magela system were known, it would be easier to assess the impact of additional contamination from the proposed Ranger and Jabiluka operations. However, knowledge of the fate of these contaminants is very limited, despite considerable investigation over the years. 
On page 69 the Commission in summing up states: 
Clearly large gaps exist in knowledge of the Region, and the Commission accepts the contention of a number of biologists who gave evidence that existing information is not sufficient to enable ecological effects of mining, especially long-term effects on aquatic ecosystems, to be predicted. The deficiencies are not confined to the problems already discussed in this chapter, but include information on the life history and biology of species, the sensitivity of species to contaminants and interactions between species. 
On page 90, when examining the proposed water management program, the report states: 
If mining and milling proceed in the manner proposed by Ranger large amounts of contaminated water will leave the mine site. This water would be runoff and seepage from the ore stockpiles and waste rock dump, water pumped from the mine pits, seepage and runoff from other parts of the site. 
After taking into account Ranger's proposals, it stated: 
. the real situation will become apparent only when mining commences, if it does so. The available data are only estimates subject to considerable uncertainty. 
How is it possible, on the basis of the repeated statements by the Fox Commission that it simply does not know what will happen in the Magela Creek system if uranium mining goes ahead, that the Government could come to the conclusion that there would be adequate safeguards of the environment of the proposed Kakadu National Park? However, if one considers that the Jabiluka mine seepage would flow into the Magela Creek and the Koongarra mine seepage into the Norlangie Creek and thence into the South Alligator River, the only possible conclusion that one could arrive at is that the Government by its approval of uranium mining in the Alligator Rivers region is prepared to place at risk one of the world's great wildlife sanctuaries, and certainly Australia's greatest. It is almost inconceivable that it could be contemplated in this day and age. When one looks around the world at the wanton destruction of rain forests, wetlands, wildlife and ecosystems in general over the last century, all in the name of economic progress, and when one realises how little has been left unspoiled through economic exploitation, it is frightening just what some people will despoil if money is involved. 
I suppose we should expect this from members of the Liberal Party and the National Country Party. Their reputation as environmental piranhas is well deserved. I am sure they would mine the gold out of their grandmothers ' teeth if they thought there was a quid in it. 
As a matter of fact I have just arranged to go there in the next few days as a member of the Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation. I presume that the honourable members who are attempting to interject have been there. 
Has the honourable member read the Fox report? 
It does not sound like it, when I listen to what the honourable member is saying. I deal with the Bill to amend the National Parks and Wildlife Conservation Act. We shall oppose the mining of uranium in the catchment area of the Alligator Rivers region within the Kakadu National Park whilst not opposing the declaration of the Park itself. We are most anxious to see the Park declared. What Government supporters are saying, in effect, is that what the Fox report says is absolute nonsense. Alternatively, are they saying that the location of the Kakadu National Park has changed since the presentation of the Fox report. It is still there. The environment has not changed. It is exactly the same. It will change only when the Government permits the mining to start. As I said before, honourable members opposite would sell anything, even the gold out of their grandmothers' teeth. 
I wish that somebody would get an interpreter for the honourable member. I draw attention to what we regard as a confidence trick being played on the Australian public by the manner in which the National Park has been declared. The Government states- technically it is correct-that the Park is being declared in two stages. Stage one will be declared immediately and is denned in a map released with the uranium package of last year. The area marked in blue will be stage one. The area marked in green will be stage two, which the Government has denned as a conservation zone. In this area mining exploration will be permitted but wildlife and other material features will be protected. The sleight of hand occurs over the exclusion of Jabiru, Jabiluka, Koongara and I presume, Cooinda. Is that correct? I take it that Cooinda is excluded. 
-Yes, I read what it stated in relation to the National Park. I read that very carefully. I am not prepared to accept all the recommendations of the Fox report. I regard the report as a valuable guide, not as an unchallengeable bible or commandment that we are bound to observe. Let me continue. I mentioned the four areas excluded from the National Park. Honourable members opposite then say: Look, we are not mining in a national park'. If that is not a confidence trick, I do not know what is. Each one of those mining leases excluded from the Park is geographically within the boundaries of the Park. The absurdity of the Government's position can be seen from the suggestion that only a small part of the Alligator Rivers region will be mined. In the case of some forms of mining, this may be true. In the case of uranium mining, with its contaminants flowing into the water systems, the effects can and probably will be spread throughout a large portion of the region. We can only hope and pray that the Alligator Rivers region does not finish up like the Rum Jungle project about which the second Fox report stated: 
In the ten kilometres of the East Finniss River downstream from the mine, fish and other aquatic fauna have been almost eliminated. 
-The Minister should not get uptight. I will say something about this in a minute. I will continue the quotation:  . . pollution from Rum Jungle has killed pandanus palms along the east branch of the Finniss River. It has also eliminated reeds, water-lilies and other rooted acquatic plants from the waterway. Erosion has occurred along the stream banks. 
In fairness to the Government, I state that I recognise that there will be much greater environmental control over mining in the Alligator 
Rivers region than there was over mining in the Rum Jungle. There would want to be. There was absolutely no protection at Rum Jungle. I wish to make this final point with regard to the National Parks and Wildlife Conservation Amendment Bill. We urge the Government to proceed forthwith to acquire the Gimbat and Goodparla pastoral leases, as recommended by the Fox report, and add them to the proposed National Park. Because the upper reaches of the Alligator Rivers region commence in this area, it is important that they be added quickly to the Park. 
The Environment Protection (Alligator Rivers Region) Bill 1978 is based on the recommendations contained in chapter 17 of the second Fox report. The report listed at page 294 the various destructive elements that could affect the environment and for which standards and procedures should be set. I hope that the House will bear with me while I read out all these metals and minerals. 
I read better than the honourable member does. The honourable member seems to be enjoying my speech and paying attention to it. lt is the first time that we have seen him come to life. These various destructive elements include contaminants from the mine site such as copper, lead, zinc, uranium, thorium radium, manganese, cadmium, molybdenum, iron, mercury, chromium, nickel, arsenic, magnesium, calcium, ammonia, chloride, sulphate, nitrate, phosphate, bicarbonate and suspended solids. That is not a bad lot of contaminants to go into a river system. 
The report listed as well other water quality factors, conditions for release from retentive pond No. 2, sewerage from the mine site and from the regional town, procedures to limit suspended solids in run-oft" during construction periods and to control erosion during operations, sulphur dioxide, external ionising radiation, ore dust, yellowcake dust, other dust, noise, ground and air blast vibration during construction and operation. It sounds like a nice place to have a holiday. As well the report pointed out the need to specify standards and procedures concerning the visual impacts of mine development, soil erosion, revegetation of disturbed areas and waste dump and the general rehabilitation of the mined areas. 
To see that this very large and important role was performed adequately, the report recommended that a research institute type structure be established and headed by a supervising scientist and that he be provided with a staff of highly qualified scientists to assist him in the task of collecting and assessing information, developing research programs, standards, practices and procedures. The report also recommended that a coordinating committee, consisting of representatives of government and Territory agencies, the mining companies, the Northern Land Council and the National Parks Authority be established. The Bill gives effect to these recommendations, and in this respect it represents a welcome change from what has happened in the past. 
However, there are many aspects of the Bill which we do not like and which we feel could be improved upon. For example, we are not satisfied that the supervising scientist has enough independence from the Government. Clause 7 of the Bill requires him to comply with directions from the Minister and to furnish the Minister with information regarding what is happening with relation to his responsibilities in the region. Our concern is that there does not appear to be any compunction on the Minister to inform the Parliament and therefore the public of what is going on. The Minister has a stunned look on his face. 
-That is at the end of the year. We do not see anything in the Bill relating to the reporting, on a weekly or daily basis, of happenings. The supervising scientist will report to the Minister. We are not aware of how that information will be relayed to the Parliament. 
We will deal with that when the Bill is considered at the Committee stage. If the Minister can show us where we are wrong, we will listen. That is how the position appears to us from our reading of the Bill. We can deal with that when the Bill is considered at the Committee stage. The supervising scientist should be and should appear to be a very impartial person. If something detrimental to the environment in the Alligator Rivers region is happening, it is important that it be known by the Parliament quickly and not hushed up. We will move an amendment at the Committee stage to that effect. 
Our major concern with the co-ordinating committee is that 90 per cent of those people who comprise it will be representatives of government agencies and mining companiesorganisations that have a total commitment to uranium mining. The only person whom the Bill requires to be a member of the co-ordinating committee and who is not a member of a body involved in mining is the Director of National Parks and Wildlife. The Minister mentioned in his second reading speech that the Northern Land Council will provide a member of the coordinating committee. However, this is not specified in the Bill. We believe that many organisations outside those mentioned by the Minister have a vital  interest in the region  and are likely to give the co-ordinating committee more balance. Therefore, we shall move that the Australian Academy of Science, the Australian Conservation Foundation, the Australian Institute of Aboriginal Studies, the Northern Land Council and the Northern Territory Environment Council provide members of the committee. 
The most obnoxious clause in the Bill and the one that creates suspicion in our minds about the sincerity of the Government as to where its real sympathy lies is the provision in clause 31 for penalties of $1,000 or six months in gaol for any member of the Public Service or for the supervising scientist and his staff who reveal information to the public concerning the operations in the region. This is an outrageous provision and can be designed only to conceal misdemeanours by the mining companies and to prevent the public from knowing what is happening. Public servants already have enough restrictions on them under the Crimes Act and the Public Service Act. Why is it necessary to include a clause that will create such unnecessary secrecy? In the mining and milling of uranium- and this is not at the stage where it is likely to be made into some sort of nuclear weapon, we are talking only about the mining and milling of it- we have reached the point where the project is already part of the defence system. 
The final Bill in this cognate debate, the Environment Protection (Nuclear Codes) Bill 1978, has almost been aborted at its birth. I understand that although the Bill will be passed, it will not be proclaimed, and we have heard rumours that an amendment to it is to be moved by the Minister. I do not know whether those rumours are correct. 
I have not seen the amendment. Basically, what this Bill provides is codes of practice to govern nuclear activities in Australia with regard to the health and safety of people, and the environment. It does not concern itself with nuclear safeguards, which should be governed by our Safeguards Agreement with the International Atomic Energy Agency, and by the Atomic Energy Act. It is supposed to be concerned primarily with the mining, milling and, I assume, marketing of uranium in Australia. At the moment, whatever codes are drawn up are drawn up by the Austraiian Ionising Radiation Advisory Council. Unfortunately this body, which reports to the Minister, lacks legal muscle. 
It was proposed that the Bill would provide the Australian Government with the power to override any failure on the part of the State or Territory to comply with the codes of practice.  Mr Hamer  and, I understand, all States except Western Australia have objected to this legislation, and the Prime Minister has indicated that the Act will operate only in the Northern Territory. The Minister claimed in his second reading speech that the codes would be drawn up in consultation with the States and the Northern Territory, but in fact if this Bill were passed and proclaimed, there would be no need to consult anyone. All that the Minister would have to do would be to send a copy of the codes to the States, and if the States did not adopt them, the Commonwealth could override them. 
Our major objection to the Bill is that it provides no opportunity for public inquiry or public comment on the codes. An earlier draft of the Bill, which we were successful in getting a copy of, provided that there would be an Environment Protection (Nuclear Activities) Advisory Council, which would draft proposed codes for the Minister, who would then hold a public inquiry on the proposals and allow public comment. Reports and recommendations would then have been tabled in Parliament and the opportunity provided for discussion. The most horrific provisions of this Bill are clauses 13 and 14, which appear to give the Government enormously oppressive powers. The Minister recognised this in his comments on clause 1 3 in his second reading speech when he said: 
The Government appreciates the powers conferred on the Governor-General under this clause would need to be used with the utmost discretion. It is our hope and indeed our expectation that the provision of the clause would never be invoked. 
We believe that these clauses are open to too wide an interpretation, and will provide any government with an opportunity of restricting civil liberties severely. At the Committee stage of the Bill we will be opposing clause 13, and also clause 14 which we think is even more oppressive. Overall, these three Bills are unsatisfactory. They are environmentally unsound, they are unnecessarily oppressive and restrictive of people's civil liberties, and they further the cause of uranium mining, to which the Australian Labor Party is opposed until adequate safeguards have been found. 
Debate interrupted. 
-I move: 
Omit the clause, substitute the following clause: 6. ( 1 ) The Supervising Scientist has power to do all things that are necessary or convenient to be done for, or in connexion with, the performance of his functions. 
Any recommendations for action shall be made in writing to the Minister, who shall, as soon as practicable after he has received them, cause the recommendations to be laid before both Houses of Parliament. 
Either House of Parliament, within15 sitting days after the recommendations have been laid before that House, may, in pursuance of a motion upon notice, pass a resolution disallowing the recommendations for action. 
If neither House of the Parliament passes a resolution in accordance with sub-section (3) disallowing the recommendations for action, the recommendations for action become a mandatory requirement from the day immediately following the last day upon which such a resolution could have been passed by either House. 
If, at the expiration of 15 sitting days after notice of a motion to disallow an order, either wholly or in so far as it related to a part of the code or of the variations of a code approved by the order, has been given in a House of the Parliament, being notice given within 15 sitting days after a copy of the order has been laid before that House- 
the notice has not been withdrawn and the motion has not been called on; or 
the motion has been called on, moved and seconded and has not been withdrawn or otherwise disposed of, this Act has effect as if the order had been made, or as if that part of the code or of the variations of the code had been approved by the order, as the case requires. 
Clause 6 causes the Opposition concern in respect of the powers of the Supervising Scientist. As I mentioned during the cognate debate at the second reading stage, the Supervising Scientist will not be able to let the members of the public know, through the Parliament, of his communications with the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development during the period prior to the tabling of his report. Obviously the Parliament will receive a full annual report from the Supervising Scientist, but I imagine that there will be communications between the Supervising Scientist and the Minister on a weekly or monthly basis whenever a crisis occurs. If that happened, I am not aware of anything, and we cannot see anything in the Bill, that would allow the Parliament and the public to know what was going on. We want a situation where, if the Supervising Scientist reports in a particular way to the Minister, we will be able to find out about it. We also think that at the moment too much control is provided for the Minister over the Supervising Scientist. Clause 7 will require the Supervising Scientist to comply with directions given to him from time to time by the Minister in relation to the performance of his functions or the exercise of his powers, and to furnish the Minister with such information in relation to the operation of the legislation as the Minister requires. It seems to us that the Supervising Scientist could be quietened or kept quiet by an instruction from the Minister. That causes us a great deal of concern. The amendment we have moved will provide that any query the Supervising Scientist may have or any action he may wish to take he will be able to make or to take in the full knowledge that the Parliament knows about it. 
We would seek to make a minor amendment also to sub-clause (5) of our amended clause 6. Where in the middle of the page it reads, 'this Act has effect as if the order had not been made ', we would wish to have it read 'has been made'. Later where it reads 'or as if that part of the code or of the variations of the code had not been approved', we would seek to amend it to read 'has been approved'. 
I move: 
After sub-clause (2 ) insert the following sub-clause: (2a) The list to be prepared by the Minister under subsection (2) shall include- 
the Australian Academy of Science; 
the Australian Conservation Foundation; 
the Australian Institute of Aboriginal Studies; 
the Northern Land Council: and 
the Nothern Territory Environment Council.'. 
At present the Co-ordinating Committee to be set up in the Alligator Rivers Region will include only the Supervising Scientist, the Director of National Parks and Wildlife and, from memory, at least one and not more than two representatives of the various government agencies, both State and Territory, and of the mining companies. That will mean that 90 per cent of the people on the Co-ordinating Committee will have a vested interest, a committed interest, in uranium mining. The only person referred to in the Bill who would not come into that category is the Director of National Parks and Wildlife. The Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Groom)  mentioned that the Northern Land Council will be represented on the Committee, and I have no doubt that that commitment will be honoured. There will then be two and perhaps three representatives on the Committee who do not have mining interests, and from memory there is no specific limitation on the size of the Committee. 
If one looks at the Fox report, the people we could have on the Committee would be representatives of the various branches of the Department of the Northern Territory- mines, water resources, animal industry and agriculture, forestry and fisheries, commercial and industrial affairs, forward planning and major projects coordination, and transport planning- sections of the Northern Territory Public Service with relevant responsibilities and the Commonwealth Departments of Health and Construction. Then there would be representatives from Pancontinental Mining Ltd, Ranger Uranium Mines Pty Ltd and Noranda Australia Ltd. The Committee will be dominated by people who have a commitment to mining. 
The Opposition believes that the Kakadu National Park is a national asset and that people not only in the Northern Territory but throughout the whole of Australia have an interest in it. Even though many of them have not visited it they are aware that it is going to open, and I believe that hundreds of thousands of Australians will go there in the future because they know more about it and will have greater access to it. We believe that the Government should show some sensitivity for members of the Opposition and other people who are concerned about the Park by adopting the suggestion we have made. We have suggested that the Australian Academy of Science, the Australian Conservation Foundation, the Australian Institute of Aboriginal Studies, the Northern Land Council, and the Northern Territory Environment Council be specifically included in the Bill and represented on the Co-ordinating Committee. This would provide a balance between those people who are committed to uranium mining and those people in the Austraiian community who have a concern for and interest in the future of the Kakadu National Park. 
-The Opposition opposes clause 31. Our objection is fairly basic. We think that it provides an opportunity for the Government to be excessively secret about what is happening in the Alligator Rivers Region. Frankly, the Opposition cannot understand why it is that we need in the legislation provision for a penalty of $1,000 or imprisonment for six months, or both, to be imposed on anybody, whether he be the supervising scientist, a member of his staff, or any of the departmental people involved. Regrettably we will be engaged in the mining, milling and marketing of uranium. 
Why has this clause been included in the legislation? It is not as though we are talking about nuclear weapons or the likelihood of terrorists stealing the yellowcake or anything like that. I mean, we have not reached that stage yet; it is purely and simply a mining operation. I doubt that any other operation of this nature would involve the imposition of that sort of penalty on someone who spoke to the public. 
As I understand the situation, public servants are fairly well covered in relation to what they can say by the provisions of the Crimes Act and the Public Service Act. So why we have this added clause in the Bill, I do not know. One can imagine only that the Government believes that there will be a few Nader-type whistle blowers who will reveal to the public or to the Press that something is going on there about which the public ought not to know. I look forward with great interest to the Minister's explanation why this clause has been included in the legislation. 
-I move: 
Omit the clause, substitute the following clause: 7. ( 1 ) The Minister- 
shall cause to be furnished to the appropriate Minister of each State, and to the Minister for the time being administering the Environment Protection (Impact of Proposals) Act 1974 and, on and after 1 July 1978, to the appropriate Minister for the Northern Territory and shall cause to be published in the  Gazette- 
proposed codes of practice for regulating or controlling nuclear activities in Australia (including codes of practice to replace existing codes of practice approved by orders under sub-section 8(1); and 
proposed variations of codes of practice, being codes of practice approved by order under sub-section 8 (1); and 
shall ensure that each Minister to whom a proposed code of practice is furnished under paragraph (a), or a person nominated by the Minister concerned, is afforded an opportunity to consult with the Minister or another Minister, or with a person nominated by the Minister, in relation to the proposed code of practice. 
The Minister for the time being administering the Environment Protection (Impact of Proposals) Act 1974 shall, within 1 month of being furnished with a proposed code of practice, make a direction under sub-section 11(1) of the Act that an inquiry be conducted in respect of the environmental aspects (if any) of the proposed code, and the provisions of the Act shall apply to that inquiry. 
Where the Minister for the time being administering the  Environment Protection (Impact of Proposals) Act  1974 is furnished with a proposed code of practice or a proposed variation of a code and an inquiry is currently in progress under the Act in respect of a proposed code or variation, the Minister may direct that the first-mentioned proposed code or variation be referred to the Commission conducting the inquiry, and the provisions of the Act shall apply as if that Commission was appointed to consider that proposed code or variation.'. 
This amendment concerns the setting up of a public inquiry and obtaining public comment on the codes and practices involved in this industry. At the moment the Australian Ionising Radiation Advisory Council provides the Minister with drafts of codes practised. The Opposition would like to see the various codes published for public comment and an open public inquiry into them held with a wide range of people in the community having an opportunity to make a contribution towards the drafting of the final codes. At present there is really no way of that occurring. The council merely advises the Minister who notifies the States and the Territories. The Opposition would like to see this brought out into the open and trade unions, environmental bodies and other groups given the opportunity to put something forward for inclusion in these codes. These comments relate also to the next amendment through which the Opposition hopes to set up an Environment Protection (Nuclear Activities) Advisory Council which will help in drafting codes of practice. 
-I move: 
After sub-clause ( 1 ) insert the following sub-clause: (1a) The Governor-General shall not make an order under paragraph ( 1 ) (a) before the time at which the public inquiry to be held under sub-section 7(2) or 7(3) has reported its findings to the Minister for the time being administering the Environment Protection (Impact of Proposals) Act 1974.'. 
This amendment simply provides that the Governor-General shall not confirm codes of practice until the public inquiry has been completed and its findings have been reported to the Minister. Once again, this amendment is part and parcel of our desire to see these matters brought out into the open and debated by the Parliament. It is part and parcel of what we have been advocating throughout the entire debate on these Bills, namely, that there should be a full and open inquiry and that there ought not to be a confirmation of codes of practice until these procedures have been carried out. 
Amendment negatived. 
Clause agreed to. 
Clauses 9 and 10- by leave- taken together, and agreed to. 
Clause 1 1 (Regulations for carrying out or giving effect to codes of practice). 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
-I ask the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development: Has his attention been drawn to statements in the Press that there is likely to be a go ahead on oil drilling on the Great Barrier Reef? Has his Department made a submission? What is its view regarding oil drilling on the Great Barrier Reef? 
-I will not take up the time of the Committee for long. This is an interesting night in Parliament for me. No one has seen the right honourable member for Lowe  (Sir William McMahon)  so energetic for years. It is exhilarating to see this man who has spent 20 or 30 years in the Parliament suddenly brought to life when a small group of people- I believe that 1,100 people are involved in tax schemes such as the Curran scheme- are suddenly threatened. What a pity it is that he does not show the same concern and interest for pensioners, repatriation pensioners, the sick and the maimed as he does for the people who are - 
Other speakers have been covering a whole range of issues tonight. How interesting it is to see the chamber suddenly full for a debate. There must be 30 or 40 members of the Liberal Party in the chamber tonight. When important Bills are being discussed one after the other they do not come into the chamber. When tax avoidance schemes are being debated they are here in their numbers making their speeches. This is a fascinating exercise. 
What are we really talking about tonight? We are talking about the fact that a handful of tax bludgers in Australia have been ripping off $500m. Four hundred thousand people in this country are out of work. They have been subjected to the venom and the spleen of honourable members opposite for the last three years. Yet suddenly the concern of honourable members opposite is aroused by a handful of people who have stolen enough money to keep everyone of the unemployed people in a job. The amount, $500m, which it is claimed is being ripped off- some people have said that it is up to $ 1,000m- is more than money paid for unemployment schemes and unemployment benefit for the 400,000 Australians out of work. 
It is interesting to note that for the first time the Liberal Party in Australia has strong support from the Communist Party of Australia. I understand that the  Tribune  this week is supporting the legislation. I never thought that I would live to see the day when the  Tribune  of the Communist Party would be on the same side as the Liberal Party. 
I shall conclude on this point. The statements about retrospectivity are absolute nonsense. The legislation is not being made retrospective. It dates back to 16 August. Unless this happens, in future, each financial year the experts, the accountants, the friends of the right honourable member for Lowe will think up their schemes - 
Since when has the word 'accountant' been defamatory? 
-If it offends the right honourable member for Lowe and if he is sensitive, I shall withdraw. 
-The honourable member for Denison is making his usual sanctimonious contribution to the debate. As I was saying, it is nonsense to refer to this legislation as retrospective. If this sort of legislation cannot be brought in in future quite clearly the accountants, the tax avoiders and the tax bludgers of this world will simply think up another scheme which will save them $500m. They will be able to claim the same sort of let-out that the right honourable member for Lowe is claiming on their behalf. 
-Before I speak on the Bills, I thank the honourable member for Grey  (Mr Wallis)  for very kindly stepping aside to allow me to speak tonight. He was scheduled to speak but, as I will not be here on the next Tuesday when this Parliament sits, and as the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Staley)  has assured us that this debate will continue then, the honourable member for Grey who is very interested in this Bill because of the interest in his electorate in fishing, will be the first  speaker  for the Opposition when the debate resumes on that day. I personally thank him very much for this kindness. 
In speaking on these Bills, I concentrate my remarks on the Whaling Amendment Bill. In recent years there has been considerable interest and controversy concerning whaling and Australia's continued participation as a whaling nation, so much so that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has announced that an inquiry into the whaling industry will commence in Albany on 3 1 July. 
However, there is no question where the majority of the Australian peoples' sympathies lie in relation to this question. An Australian National Opinion Polls survey conducted in December last year showed that 66 per cent of Australians were opposed to whaling, 19 per cent were in favour and 15 per cent were unsure. Even in Western Australia where the sole remaining whaling station in Australia is located, those 'for' and 'against' were evenly divided, 39 per cent against and 41 per cent in favour of whaling. Even on a party political basis there was virtually no difference. Sixty-four per cent of Liberal voters were against whaling and 68 per cent of Labor voters were against whaling. I am not one of those people who believe that a public opinion poll should necessarily be the final arbitrator on a government action. If it were we would not need to have elections but simply conduct opinion polls and act accordingly. However there are times when the public may not have the technical know-how or the full range of information necessary to form a considered opinion, and there are occasions when governments have to take actions which are unpopular and hope that those actions, whilst unpopular are in the best interests of the nation. 
I have a lot of sympathy for the position of the honourable member for Forrest  (Mr Drummond).  It is in his electorate, at Albany, in Western Australia that the sole remaining whaling station is located. He has spoken out strongly in support of the whaling industry and on behalf of the hundred-odd families who depend upon whaling for their livelihood. I do not doubt his sincerity, I do not blame him for being a strong advocate in support of the welfare of the workers in the industry and for the general welfare of the town of Albany. The Australian Labor Party is equally committed - 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Armitage)Order! The honourable member will be aware that it is quite appropriate for a member of this Parliament to speak on any Bill before the 
House. The honourable member is aware that his was not a valid point of order. I ask that in future he not take points of order that do not have some element of validity in them. 
That is the son of stupid interjection we expect from some of the new boys over there. 
-When they have been in this place a little longer they will start to understand that that sort of behaviour is childish. If they want me to interject every time somebody over there - 
Yap yap is on again. Do you want to speak in this debate or do you want to carry on with inane interjections? 
-The Australian Labor Party is equally committed to seeing that Australian workers do not suffer economically or socially from changes that may occur because a nation, for a variety of reasons, decides that it wishes to discontinue an industry. I am not referring to the normal ebb and flow of prosperity that occurs in every industry from time to time. I am referring particularly to situations such as those that have occurred at Albany and on Fraser Island. The overwhelming majority of Australians, supported by the Government, came to the view that the activities being pursued in those regions were detrimental to the environment. 
I can understand the resentment of workers who suddenly find that they have lost their jobs or are in danger of losing their jobs because another section of the community, which is not directly affected financially, demands that an industry be closed down. It is easy to ask somebody else to make a sacrifice that many people would not be prepared to make themselves if the roles were reversed. That is the dilemma in the vast majority of environmental disputes that occur. It is particularly true where an industry exists as distinct from debate about where a new industry is to be started up. We are talking about people who, with their families, have settled into an area and often have been there for many years. They have built a home, they have their children settled in schools, they have made friends and generally become part of a settled community. It is very natural for people who suddenly find that their whole way of life and their financial security is threatened to resent bitterly the actions of those whom they see as being responsible for their predicament. 
It is absolutely essential for the debate about the environment to be rational and free of the abuse and vitriol that has been evident in recent years, and for both environmentalists and the Government to assure workers that they will not be disadvantaged financially by any decision to cease the operations of the industry in which workers' occupations are threatened. Any decision to cease operations should be accompanied by a total plan for reconstruction and not by vague promises. I have not had the pleasure yet of visiting Albany but I hope to remedy that in the near future, in the same way as I will be visiting Fraser Island on the weekend after next. However, from what I have heard of it, Albany is an extremely beautiful region with an enormous potential for tourism, which is another area for which I am responsible on behalf of the Opposition. I would not be so presumptuous as to suggest remedies from this distance. However, there are a wide variety of measures that could be introduced- I am not referring here only to Albany but to other areasincluding substantial redundancy payments, the creation of alternative industries, job retraining or job relocation. For example, I understand that some 100 families are involved in Albany. If we had made a $20,000 non-taxable payment to each of them it would have cost less than $2m and it might have been worth it. If we have a sensible approach to the problem- and we may have to have this debate in the future- perhaps that is the answer. I do not know. 
I am not so presumptuous as to suggest that I know the answer sitting here in Canberra or in Gosford from where I come. I cannot believe that people are totally committed to whaling per se; they are committed to being employed and providing for their families. I feel sure that if we can assure them that they will be adequately looked after they will be willing to sit down rationally to discuss the future of the industry. It is my aim over the next few years to try to find these sorts of solutions to the problems that have emerged in the progress versus environment debate. 
In the debate about whaling of course there has been considerable disagreement about what has happened in the past and what is happening at the moment. One can accept that any figures cited must be subject to a considerable degree of inaccuracy. One can only accept or reject the figures of the scientific experts regarding the decimation of the whole population over the past 100 years. I shall quote- I am probably being selective in my quoting- from an article in the  National Geographic  by Victor B. Scheffer, Ph.D. in zoology, Chairman of the United States Marine Mammal Commission from 1973 to 1976, and a man who has devoted 40 years of his life to studying the whale. The article, which appeared in the December 1976 issue, stated: 
Not till the dawning of the age of environmental awareness in the late 1960s did the public begin to see clearly the consequences of abusive whaling. It had fragmented the population of seven great whales- the blue, fin, grey, humpback, sei, right and bowhead. Today, world wide acceptance of that dismal fact is arousing new interest in cetacean research. Suddenly the whale has become a supreme symbol in a new campaign to preserve nature. 
I seek leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a table of figures on whaling. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 


<graphic href="109131197805114_95_2.jpg"></graphic>

-I thank the House. The blue, humpback, right, bowhead and grey have been so decimated that they are now protected species. There were some interesting points in the article that are worth noting. It pointed out that whale populations are estimated by zoologists by analysing kills by size, age, sex, season and hunting area. It has been found that in a declining population the catch- per unit of whaling effortalso declines as does the average age of the animals killed and the older whales become fewer. As I said before, it is difficult to assess who is telling the truth from the vast array of claims and  counter claims regarding the threat to the world 's whale populations. 
I am not disagreeing with that, but there are various claims on all the different types of whales. However, I think one has to look at the motives and bona fides of the major adversaries in this debate. Firstly, let us look at the International Whaling Commission which was established in 1948. There are 16 member nations of the IWC- Australia, Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Denmark, France, Iceland, Japan, Mexico, New Zealand, Norway, Panama, South Africa, Great Britain, the United States of America and the United Soviet Socialist Republic. Of these, only Australia, Brazil, Denmark, Iceland, Japan, Norway and the USSR are whaling countries. To put it bluntly, the IWC is primarily an organisation which acts as spokesman for the industry. Its object is 'the conservation, development and optimum utilisation of the whale resources'. It has no teeth and cannot enforce its own regulations. Foreign observers are supposed to be situated at every whaling station on every factory ship, theoretically to see that the Commission's rules are obeyed. Their reported infractions have decreased since the introduction of the use of observers. 
However, there are major weaknesses. Russia and Japan exchange observers but both countries are interested in maximising yields. No mechanism exists to enforce quotas. Member countries which disagreed with IWC decisions have merely to lodge objections within 90 days to free themselves of any obligation to abide by such decisions. Australia is currently acting on this escape clause with regard to the IWC decision to restrict the season for sperm whale hunting. 
I wish now to quote the words of some people who are not wild or radical but who are fairly conservative and who belong to very conservative organisations, one of which, incidentally, has just had the approval, the imprimatur, of the Prime Minister who is now I think a sponsor of the World Wildlife Fund. At the 1975 meeting of the IWC,  Sir Peter  Scott,  Chairman  of the World Wildlife Fund, spoke out strongly for a moratorium. He said: 
Through your courtesy,  Mr Chairman,  and that of the Commissioners, I and my conservation colleagues are allowed to come here, year after year, to express in five minutes flat, the deep concern we share with millions of other people all over the world about the future of the great whales. Once more we're here putting our case for responsible conservation. We know that most of you agree with it, and that only a few do not. But when the results of your deliberations are made known, we find every year that the intransigent minority has once more prevailed. Yet already today we have heard several complacent comments about the Commission's conservation achievements. Gentlemen, the track record does not bear this out. 
I now wish to quote from articles which appeared in a few of Australia's newspapers, none of which are what one would call radical newspapers. In June 1977 the  Sydney Morning Herald  published an article to which I wish to refer in order to take up the point which the honourable member for Forrest mentioned before when he was talking about the maximum sustainable yields system. The article in the  Sydney Morning Herald  stated: 
The Commission bases its quotas on the maximum sustainable yield system propounded by Australia. But this system has been seriously challenged by conservationists supported by independent scientists from the UN Food and Agriculture Organisation. 
The FAO study has found that it is almost impossible to estimate whale numbers accurately as claimed by the commission, and says there are grave doubts about the whale reproduction rates assumed by the Commission's scientists. These serious doubts about whether man is hunting the whale species to extinction are sufficient cause for the commission to call a halt to whale killing throughout the world. 
The Melbourne  Age  of 30 November 1977 had this to say: 
The United States has taken a lead in the struggle to save the whale by closing down its whaling stations, banning the import of almost all whale products and pressing for a 10-year international moratorium on whaling. Australia's official attitude has so far been equivocal. 
On 2 June 1977 the  Sydney Morning Herald  had this to say: 
Australia's little-known position as one of the last major whaling countries will also be demonstrated to the world. 
Australia, then, has a unique opportunity to continue its leading role in whaling councils. Having been instrumental in establishing a control system for whale-killing, Australia should now take another step by supporting a ban, or at least a 10-year moratorium, on whaling. This would require a major revision by the Federal Government of our policy towards whaling. So far Australia has opposed US moves for a moratorium. But now is the time for Australia to reverse its stand and lead the way by declaring that it proposes to end its own whaling operations at Albany, Western Australia. 
The station is privately owned and there should be fair compenstion paid. As an industry, whaling contributes little of economic consequence to Australia. It earns a small export income from the sale overseas of sperm oil, whale meal stock feed and ambergris for scent manufacture. It employs about 90 people in a town which normally offers other employment opportunities. These insignificant benefits to the country will be made this year at the expense of slaughtering up to 624 of the most magnificent creatures of the animal kingdom. A great deal of scientific research suggests that whales are of high intelligence, perhaps second only to man in creation. They present no threat to man or to his other ocean resources. 
I could go on quoting chapter and verse, but I would like to conclude with one small quotation  from an article in the  National Geographic.  That article quoted the words of a  Mr David  Hill. I do not know that he is a person of great significance himself, but what he had to say was significant. Of the whaling industry itself this gentleman, who is a well-known conservationist, said: 
It is like leaving a rabbit to guard a lettuce patch. 
Debate interrupted. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker - 
Fair go. You are on every night, Barry. 
-I shall be brief. I wish to answer one of the comments made by the honourable member for the Northern Territory who suggested that there should be consultation with the people of the Northern Territory. I do not think anybody on this side would disagree with that. In fact if honourable members look at the Opposition's original amendments they will see that the Opposition suggested a wide ranging number of areas for consultation. The Opposition is happy to see this improvement. The important thing that needs to be remembered, with all due respect to the people of the Northern Territory, is that the question of uranium mining is not just a question for the people of the Northern Territory to decide. It will affect the whole of Australia and the whole world. It is true that the Kakadu National Park is located in the Northern Territory as is the Uluru National Park. I believe these things are - 
-No. I am dealing with the clauses in the Bill, which relates to the Alligator Rivers Region. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)-The  honourable member is not entitled to deal with the clauses in the Bill. The Committee is considering the amendments. 
I am sorry, I am dealing with the amendments. The honourable member for the Northern Territory raised these points. It is important to remember that the questions of the Kakadu National Park and supervising scientists are national questions that are not just restricted to the people of the Northern Territory. I do not want to canvass the whole range of amendments and the Bill. I spoke for some 30 minutes on the Bill when it was presented before. 
-The Australian Labor Party still opposes this Bill, although it is not opposed to the Senate's amendments which in effect have been moved in Committee by the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Groom)  because as we see them they are somewhat similar to the amendments that we moved. These amendments now make it law that there will be on the Co-ordinating Committee representatives of the Northern Territory and representatives of the Northern Land Council. The Opposition moved a slightly more extensive amendment. We have no opposition to these amendments. However, we are still opposed to the Bill as part of the uranium package, and we will be dividing on the question. 
-Our concern with these amendments is with regard to the Gimbat and Goodparla leases. I do not wish to make a speech on the matter. My remarks are more by way of a question to the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Groom).  As the Minister knows, the second Fox report recommended that the Gimbat and Goodparla leases be acquired and eventually added to the Alligator Rivers Region or the Kakadu National Park. I understand that the proposed amendments of this Bill now mean that that cannot be done without the permission of the Northern Territory. That is our major concern with these amendments. As I have said, we dealt with the National Parks and Wildlife Conservation Amendment Bill in greater detail during the second reading stage before it went to the Senate. I ask the Minister to answer that question for honourable members on this side of the chamber, because as I understand it, Goodparla, which I think is  Sir William  Gunn 's property, has been offered to the Commonwealth for a certain price. But nothing has been done to acquire that property. A figure of $134,000 has been mentioned. I do not know whether that is correct. But it concerns us that under this legislation the matter will now revert back to the Northern Territory and will no longer be within the domain of the Federal Government. 
-The Opposition opposes these amendments. We find it very strange that the situation which has now been created under this Bill, which the Government put forward as one of its major forms of protection for the Australian people, is that nuclear codes will in effect be governed by the desires and wishes of the State which wants to have the weakest possible codes. The Government must have either enforcement or consultation. It must either have consultation with the States or it must impose standards. The Government has now handed the matter back to the States. The whole essence of the Government's claims was that it would provide strong, tough codes of practice so that Australians- people who were working in  the mining industry, people who were living near mining operations, Aborigines and people who were in any way affected by the transportation of yellowcake- would be carefully covered so that both their health, and the environment, would not be impaired in any way. 
I have had experience, and I am sure other honourable members in this Parliament have had experience, of agreement being required among the six States about codes. It is virtually impossible to get such agreement because there are always one or two States which will simply say: 'We do not agree. ' I do not wish to get away from the subject of the clause, but I can recall an example in a matter relating to road safety in which I was closely involved. We were trying to get a national road code. In just a small thing like drawing up a uniform accident form it has taken 20 years of negotiations and meetings, and still we have not been able to get the six police departments to sit down and draw up a uniform form. That is the situation. That is something that is not of minor importance but I do not think it is as significant as is this particular matter. 
No, the Government is not asking the six States to agree but that is the net effect of what will occur. The Government cannot impose different codes on Queensland and New South Wales, for example. The Government cannot say: 'We will impose a tough code on this State, a weak one on that State and a moderate one on this third State '. 
I do not trust the six States collectively to come to a uniform agreement. 
If the honourable member for La Trobe cannot understand English I do not know how I can more clearly explain it to him. I do not trust the six States to be able collectively to come to an agreement with the Federal Government. Let us take New South Wales for the purpose of the exercise. That State does not have mining but it will have transportation. It needs only that one State to say: 'We want the weakest possible standards' and the Government will lower the standards of the whole of the States to that level. The Minister is nodding his head. I would be delighted if he could explain to me how the Government intends to deal with the situation. At the moment the Bill allows consultation with the States. 
Well, the Minister was shaking his head. I could hear it from here. Whatever it was, the fact is that the Government will say to the States: 'This is what we would like you to do. Here is a nice strong series of codes that we believe will protect the environment and the people of Australia'. Five of the States will say: 'That is a good idea. We like those'. The other State will say: 'We think that is too tough. We do not agree with you'. What will the Government do then? Will the Government say to the States: 'We will take your word for it and not have a code' or accept a different code from each State, or will the Government then impose its will? If the Government intends to impose its will it might as well not have this legislation. 
I would have thought we could have imposed our will under the export arrangements whereby we have to give permission for export. The honourable member- I do not know where he comes from; I do not even know his name- is getting very excited about something or other. 
Dear, oh dear! The representative from the apple isle is having a few words to say. I repeat what I said to the Minister: This Bill is now a complete farce because there is no way in the world the Government can now impose a nuclear code which has any guts in it, any toughness, any restrictions on the States' rights. The States will be able to go ahead and do exactly what they like. 
-The situation that prevailed with amendment No. 5 also prevails with respect to amendment No. 6. Under clause 13 the Government, where the provisions of nuclear codes did not cover adequately what we would like to cover- the health of the people and the environment- could move in and virtually take control. What has happened here, as happened in the case of the previous clause discussed, is that now the Federal Government no longer has that power and it is up to the States to withdraw from the arrangement. The Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Groom)  said, in answering a previous question- and I assume he will use exactly the same argument here- that under the Constitution extra powers are available. If that is the case, and the Government has power to override the States, why is it now bringing in this amendment? What is the point of the exercise? 
-The Minister is quite right; I do not understand him. First, we bring in legislation to provide a national nuclear code - 
-I will deal with the honourable member in just a moment. We say that we want to have a nuclear code drawn up and will consult the States, but if they do not accept what we provide we will still impose those powers, because we must have a national code. We also say that we are not satisfied; that the situation has got out of hand; that the Government can move in and exert its powers to force the States into Une. Having done all that and passed legislation, we then come back and say that we do not require those powers: Now we are going to hand it all back to the States for them to come up with their own individual codes; that no longer will we assert national sovereignty to achieve uniformity of agreement. 
The Minister now tells us that we are going back to the situation under which, if the Federal Government wants to go in, it can still do so. What is the point of this whole exercise of nuclear code legislation? I understand that the States already have codes that cover this kind of legislation; that they did not need this Environmental Protection Act in the first place; they could have drawn it up without us. Why are we involved in this at aU? 
I want to take up the point that the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Baillieu)  made the worst contribution that in nine years I have heard from a member of parliament. First, after waffling around in an incoherent, inarticulate, incompetent way he finally came to the point where he was pulled up, and then said that he was talking about international safeguards. The honourable member for La Trobe, quite honestly, has not even read the legislation or the Minister's second reading speech. I noticed that the Minister was embarrassed when the honourable member was speaking. At page 1296 of  Hansard  of 10 April 1978 the Minister is reported in this way: 
Clause 8 (3) outlines the matters which may be included in codes of practice developed under this legislation. 
Later on he went on to say: 
I should emphasise that this legislation is concerned with the health and safety of people, and the environment, as distinct from safeguards, the purpose of which is to ensure that nuclear material in peaceful use is not diverted to nonpeaceful purposes or to nuclear weapons. It has already been explained to the House that as a result of Australia's adherence to the Non-Proliferation Treaty, Australia has undertaken certain safeguards obligations. 
This has nothing whatsoever to do with international safeguards. The honourable member for La Trobe ought to have bothered to read the 
Bill before he came into the House and tried to make a contribution. 
-Why does the honourable member not read the Bill? 
asked the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development, upon notice, on 2 May 1 978: 
What action (a) has the Government taken and (b) does it propose to take to implement the proposals of the report Planning for the Use of Sewage' presented to his predecessor in 1977. 
-Is the Minister for Transport aware of the fact that approximately one million Australians now travel overseas each year for holidays, many of them to South-East Asian and South Pacific areas, primarily because it is relatively cheaper than travel within Australia? Is he also aware that because of the traditional view that Qantas Airways Ltd should be restricted to international travel and Ansett Airlines of Australia and Trans-Australia Airlines to domestic travel, Australians are unable to include as part of their overseas tours areas of great national interest such as Ayres Rock, Alice Springs and the Geat Barrier Reef? Has the Government considered regional flying for. all three airlines to enable tour operators to include Australian tourist areas in international packages in this region? 
I have informed the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair)  and the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  of the matter that I wish to raise today. It concerns the destruction by the Bureau of Customs of a very valuable collection of birds in the Gosford area on 22 September 1977. At the time the Minister for Primary Industry issued a Press release stating that similar collections of birds had also been destroyed at Wollongong and Cairns because of the fear that through contact with birds illegally smuggled into Australia they may have had Newcastle disease which could, if not eradicated, spread with disastrous results throughout the Australian poultry industry. I make it perfectly clear that I have no objection to the Australian Government imposing stringent safeguards to protect the Australian poultry industry or any other livestock industry that may be threatened by the importation of foreign diseases, nor do I object to the destruction of birds or animals that may be carriers of a disease that could spread throughout the rest of the nation and cripple the whole industry. Finally, I have no sympathy for those people who knowingly import or traffic in birds illegally brought into the country and who suffer financial loss through the destruction of the birds or through prosecution for their action. However, I believe there is evidence of the Bureau of Customs acting in a highhanded, impulsive and authoritarian manner regarding the destruction of a large number of birds valued at $97,000 in the Gosford area. 

 Mr Rudolph Muhvich of Berkely Vale had build up a very large and valuable collection of exotic birds in a 25 acre property that, I understand, was one of the best private collections of its type in Australia. On 2 September 1977 he purchased two pairs of foreign parrots from a person at Wyong Railway Station and paid $3,200 for them. On 6 September the Muhvich 's received a visit from four customs officers who inquired whether they kept any foreign birds and whether they could see them. After the Muhvich 's had answered affirmatively to both questions the officers searched the 168 aviaries on the property before locating the two pairs of birds recently acquired. These birds had been kept separately from the other birds for a week or so to ensure that they were disease free and had had no contact whatsoever with any of their other birds. 
The customs officers told the Muhvich family that they would have to confiscate the birds because they had reason to believe that the birds had been smuggled into Australia. The Muhvich 's were shocked to hear this as they had no idea that this had been the case. The customs officers told them that they had known a load of smuggled birds were coming into Australia and had let them into the country to see where they were" sent. 
A  Mr Cosgrove  then stated that he would have to search the house, although he did not produce a search warrant, and subsequently interviewed  Mr Muhvich  in a most aggressive manner, with the interview being recorded by another officer, 

 Mr Peacock, on a portable typewriter. The customs officer told them that the confiscated birds would have to be quarantined in Sydney as smuggled birds often carry diseases. He gave them the telephone number of a  Mr Skillman  and told them to inquire later about the birds and the possibility of getting them back. They were told that they were extremely lucky that the birds had been segregated from their other stock because if the birds were found to be diseased they may have had to destroy them as well. 
On 7 September the Muhvichs rang  Mr Skillman  who told them that the confiscated birds had been destroyed but that he did not know the results of any tests carried out on them. On 10 September customs officers Cosgrove and Peacock returned the cages in which the birds had been taken from the property, informing the Muhvichs that they did not think there would be any problem with the quarantine department but that the final decision rested with  Mr Skillman  and other departmental officials. 
On 13 September the Muhvichs received a visit from the District Veterinary Officer of Newcastle,  Mr Kirkland,  and the Newcastle Quarantine Officer,  Mr Gilchrist,  who served them with a 30 day State Government quarantine notice. Once again they told the Muhvichs that they were lucky the confiscated birds had been kept separate from the rest and asked whether they had sold any birds to anyone else. The Muhvichs informed the officers that they had sold three elegant parrots to the Wyong pet shop. They later learned that the pet shop was visited the following day and that all of its birds had been placed in quarantine. 
On 15 September  Mr Kirkland  and  Mr Gilchrist  again came to the house and said that the property would have to be placed under 24 hour surveillance until a special meeting took place in Sydney to discuss the situation and that someone would be placed at their front gate from then on. The following day they arrived with a person whom the Muhvichs were told was an expert on diseased birds. He informed them that their birds were in very good condition but that they would still be placed under a 24 hour guard. 
For the next few days guards lived near the property inquiring regularly about the health of the birds which remained in perfect condition. As can be imagined, this period of being guarded and treated like criminals was extremely embarrassing to the family and to the children who were severely taunted at school. On 22 September a  Mr Mumford  of the Division of Animal 
Industry, Department of Agriculture, together with three police constables and a police sergeant, arrived and informed the Muhvichs that the birds were to be destroyed and the aviaries fumigated. The paper the Muhvichs were given carried no official letterhead and the signature on the bottom was illegible.  Mr Mumford  informed them that he had a telex from Canberra which gave him the authority to carry out this action although the telex was not shown to  Mr and Mrs Muhvich. Mr Hancher,  the family solicitor, arrived and asked  Mr Mumford  why he had not informed the Muhvichs about the action the Government intended to take and why they had been tricked into thinking everything was alright. 
Now listen to this.  Mr Mumford  told  Mr Hancher  that his department had deliberately misled them so that they did not attempt to take counter measures. Rent-o-Kill men arrived and covered the aviaries with huge tarpaulins and killed the birds by fumigation. The family was told to go inside the house, until told to come outside. Dozens of large birds were allowed to roam free on the property and were shot. All this was witnessed by their two young sons who had just returned from school. At no time during the fumigation were any health officers present even though lethal poisonous gases were being used. The place was left in a disgusting mess, with poison bait pellets, lids from poison cans left scattered around the property and poisonous cardboard discs on the aviary floors. The stench from the fumigated aviaries was nauseating. 
The most frightening aspect of the whole procedure was that the very next day their youngest son became ill and shortly after was admitted to Gosford Hospital for two weeks. As he was always a strong and healthy child, the Muhvich family have every reason to believe that the two permanent scars he now bears on his lungs are as a direct result of the fumigation carried out to slaughter the birds. Their grandchild who was present also became sick with the same symptoms as their son. The Muhvich family contacted  Mr Trager  of the Gosford Health Commission to seek his advice about whether the chemicals used were dangerous to humans and to ascertain what they could or could not touch and so on. They had been given no instructions or warned of any danger to other livestock or to themselves. Subsequently two of their deer died due to contact with the poison. Dead birds were found hanging from trees and wire. Nesting logs were filled with dead young birds and eggs. Dozens of breeding boxes were also filled with dead young birds which the exterminators had not bothered to remove. 
Large piles of sand were left in the back garden by the exterminators who also broke fences, cut through aviary walls and broke a main water pipe leading to a loss of 10,000 gallons of tank water, which had to be purchased because the Muhvich property is not on town water. Hundreds of dollars worth of assorted bird seed was wasted because it had not been removed from the seed storage area before it was fumigated.  Mr Trager  of the Health Commission inspected the aviaries with the Muhvich family and commented that they had been left in an unhygienic and awful state. He arranged for  Mr Kirkland  and another gentleman from the Newcastle Quarantine Department to clear up the mess which they did five days later. While  Mr Kirkland  was there they requested that at least the damage should be repaired. Some months later they finally sent a man to quote for the job and that was the last that was heard of him. 
In nine years in this Parliament I have never heard anything to match this appalling example of bureaucratic high-handedness, cruelty, callousness and insensitivity. I would have expected this sort of behaviour in Nazi Germany but not in Australia. What is so appalling apart from the manner in which the whole matter was conducted is that no tests were carried out on any of the birds before they were killed with the exception of the two pairs of parrots originally confiscated, and these were proved to be officially negative.  Mr and Mr Muhvich  would have been prepared to submit to quarantine of the birds, any form of tests and, if necessary, to sacrifice dozens of the birds of any species if necessary and if they had been asked. 
When this matter was first brought to my attention I contacted the offices of both the Minister for Health and the Minister for Primary Industry. I had a number of conversations with the secretary of the Minister for Health who informed me that there was some confusion as to whether it was their responsibility or that of the Minister for Primary Industry. I was assured that the Muhvichs would be compensated for any losses. Now, however, I am informed that this is not the case and they are not to receive one cent of compensation for this monstrous bungle by the departments involved. I am informed that the collection was one of, if not the most comprehensive and unique collection of native Australian and foreign birds in  Australia, lt was a  collection of world standard. The birds are mostly irreplaceable. They were expensive and some were purchased after many years of hard work and selective breeding. The Muhvichs had been planning to open a bird sanctuary with a wildlife section in the near future. Students from their sons' local school came in study tours to see the collection. 
What has to be understood is that the collection was not just a hobby but a whole way of life for the Muhvichs. More than that, it was their reason for living. They adored the birds and spent years and their life savings to build this magnificent collection. Neither  Mr nor Mrs Muhvich  is young. What has happened has been a terrible shock to them, from which they will never completely recover. The least the Government can do is to compensate them adequately so that they can start again to replace their collection. I thank the Minister for coming into the House and listening to me. 
Has the attention of the Acting Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations been drawn to the public opinion polls that indicate that 85 per cent of Australians believe that the unemployed should work for their benefits? Leaving aside the question of such benefits being a right and that such an imposition would be a contravention of International Labour Organisation conventions, will he tell the Australian people again that the introduction of job creation schemes has been rejected by the Government on the grounds that for any useful jobs to be created the cost would be four times the benefits paid? 
asked the Minister for Industry and Commerce, upon notice, on 30 May 1978: 
1 ) What is the sum of the gross sales of sporting goods in Australia. 
Can he provide a breakdown of the gross sales for each type of sporting activity. 
-During the past three years the people of Australia have been constantly told by the present Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  that they have been living too well, that in order to get the economy going again they would have to make personal sacrifices, that in order to return to the prosperous days of the early 1970s there would have to be a long period of personal restraint and belt tightening. In Churchillian tones he has harangued the population with phrases like, 'life was not meant to be easy', 'there is no such thing as a free lunch', and so on as he applied his peculiar type of Friedmanite economics to the Austraiian economy. Without debating the pros and cons of this economic philosophy one would have imagined that a Prime Minister who indulged in this sort of high sounding rhetoric would have practised restraint in the expenditure of taxpayer's funds, particularly in regard to personal pleasure. One would have anticipated that the self-denial he had urged upon the bulk of the population would have started at the top. One would have expected this in view of the Prime Minister's incessant carping criticisms of  Mr Whitlam  during his period as Prime Minister and the statement in his 1975 election policy speech that: 
There will be an end to Government extravagance and excesses. There will be no international safaris by members of the Parliament. The purpose and nature of overseas trips will be subject to clear guidelines. Australia does not need a tourist as a Prime Minister. 
In view of that statement, which was repeated over and over again, one would have expected that this Prime Minister would have been positively frugal in his personal indulgences with taxpayers' funds. I remind the House that not only did the present Prime Minister want  Mr Whitlam  to be tight fisted with the expenditure of funds but also he did not want him to go at all. However, the opposite has been the case. Not since Federation has the nation had a leader who has been so extravagant in indulging his personal whims and love of the good life. When he travels abroad, as he does with greater rapidity than any of his predecessors, it is with the style and affluence of an Arab oil sheik, not as the leader of a country which has just had handed down the most austere Budget in 30 years, as one newspaper described it this morning. 
The Prime Minister, on his recent visit to New York with a staff of 21 advisors, cost the Australian taxpayer a conservative $65,000. I point out to the House that that amount does not include the cost of air travel. His visit cost $65,000 for 6 days- $11,000 a day. That amounts to about $500 a day for each person. I do not expect and I do not think that the House or the nation expects, the Prime Minister of Australia and his entourage to stay in the Bowery, but this is ridiculous. According to the Austraiian Broadcasting Commission program  AM,  this cost included $33,000 in hotel charges, $15,000 for a fleet of chauffeur driven Cadillacs on call 24 hours a day, $12,000 to $15,000 for the charter of two jet aircraft to fly  Mr Fraser  to Miami and $5,000 in telephone calls. The Prime Minister's own hotel suite cost $600 a night. I hope that he slept well at $600 a night. He must have had some beautiful dreams at that price. One wonders what sort of room one gets for $600 a night? What were the extras for $600 a night? 
I will leave it to the imagination of the Leader of the House. But it must have been a beautiful night at $600 a night. I suppose that he sat there with that cigar, dreaming of how life was not meant to be easy. This from the man who has just told unemployed people without dependants that they will not receive any increase in their benefits and this from the man who has reintroduced the means test on increases in pensions for those people aged over 70 years. I also remind the House that all the bills are not in yet and it is estimated that the total cost could be in excess of $100,000. 1 repeat: This does not include air fares. The mind-boggling hypocrisy of this Prime Minister is breathtaking. On top of all this he further indulged his personal whims by flying his entourage to London aboard the Concorde at a cost of $15,000. These costs, incidentally, have been confirmed by Australia's diplomatic missions in New York and at the United Nations. If this same rate of costs per day had been maintained over the rest of the tour which took three weeks, the cost would have exceeded $250,000. 
In Paris the extravagance was continued. Despite the fact that Australia has in Paris one of the most beautiful and lavish embassies in the world - designed by the McMahon Government- the Prime Minister saw fit to have office furniture and equipment moved to Paris 's most exclusive hotel, the Hotel Crillon. All this could easily have been provided at the Embassy complex. The Embassy actually offered the space but this was rejected by the Prime Minister. If the Prime Minister is so concerned with reducing public expenditure, why did he not avail himself of the ambassadorial apartment which was furnished for  Sir John  Kerr and which is now vacant? It probably was because he wanted to keep as much distance between himself and Australia's most infamous exile. At least one would know that the bar would have been well stocked. 
Another example of the Prime Minister's personal indulgence was the trip to Rome to see his sister. On 17 June the Prime Minister and his party could have driven from Bonn to Frankfurt- a drive of an hour or so- to join Qantas flight 2 to Singapore, leaving Frankfurt at 7.30 p.m. Instead, the party flew from Bonn aboard a chartered DC9. The Australian Ambassador at Rome and a number of Embassy staff were on hand to greet the Prime Minister. A special program had been printed for the visit. The entire party plus the Press boarded a fleet of cars which ferried them to the Holiday Inn where rooms had been booked for all official members of the group. A banquet room in the hotel-motel had been set up as a Press centre with telephones, a bar and so on. The cost was borne by the Embassy. The Prime Minister and  Mrs Fraser  did npt go to the hotel however, but instead were driven 20 miles to a restaurant for dinner with  Mr Fraser  's sister. At 1 a.m. the staff, officials and Press were ferried back to the airport from the hotel to board the Qantas flight from Frankfurt which had just arrived after midnight and they were joined by the Prime Minister and  Mrs Fraser.  The entire visit lasted some seven hours and cost in excess of $5,000. All of this was to allow the Prime Minister to visit his sister and to dine with her. 
The way in which taxpayers' funds are expended for the pleasure and comfort and at the personal whim of the Prime Minister has become a national disgrace. Nobody expects the Prime Minister to travel tourist class, to go steerage or to work his way as a steward. We expect our Prime Minister to go abroad in some style and with the right staff. We know that most of the criticisms of the Whitlam Government were absurd. We do not want to get to the stage in this country and in this Parliament where we are asking the Prime Minister to carry a cut lunch with him. But the costs now are getting out of hand, and they have been getting out of hand since the right honourable member for Wannon became 
Prime Minister. He is over indulgent. Plenty of adequate, comfortable and even luxurious hotels can be provided without this sort of absurd extravagance. Honourable members should remember that this is only part of a pattern that started the day the right honourable member for Wannon became Prime Minister. 
I should like to recall some of the Prime Minister's previous extravagances. He spent $16,000 on a custom-built Chrysler for use in Melbourne. Maybe it should have come from one of the other manufacturers. He spent $9,000 for the purchase of a new set of crockery for use at The Lodge and $250,000 on renovations at The Lodge. The most scandalous decision of all was the decision to purchase two VIP 727 aircraft for the Prime Minister and his Ministers for their overseas jaunts at a total cost of $40m. Four Christmas parties to entertain businessmen at The Lodge cost $6,500. Arrangements, of course, were made for  Mrs Fraser  to have her personal florist flown from Melbourne to Canberra to arrange the flowers in Parliament House for the Queen's visit. In March 1977 the VIP flight was used to pick up strawberries for the Queen's visit. One can go on and on. 
It is incredible that at a time when the people have been told that they must tighten their belts, that they must show restraint, that they must go without so that their country can get back on its feet, we have a man at the top, at the helm of the nation, who simply does not show any restraint at all. I have been here during the time of five Prime Ministers- Prime Ministers Gorton, McEwen, McMahon, Whitlam and Fraser. I did not realise I had been here so long. I have never known a Prime Minister who has gone remotely near indulging himself in the way this Prime Minister has. 
Life has got too much for him because he cannot remember anything. Maybe there is a moral in that. The time has now been reached when this Parliament and this nation must call a halt. The Prime Minister talks about sacrifice but he has no idea what he means. He has no idea about the suffering being experienced and the sacrifices being made by a very large section of the Australian people. I do not blame the Prime Minister for his birthright. No one is to be blamed for the fact that he was born into a comfortable family- perhaps a wealthy family. That is not his fault and he is not to be attacked for that. He should be attacked for not understanding what life is like for people on pensions, for the unemployed and for those who have been asked to tighten their belts. 
-He should be attacked for his lack of compassion and lack of concern for the many hundreds of thousands of Australians who are in dire straits and who will be in worse straits after this Budget has its impact. He ought to try to understand and he ought to set an example. If there is one man in this country who should tighten his belt it is the Prime Minister. We are demanding a full accounting of these costs because the full story has not yet come out. We are demanding that this expenditure should cease because the country will no longer tolerate it and this Parliament will no longer tolerate it. I call upon the House to demand that the Prime Minister stops his personal indulgences and extravagances at the taxpayers' expense. 
If this Government were a public company, its directors would now be in gaol, after having been charged and found guilty of the most monstrous fraud in Australia's history. Just nine months ago, the Liberal-Country Party coalition spent a fortune in the election campaign to tell the Australian voters how the Labor Party would take away the tax cuts they had promised would operate early in 1978. The Australian Labor Party had asked the Australian people to forego these tax cuts so that payroll tax could be abolished, job creation schemes could be initiated and the economy stimulated. 
The coalition's campaign was dishonest enough, with advertisments showing a hand holding a fist full of dollars, deliberately attempting to mislead the average worker into believing that if he voted Liberal there would be a vast increase in his pay packet. Undoubtedly these lying advertisements and the campaign waged by the present Government had a great deal to do with this Government's return with such a large majority. However, within six months of the tax cuts being introduced the same Government, in the greatest turn around in history, has increased personal income tax so that every worker earning between $1 14 and $238 a week has lost every cent that he gained in February. 
The feeling of disillusionment and disenchantment with the Liberal and National Country party coalition has, since the presentation of the Budget, given way to feelings of deep bitterness and anger. The basis of this infamous document, laughingly referred to as a Budget, is that inflation has to be reduced further by containing the deficit and reducing the amount of money available for people to spend. The fault lies, we are told, with the grasping worker who, despite repeated assaults upon wage indexation, is still being too highly paid for what he is producing. Let me quote what the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  said: 
Real wages are still too high and this remains a major cause of the unacceptable levels of unemployment. 
The inescapable truth which cannot be too heavily emphasised is the real cost of labour continues to be out of time with productivity. 
Until this is put right, growth in jobs will be held back and unemployment will be difficult to reduce. 
Let us examine this 'inescapable truth' because undoubtedly this is the linchpin of the Government's policy. I have just returned from a twoweek study tour of Japan. Together with my colleagues the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron),  the honourable member for Sydney  (Mr Les McMahon)  and the honourable member for Maribyrnong  (Dr Cass),  I visited a number of Japanese manufacturersNippon Steel, Nikon, Facom, National 
Panasonic and Toyota. Together these five industrial giants would represent a cross section of those industries that have placed Japan among the countries with the most successful economies in the world and have made it the envy of every industrialised nation. 
In the area of steel, cameras, computers, radio, television and automobiles Japan leads the world. It goes without saying that we were enormously impressed with the size and efficiency of the operation, particularly the degree to which the manufacturing process was automated. We knew also before we went of the very harmonious industrial relations that have been a feature of Japanese life in the post-war period of economic expansion. However, the surprise came when we started asking questions about the wages and conditions of Japanese workers. It is still to a large degree part of the Australian mythology that the reason for Japan's success is the low level of wages paid to Japanese workers. We knew before we went there that wages had risen in recent years but we had no idea to what extent. 
It has to be understood also that most Japanese companies of this size include a number of benefits in the total wage package. They include free health cover, transportation to and from work, subsidised meals at canteens, 20 working days holiday a year, 12 to 1 3 weeks paid maternity leave, subsidised housing and subsidised holidays at their holiday resorts. Although the base salary is not much higher than Australian wage levels, Japanese companies provide a twice-yearly bonus equal to approximately six months of the workers' wages. In the five companies we visited the total package was worth between $325 and $375 a week. In the shipbuilding industry it was worth a great deal more. In many cases the workers there receive double what the average Australian worker is receiving. On average they would receive at least 50 per cent more than Australian workers. 
I make the point also that the companies provide fantastic recreational and sporting facilities for their work forces and, in many instances, for the whole community. The sporting complex of the Toyota organisation has to be seen to be believed. To say that it is large enough and magnificent enough for the Commonwealth Games to have been held there would be an understatement. The companies also maintain a superb range of company owned holiday resorts which the workers can enjoy at a very low tariff. 
I accept that comment. 
Sitting suspended from  6  to  8  p.m. 
Before the suspension of the sitting I was referring to the different conditions for Japanese and Australian workers. The obvious question that has to be asked is this: If the most successful Japanese companies can pay their workers salaries of this dimension and provide working conditions of the quality I have described, why are we in Australia constantly told by this Government, by Australian businessmen, by the media and by every reactionary force in Australia today that the reason for Australia's present economic malaise is the fact that Australians are overpaid? The sensible answer, of course, is that it is not true that Australians are overpaid. The answer did not come from us but from the top management of the Japanese businessmen to whom I referred earlier. 
We had long discussions with the top men of all these companies, including  Mr Toyota  himself. It would be fair to say that a consensus of these views was that the reasons for Australia's lack of competitiveness was, firstly, that at the top level of management Australia was a long way behind. Australian management, the Japanese felt, was inefficient. Secondly, Australia was attempting to make every single item in Australia and this was extremely inefficient. Speaking of the automobile industry, they felt that with our vast array of natural resources, iron ore in particular, we should concentrate on processing those resources and on manufacturing those parts of the automobile that use substantial amounts of steel. It could be argued that Japanese companies would hardly be giving Australia advice that would strengthen our manufacturing industry at the possible expense of their own industry. Nevertheless, the case they argued seemed to us to make sense. In view of the dire straits that the Australian automobile manufacturing sector has been in in recent years and in view of the constant aid and assistance it has sought and obtained from governments, culminating in the latest sales tax reduction, I think the least we can do is to look seriously at what they suggested. 
Given the right government guidance and incentive in the early stages, the companies involved in this area of manufacturing could develop the economies of scale required to become a net exporter of these products. Obviously, economies of scale are vital to produce many items at competitive world prices but it seems to me to be impractical to imagine that Australia can opt to manufacture every single component part of the automobile. We have hundreds of component parts manufacturers trying to eke out a living by making a few thousand items a week when their Japanese counterparts are producing the same item by the hundreds of thousands. Clearly, decisions have to be made and should be made by government in consultation with business and the trade union movement to concentrate our productions in the areas in which we have the resources, the energy, the manpower and the technology to produce them in large numbers so that we can compete internationally. We should then gradually phase out those areas in which we are unable to compete and where countries like Japan, Germany and the United States can provide us with parts far cheaper than we can make them. A small country like Australia cannot manufacture everything without massive protection. Let me make it clear that I am not advocating the removal of all tariffs. On the contrary, in some areas where a decision is made to concentrate our efforts, it may be necessary to increase tariffs for a while to gain the benefits of economies of scale. 
Productivity is a word that is bandied around a great deal in debate about Australian manufacturing industry and it usually ends up with businessmen abusing the unions, the Australian workers, about their lack of productivity. However, productivity is not something that depends solely on the skill or enthusiasm of the work force. It is bound up in a number of factors, including the economies of scale to which I have just referred, industrial relations, the skill and quality of the work force, management and the technology being used. Clearly, the industrial relations of the Japanese- I am referring to the companies to which we spoke- are something that Australia could envy and should envy. It was argued by some people that it simply is not feasible to compare the industrial relations of the two countries because of the vast differences in cultures and in the traditionally close, almost feudal, relationship that has existed for generations between Japanese employers and employees. I am not denying the different historical and cultural differences that make comparisons difficult. However, if one looks at those features of Japanese industrial life that seem to be the major factors in creating industrial harmony and the resultant high level of productivity, one can find all those features that progressive people have been arguing for years should be incorporated in the industrial relations system in Australia. 
For example, if a Japanese company decides that it wants to introduce new technology into its factory it immediately has one big advantage over its Australian counterpart. Guaranteed life long employment is and has been a feature of Japanese life for generations. Japanese workers do not see new technology as a threat to their livelihood for the simple reason that they know that, short of murdering the general manager, they have security of employment until they retire. The Japanese simply do not sack people. New technology is seen by the Japanese worker as a means of lightening his work load, ensuring the profitability of the company that employs him and thus increasing his wages and improving his conditions. If new technology is introduced it is done after long periods of consultation with the union and the workers themselves. We were told that at one factory the discussions on new changes had been going on for eight months. I ask honourable members to contrast this attitude with the sort of thing that is happening in the present Telecom dispute. It makes it easy to understand why there has not been a strike at Toyota for 27 years. There is also a genuine attempt to bring workers into the decision-making process. At National Panasonic and Toyota some 420,000 suggestions are received per annum. That is an average of 10 suggestions for each employee each year. Those people who put forward suggestions that were adopted were rewarded handsomely. 
One obvious advantage in Japanese industrial relations over Australian industrial relations lies in the smaller but stronger number of unions. This issue has been canvassed in this Parliament for many years. We are all aware of the role of the present Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  as Opposition spokesman on labour during the period of the Whitlam Government. When the present honourable member for Hindmarsh was Minister for Labour and Immigration legislation was introduced to facilitate the amalgamation of unions. Despite the overwhelming view of all those who have studied the problems of demarcation disputes in Australia that there was a need for fewer unions, the Liberal-National Country parties blocked that legislation in the Senate. They were more concerned with the political value of maintaining divisions in the union movement than in minimising industrial disputation. The Japanese, who like the West Germans, have unions based on industries rather than crafts, are bemused by our union system. 
We asked the Japanese for a frank view of the Australian workers' ability. Whilst they stated that they thought the Japanese worker was marginally better than his Australian counterpart, they constantly reiterated that in their view this was not a major factor in the difference in the productivity of the two nations, just as they constantly stressed that wage levels had nothing to do with the different competitive positions of each nation. Because of better industrial relations, wages, conditions, security of employment and so on, Japanese workers stay with the company. At one company, Toyota, the turnover of staff was only 1 1 per cent per annum, caused by retirement, death, illness and so on. The honourable member for Hindmarsh informed me that at General Motors-Holden's Ltd in Australia the turnover of staff is 186 per cent per annum. This, the Japanese believed, was one of the major reasons for the slightly higher skills of Japanese workers. 
In all our discussions one fact came through clearly. Australia's inability to compete with Japan in those industries to which I have just referred- steel, cars, computers, radio, television sets, cameras, ship building, and I suspect many more industries- has little or nothing to do with the wage levels of Australian workers. Nor can it be attributed to any lack of skills or ability of Australian workers. If the Japanese businessmen to whom we spoke are to be believed, the fault lies with Australian management and with the Australian Government which refuses to take steps to rationalise Australian manufacturing industry and our industrial relations. 
The Japanese culture and traditional relations between employer and employee may be vastly different from Australia's but if one examines the specific features of Japanese industrial relations- consultations, security of employment, good wages and conditions- and the Japanese solutions to problems, one can realise that Japanese workers have reacted favourably to being treated as human beings, not just as factory fodder. In my view, Australian workers would react in exactly the same way, just as West German workers have, if they were treated in the same way. This matter has little to do with different cultures. It has a lot to do with different human relations. If this Government had any real desire to pick Australia up off its present economic slide, it would stop abusing Australian workers, trade unions, the Labor Party and the Conciliation and Arbitration Commission and start on the long but rewarding job of modernising and rationalising Australian manufacturing industry and industrial relations. The whole basis of this monstrous Budget is wrong. It is aimed at continuing to depress the wage levels of Australian workers when it ought to be based on improving the productivity of Australian industry. 
-The Australian Labor Party does not propose to oppose this legislation. However, we intend to criticise some aspects of it. I understand from the second reading speech of the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar)  that this Bill is expected to provide some $10m in income for the rest of this financial year and some $13m for a full year. I would imagine that in view of the continuing growth of tourism over the next few years this tax will be a substantial revenue earner for the Government. The Opposition recognises that governments have to get their revenue from somewhere and that at least the section of the community which will be affected by this legislation probably is better able to pay such a tax. However, we make the criticism that the Bill does not provide as the industry had hoped- I think this was one of the reasons the industry did not oppose the tax- that the funds so gathered shall be used for the benefit of the industry. 
I think that everyone recognises that we have a major problem in this country at the moment. The problem is one of trying to find suitable occupations for people who have lost their jobs in many manufacturing industries and some tertiary industry as a result of the present world economic recessions, the policies of this present Government and the increase in computer technology. The Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  has forecast that the level of unemployment could hit 500,000 early in 1979. With this in mind I think it is our duty as a Parliament to look for industries that will provide substantial levels of employment. It is unfortunate that some Australian industries which have an opportunity for growth, such as the mining industry and areas of the primary sector, are not labour intensive. We could double our production of iron ore and other minerals but we would not see a substantial increase in the level of employment. Tourism, however, is an industry that does provide very labour intensive employment. In particular it provides employment for women, youth, ethnic groups, the aged and the semi-skilled- the people who are most affected by the present economic recession. 
I know that governments normally do not allocate taxes to industry. But I think an exception ought to have been made in the case of the tourist industry. From my observations as a member of the House of Representatives Select Committee on Tourism I would think $ 13m is about the sort of money that is required to get the tourist industry on its feet and to do the sort of exciting things that can be done to kick the industry along. I do not believe that industries are entitled to have hundreds of millions of dollars poured into them. However, if we had the money to do a few small things on top of what we are already doing I think we could generate activity in the industry and as a result ensure quite a substantial amount of employment 
According to the Budget the Government will spend $4,240,000 on tourism this financial year. This is an increase of about 30 per cent on the amount allocated last year. This money will be devoted largely to the promotion overseas of tourism to Australia. We welcome that allocation. But this is only one small aspect of tourism. 
-The honourable member for Canberra makes the point that we should conduct a program of 'See Australia first'. I forget the exact name of the program initiated by the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Stewart)  when he was Minister for Tourism but, as honourable members know, he undertook a very substantial program which was in effect called See Australia first'. 
-That was the title of the program and it was considered very successful. 
That is right-it cost only $400,000. Whilst the Opposition welcomes the increase in expenditure to $4m it believes that other areas require expenditure. Such expenditure would give the industry the fillip that it needs to get off the ground and going. 
Australia is falling behind most of its neighbouring countries in its ability to attract the tourist dollar. Fiji and New Zealand, just to name a couple, have a much greater growth rate in this area than does Australia. There are some things that I would like to see carried out. I mentioned that the Government is to spend $4m this financial year on tourist activities. This means that the Government will have at its disposal $9m from the $ 1 3m collected by way of the departure tax. I would like to list the sorts of things that could be done with that extra $9m. I believe that one of the legitimate complaints the industry has had for a long time is that it has never been allowed to depreciate hotel and motel buildings. Obviously the equipment in the buildings is subject to depreciation but the buildings themselves are not. It has always been argued that hotel and motel buildings are in the same category as factories and office blocks, that they have a life of 100 years or so and therefore they are not entitled to claim depreciation. However, the tourist industry is a little different in that fashion and decor are important. What was a very smart and elegant building 1 5 or 20 years ago is quite out of date and tawdry today. I do not want to mention the name of any hotel in this context but we all know of hotels that were built say, in 1955 and which today look tawdry or very ordinary. Everyone will stay at a new hotel rather than an older one. A calculation was made a couple of years ago that the cost of providing a 2Vi per cent depreciation rate for hotels and motels used for tourist accommodation would be about $2. 5m. I believe that this sort of thing will encourage people in Australia to start to upgrade the quality of their tourist accommodation. 
There is a desperate need in Australia to provide better tourist amenities at our major tourist attractions. Very few people in this House would not agree- I am sure that the honourable member for the Northern Territory  (Mr Calder)  would agree with me- that Ayers Rock- Alice Springs and the Great Barrier Reef are Australia's two greatest tourist attractions. I do not say that they are the places to which most Australians go but they are the places that people from overseas most want to visit If you like, we can refer to them as our flag carriers. I have just been to the Rock and to Alice Springs. I visited those places with the Standing Committee on Tourism. 
-No. I took one look at the Rock and decided that I had no intention of climbing it. Apart from the fact that I might have been out of breath, I would have been too nervous to try it. I admire those who do climb the Rock. Anybody in Australia who goes to Ayers Rock and sees the inadequate facilities that exist there must be ashamed. It is a disgrace. 
-A slum is correct. The five motels are spread all over the place. I have the greatest sympathy with the proprietors who originally built these motels. The Rock is a long way from everywhere. It is difficult to get labour out there and the cost of transporting materials is high. The motels, built 15 to 20 years ago, were probably reasonable at that time. Some years ago when the Labor Government was in office it decided to relocate the accommodation that is spread out round the Rock into a special village. As a result nothing has been done to these motels. By any standard, they are very poor, dilapidated and embarrassing to Australia as the best accommodation we can offer at the Rock. 
For many years proposals have existed to develop a special village near the Rock but outside the Uluru National Park. I think that this plan was drawn up six or seven years ago when I first came to this place. It was an excellent plan. It provided for hotels, motels, boutiques, restaurants and interpretive centres. It provided for all the infrastructure required such as water, sewerage, drainage and so on to be located on one site. The village was to be properly built, and planned around the landscape of the Uluru National Park and Ayers Rock. 
I tried to find out what happened to that project and what the cost of it would be. The Government bought the existing motels but left the present motel proprietors there on a short-term lease on an annual basis or on a week to week basis- I am not sure which- so that notice to vacate can be given to the proprietors quickly. In the 1978-79 Budget, the estimated expenditure on the Uluru National Park is $779,000. The amount of $385,000 is to be spent on upgrading facilities and rehabilitation of the environment and $394,000 is allocated for operating costs. We can see from those facts that nothing will happen concerning the village. It will not come into operation in the near future. I understand that the total cost, over a five-year period, would be about $30m. In my view they are the sorts of purposes for which this money should be allocated. 
I believe that similar sorts of facilities are required at some of our other fine tourist attractions. I nominate Fraser Island as being an ideal place for the establishment of a similar type of village. I have been to the Great Barrier Reef on many occasions. I finally saw the Reef on the last occasion I was there. It was not too wet, too windy, too dry, too hot, too rainy or whatever. I finally went out and saw the Reef. Unfortunately most people cannot see it because inadequate facilities exist to transport people to the Reef except in perfect weather. I believe we should have a range of interpretive centres servicing the Barrier Reef at key points such as Mackay, Rockhampton, Townsville and Cairns. I believe that marine museums could be established so that the many hundreds of thousands of people who visit the Barrier Reef would find adequate facilities available on the mainland cities and towns, if they could not get out to the Reef, to enable them to find out what the Reef is all about. It is very disappointing for people, particularly international visitors, who come all the way to Sydney- if a husband and wife is involved they may spend $700 in air fares to get to Cairns or Townsville and another $200 or $300 on accommodation- and find that they cannot get out to the Reef. 
One is not guaranteed at Heron Island of always getting out to the Reef. It is probably the best place to go. As the honourable member for Canberra has raised the question of Heron Island, I should like to add that I believe a case exists there for redevelopment work to be carried out. I think Heron Island is quite a nice place but I think it is ready for redevelopment. I do not want to go into that in great detail now. 
I repeat that in the Budget there is a substantial increase in the amount allocated for the promotion of Australia overseas. Australia is getting a very small amount of the international tourist trade. I think that in 1977 the number of arrivals in Australia was 563,28 1. The number of tourists in the past few years has remained between 500,000 and 600,000. Generally speaking, people are of the view that we are not sufficiently promoting Australia overseas. At this time I should also like to raise the fact that only a few of the Japanese tourists are visiting Australia. The Japanese have so much money at the moment that they do not know what to do with it. Some 3.4 million Japanese are leaving Japan each year. The majority of those are going to America and Europe. Less than one per cent is coming to Oceania. I think that about 35,000 Japanese tourists visit Australia each year. It is an absurd situation. One of the excuses we have made for many years is that it is difficult for us to attract the tourist trade from America and Europe because we are so far away. There is nothing much we can do about that; we are a long way from Europe and America. We are not a long way from Japan. I am not saying that this is the Australian Government's fault. The problem appears to be negotiating a lower air fare with the Japanese Government. At the moment I understand that the Japanese are sticking rigidly to the high air fare until they introduce widebodied jets on the run. 
It is something on which our Government ought to be concentrating. To think that we are getting less than one per cent of 3.4 million potential Japanese visitors is absurd because we are 10 hours direct flying time from Tokyo. We are almost as close as America and we are closer than Europe. A great potential exists for the expansion of the Japanese tourist market in Australia. Again, I hope that in the future some of this money will be allocated and earmarked for this purpose. The Government could say: We have a problem in finding different sorts of employment for Australians. We have to look at areas of growth, particularly areas which are labour intensive. We are going to push the tourist industry. We are going to concentrate on making this an area of growth for Australia. To start with, this $ 1 3m we will collect in a full year is the minimum amount we will spend on tourism. We will have a growth factor built into it'. This could happen for a period of three to five years. The industry would not expect to get this tax benefit permanently. If it did receive the benefit for three or four years it would get tremendous results. It would certainly have the support of honourable members on this side of the House and the support of the industry. I believe it would achieve significant results. 
I could refer to other areas such as man-made attractions in Australia. I think that we are doing some exciting things in this area. The House of Representatives Committee on Tourism visited various parts of Australia and has seen a number of these man-made attractions including Old Sydney Town which, of course, honourable members will be aware is in my electorate, and the Lachlan Vintage Village. We have been to Sovereign Hill in Ballarat and the Swan Hill Pioneer Settlement. 

 Mr COHEN I would not call that a manmade attraction but I take the honourable member's point. I am talking now about the Oceania historic type museums and attractions that have been developed throughout Australia. I mentioned two before. There are also the Hill End Historical Site, the Hartley Historic Site and the New South Wales Rail Transport Museum. To save me reading through the list, I seek leave to have the list from the study of man-made attractions incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

-To the credit of the present Government, this area of expenditure was originated when  Mr Howson  was the responsible Minister. The first funds allocated were, I think, in the 1972 Budget. An amount of $lm was set aside for Australiana-type attractions and this was carried on by the Labor Government and expanded. In the 1975-76 Budget $1,829,348 was spent- this was when the present member for Grayndler  (Mr Stewart)  was the Minister for Tourism- and in the 1976-77 Budget, which was really an overhang of our period in government, $831,825 was spent on these sorts of man-made attractions. I believe that most of these sorts of attractions ought to be financially viable. I do not believe that they ought to expect continued government handouts. They ought to be able to stand on their own two feet and I think that we must limit the number of them. We cannot have every town and every village in Australia having its own museum or attraction and expecting government assistance. There has to be a limit to the amount Australia can absorb and the number that Australian people want to see. 
-I take the honourable member's point. It is easy to make those sorts of broad statements, but it is difficult when one gets down to a particular problem. I think there is a strong case, at least for a period of time, for continuing to make funds available. I notice that the amount provided in the 1976-77 Budget was the final amount and that these funds were cut out in the big pruning back of government expenditure by the present Government. In each of the last two Budgets no funds have been set aside for this purpose. I hope that we will re-introduce an amount of between $lm to $2m per year to fund a selected number of specific projects in certain areas. It should not be a permanent grant, but a project should be able to count on an amount of $100,000 so that it can run efficiently. Each project must continue to grow. Old Sydney Town, which many honourable members have visited, is a particular example. Sovereign Hill is another. They must continue to add to their attractions. For instance, a windmill is being built at the Old Sydney Town site at the moment. The structure is complete, but $90,000 is required just to put the machinery in the sails to make the windmill work. There are projects to complete the Sydney 
Gaol, St Phillip's Church and places like that. They will cost a substantial amount of money and at the moment there is such a restraint, both at Federal and State level, that they are finding it difficult to get the funds. They need to be able to continue to add so that people will go back each year to see the new attractions. 
These are the sorts of things we would have hoped this Government would have done with the $ 13m. If it is not prepared to do these things in this Budget, one can hope only that it will reconsider the position in the future so that the industry can get the lift it requires. I do not think it is an excessive amount for which to ask. I think the money will be well spent and that it will return five-fold to the Government in terms of profitability in terms of employment, in terms of a future strong growth industry for Australia and in terms of redressing the travel gap which now exists between Australia and the rest of the world because so many more Australians are going out of Australia than there are visitors coming in. I conclude on that note and hope that the Government will consider the suggestions which I have made with sincerity. I am not trying to score political points. We on this side of the House are all strong supporters of this area as, I know, are many members on the Government side and I hope that this will be taken into account. 
-I want briefly to ask a question of the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs  (Mr MacKellar).  I imagine that 99 per cent of the people who depart from Australia will leave from airports or sea terminals, so I cannot see that many people will be able to avoid paying this tax. When they go through Customs they will have to show the tax stamps. Does the proposed penalty relate to people who leave Australia by private vessel? Surely we are not going to police the odd yacht that leaves the country. I am concerned that the penalties may be a bit harsh. I hope that the collection of this sort of tax is administered with some sensitivity and that people are not harassed. For instance, a situation could arise in which people do not know that this tax has to be paid. I have had that experience myself. It may be that people will spend all their money before they go to the airport and at the last minute become aware of the tax. It may be that a family of five does not have enough money to pay the tax. This is the sort of thing that can happen. I hope that people will not be stranded at airports because they do not have enough money to pay the tax. I hope that we do not have people running around arresting people for not paying a $ 10 tax. If the situation should occur that people are unable to pay the tax for one reason or other I hope that common sense prevails and that they may be allowed to pay the tax at some future date. 
Has the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development received representations from groups in Western Australia who are concerned at the proposal by Alcoa of Australia Ltd to mine bauxite at Wagerup and who are seeking a public inquiry? What is his response and does the Government propose to initiate a public inquiry? 
-We are not opposed to it. We just want to know a great deal more about it at this stage because it is a matter of great concern to the people of Western Australia and, particularly, the people of Perth. 
-This Bill proposes to change the requirement that the  Chairman  of the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Authority must hold 'special academic qualifications and have experience in the field of biological conservation'. This is the major area of concern to the Labor Party because the proposed amendment will mean that the  Chairman  is required to have only the same qualifications as the other two members of the Authority. At present they are required to 'possess qualifications or extensive experience in a field related to the functions of the Authority'. The Labor Party agrees that the present Act may be too rigid and that there would be only a handful of people who would be qualified for the position. 
However, we of the Labor Party also believe that the proposed changes will go to the other extreme. Not one of the Great Barrier Reef Consultative Committee members will now be required to have qualifications in a marine science or for that matter in any of the environmental sciences. This, in our view, is not good enough. Having experience in a field 'related to the functions of the Authority' could mean virtually anything. For example,  Sir Charles  Barton, the former Co-ordinator General of Queensland, which is a similar position to the head of the Public Works departments in other States, is an engineer. We have no objection to engineers but, if it is considered that an engineer is qualified to be a member of the Authority, almost anyone could be appointed. It may be said that an accountant or someone qualified in some other field would be sufficient. We believe it is important that the  Chairman  should be required at least to be qualified in the environmental sciences, and we intend to move an amendment to that effect in the Committee stage. This will get rid of the problem of rigidity that now applies but at the same time it will ensure that the  Chairman  of the Authority is a man who has shown an interest in the environment and has studied and qualified in that area. 
The Australian Conservation Foundation has expressed the view that the Act should remain unchanged in regard to this matter and we can understand its concern. But I do not believe that it has considered the difficulties which would remain with the present rigid position. However, I think the attitude of the Foundation has changed in recent months and possibly it has come around to our way of thinking. I was talking to  Mr Heggle  of the Australian Littoral Society, which is a part of the Foundation, and he was of the view that the Society wants an amendment similar to the one we propose to move although originally it was totally opposed to the amendment. 
We propose to move in the Committee stage of the Bill that section 10 of the principal Act be amended by omitting in sub-section (5) the words 'the field of biological conservation' and inserting the words 'the environmental sciences'. The other proposed changes in the Bill do not cause us any concern. The Authority will be able to be more flexible in respect of who will represent it on the Great Barrier Reef Consultative Committee. The changes will mean that the Authority's representative on the Consultative Committee can now remain a member of the Committee after he has ceased to be a member of the Authority. 
There appears to be no problem with the closing off of the region at the tip of Cape York to ensure that the region has been legally declared. We fully understand the cartographic accident that created the situation whereby the region inadvertently included portion of the Saumarez Reef which clearly is in the Coral Sea Island Territory. There are, however, a number of other areas for concern with regard to the Great Barrier Reef. 
I refer to the proposal of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  which came out of the Premiers Conference in October 1977 to hand back control of the three-mile off-shore zone to the States. I understand that at present the legal framework is still being considered by the Standing Committee of Federal and State AttorneysGeneral. This will imply, amongst other things, that the Queensland Government will regain effective control over a substantial part of the Great Barrier Reef from the Federal Government. Unfortunately the Queensland Government's cavalier attitude towards the Great Barrier Reef includes its very pro-oil stance and the possibility of its enthusiasm for drilling for oil on the Barrier Reef, with the introduction of legislation to exempt specifically 70 major metal refining industries at Townsville and Gladstone, which are adjacent to the Reef, from having to comply with the Queensland Government's Clean Waters Act. The Queensland Government's track record on environmental matters generally has been an absolute disaster. I instance Moreton Island, Fraser Island, the destruction of rain forests and so on. It is essential that the Commonwealth retain control of the Reef. 
There has been a lot of discussion in newspapers over recent months and rumours to the effect that the Government is going to allow oil drilling on the Reef. Let me say that I can hope only that the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Groom)  can put paid to those rumours. I think I asked him a question on this matter earlier this year. I hope we will finally get a declaration from the Government that there will never be any oil drilling on the Reef because if oil drilling is permitted or even if it is suggested that drilling will be permitted, I think the Minister will be in for the greatest battle of his political career, certainly on the conservation front, as I do not believe that the Australian people will tolerate oil drilling on the Reef, anywhere or at any time. 
I am not saying that the Government has said that it will allow drilling there. The honourable member must concede that there have been a number of reports in various newspapers and magazines saying that drilling will occur. Nothing would delight me more than to have an unequivocal statement from the Government or the Prime Minister, the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  or the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development saying that the Government will never permit drilling on the Barrier Reef. We would give the Government 100 per cent unqualified support. We could then stop any speculation and any dreams of any companies. People could then rest easy on this matter. 
I should like to quote from Judith Wright's excellent book,  The Coral Battleground,  which I think most Australians would support. At page 20 of that excellent book it states: 
To begin with it is the largest marine coral ecosystem in the world, a 'stable mature marine community' of a very special kind. It is what is known as a 'climax ecosystem', in which hundreds of thousands of species interact in ways that are not only not yet understood, but probably beyond present scientific capacity to understand. Ecology, as against the older taxonomic and classificatory biology, is a very new appearance on the scientific scene, and there were and are, few authoritative ecological studies even of one single subsystem such as the fish on the corals of the Reef, let alone the Reef as a whole. 
The Reef is, I think, our greatest natural asset. It is something of which everyone in Australia is proud. It is our greatest single tourist attraction. It is off Queensland, but it is the property of the whole of Australia. It is our heritage and we must do everything humanly possible to protect this magnificent asset. I am sure that most members on the other side would agree with me. So once and for all, let the Government come out and say that there will never be any drilling allowed on the Reef. 
We would like to know more about what is happening with regard to the proposed marine park. I would like to hear the Minister give us a statement on progress in that regard. How long does it take to declare a national park? Progress with the establishment of the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park has been ominously slow. The Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Authority was set up three years ago, but as yet no areas of the Reef have been declared for the marine park. As I said before, if and when the park is declared, it is to be hoped that it will not be dotted with oil rigs, polluted by drilling wastes and over-run with supply ships and pipelines, et cetera. 
I would also like to express some concern in this debate about the problem of oil spills as distinct from oil drilling. As I understand it, the Australian Government has yet to ratify all of the 10 important conventions or amendments to conventions dealing directly or indirectly with the prevention of oil pollution. These neglected conventions are, in general, greatly improved versions of much earlier conventions not having the advantage of enlightened attitudes about pollution, international experience and improved technology. The world has had some quite horrifying experiences over recent years with regard to oil spills. There was of course the celebrated case of the  Amoco-Cadiz  which ran aground just off the coast of France near Brittany. There have been monstrous and horrifying stories of the damage that was done to the area around there and to the beaches, the wildlife and the marine life and so on. 
We could go back, of course, to the case of the  Torrey Canyon  which went aground on the south coast of England in 1967. It spilt some 80,000 tons of oil into the Channel, mining for years tourist spots in England and France and killing marine fife and wildlife for miles around. There have been, of course, quite a number of similar experiences. As I understand it, what concerns Australians is that many of the oil super-tankers now come down the coast of Queensland when normally transporting oil to and from the different parts of the world to Australia. They come down inside the Reef and travel along the coast between the Reef and the coast of Australia. Many of those ships fly flags of convenience from Panama and Honduras - 
Debate interrupted. 
Before the suspension of the sitting for lunch I was referring to the question of supertankers being able to come in between the Reef and the coast, flying flags of convenience from countries such as Liberia, Panama and Honduras, and inadequately equipped to negotiate what are very difficult waters. I quote from an article in the  West Australian  of 4 April 1978 entitled 'How Safe are we from Oil Spills?': 
Noel Mostert, in his chilling book  'Supership'  claims that many independent tanker companies which charter hundreds of vessels to the oil industry have very low standards. They fly the so-called flags of convenience of countries like Liberia, Panama and Honduras, where shipping regulations are primitive or inadequately enforced. 
Mostert says that many tankers are so dangerous in their design and use that insurance premiums make up about 70 per cent of their operating costs. 
Brutal economies are made to cut building costs. The average supertanker, for example, has only one propellor, which means that it becomes a helpless drifting giant if the propellor breaks. The  Amoco Cadiz,  the supertanker involved in the French disaster, got into trouble when its steering mechanism failed. 
It has been said that many of the ships coming down the coast of Queensland between the Reef and the coast do not have adequate navigational aids, and I think those are the sorts of things this Parliament ought to be considering. The amount of traffic coming through that area will increase in years to come, and should a tanker run aground we run the risk of monumental damage to the Great Barrier Reef. I hope that the Minister will be looking to see that safeguards are enforced or increased or improved so that that sort of thing does not occur. 
Returning briefly to the suggestions about drilling on the Reef, I refer to an article in the 11-17 May issue of  Nation Review.  I point out that a similar article written by Laurie Oakes appeared in the Melbourne  Sun.  A draft submission to Federal Cabinet was obtained. Apparently it was leaked by somebody in the Department who is concerned about submissions being made on drilling on the Great Barrier Reef. The  Nation Review  article states: 
Conservationists are alarmed by the surfacing at the end of last week of a draft submission to federal cabinet proposing oil exploration at the southern end of the reef. The cabinet document, originally prepared in October but abruptly  dropped during the election campaign, has its roots in an uncompromising stand by the Bureau of Mineral Resources under  Deputy  Prime Minister, Doug Anthony. 
Further on it states: 
The submission, which will reach cabinet with the imprimatur of both National Development Minister, Kevin Newman, and Environment Minister, John Groom - 
I think there is a small error there- argues that drilling should be allowed to proceed in the Capricorn channel area because it has the best buffer zones should a spill or bio  worn  occur. 
What was the Minister saying? 
The Minister always looks as though he is about to say something and I hate to see him denied the opportunity to answer. Perhaps in his reply he will say that these statements are totally untrue, that there is no foundation for our fears; but I am sure he will concede that there has been considerable rumour about this matter over a long period of time, dating back many years but specifically to just prior to the last election. The Opposition would like an unequivocal no ' from the Government, to indicate that this is not going to occur. I conclude my remarks in this second reading debate, but I will be making further comments during the Committee stage. 
-The honourable member for Macarthur  (Mr Baume),  who has just resumed his seat, missed the whole point of the thrust of the Opposition's opposition to this Budget, and that is that this Government went to the people last year on the basis that it was going to cut personal income tax. It fought bitterly against the Australian Labor Party's proposition that this should be forgone to use those funds for employment purposes such as the payroll tax abolition and job creation schemes. The minute it won the election with the appeal of more money in people's pockets it reversed its decision and reimposed the tax. That is the basis of the thrust of our attack. 
I want to raise something today to which I really do not know the answer. I am merely asking the Minister Assisting the Treasurer  (Mr MacKellar)  whether he will look into it. I have been concerned for some time at the amount of Australian money which is going overseas through the number of Australians travelling abroad to purchase cameras and watches. I have tried to get some facts and figures on this matter and I have had some great difficulty in obtaining details of the number of watches and cameras sold in Australia. I raise this point because I do not know the answer. As I understand it, we have now taken off the duty on most cameras and watches. At the moment there is sales tax of about 27 per cent on cameras and watches. 
-The Minister indicates it is  2Vh  per cent. Because these are items which can be easily purchased overseas, particularly in countries near to Australia such as the duty-free ports of Singapore and Hong Kong, people are going overseas, buying these items and bringing them back to Australia. The result is that very few watches and cameras are now being purchased in Australia. I am not opposed in principle to sales tax- I think that we have to raise revenueand these items are regarded as luxury items. I do not argue that point, but I sense that by imposing some duty or sales tax on these items it is simply denying us local revenue. Because these items are small, easy to transport, and easy to conceal, people no longer buy them in Australia, which in effect is driving the retail photographic equipment and retail watch industry to other countries. The amount of revenue raised from duty imposed on these items is infinitesimal. I got some figures today which show revenue on photographic equipment is about $600,000 and on watches it is about $50,000 a year. 
-These figures relate to the position a couple of years ago. I know that the duty was recently taken off. The Minister is quite right. I am unable to find out the latest figures on revenue from sales tax on cameras. I think this matter is worth while looking at. Merely to gain a few hundred thousand dollars a year in revenue from sales tax on these sorts of items, we may be denying profits to the retail photographic industry. 
-That is the point I am coming to. We may be driving that industry and the retail watch industry out of this country. The imposition of a duty results in a drop in sales, a drop in profits and a drop in employment. I think that this is something that is well worth looking into. I have spoken to people about this. Just recently I bought a camera overseas. I am afraid that almost everyone who goes overseas does this. The situation with motor cars, which are a big sales item, is different. Obviously one cannot say to someone who intends to go overseas: 'When you go overseas next time bring me back a Honda in your pocket'. Because of the small savings on items such as tennis racquets, golf clubs, golf balls and items like that, it is not worth buying them overseas duty free. But when it comes to cameras such as the Pentax and the Nikon it means a savings of about $200 to $300 duty free. The average savings on a watch duty free is probably $50 to $ 100 or a great deal more. I believe that this is the problem. People who want to buy these sorts of items say: 'Well, I will wait till I can go overseas'. Every year one million people go overseas. Alternatively, people say: 'I will wait till I find somebody who is going overseas and I will ask him to bring me back a watch'. I request the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs and Minister Assisting the Treasurer, who is sitting at the table, to ask the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  to have a look at this matter with an open mind to ascertain whether we might be better off by removing the sales tax on these items so as to improve the profits of the retail trade and retain or bring back employment opportunities in this country. 
I take this opportunity to congratulate the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  on their statements. I think I can safely say that the vast majority of all members of parliament and the vast majority of people throughout the nation would welcome the bipartisanship which now exists on the Middle East question. I also take this opportunity to congratulate  President  Carter on his initiative. Hopefully, it will stand out as one of the great foreign affairs achievements of any American  President  in recent years. I do not wish to make a long speech because the sitting of the House will be suspended in a few minutes. I do not know whether it is proposed that this statement will be debated at a later stage but I know that there are other honourable members who would wish to speak on the matter. 
Of course, past experience in the Middle East has shown that one should not get too excited about this settlement proposal. The negotiations on the original initiative proposed by President Sadat looked as if they would collapse at one stage. Fortunately, and largely through the efforts of President Carter, those initiatives taken by President Sadat almost a year ago today have now borne fruit. It is up to Australia and other nations to use whatever good offices they have on the moderate forces in the Middle East. In particular, I mention Jordan. Although one can see a cessation of hostilities on the Sinai Peninsula and in the area of the Gaza Strip, there is still a big question mark in respect of the West Bank. That cannot be resolved unless Jordan is a participant in future negotiations. 
Of course, we will expect sections of the Middle East to continue to dissent from this view. One can only say to those people that if they continue to refuse to negotiate with Israel and with President Sadat in the negotiations that are going on now, there can be nothing short of another bloody upheaval in the Middle East. I congratulate the Prime Minister and the Leader of the Opposition on their excellent statements, their bipartisanship and their moderation in this matter. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Bourchier)  adjourned. 
Sitting suspended from 5.27 to 8.30 pm. 
-Tonight I want to speak about the estimates for the Department of Home Affairs, which deals with the problems of women in Australia. Before I deal with the actual estimates themselves, I want to say something about discrimination against women in this country. Much has been said about discrimination in recent years and many people are in favour of eliminating discrimination against women. It is a bit like one of the sacred cows. Everybody says: 'Yes, we are in favour of such action', but not a great deal is being done about it. I would like to suggest that, if we are really serious about ending discrimination against women, we ought to start right here in Parliament House. I have done some research. I am aware of the fact that there is not one woman member of this Parliament which has 123 members. In 77 years of this Parliament only four women- Joan Child, Kay Brownbill, Doris Blackburn and Dame Enid Lyons- have served. They served a total of 12 years and six months in the Parliament. More than 1,000 members have been elected to this place, yet we have had only four women members. 
-That is in the House of Representatives. There have been not many more in the Senate. It really is disgraceful that there is not one woman member of the House of Representatives. We often talk about how advanced we are as a Western society. Yet, countries like India, Israel and Sri Lanka which, supposedly, do not give the same status to women as we do, in recent years have had women Prime Ministers. Let me also suggest that perhaps we can start in this chamber by eliminating some of the discrimination that exists. I am not aware of any woman being appointed as a senior counsel officer or a  Clerk  of this Parliament. I have the greatest respect for the Clerks in this Parliament-  Mr Blake, Mr Pettifer  and othersbut is it not about time that perhaps the SerjeantatArms or the Usher of the Black Rod were women? I know that there are Clerks of Houses of Parliament who are women. 
There is not one woman attendant in this Parliament. The women who do work in this House usually serve the tea in the dining room. Quite frankly, it is about time we did more than just pay lip service to women. It has to start with the political parties and it has to start with the bureaucrats who run Parliament House. I do not want to offend any of the attendants here tonight but the only breakthrough which has been made in recent years is the employment of female  Hansard  reporters. That has only occurred in the last few years. If we are to take this matter seriously something has to be done about it. As it is nearly six o 'clock, I will leave my comments on the estimates until the sitting is resumed. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
Before the suspension of the sitting I was saying that this chamber is the last bastion of male chauvinism and I called upon the political parties to change their attitudes and have women preselected to contest the next election. I note with interest that the Australian Labor Party has selected a woman candidate,  Mrs Ros  Kelly, as its candidate for the seat of Canberra at the next election. I want to talk now about the Estimates and to point out that during the last election campaign, this Government made a commitment to equal opportunity for women. Yet it has gone to great lengths to ensure that any advancement made by the Labor Government towards this goal is reversed. Severe cutbacks in areas vital to the realisation of equal opportunity- education, child care, retraining, health, welfare, legal aid, et ceterahave been the order of the day under the Fraser administration. 
I have no illusions regarding this Government's attitude to women's affairs; it was made quite clear by the downgrading of the Women's Affairs Section by its removal from the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet to the ragbag' Department of Home Affairs which is near the bottom of the list of ministries. The Government has now seen fit to abolish the maternity allowance. It sought to cut back funds for the family allowances by introducing a means test on children and students but I understand that that proposal is to be revised. It has reduced funds for family planning services by 6.3 per cent in real terms and has cut funds for children's services by 15.5 per cent. Women particularly will suffer from higher unemployment and reduced health, education and child care services. Unfortunately, this is what is contained in the Government's recent Budget. 
The greatest problem confronting women at the moment- they share this problem with the community at large- is unemployment. According to the latest Australian Bureau of Statistics figures, in August 125,600 females were looking for full-time employment and 49,100 females looking for part-time employment. The latest Commonwealth Employment Service figures show that in August there were 122,221 registered female unemployed but this does not account for the massive, hidden unemployment among women. All honourable members are aware that many women who were in the work force and whose husbands are working do not bother to register for work when they learn that they are not eligible for the unemployment benefit. Although it has been argued by the Government that there are many people who should not be registered for the unemployment benefit, there are thousands upon thousands of women who do not bother to register for work even though they want employment. 
The Government has guaranteed that the unemployment figure will increase; this is evident from the admission by the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations  (Mr Street)  and the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  in the last few weeks. Nothing has been done to overcome the factors which restrict the participation of women in the work force. There is no provision for the payment of unemployment benefits when married women lose their jobs. Worse, there has been an unfortunate, and at time bitter, conservative reaction to the move by women into the paid work force. This is pure scapegoating- a reaction to the economic crisis and to the social problems created and aggravated by that crisis. Married women have taken the brunt of that attack which challenges their right to paid employment. Historically full employment has been primarily an objective for males and, as the French sociologist, Evelyne Sullerot, writes: 
. women workers are treated like guests, lured from the kitchen stove into the economy during war and boom times, only to be cast off again when peace returns or the economy falters, as today. 
There is a need for more flexibility in work patterns. The demand for permanent part-time work as distinct from casual employment has increased considerably, especially among men and women with family responsibilities, single parents, people with health or domestic problems, and those wishing to update their knowledge, skills, and so on. The Government should be facilitating this development within the Public Service and encouraging private employers to do likewise. 
In the few minutes remaining to me I draw attention to the serious problems facing women's refuges. Refuges provide essential services for women and children in crisis; they are an alternative to a home situation that has become intolerable. The need for refuges is increasing, along with the need for rape crisis centres and women's health centres. These needs are only gradually being recognised. The present Government withdrew from funding these services directly. Instead, funds now are made available to the States through the community health programs to be allocated as the States see fit. This is part of the Government's so-called federalism policy which, in practice, means farming off responsibilities to the State governments. The situation is totally inadequate. The Government now funds only 50 per cent of capital costs and 75 per cent of operating costs of refuges. There is no guarantee that the States will distribute the funds or supply the balance. The Queensland Government has constantly baulked at this and this year has undertaken to provide only up to 25 per cent of capital costs and 12'/4 per cent of operating costs leaving the organisations themselves to find the remaining 25 per cent and 12'/4 per cent of the respective costs. Under these conditions the very existence of refuges in Queensland is seriously threatened. Generally, refuges face uncertainty from year to year over whether adequate funds will be made available, hindering any attempt at forward planning. The Government should give a three-year guarantee of funding for the refuge program. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Giles)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
-I will be very brief in my remarks. The Opposition has no objection to this amendment, which I understand was suggested by  Senator Evans.  He is a brilliant lawyer and has greater skills than we poor humble laymen here in this chamber have. The members of the committee that considered this Bill included quite a number of lawyers, including the honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Simon),  who of course is a small debts lawyer; but they did not pick up this matter. We in the Opposition have no objection whatsoever to this amendment. 
Amendment agreed to. 
Resolution reported; report adopted. 
Is the Minister for Industry and Commerce aware of the fact that Australia is now receiving less than one per cent of the Japanese tourist trade, which involves a total of some 3.4 million people a year? Has he consulted the Department of Transport on the cause of this situation? Is it caused by the fact that the Japanese Government has not been able to or will not negotiate with Australia for a cheaper air fare between Australia and Tokyo? Is the Minister aware of these facts and will he take action concerning them? 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 29 May 1978: 
How much revenue does the Federal Government obtain from sales tax on sporting goods. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I was rather surprised this evening because I would have thought that a few people on the Government side of the House would have had a few short speeches to make about the New South Wales elections, but surprisingly they have been very quiet. 
That is a very interesting interjection from a man who would not be a member of this place if we achieved in a Federal election the same result as was recorded in the New South Wales elections. For the first time in history there are now two State Labor members of parliament in the division of Mackellar. 
-You have got Manly - 
-Well, it is in the same area. The votes for Pittwater have not been all counted yet, so there may be a Labor member in that seat too. This was a fascinating election because never before in the history of Australian politics has any political party been annihilated the way that the Liberal Party was annihilated in New South Wales. Never in history. Sixty per cent of the vote was obtained by one political party. Such a feat has never been recorded before in Australia's history. 
Askin never got anything remotely like 63 per cent. If the honourable member can produce an election result which shows that Askin got 63 per cent I will dance naked through Parliament House. If the results in New South Wales on Saturday were recorded in a Federal election there would have been an annihilation on the other side of the House. The seat of Mackellar would have fallen. There is no question about that. The seats of Lowe, Phillip, St George, Barton, Cook, Macarthur and Macquarie would have fallen, and even the honourable member for Dundas  (Mr Ruddock)  would have been hanging on by his proverbial fingernails. The most incredible thing is to look at where Labor's victories were. Labor now holds five seats on the north side of the harbourthe seats of Manly, Wakehurst, Willoughby, Fuller and Yaralla. Who would have believed it? Only with a Liberal Opposition going so bad and getting so much help from its friends here in Canberra could such a result have been achieved. 
We heard the absurd excuses being put forward today by the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser).  He said that it is all the fault of the brilliant  Mr Wran.  Well, no one would want to take anything away from Neville Wran. It was a magnificent performance. But, my word, we can thank  Mr Fraser  for his help. The same thing that happened in the Werriwa by-election has happened in the New South Wales elections. The people are fed up to the back teeth with the Liberals and if they continue to believe the nonsense that the Prime Minister put over this morning they will be riding for a very big fall. The same thing will happen again in a couple of weeks in Ballarat and it will keep on happening until the Liberals wake up to themselves. They know it as well as we on this side do. The result in New South Wales was not just a vote for Neville Wran, although that was a major factor. Look at the result of the elections. Who would have thought that the seat of Vaucluse would have been in doubt? The result has not yet been decided. It will be decided on preferences. Who would have thought that in New South Wales the Liberal Party would hold two seats on the south side of the harbour? It has won only a handful of seats. About only five seats in Sydney now could be called safe Liberal seats. Even seats like Eastwood and Northcott, which are in the heart of Tory land, have been retained for the Liberals by only 3,000 or 4,000 votes. Labor used to struggle to find a candidate to stand for these seats. 
Exactly, and they were brilliant. They are not only beautiful but also brilliant. What a fine bunch. They nearly won seats that we would never have hoped to win in a million years. The word 'Liberal' is now on the nose right throughout this nation and it starts right here in this Parliament. Unless honourable members opposite wake up to themselves none of them will be here after the next election for this place, which almost happened in New South Wales. 
I will address the Chair because  Mr Deputy Speaker  is about the only intelligent person remaining on the other side of the House. Not only do you have a benign smile and do a good job but you also have at least a few brains, which is more than you can say for some members on the other side of the House. 
I want to pay my tribute to Neville Wran. It was a magnificent victory, but he of course was one of the first to acknowledge that he was helped by the Prime Minister and by the LiberalCountry Party Government and its policies. Of course the results in New South Wales are only a follow-on from what happened in the Werriwa by-election,, following which the brilliant young member,  Mr Kerin,  was returned to this House, although representing a different electorate from that which he had previously represented. I conclude by saying that the election result is a warning to this Government to shape up. If it does not it will be shipped out. Unless it starts to solve the problems of" unemployment and looks at the problems of small business and stagnation in this country it will go the same way as the State Liberal Party went on Saturday. 
I wish to direct attention to the sums which, in recent years have been expended by governments on tourism. For this year the amount allocated is $4.2m. For 1973-74 the figure was $3.67m. In 1975-76 it rose to $6.645m and then declined to $5.877m in 1975-76 and $3.732m in 1976-77. What happened was that the funds allocated to tourism declined quite substantially when this Government came to power. The only funds now available for tourism are those which are set aside for the Australian Tourist Commission. In the last three years no funds have been available for the development of tourist attractions, for low-cost accommodation, grants for participation in tourist developments, or for the promotion and development of domestic tourism. Therefore,  although I applaud the Government for giving a substantial boost to the funds available to the Australian Tourist Commission for the promotion of Australia overseas, we are still not taking this industry seriously enough, in my view and in the view of the Australian Labor Party. The $4.2m is still a relatively small amount. 
I digress slightly to point out that what is not recorded in those funds is the considerable amount that was spent under the Regional Employment Development scheme for the development of tourist facilities. That may have been in an unplanned and ad hoc way. Nevertheless the expenditure of a considerable amount under that scheme did improve the quality of tourist facilities throughout Australia. That was mostly in the years 1974-75 and 1975-76. Unfortunately, the detailed figures are not available. They were never broken down into categories, but I would be surprised if the expenditure did not run to some $3Om or $4Om 
We simply have not taken tourism seriously enough. I am delighted to see in the chamber my friend and colleague from the Government side, the honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Jull),  who has done an excellent job of chairing the House of Representatives Select Committee on Tourism. It will soon be bringing down its report. The Government's response to it will be the true test of whether it intends to be serious about tourism. I would agree that no government has taken it as seriously as I believe it ought to be taken. The previous Minister for Tourism,  Mr Stewart,  did an excellent job and did lift considerably the stocks of the Department of Tourism. He was beginning to get a good program under way when the present Government took office and began to cut it quite savagely and virtually ignored any planned program for growth in the tourist industry. I do not wish to sound repetitious, but I make the point that over the years we have poured hundreds of millions of dollars into industries that we know will not in the long term be viable. We have done that in both the primary and manufacturing sectors by way of tariffs, subsidies, protection and all sorts of grants to business. We all know that growth is occurring in the tourist industry everywhere in the world, but Australia has not picked up its percentage of that growth. For nine years I have argued in this place: Why not put our money into the area where we know there will be growth? We know that there will be an inexorable climb in leisure time, recreation and tourism. We should invest our money there rather than in industries that we know are declining in their potential to employ people, to produce quality goods in competition with other countries. 
We know that the tourist industry is labourintensive. We are becoming increasingly aware that many of our industries, in both the primary and the manufacturing sectors, progressively will employ fewer and fewer members of the work force. We know what computerisation is doing. Tourism is an industry which, in some countries such as Spain and Greece and countries nearer home such as Fiji and New Zealand, is a major industry; yet we have virtually ignored it. The result has been that we have not appropriated the funds required to develop Australian tourism and to ensure that we create a large number of new jobs for those sections of the work force that are most affected by the present recession. I refer to married women, the young, the ethnic groups and the unskilled, who could be easily placed in such an industry. I repeat, we are not taking it sufficiently seriously. Since a matter of privilege is involved I cannot state what the recommendations of the Select Committee will be, but the test of whether the Government is serious about tourism will be whether it implements the majority if not all of those recommendations. 
One of the problems faced by politicians in regard to tourism is that every community sees itself as the potential tourist Utopia, the potential tourist haven of the world. Regrettably, that cannot be so. There just is not room for every town, village and major area to become a major tourist attraction. We have to be selective. It takes courage. The minute one selects an area, the representatives of a neighbouring or other area who belives their area has equal claims, jump up and down and beat their breasts. The result is that in State and local government areas, instead of saying: 'We will concentrate on area X or area Y and make that a major quality tourist development' we spread around what little funds are available and make no impact at all. I happen to represent an area that is a major tourist area. I would not put it forward as the number one tourist area in Australia. It is a beautiful area and has a lot to recommend it, but I would say that Australia's greatest tourist attraction is Queensland, the northern and Great Barrier Reef area. 
Another of our great tourist attractions- there is not a vote in this area- is Ayers Rock. Tasmania, for a number of reasons other than that it has great tourist potential, does in fact need tourism. It does not have a lot of other things going for it in the economic sense. I could enlarge on that. There are a lot of other such regions, but we have to start to develop quality tourist attractions in these areas. Many of us have now been overseas- as most Australians have now been overseas- and have seen the quality of development that is occurring in Fiji, the South Pacific, New Zealand and in other parts of the world. We realise that Australia is being left a long way behind. We have to start to do things to change that. 
I have mentioned before the need to assist the private sector in the tourist area. One can argue that the private sector ought to be left to its own resources. As I have said before, if some industries are to be selected for assistance tourism should be one of them. Therefore, in what ways should it be assisted? I believe that the best way is to provide a depreciation allowance for the accommodation sector. It is a problem that in Australia we do not provide a depreciation allowance on buildings. In most cases that is probably justified but when we are talking about tourist accommodation- hotels, motels- we have to realise that the hotels which are built today are out of fashion in 20 to 25 years time. Yesterday's luxury hotel is mediocre today. It has lost its appeal. We have to start to encourage the entrepreneurs in this area to invest money, to pull down their old buildings that are 25, 35 or 40 years old and to build new ones. We have to look once again at the question of regional flying. I know that I am a bit of a pain in the neck on this question because I keep repeating that there is a need to allow our domestic airlines to link up with international nights in the South Pacific area. I also make a plea for some proper training colleges so that if we are to go into the tourist industry in some depth we have people of quality properly trained throughout our education system. 
The  DEPUTY CHAIRMAN (Mr Jarman)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
-In the short time available in this estimates debate I would like to concentrate on sport. The Minister for Enviroment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Groom)  is responsible for this area. In recent years we have seen a decline in the funds available for sport in Australia. The total amount of funds provided for sport in 1971-72 was $0.5m. In 1972-73 $0.7m was provided. When the Labor Government came to power, for the first time sport was treated as it ought to have been treated and funds started to increase. They went from $3.1m in 1973-74 to $11.4m in 1975- 76. From then on there has been a gradual decline. We have seen the balance of our program as it was wound down to $9.7m in 1976- 77, then to $6.6m. This year the appropriation is $7.4m, but that is a little deceptive because included in that figure is $2. 5m for a grant to Queensland, for preparation for the Commonwealth Games to be held in 1982, and some other funds for lifesaving and the 'Life. Be in it' program. The actual funding for the national sporting bodies and the national sports program is very, very small. 
We gave a considerable amount more than you did in real terms. In real terms we gave a great deal. In 1975-76 the total expenditure was $1 1.4m. I am not a great mathematician but I can take $7.4m from $ 11.4m. The Government is $4m behind, so what is the Minister talking about? 
-That is right and in the national sports program the Government's amount in real terms is less than what we were giving, and in the bricks and mortar area the funds are nonexistent. The Government does not provide any funds at all for sporting facilities. I point out that the previous Minister responsible in this area, the present Minister for National Development  (Mr Newman),  said when these funds were made available that it was merely a starting point. He was quoted publicly and privately. In fact the Budget in that year, 1977, was not passed until October or November and the funds were expected to be expended between 1 January and 30 June of 1978. It was expected that the funds were purely a base figure to get this sport started again. The Government did not give one cent to the sports program in 1 976-77. 
We can go on quibbling about the figures. I do not think that anybody in this House would argue with the fact that the present Government has wound down assistance to sport. We are making a mistake to think that these funds are being provided simply for recreation. Plenty of evidence from overseas- from West Germany, East Germany and a whole range of countriessuggests that as countries increase funding to sport and provide widespread sports programs for community participation the standard of community health improves. I think we are making a bad mistake by continuing to look at sport as if it were some form of pleasurable recreation. Sport is a form of preventative medicine. I hate to sound corny or to use a cliche, but a fit nation is a healthy nation. I think the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  should debate these estimates. The allocations for sport should come from the health program. 
There is a mountain of evidence to show how out of condition Australians are. Loads of surveys of school children and adults have been carried out. We all know that this is a fact, and yet we continue to pour $7 billion into health and- to use the bigger figure- $7.4m into sport. Emphasis on sport is one really effective way in which we can contribute to a fit and healthy nation. 
I think a lot of importance has been placed on Australia's deteriorating performance in international events. I would be the last to come into the House and say that we should spend millions of dollars to win gold medals. Gold medals are merely by-products of the widespread sports programs that exist in East Germany, West Germany, Canada and the United States. On a recent visit to Western Australia I was told by the director of the community sports program,  Mr Graham,  that, from information gathered in a survey, only 15 per cent of Western Australians participate regularly in any sport. We are light years behind the European communist countries, the United States and Canada in the provision of community facilities. Athletes come back from these countries and are absolutely appalled at the Australian conditions when compared to the athletic facilities in other countries. 
I wrote the Labor Party's policy in 1972 for sport. It was incorporated in the Blacktown address by  Mr Whitlam.  Basically we have to get back to the principles we enunciated then and which were implemented by the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Stewart)  as the Minister administering sporting activities. We have to generate activity in Australia at four levels. The first is at the national level. We need a national sports institute to train coaches, to provide training camps and to ensure that quality sportsmen are available in all our institutions, schools and universities and in our community so that people are learning how to prepare themselves in sport. We need to increase the funds available to the various national sporting organisations so that they can provide coaching programs and international visits by teams from Australia and by overseas teams. We can lift our standards through competition from visitors. The Minister said that nothing had been done in the capital expenditure area. The figures that I mentioned before about capital expenditure are very deceptive. If we cared to use the figures for funds that were provided by the Labor Government under the Regional Employment Development scheme funds for sporting facilities would skyrocket beyond the figures mentioned in these estimates. In my electorate of Robertson alone we spent $3.25m on sporting facilities. We have magnificent youth centres and tennis courts. 
A good member; the Minister is right. If we took these factors into consideration the allocation on sporting facilities would increase from between $10m to $ 12m to $40m or $50m. I do not want to see the matter administered in the ad hoc way it was before. We must again join with the States and local government and start to provide capital funds for a widespread range of sporting amenities such as athletic and cycling tracks that will enable people to participate in sport in a way they cannot at present. Woy Woy and Gosford now have magnificent youth centres which were built by the Central Coast Leagues Club. We are in the process of opening another at The Entrance. I think in this sense my electorate has better amenities than most. Hundreds of places in Australia do not have anything like these sorts of facilities. Probably up to 35-year-old sports such as judo, gymnastics, wrestling and squash- I cannot remember them all- are played in these youth centres. Thousands of young people participate each week. When such activities are Australiawide we will have a fit nation. The by-product of having a nation of young people active in sport will be that Australia will win medals once again. I would hate to think that that is our objective. However, it will come about as a result of having a very fit and healthy nation. 
Sitting suspended from 6.1 to 8 p.m. 
-by leave-I endorse most of the remarks of the honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Jull)  and would like to pay tribute to him for the excellent job he did as  Chairman  of the House of Representatives Select Committee on Tourism. I have said often in this House that committees of the Parliament are the best way of getting things done for the good of this nation. It has been my experience on other committees, such as the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Road Safety, that members of parliament with different philosophical and ideological positions, after sitting around a table examining a problem, inevitably come to almost identical conclusions. So, I am a strong advocate of committees. The important thing about committees is that governments act upon their recommendations. Honourable members on the Committee came from quite different philosophical positions. We may have had some differences of emphasis and on one or two things we may have disagreed, but overall the members of the Committee agreed completely with the report. It is now up to the Government. 
There has been talk about the promotion of tourism in this country for years and years- at one stage everyone was in favour of tourism; it was like motherhood- but the test is whether something will be done about it. I pay particular tribute to the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Stewart).  I think it is recognised in this Parliament that no other Minister has done more for the tourism industry than he. The present Government has made some severe cutbacks in the area of tourism but, hopefully, it is now taking a new look at this move. It has the opportunity to redeem itself by pressing ahead with implementing the vast majority of the Committee's recommendations. 
I now point to some of the problems that we, as a committee, had. The main one, which was  alluded to by the honourable member for Bowman, was the difficulty of quantifying in economic terms the value of the tourist industry. This is a difficulty because in most other industriesfor example, the wool industry, the wheat industry or the motor vehicle industry- it is fairly easy to quantify what is involved in the industry. 
It is fairly easy to quantify what is involved in these industries. One can get figures which show that so many cars are manufactured and so much steel is used but tourism is a vague, amorphous industry. We all recognise that accommodation is part of the tourist industry but how much of transport is tourism; how much of the restaurant, hotel and entertainment trades is tourism; how much of the retail trade is tourism- in some areas it would be almost 100 per cent while in other areas it would be virtually nothing with a grey area in between- how much of the service industries, including barbers, medical services and so forth is dependent on tourism? The point made by the Treasury was that much of it was not a new industry but merely a shifting of expenditure from one part of the country to another. I give the example of a person who eats a steak on the Gold Coast. That is not necessarily an extra expenditure because if he had been in his home town of Melbourne he might have eaten steak there. That is one of the difficulties that the Committee faced. I fully endorse the need for further studies in this area. 
Quite clearly tourism is a big industry. Although it is difficult to specify exactly where and what it is, it is big and it is a growth area. I have hammered that point in this place year in and year out. It is evident to anybody looking at the figures for tourism that it has grown enormously over the past 10 to 20 years. We are entering a period of greater leisure, shorter working weeks and longer leave and it is obvious that there will be more tourism. Therefore, if we are going to find jobs for the increasing number of people who are seeking employment- the young, the unskilled, the ethnic groups and women who are finding it difficult to get jobs in the system- it is essential that we direct our resources to those areas that show potential for growth, instead of propping up industries that we know are on the decline. I will not pursue that point too much at this time. 
Something that I do not think has been mentioned in this debate is the enormously important effect of tourism on decentralisation. Everybody is in favour of decentralisation but very little has been done about it, particularly, if I may say so, by this Government. There are many towns in Australia today which depend to an enormous degree on tourism for their growth. It is an excellent form of decentralisation. If there were no such thing as tourism what would happen to places like Cairns, Maroochydore, Noosa, the Gold Coast, Coffs Harbour, Port Macquarie, Gosford- Wyong, which is in my own electorate, Alice Springs, Albany in Western Australia and, of course, Tasmania? I believe that if there is one State in Australia that should receive special consideration in the area of tourism because of its many other problems, it is Tasmania. I predict that its future is as a major tourist attraction for Australians and international visitors. The only way we can achieve that for Tasmania is by providing special arrangements, special travel concessions, special subsidies and special grants to get development under way. It has everything going for it. It is a beautiful State but it is disadvantaged in so many other areas that it should receive special consideration. I would like to draw out several points from the Committee 's report and to add to something about which I have expressed concern in speeches both in this House and outside. Point 9 of the conclusions and recommendations of the report of the Committee states: 
The Committee concludes that there is a requirement for greater co-operation among the State governments, local governments and developers to prevent badly planned ribbon development on the coastline. 
We have to be brutally frank about a lot of the development that has taken place in Australia. It is poor quality and it is ad hoc. I recently described it in a speech as 'Parramatta Road by the sea'. All along the coast of Australia cheap, shoddy, fibro, fast-food development has occurred. A lot of it is fading and ugly in comparison with what we are competing with in Fiji, Singapore and Bali. Let us face it; it is quite ugly. As a nation we have to see that this sort of cheap, shoddy development ceases and that there is instead quality development. I believe that there is room for government involvement in relation to point 10 of the conclusions and recommendations of the Committee. It states: 
The Committee concludes that proper interpretive facilities are an important tool in the education of tourists and in the management and control of tourism in natural areas. 
I have always been concerned that when people go to a large number of Australian tourist areas, such as the Great Barrier Reef, some of our national parks or Ayers Rock, they see the natural scenery or The Rock or the Barrier Reef but they do not really comprehend what is going on. They do not understand the geography, the geology, the Aboriginal culture or the ecosystem that provides a myriad of flora and fauna. I think it is vital for Australians, not only for their enjoyment but also for their education, that there should be proper interpretive centres to explain in an audio-visual way what is going on. Small museums would probably be a better description than interpretive centres. They could give the tourists an understanding of the community they are visiting. 
I commend the Committee for its strong recommendations regarding domestic tourist promotion. I refer to the work done by the honourable member for Grayndler as Minister and to the very successful promotion that was undertaken during his term as Minister. It was called Australia- a land of things to do'. Australia suffers from competition from other exotic tourist resorts and I can understand the appeal for people in Australia of countries of a different culture, a different language and different food. Those are some of the attractions of travel. I hope that Australians can mix their travel by visiting the very exciting places in Australia. I think that we need to tell Australians more about what is in their own country. Of course, the need to promote Australia overseas goes without saying. I have already spent considerable time in the past discussing the departure tax. The Opposition did not oppose the introduction of this tax but we urged strongly that the funds procured from the departure tax which, from my recollection, will be approximately $ 10m in the first year and $ 13m in the second year rising to something like $20m in a few years, and which is the sort of funding that would be needed in' the tourist industry should be used to do the things that will set it on the right path. I have never advocated the tying of taxes directly to a particular area of expenditure but I think that in this case it could be a reasonable guide to what we expect the Government to spend on tourism. Point 34 highlights the need for quality convention faculties in Australia. Australia is missing out a great deal in this enormous convention trade that is growing all around the world. All sorts of industries and associations, such as doctors and lawyers who can afford to attend conventions by writing off the cost against their tax, are now travelling the world. The bigger conventions- those that require faculties for two or three thousand peopleare sidestepping Australia and going to other parts of the world. We need to look at really top quality convention facilities. I suggest that this could be considered for a State like Tasmania, where a large scale convention facility could be located. Then we would have the opportunity to attract these very large conventions and also, of course, the spending that goes with them because the people who go to such conventions are usually of some means. 
I take issue with only one thing on which I have some disagreement with the Committee. I do so not because I am a member of the Labor Party. I was unconvinced on the question of penalty rates. When I became a member of the Committee I was convinced that there was an argument that we should be talking to the unions about penalty rates. I thought that there was an argument for a flexi-week. I will be honest: When I listened to the employers and heard them put their case they convinced me that they were wrong. I am afraid that I was not convinced at all that there is a case for the abolition of penalty rates. We asked the employers for the average earnings of the people they employ. We asked what the average steward took home and what the average cleaner in a motel took home. I am going back now about 12 months, but at the time the average weekly take-home pay for a steward was around $ 1 80 to $200 and for the average cleaner in a motel around $130 to $145. When I asked the employers whether that was not about what they would expect the average Australian to take home, their reply was: 'I suppose it is'. 
Quite frankly, the tourist industry has no right to expect that the employees in that industry should take home a lower wage just because it is the tourist industry. There is no reason in the world why Australians working in that area should expect to get $20, $30 or $40 a week below what they would get if they were working in the car industry. I still have an open mind, but I am totally unconvinced by the arguments that the employers put. It is all very well for them to say: 'Look at what they pay in Fiji or India'. No one surely is suggesting that we should lower our wage rates to those paid in those countries. I point out that when one goes to those countries one finds that the costs there are just as high as, if not higher than, the cost in Australia. In India the average income is probably about $100 a yearnot a week- yet the cost of staying in the Hilton and other international hotels is still as high as, or higher than, the cost of staying in such hotels in Australia. Quite frankly, I think that there is a bit of a con act going on here. 
I point out something that the honourable member for Bowman pointed out, that is, that the industry has not bothered to make any submissions to the arbitration courts. I think he described the industry as gutless. I saw one newspaper story which said that the industry is all talk. There may be a solution in that it could offer people employed in the industry a higher flat rate so that wages could be evened out. I was going to use a crude expression, but I will just say that we are spitting into the wind if we think that the trade unions are going to accept lower wages for one section of the Australian work force. That is just not a goer. That was my only disagreement with the Committee in some 400 or 500 paragraphs; and that is not bad. I wanted to mention a number of other things very briefly, such as support for international airports at Townsville and Hobart. One could go on and on. It is a very exciting report. I congratulate all those honourable members involved with it. I thank them for the pleasure of working with them, it has been a delight. I hope now that the Committee can look forward to these recommendations being implemented by the Government. 
Surreptitiously and deceitfully, the Fraser Government is washing its hands of any responsibility for the Australian environment. On taking office in 1975, the Prime Minister showed his total lack of concern for the environment by placing the portfolio in the hands of a man who was a raw novice in politics, the present Minister for National Development  (Mr Newman). His  performance was pathetic enough as he watched his Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development being dismantled before his very eyes. The millions of Australians concerned that this country could become a hole in the ground through the efforts of environmental gangsters like Lang Hancock were momentarily tricked into believing that the Fraser Government had some concern for the environment by its decision to end sand mining on Fraser Island. 
The Fraser Government was re-elected and started to show its true colours. The Minister's concern for the environment during the previous two years was rewarded by his being appointed Minister for National Development- in other words, the spokesman for the mining companies. In his place the man least likely to stand up to the bullying tactics of the Prime Minister was appointed to oversee the protection of the environment. Another Tasmanian had to be appointed to the Ministry and, faced with the unpalatable option of  Senator Rae,  who has a lot of ability but is disliked by the Prime Minister, and the ratbag rump of dissidents who make up the rest of Tasmania's representatives, the Prime Minister chose the affable but ineffectual member for Braddon  (Mr Groom)  as Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development. 
Within a matter of weeks the Minister had buckled under to pressure from the Queensland National Country Party to withdraw the Government 's display on Fraser Island because it did not show a 'balanced' view of sand mining on Fraser Island. But this was small fry compared with what was to happen in the future as the Government planned the destruction of Kakadu National Park through uranium mining and the abdication of any responsibility for Perth's water supply, Western Australia 's famed jarrah forests, the Corio Bay fish habitat reserve near Yeppoon, the Great Barrier Reef and the Environment Protection (Impact of Proposals) Act, which was the only bastion left to protect 
Australia's environment from the ravages of the ecological piranhas that care not one whit for Australia 's heritage if they can see a profit in it. I have already dealt with the destruction of Australia's finest natural wilderness area in the debate on the uranium Bills introduced in the autumn session of Parliament . 
The Department of Environment, Housing and Community Development has suffered the most severe cutbacks of all departments. Its effectiveness has been seriously undermined. In 1976 it had a staff of over 1,000. There are currently 550 staff, and this number is to be reduced to 500 by next June. Its own Secretary,  Mr Lansdown,  has referred to the Department as 'a dying institution'. The cuts go much further than could be justified on a cost-saving basis. 
The Government currently is trying to opt out of its responsibilities under the Environment Protection (Impact of Proposals) Act. The Act was introduced by the Labor Government in December 1974 in response to a record of indifference by previous governments, State and Federal, to environmental matters. The Act was hailed as the most important piece of legislation concerned with the protection of the environment to come before the Federal Parliament. The Ranger inquiry clearly supports this claim. It should be remembered that the Act, although maligned by conservative forces, has operated merely to alter the basis on which projects go ahead. Only in the case of Fraser Island has a venture actually stopped under the Environment Protection (Impact of Proposals) Act. It has increased environment consciousness among companies presenting proposals to government. 
In December 1975, the Liberal-National Country Party spokesman on environment and conservation, the present Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt),  stated: 'We will continue to support the Environment Protection Act'. Not one public inquiry has been called by the Fraser Government under this legislation. We can see where the pressure is coming from when we read the pamphlet produced recently by the Australian Mining Industry Council and urging the Government to hand control of the environment back to the States. The States have the prime responsibility for the environment and it was because of the irresponsible attitude of Premiers Court and Bjelke-Petersen that the Australian Government found it necessary to enact legislation which used its powers in foreign trade and investment to prevent their worst excesses. Now this Government wants to abrogate its responsibilities by making arrangements with the States. The Federal 
Government will sidestep its national and moral responsibilities for the Australian environment. 
On 20 March, in a letter to the New South Wales Premier, the Prime Minister raised the question of a statutory framework for intergovernmental legislative arrangements for environmental assessment to cover on-shore and off-shore proposals. Details were sought from the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development by the New South Wales Government. It appears, however, that his Department has been left in the dark regarding this matter. The Prime Minister's proposal for a statutory framework is interesting in the light of statements by the Queensland and Western Australian Governments. Queensland has said that it will not sign any agreement with the Commonwealth because it opposes what it calls Federal interference' in the environment. Western Australia says that it does not intend to introduce complementary legislation. We know only too well the record of these two governments in environment protection. Virtually every Australian would shudder at the thought of areas of national environmental significance such as the Great Barrier Reef, Fraser Island and the world's only jarrah forest being left to the whims of these State governments. Such representative environment areas are a national resource, not simply a State resource. 
There are few better examples of this Government's and this Minister's craven fear of the States and this Government's total lack of concern for the environment than its refusal to take any action whatsoever over the Iwasaki Sangyo company's proposal to build a major tourist development at Yeppoon in Queensland. Here is a perfect example of where the Australian Government, and the Minister in particular, could have used the power of the environment protection legislation to force some changes to the project that would have made only marginal difference to the concept itself but would have minimised risk to the environment of the Corio Bay area. 
A lot of rubbish has been talked about the Iwasaki proposals and has clouded the real issues of environmental concern, civil liberties and the Australian national interest. If we were examining this project simply on its tourist potential, there is no doubt that it has considerable merit, not the least of which is the considerable number of jobs it will create for Australians during the construction stage and when it is operative, as well as the boost it will give to Australian tourism by being a quality development, which we lack in this country. It will be a complex of hotels, motels, fiats and villas, a golf course and other sports facilities, a wildlife park, a marine sanctuary and a bird sanctuary on the existing wetlands. Opposition to the project has ranged from genuine criticisms in respect of the dangers to the local environment to the possible infringement of civil liberties and the reasonable demand that projects of this nature should have some Australian equity. 
I have not time, in a debate of this nature and with the limited time at my disposal, to deal with all the erroneous charges that have been levelled against the Farnborough project. I have visited the area twice and have had discussions with the company, the Capricorn Coast Protection Council, the local fishermen's association, the Yeppoon Chamber of Commerce, the Queensland Conservation Council and the Queensland Trades and Labor Council. I am convinced that the issues that are important narrow down to about the following: Firstly, the danger to the marginal mangroves at the head of Fishing Creek which is the breeding ground for the banana prawn and the local fishing industries. The present plan proposes an international village of some 600 acres in size right at the headwaters of Fishing Creek, 
Secondly, the incredible decision of the Queensland Government to overrule its own Beach Protection Authority by reducing the distance from the high water mark where development could occur to 50 and 80 metres from the normal 150 metres. Thirdly, the confusion that still exists about whether people have access to the beaches at all times. Fourthly, the total lack of Australian equity in the project. 
Fifthly, the lack of consultation with local and community and conservation groups both now and in the future. These matters could all have been resolved- perhaps not 100 per cent but sufficiently to allay some of the worst fears about the project. 
Let us look at what the Minister's own Department had to say about the project. I am quoting from a document that was leaked to the Melbourne  Age.  The document was a report on the draft environmental impact statement on the resort and was signed by  Mr H.  Higgs, Director of Environment. It was a document that finally was provided for Cabinet. In part it stated: 
A range of fresh and salt water wetlands habitats, supporting a diversity of bird, terrestial and marine lifeforms, are found on the site. With the exception of the International Village and Marine Park proposals, elements of the built environment do not directly affect the wetlands. Mangrove communities fall almost entirely within the Fish Habitat Reserve of Special Lease areas ... the wetlands are vulnerable habitats to a number of life forms sensitive to changes in surface and groundwater hydrology, including water quality characteristics and alterations to available freshwater drainage and sewage treatment and disposal proposals are therefore critical to maintenance of those wetland habitats. 
Early on the document had stated: 
The adjacent swamplands and Corio Bay are a significant waterfowl habitat and a refuge for international migratory bird species, as well as a major nursery of the fish and crustacean stocks of the Yeppoon-based commercial fisheries. 
The most devastating indictment of the Government and the Minister's incredible abrogation of its responsibilities are contained in the comments made by the Department of Primary Industry on the report. Paragraph 90 stated: 
The Department expressed concern about the environmental consequences of the resort proposed with respect to the marine nurseries of Fishing Creek and Corio Bay. In particular, it recommended consideration of relocating the International Village and the Marine Park southwards, further assessment of drainage and sewage effluent impact on Fishing Creek and elaboration of proposed methods of controlling insect pests. 
There, in the simplest of language, is the recommendation of the Department of Primary Industry- not exactly the most revolutionary department in the Government. It has not suggested abandonment of the proposal- just some minor alterations. What did the Minister do? He did absolutely nothing. What did the Government do? It did absolutely nothing. It was so mesmerised with fear by the Queensland Premier, who in turn was terrified that Iwasaki Sangyo might not proceed with the project, that it decided to do nothing at all. The most incredible part about the Government's refusal to use its power is that, from discussions I have had with the Iwasaki Sangyo company, including discussions with  Mr Iwasaki  himself, both in Australia and Japan, I have every reason to believe that if it had been asked to move the international village south a couple of kilometres and restrict development to 150 metres from the high water mark, it would have accepted the change. However, there was no pressure exerted on the company to do this. Had the Minister insisted on these changes, he would have done the Queensland Government and the company a favour. Neither change would have spoilt the resort proposals in any way but would have reduced the number of critics and opponents of the scheme. By doing this the environment would have been protected a great deal more than it is presently being protected. 
I will pass on to another matter. There has been considerable debate in Western Australia over the decision of the State Government to permit the mining of the jarrah forests to obtain bauxite. We recognise that there are differing points of view about the damage to the forests and, equally importantly, the threat to Perth's water supply. It is difficult to assess from the mass of technical and scientific evidence what will occur. The problem is that if the conservationists are right and the mining companies are wrong, irreparable damage that can never be reversed will be done. There has been a call for a public inquiry similar to the Ranger and Fraser Island inquiries.  Sir Charles  Court went off his head at the prospect of a federal inquiry- mind you,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  he does that fairly regularly these days- with the result that there was not a squeak out of the Minister or the Government. If mining is to be given the green light then it would lead to a delay of perhaps 12 to 18 months. The bauxite will still be there. If the inquiry were to support the worst fears of the conservationists, a disaster would be avoided. It is worth waiting for a little longer to ensure that a disaster does not occur. 
Finally, let me say how appalled I am, as are millions of Australians, that this Government has refused to give an unequivocal answer to my repeated request that the Government should not permit oil drilling on the Great Barrier Reef. Should the Federal Government give approval to the Queensland Government to permit drilling on the Reef there would be an outcry that would make the Fraser Island controversy look like a teddy bears' picnic. 
As the honourable member for Griffith rightly interjects, the outcry would be world-wide. We would see an environmental fight the like of which has not been seen in this country. The Federal Government is abrogating its responsibilities for environmental matters and the last vestiges of what could be called a national environment policy is being dissipated. Its attitude is causing great concern to the majority of genuine people who have an interest in the environment, conservation and quality of life issues. This is a Government which has shown blatant contempt for the environment and consistently yielded to vested interests. It will mouth platitudes about its concern for the environment when politically expedient, but one can be assured in these instances that its interests lie elsewhere. 
-The Opposition's basic objection to the proposal for the Kakadu National Park has not changed since the uranium Bills were debated in May. We are still basically opposed to the idea of mining uranium or, for that matter, mining anything in a national park. While some features of the statement made by the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development  (Mr Groom)  have some attractions, we said in great detail what we had to say when the various Bills, including the Environment Protection (Alligator Rivers Region) Bill, were debated in May this year. I would like to quote again the remark made by the Minister that I quoted in the debate on that occasion. Describing the Kakadu National Park, he said: 
The Alligator Rivers region is important in the context of world conservation. An area of outstanding beauty and grandeur, it also has great significance because of its social, cultural, biological, anthropological and archeological attributes. 
There is no question that we would agree with the view that the Minister has put. It seems to be recognised in Australia and world wide that the Kakadu National Park is one of the great wilderness areas of the world and certainly one of the great areas in Australia. The idea that one should mine, particularly uranium, in a national park goes against all our concepts of what a national park is all about. If there were to be no uranium mining in the park many of these arrangements, such as the arrangements regarding leasing of the park and agreements with the Aboriginals, would be quite satisfactory. However, if there were to be no mining, the arrangements would not be needed. We believe that the potential damage to the ecosystem of the whole region is enormous. I mentioned in the debate in May that there was a strong possibility of the seepage from Jabiluka flowing into the Magela Creek system and the Koongarra mine seepage flowing into the Norlangie Creek and thence into the South Alligator River region. 
-What was that? 
I thought the honourable member was accusing me of buying it. I can assure him that, even though I had a small win in the Melbourne Cup, I am not ready to buy into uranium mines. The honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Baillieu)  has raised the question. Some of the decisions made by the previous Labor Government may have been incorrect. 
The fact is that our views on uranium have changed and we are strongly opposed to uranium mining. I would have thought that would be clear even to the honourable member for La Trobe. We are opposed to uranium mining and particularly opposed to uranium mining in a national park. We know the language of the Government. It draws a line around a section in which it is going to mine and says that it is outside the park and therefore mining is not being carried out in the park. We know that it is absurd; the Government knows it is absurd. But it carries on with this pretence that by doing this somehow technically the mining is not being done in a park. 
Some sorts of mining possibly would not be as deleterious to the ecosystem of the Kakadu National Park as uranium mining would be because of the potential dangers and the waste that flows from uranium mining. But of course we have seen what happened in Rum Jungle. Hopefully the environment protection will be considerably better in Kakadu than it was in the previous experience. It could hardly be worse. The Minister is nodding his head. I shall wind up because everyone seems to be anxious to deal with another matter this afternoon. It is interesting to see that the Government takes so much interest in a national park. I wish we could get it as interested in some other areas of conservation as it is in Kakadu National Park. 
-In the Great Barrier Reef. I would be most enthusiastic about the Government being interested in Ayers Rock- the Uluru National Park- and Fraser Island. If we could get some legislation to give the same sort of protection and Government investment in those areas, I would be delighted. But we seem to concentrate a great deal more attention on Kakadu. I wonder whether it is because of all the uranium there. I am interested in this 5c levy. Does the Minister have any idea what sort of funds it is proposed to raise or any approximate estimate of what sort of money would be available for the Supervising Scientist. 
-I thought the Minister might have some ideas. He could have answered and made the debate a little less formal. Obviously the Minister does not know, so I will withdraw the question. 
-The Minister did not present any figures. It is very difficult to calculate if we do not have any figures from which to calculate it. 
Not in this statement. I conclude by saying that our position has not changed. We are totally opposed to uranium mining in a national park, and specifically in Kakadu National Park. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Ruddock)  adjourned. 
-Has the Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs seen reports that visitors from the P &amp; O ship  Island Princess  who were in Australia for 10 hours were indignant at having to pay the $10 departure tax? What action does the Minister intend to take to remove what I consider to be an absurd impost on visitors who are here for only a few hours? 
-The shadow Minister who spoke before, the honourable member for Port Adelaide  (Mr Young),  said that this is not an earth shattering Bill. In a sense he is right, and yet I believe it reflects very much the difference in attitudes between this side of the House and the other. For 23 years the Liberal-National Country parties were in government and they did nothing to provide paid maternity leave for the women of Australia either in the public or private sector. 
There was unpaid maternity leave but not paid maternity leave. When the coalition was in opposition it was very grudging in accepting the maternity leave legislation and once it got back into government it started cutting back the small privileges won by the working men and women of this country. Government members have put themselves on record as supporting women's rights, the equality of women, giving women opportunity and a decent go. Yet the first opportunity they get they start introducing this sort of legislation which amends the Act. Australia's maternity leave provisions were just catching up with the rest of the world. We were years behind most countries in introducing these provisions. Now the Government is starting to take us back to the Middle Ages again. 
The Opposition opposes the Government's legislation which amends the Maternity Leave (Australian Government Employees) Act. This legislation can be seen as yet another cynical, cost-cutting exercise and just another opportunity to kick the Public Service. I do not know of any government which seems to relish getting stuck into public servants as much as this Government. Members of the Public Service are always good for a cartoon or for a laugh on radio or television or in the Press. They are the butt of half the jokes in this country. After nine years as a member of parliament I have come to the view that the public servant works extremely hard. In my experience this is not so of all, but of most. Most put in a damn good day's work, particularly those in the upper echelon. I have been very impressed with the people with whom I have had to deal. I am looking at the  Deputy Clerk  of the House. There is a good example. One would not get a harder working public servant than  Mr Blake.  When we know the public servants we know how well they work. There is an attitude that it is all right to attack public servants. This legislation is just part of the attack by the Liberal Party on the public sector. It has a hatred for anybody who works for government. 
The provisions in the Bill are socially regressive and represent another nail in the equal opportunity coffin under this Government. This Bill makes a mockery of the policy statement of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  about his Government's commitment to complete equality of opportunity for women. Paid maternity and paternity leave was introduced by the Labor Government in 1973. It was based on International Labour Organisation conventions laid down in 1919 and 1952 which fixed minimal standards governing maternity benefits. The Labor Government's legislation entitled female public servants to 12 weeks paid leave- six weeks before the birth and six weeks after- and up to 40 weeks unpaid leave after that period with the employee's right to work protected. Male public servants were entitled to one week's paternity leave. From the way the Government is acting one would think that that leave was taken every six months. How many children do people have? The average is about two. This leave, on average, would be probably two weeks in a lifetime. 
We cannot take the honourable member as an example. He has not even got up to the barrier yet. In his case this provision would not cost the Government a cent. But for the average public servant this provision would grant two weeks leave in a lifetime. That is what the Government is going to cut out. What a miserable cost-cutting exercise this has been. When the provisions were introduced initially by the honourable member for Hindmarsh,  (Mr Clyde Cameron),  they were hailed as a significant, if long overdue, step in the right direction toward equality of opportunity for women. Now the Fraser Government is seeking to dismantle these important provisions and to lead us back into the dark ages. I mentioned before that I have just come back from a study tour of Japan. Probably Australians would look down on Japan as regards working or industrial conditions but I assure honourable members that we have no need to do this. I was unaware that maternity leave is legislated for in Japan. It is compulsory for employees in the private and public sector to get maternity leave. It is law. We visited the Toyota company which goes further than providing the required 12 weeks leave. It provides six weeks before the birth and seven weeks after. Australia is already light years behind Japan in most forms of industrial legislation and here is another example. We are withdrawing from the steps we have previously taken. 
Maternity leave is essential to a woman's right to work and her ability to achieve equality in the work place. It means job security to women at a time when child rearing is occupying less time of women's lives on a full-time basis and is frequently combined with careers. Adequate maternity leave provisions are especially important in this context because a career in the Public Service is based on continuity of service. In 1972 one woman was a Second Division officer in the Commonwealth Public Service on a full-time basis. This represented 0.13 per cent of that Division. This figure has risen gradually to four women in 1974; 12 in 1976 and 19 in 1978, representing 1.51 per cent of the Division. It has been suggested that the introduction of maternity leave has facilitated these developments. We have all complained about the fact that women do not have a decent go in the work force, that not enough of them reach top management. One of the reasons they do not is that in the past, when they have become pregnant, they have had to leave and sever their employment. We have now seen the sort of thing that is happening in the Commonwealth Public Service. Gradually the number of women in the higher positions is rising, albeit very slowly. They are a long way from getting parity but they are getting there very slowly. The situation is still abysmal. We are still a long way short of what the position should be. That is why the Opposition strongly opposes this retrograde action. 
Women employees represent an investment to the Public Service in terms of skills and training. Re-entry by female officers is in the interest of the Public Service and thus it should be facilitated. I wonder what would be happening if men were having babies. Quite seriously, I am damned sure that these provisions would not be amended. They would be made a great deal more generous in this home of male chauvinism which has 123 members not one of whom is a woman. Here we have legislation by men for men. 
There is a man who has contributed five or six weeks paternity leave. I am quite serious in saying that if men were having the children this would not be occurring. Honourable members are not so mean and miserable when it comes to providing conditions for themselves. I was one of those who supported the improvement in the parliamentary salaries and retirement allowances but apparently the attitude is different when we are looking after No. 1 than it is when we are thinking about the women in the Public Service. I wonder what would be happening if the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  were having a baby? I must concede that it is mind boggling. 
Paternity leave is the only government recognition of the dual role of father and mother in child rearing. This Government's proposal to abolish paternity leave altogether is a backward step and one likely to cause considerable practical hardship, especially to young families. By repealing section 10 of the principal Act the Government is, in effect, downgrading the role of the father in child rearing. It is particularly important at a time when there is a changing malefemale relationship, in which young men and women are working out different attitudes than those that prevailed in the past about their role vis-a-vis the home and vis-a-vis the work place. Probably all of us, who are of another generation, were brought up with the well-known attitude about a woman's place: A man got married expecting his wife to look after the home, have children and look after him when he got home. That obviously was a product of a past generation. That attitude is changing and the younger generation- I suppose I can include people of my own age in that group- are now changing their attitudes towards what each partner will do; who will go to work, who will look after the children, do the washing up, wash the nappies and so on. Paternity leave provides us with an opportunity for men to play that role. By abolishing paternity leave the Government does nothing to assist the new relationships that young men and women are working out. 
Much has been said about the abuse of maternity and paternity leave provisions. There may be isolated instances of abuse. However, the allegations have been largely unsubstantiated. This fact was brought to light by statistics provided in 1977 by the Australian Government Joint Council following a survey of women returning to work after maternity leave. For example, it has been alleged that many pregnant women join the Public Service just to receive maternity benefits. It should be noted that only 2.7 per cent of female officers had less than one year's service when they commenced maternity leave. That is just three in 100, so why introduce this provision? One does not change the whole of legislation because qf the actions of a minimal number. 
We all know, whether it be in respect of tax laws, social welfare legislation or whatever, that there will always be a small minority that will abuse the system. The Government is deliberately seeking to punish the genuine person because of the actions of a handful of people who have abused the system- assuming they have. I do not necessarily concede that all of that 2.7 per cent have in fact been abusing the system. There is no evidence to show that that small number deliberately joined the Public Service with an ulterior motive. I do not think that they would all be so skilled in becoming pregnant just on the clock. Under the new proposals in clause 7 a premature baby could disqualify an otherwise qualifying officer, since now an officer must have been employed by the Public Service for 12 months before she may become entitled to maternity leave. I ask: Why 12 months? From my little knowledge of medicine and science one has to be pregnant for roughly a nine-month period. 
-That will now be the rule. I ask why it should be 12 months. Why not nine months or six months? Anybody who wants to abuse the system, who wants to join the Public Service and get all these benefits - 
Is the honourable member going to speak in this debate? He will have his turn in a moment. We will come in when that happens. Usually it is comedy hour when he is speaking, but we will all enjoy it. It is my turn at the moment. The point is that someone who wants to abuse the system will still be able to do so. With modern family planning methods it would be simple to join the Public Service, remain there for 12 months and then become pregnant; so the Government is not going to close that. It will simply harm those who are genuine. 
In regard to the criticism that only- I emphasise the word 'only'- 50 per cent of women return to work after maternity leave, the fact is that a return rate of 50 per cent is much higher than might be expected from the normal work force participation pattern of women responsible for children. Australian Bureau of Statistics figures show that only 30 per cent of Australian women who are responsible for children aged 0 to five years in fact work. Thus it would seem that provision for a woman to return to her previous job at the same salary and seniority level, with accrued entitlements, for example long service leave and superannuation, has given some women a choice of returning to the paid work force or not. 
Without adequate maternity leave provisions, the alternative to remaining at home would be to take pot luck in a severely restricted employment market and to have to start again from scratch. The aim of such leave is not to force back into the work force those women who want, and can afford, to stay at home to care for young children. That is not the object. It is to protect the jobs and career entitlements of the 50 per cent of women who choose, whether from economic necessity or reasons related to personal fulfilment, to return to their jobs. In other words, it seeks to ensure that women who interrupt their careers to have children will not be unduly disadvantaged. It is absurd, not to mention unfair, to conclude that because 50 per cent do not take up their right to return to work, the 50 per cent who do have no right to, or need to. 
-I hope that the honourable member intends to speak in this debate. He has been chattering on and on. The honourable member is prattling away like an old fowl in a chook yard. It is also likely that many women are prevented from returning to work because of inadequate child care facilities, lack of part-time work, restriction of the period of unpaid leave, or a combination of those factors. The 50 per cent return rate is certainly not a justifiable criticism of maternity leave and may, in fact, be an argument for the granting of more generous provisions. As one news commentator put it, the Government is using a sledgehammer to crack a nut. It is withdrawing provisions which have certainly not been generous when compared to those operating in other counties. 
I point out that in addition to Japan, which I mentioned earlier, and West Germany, some of those primitive countries that our colleagues on the other side find so obnoxious, such as Bulgaria, Yugoslavia, Romania, the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and East Germany also have maternity leave conditions that are better than those that we have in this country. Instead of withdrawing provisions which certainly were not generous when compared with those operating in other countries, the Government should be facilitating the establishment of maternity and paternity leave provisions in the private sector; providing adequate child care facilities instead of reversing advances made by the Labor Government in this area; exploring ways of providing adequate permanent part-time work for government employees with young families, and encouraging the private sector to follow suit; and, finally, investigating the effects of making provision for easier re-entry or retention of career rights for women who stay out of the work force longer to look after children. We are sick and tired of this Government's unspoken policy of kicking public servants and women, to mention just two categories. The saving to the Government is minimal; the regressive effects are considerable. The Labor Party opposes this Bill very strongly. 
I refer to a headline in the  Australian  this morning 'Call for 7-day shopping week'. It was a call from Charles Lloyd Jones, the  chairman  of one of Australia's premier retailers. This is something that rears its head every now and then. Anyone looking for a good headline, a good story, calls upon Australian retail stores to open on seven days a week- Saturdays, Sundays and what-have-you. This debate has been going on for years. Frankly, I find it rather sterile because a number of things have to be taken into account in considering this question. Firstly, I would like to take the view of the shop assistants and trade unions. Quite frankly, they will not give up- quite rightly I believe- conditions that they have won over many years, conditions which accept the fact that weekends are a time for sport, recreation and leisure, a time to spend with one 's family; that if they are to be forced to work at those times they are entitled to some form of compensation therefor. I might point out that the article calls for penalty rates to be scrapped. 
Then I would put the case of the small shopkeeper and some of the large retailers who recognise that opening on seven days a week might sound good for members of the general public, who will be able to shop for 24 hours a day if one likes. If one happens to run a small business and works something like 55 hours a week and one suddenly finds that one has to work Saturday and Sunday, because everybody else does, to compete, one realises that one will simply take in much the same amount of money and spread one's overheads over a 7-day week, with increased lighting costs, wages and so on. The result will be that one will be working many more hours for the same profit. That is one reason why many large retailers, and certainly most shopkeepers, most small business people, are opposed to the suggestion. 
We have had a lot of media rubbish saying that Norman Ross Ltd, the discounters, and this, that and the other will open on Sundays. Of course they will do that sort of thing, if only to get the jump on their opponents and get a few thousand extra dollars in turnover because others will not do it. The silly damned media carry on and say they have just done a poll and have found that 85 per cent of people would favour longer shopping hours. Of course they would. It would be nice to go out in the middle of the night and buy a pair of socks, but let us be reasonable. It is a silly damned poll to take. My point is that what has been missing from this debate has been some form of imaginative approach. I happen to believe that there is an opportunity for restructured shopping hours. The problem is that the retail stores are open during the same hours as commerce and industry are. Those are the hours when the clerks are at work with their pens and their computers, and when the factory workers are on the job. It is absurd that the shops should be open at the same time. 
Most retailers find that their takings are concentrated in a few peak periods during the week. I have taken out some figures on this. I find that on Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday they take in about 10 per cent of weekly takings. On Thursday they take in about 25 per cent and on Friday they take in about 15 per cent. In three hours on Saturday morning they may take in about 30 per cent of their weekly takings. Most of the rest of the time the small shopkeepers and for that matter, employees of the big retailers, sit around looking at one another. On Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday they take very, very little. My suggestion is that hours should be staggered. If that were done many benefits would result. We ought to think of the position in the outer suburbs. I am not specifying any particular area. Shops should close completely on Monday, open on Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday and Thursday night, on Friday till 5.30 and on Saturday till 4.30 p.m. That would give those shop assistants a full weekend off. In the cities the shops could perhaps open on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday and Friday and on Thursday and Friday nights. All I am suggesting is that some sort of imaginative approach is needed so that everybody can get a better go, so that people in commerce and factories can have a better opportunity to shop, so that people in retail shops, small business people and sales assistants, can have a decent weekend, working at decent times and so that hours and overheads do not go up. There has been more rubbish talked about this issue than about anything I can think of in recent years and I am disappointed that no-one has suggested the staggered hours that are so essential. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
I refer to an article which appeared in yesterday's Melbourne  Age  under the headline '$100m Jobs Scheme'. The article, which carried the sub-head line 'Fraser and Cabinet "enthusiastic" ', stated: 
The Federal Government is considering a $10Om unemployment relief scheme to provide jobs for about 100,000 people. 
Under the scheme, Canberra would provide SO per cent of the money for community projects. The States would provide 30 per cent, and local councils 20 per cent. 
The job creation program has been drawn up by the Australian Council for Local Government Associations, the umbrella body for Australia 's 866 local councils. 
The Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs,  Mr Fife,  yesterday confirmed that he and the Minister for Employment and Industrial Relations,  Mr Street,  were studying the proposal. 
Council officials said the Prime Minister,  Mr Fraser,  and other Cabinet members had reacted enthusiastically when given an outline ofthe proposal at pre-Budget talks. 
If what is said in this article has some truth, I want to say how delighted I am and I am sure other members of the Labor Party are because for three years we have been urging- 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! 

-I am sorry, I thought the honourable member was referring to what I said. 
-Thanks, Mick. Come in more often. If this is true, I am delighted because for the last three years the Labor Party has been urging the Government to implement a scheme such as this. The article states further on: 
The proposal is similar to the Whitlam Government's regional employment development (RED) scheme which was phased out by the Fraser Government. 
I wanted to point out, as I have said in other speeches in the House over the past three years, that one of the unfortunate points of the RED scheme was that it got such a bucketing in the Press, most of which was very unjust. As honourable members who were members of parliament at the time will know, the vast majority of RED scheme work made a very valuable contribution to the community. I pay credit to the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  - 
I will come to that in a minute. I pay credit to the honourable member for Hindmarsh for the marvellous work that was done by him in introducing the most progressive scheme for creating jobs and leaving the community with something of benefit. Later on in the same article, after it was said that this scheme was similar to the RED scheme, it is stated: 
But the director of the council secretariat,  Mr Terry  Walls, said that the new scheme provided more long term advantages. 
He is quoted as saying: 
What happened with the RED scheme was that councils employed people to chip weeds ... It was money down the drain. 
I do not know who this  Mr Terry  Walls is, whether he is not very bright or has no knowledge whatsoever of the RED scheme. 
-He is obviously not bright and obviously has no knowledge whatsoever. One thing of which the honourable member for Hindmarsh, the best Minister for Labour that this country has ever had, made sure was that no funds were to be applied for that sort of job creation scheme. There was to be no chipping of weeds, no mowing of lawns and no painting of fences. Every project had to have approximately 50 per cent labour content and had to be something of lasting value to the community. My electorate received some $8m which was used for curbing, guttering, drainage, water reticulation, sewerage, sporting facilities, and so on. Not one of the programs was of the weed chipping type. I am appalled that a man who is the director of the council secretariat of the Australian Council for Local Government Associations obviously knows absolutely nothing of the RED scheme. He could have been referring to the previous McMahon scheme which existed in 1971, the rural relief scheme, which did those sorts of things. The honourable member for Hindmarsh made sure that when a Labor government came to office it did not support those demeaning sorts of jobs in which people knew that what they were doing was a waste of time and that they were simply filling in holes just so that they were able to say that they were employed. I hope the Government is serious about this matter, despite the depressing attitude of the honourable member for Port Adelaide (  Mr Young). 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-I ask the Minister for Industry and Commerce whether his attention has been drawn to the conflicting statements by  Mr Munk  of Travelodge Australia Ltd that cheaper international air fares will expand Australia's potential to attract tourists from overseas and that any loss by Qantas would be returned ten-fold in profits to the tourist industry, and by  Mr Allan  Dick, the  Chairman  of the Australian National Travel Association, that cheaper fares will result simply in more Australians going overseas, with little if any increase in international visitors to Australia. What is the position of the Minister and the Government in this conflict? 
-I ask the Minister for Environment, Housing and Community Development a question supplementary to that asked by the honourable member for Wide Bay last week. Despite his praise for the restoration work done in sand mined areas of Fraser Island by Dillingham Murphyores and Queensland Titanium, will he assure the House that the Government has no intention of removing the ban on the export of sand mined products from Fraser Island? 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 8 March 1978: 
1 ) What is the current level of Commonwealth Government expenditure for research in the following areas: (a) solar energy, (b) coal conversion, (c) wind energy, (d) wave and tidal energy, (e) oil shale energy, (f) nuclear energy and (g) other forms of energy. 
Which organisations are responsible for energy research undertaken directly by the Government. 
What energy research and conservation programs are currently being carried out by the Government. 
What funds has the Government allocated to (a) private industry and (b) universities and other tertiary institutions for research into, and developing of alternative energy sources during the last 5 years. 
What action has the Government taken to implement the recommendations of the Report of the Senate Standing Committee on National Resources on Solar Energy and the Report of the National Energy Advisory Committee on Proposals for an Australian Conservation of Energy Program. 
Is the Prime Minister aware of any exploration, drilling, testing or mining proposed for the Great Barrier Reef? If not, will he give an unequivocal denial that there will be any such actions on the Reef and proceed with the declaration of the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park? 
-There was a time when the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen)  was a hard act to follow. It was a bit like coming on after a nude Raquel Welch. But these days it is quite different: It is more like following an aging matinee idol. He does not spoil a good story by sticking to the facts. He had a shot at the Australian Labor Party about deficits. I would remind the Minister for Defence that in the three years in which Labor was in office the deficits totalled $6.6 billion. If this Government manages to stick to its predictions for this financial year it will manage to top that figure, with $8.8 billion. As I said, the Minister forgot to mention that in his speech. 
The Minister also criticised the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  for attacking this Government over its defence policies. I do not know whether the Minister was fortunate enough to see the program on northern defence the other night, but if he was able to see it he will recall the two tired old DC3s defending Australia. There was Biggies and Rockfist Rogan holding out hope of defending the north of Australia. I do not honestly know how the Minister had the gall to stand up in this chamber and defend his Government's defence policy because after the program the other night, he must have been severely embarrassed. The last person in this House whom I would want to see embarrassed is my learned friend and colleague, the Minister for Defence, because despite his incompetence as a Minister, he is still the most popular member on the other side of the House. 
One of the things that has been interesting in this debate has been the fact that we on this side of the House have been accused of playing politics. I am sure that listeners to this parliamentary broadcast and the nation as a whole would be absolutely appalled if the Labor Party were to be political about a statement that covers almost every political issue in the nation today, not to mention the world wide situation! Anyone who has any doubts about the fact that we are political- and we are not apologising for thatmight care to go through  Hansard  from 1973 to 1975 and read the speeches made two or three weeks after we were elected to office. In fact I can recall one member- I think it was the honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)getting  up in this chamber and making the first speech in the Address-in-Reply debate and after 23 years of Liberal-Nationl Country Party government, spending 25 minutes abusing us for the state of the roads and the telephones in his electorate. That sort of denigration of the Labor Government never stopped right throughout the three years it was in office. Honourable members opposite were content to talk down the economy and to create fears in the minds of the Australian people, and in particular in the minds of the Australian employers and employees. They did so non-stop. One of the worst offenders was the Minister who made the statement this afternoon, the former Treasurer, the present Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Mr Lynch).  Government members now have the gall to suggest that we on this side of the House should not criticise this Government for any of the things it is doing as regards employment, interest rates, pensions and so on because that is not playing the game; that is being political. Well I have news for them: This is a game called politics and we are going to tell the Australian people the facts and let them judge for themselves who is fit to govern. 
However, I would like to get off politics and say that there were some matters in the statement on which there would be some agreement in the House. I think I speak for most people in this country today when I say that we are all desperately concerned about the situation that prevails in South East Asia and that we are appalled at the behaviour of all the parties who have been so outspoken in their demand for peace and the peaceful ways of solving things. First of all we have the country of Kampuchea whose record of treatment of its own people has been nothing short of appalling. If the reports coming out of Kampuchea are accurate, then the murdering of millions of its people puts it in the same category as Nazi Germany and the worst excesses of prewar Russia. Vietnam's attack cannot be condoned. Finally there is China's attack upon Vietnam. I have not heard the latest news, but it appears imminent that Russia will attack China. So we have the greatest threat to world peace and I do not know what we in Australia can do about it. I doubt very much that any of us seriously believe that Australia can influence the situation greatly. We can just hope and pray that somehow or other they will come to their senses before we are all thrown into another horrific war. 
I now wish to comment on the remarks of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  concerning Namibia. I must say that I was pleased to hear that we are sending troops in the United Nations peace keeping force. In the context of southern Africa, I think it is very important that there is a peaceful transference of power and that the United Nations elections go ahead smoothly. I have just returned from  3lA  weeks in South 
Africa. As many honourable members on the other side of the House will know, some years ago I was an outspoken opponent and I still am an outspoken opponent, of the apartheid policy. I successfully opposed, as did a number of other people, the cricket tours in the early 1970s. I am hopeful that if there is a peaceful transfer of power in Namibia it might change the attitude of white South Africans towards their present apartheid policy. I will speak on that matter in greater detail at some later date when I hope to tell the House of some of the experiences and discussions I have had with leaders from all shades of politics, but at the moment I would just like to say that I think it is terribly important to have peace in that part of the world and for the new government, when it comes to power in Namibia, to be a moderate and democratic government which will allow various points of view and racial groups to integrate in a democratic society. If chaos does occur I. believe it will only harden further the attitude of white South Africans towards their present disastrous policies, if that is possible. 
I turn now to the economic matters mentioned in the Prime Minister's speech. Having listed all the great successes of the Government, he said: 
There is a growing and justifiable mood of optimism about Australia 's economic prospects. 
I think that could be re-phrased to read that there is a growing and justifiable mood of confusion about Australia's economic prospects'. The Prime Minister listed the good things that were happening and one of the things he mentioned was that the December retail figures showed a significant upturn. I hope that the Prime Minister is right but, having had considerable experience in the retail area, I must say that I was surprised at these figures when they were released, not because I was not hoping that they would be good but because I had been in contact with a number of people in the industry and every one of them to whom I spoke over a period of many weeks told me that his figures for the last quarter last year were down as were the figures of the big retail stores with the one exception upon which I will enlarge later. They said that, generally speaking, it had been a very poor and disappointing quarter. 
We must then ask ourselves why it is that these figures came out so attractively. It is possible that they may have been revised downwards, as has happened previously, but I suspect that the real reason for the figures being up is that the major retail stores, upon finding that their figures were so depressingly down, decided to have large clearance sales prior to Christmas. If that is the case they may well have achieved a record turnover at a significant loss but they cannot go on doing that sort of thing for very long. This is my own assessment of the situation although I understand that a number of articles in the financial papers have suggested that if the figures are accurate they are very deceptive for the reasons I have just given. The situation is confusing because a few days ago we received news that there were record December quarter approvals for the housing industry but then a couple of days later we were told that it was the worst completed quarter since 1966. 1 noticed in the statement released at the time that the Department of Housing officials were said to be puzzled. Everyone is puzzled. What is happening in the housing industry? Approvals are booming and completions are down. Is it because plans are being approved by councils but finance is not being approved by banks? I do not know the answer but I must say that it is reasonable for people to be confused about what is happening when there are two such conflicting reports on a very vital industry. I am sure we would all agree that without a prosperous, thriving and growing housing industry there is very little likelihood of a significant upturn in other quarters. 
We had inflation figures quoted today to indicate how successful the Government has been. Of course, when we were in government there was a great trick that used to be played by the media and the Government. If the increase in the consumer price index for the quarter had been  2.5  per cent and the accumulated increase in the consumer price index for the other three-quarters 8 per cent, it was said that the inflation rate was 10.5 per cent. However, if the figure had been 5 per cent the inflation rate was not said to be 13 per cent. The quarterly figure was multiplied by four to give an inflation rate of 20 per cent. That is the sort of juggling with statistics that has reduced the Government's credibility to zero, but the Government is doing it again now. I believe that the inflation rate is 7.8 per cent, but if we used the mathematics which were used when we were in government, the inflation rate would be 9.2 per cent. Honourable members opposite should not talk to us about playing politics because we suffered this tactic being used by them non-stop throughout the whole three years we were in government. 
The next question is: What level will inflation reach? There is a lot of evidence to show that inflation will certainly not decrease over the next 12 months and, though I hope that it does not, it may go even higher. My colleague and the Shadow Treasurer, the honourable member for 
Gellibrand  (Mr Willis),  outlined a number of reasons in support of this contention. He referred to the oil crisis, beef prices and so on. I have noted how the Government takes credit for the bumper wheat crop and the beef prices. I have been here for nearly 10 years and find it marvellous that when there is a drought or when there are deflated prices overseas it is never the fault of the Liberal and Country Parties. When the rural sector is crook it is because of drought, world supply and demand and so on. However, when things are good, it seems that the Liberal and Country Parties are responsible for the rain or for the sun, and that they created the new boom in meat prices. The Government wants it both ways. When things are good it wants the credit, but when things are bad it wants to blame world economic conditions. It is absolutely priceless. 
Of course, one would think that we were in the middle of a boom to listen to the Prime Minister, but there is one figure which puts the lie to the claim about the Government's economic policies and that is that after 3V4 years of Fraserism we have nearly half a million people unemployed. The most disgraceful inference to be drawn from this speech by the Prime Minister was that some people were out of work through their own fault. If the Government and the Government members are going to continue making these statements they ought to produce evidence in support of them. The Government has juggled the figures and done away with seasonal adjustments of figures together with a whole range of things, but the fact is that there are half a million people in Australia or, to be more accurate, 493,000 out of work. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER  (Mr Jarman)Order!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
-The Australian Labor Party supports the amendments to the National Fitness Act 1941 proposed in this Bill. These amendments are simply to enable funds now being generated through the sale of 'Life. Be in it' products or through gifts to be paid into the National Fitness Trust Fund. They also provide for amendments to sections 4 and 5 of the principal Act to bring them into line with current drafting practice for trust accounts and to make some formal drafting amendments. The 'Life. Be in it' program that began in Victoria in 1975 and went nation-wide in September 1977 has the support and participation of the Commonwealth, State and Territory Ministers responsible for recreation. It will attract a $600,000 Commonwealth contribution for each of the three years until 1980. The Government has our full support in this program. However, there are a few questions that I would like answered by the Minister for Home Affairs  (Mr Ellicott)  who unfortunately is not in the chamber at the moment. 
First of all, I would like to know what monitoring of the campaign has been done to ascertain the effect it is having in its objective of encouraging more Australians to undertake more physical activity to improve their health and their general physical wellbeing. I realise that it is early days yet, but I think it essential that the campaign be monitored carefully so that by 1980 we will be able to assess whether it is worth continuing, increasing or abandoning. Advertising programs such as these, that are aimed at changing people's life styles and habits need to be assessed thoroughly. The fact that they are not expensive- in this case only $600,000 a year- is not an excuse for continuing them ad infinitum unless they are achieving their objective. I realise that it is not always easy to assess the effect of advertising of this nature, but I think we should try. 
I ask the question because when I was  Chairman  of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Road Safety, I was constantly made aware of the utter uselessness of road safety advertising campaigns that governments had sponsored for years, urging people to drive slowly and carefully et cetera or warning them that speed kills. The results in terms of lives saved or injuries reduced was a big fat zero, as the road toll mounted annually in line with the increased number of cars and drivers and miles driven. The real breakthrough came when the ritualistic imploring of people to change their habits was abandoned and seat belts were made compulsory in cars and roads were re-designed. 
My own gut feeling is that the 'Life. Be in it' campaign has had an effect on people, making them change their sendentary life styles and encouraging them to become more physical. Certainly when I look at the Minister for Defence  (Mr Killen),  quite clearly I see that he is a much more physical man now than he was a few years ago. 
I would not make any wild challenges if I were you because you have come unstuck many times in recent years. There certainly appear to be more people jogging, swimming and playing squash, et cetera, but one cannot be sure. I would also like the Minister to inform the House of what sort of funds have been generated through the sale of a wide range of promotional material. I want to take the opportunity in this debate to raise the question of government involvement in sport and recreation. The debate in Australia has been raging at two levels since the 1976 Montreal Olympics when Australia failed, for the first time since the war, to win an Olympic gold medal. At one level there is the view that Australia's decline as a sporting nation is due to the failure of the Federal Government to provide the funds for Australian sportsmen to be coached properly, to have adequate training facilities and to compete regularly with other top class athletes in international events. At the other level there is the oft expressed view of sports medical experts that 
Australia lacks the widespread physical education and sports participation encouraged by other developed countries to produce a healthy, physically fit nation. 
It is our view that the two ideas are not mutually exclusive. They go hand in hand. Last year, Australia spent $9,000m on health. There are reasons for that massive expenditure that are unrelated to what we are talking about now. Some of them include the more sophisticated techniques to combat illnesses; increased wages; very much higher incomes for doctors, incomes which I notice are going to go a lot higher; and a wide range of drugs and numerous other costs. However, it is widely accepted in the medical field that a great deal of the sickness and death now occurring in our community is caused by the generally poor standard of physical fitness of the majority of Australians. The National Heart Foundation of Australia recently published a booklet entitled  Fitness and Your Heart.  In the first chapter entitled 'The Sedentary Society', the opening lines are: 
The age of the push button and the accelerator pedal has all but eliminated physical effort from the working lives of most Australians. Along with rich, fatty diets, cigarette smoking and other attributes of the present-day Western society, this lack of physical activity forms a life pattern believed by most scientists to be the major cause behind the epidemic of heart disease now affecting Australia and similar developed nations. 
Australian Productivity Action published an article summarising the research done in the United States, Canada and the United Kingdom indicating the higher incidence of coronary heart disease amongst those following a comparatively inactive occupation as opposed to those engaged in active work. Executives, judges, lawyers and physicians had five times the incidence of heart disease as did farmers, miners, and labourers. 
I suppose that the honourable member would come into that category. In fact he would probably fit into more than one of the categories I have mentioned. The incidence of heart disease amongst professional men was three times that amongst unskilled workers, whilst amongst bus drivers it was nearly twice that of bus conductors, and so on. One could go on citing these sorts of research results ad nauseum. We all know that physical fitness and health are closely related. However, there are a great number of other benefits besides just not having a heart attack. A physically fit person feels better, works better and is able to accumulate greater knowledge. The Education Department of South Australia, in its discussion paper published in August 1978, had this to say- and I know that the honourable member for Hindmarsh  (Mr Clyde Cameron)  will be very interested in this: 
The results of experiments carried out in France, Belgium, Japan, Canada and the United States have established that raised levels of physical activity result in higher levels of health and fitness and improvements in social awareness and academic achievement. 
The paper revealed that a similar experiment carried out with pupils at the Hindmarsh Primary School by the University of Adelaide Centre for Physical Health matched the findings with regard to the overseas students. It found that: 
The Hindmarsh students covered their normal work in less time with better results. In so doing they became more selfconfident, fitter, more skilful physically, more sociable and in addition the obese became slimmer. - 
The obese became slimmer. As a matter of fact it is a perfect description of the honourable member who represents these people in this House and I am sure,  Mr Deputy Speaker,  that you would agree. 
Yes, undoubtedly a very distinguished member. These various reports are hardly earth shattering revelations. We know the facts yet the Government prefers to continue to ignore the obvious. At the risk of sounding corny, I should like to repeat one of the oldest cliches in the book: 'An ounce of prevention is worth a ton of cure'. Preventive medicine is now accepted as the most effective way of improving a nation's health and reducing the spiralling costs of health care. As in so many other areas, it takes vision and courage by the Government- qualities in which this Government has shown itself to be noticeably lacking- to spend money now to reduce health costs in the future. We must start now to provide this nation with the guidance and the facilities necessary to improve its general physical well-being. We have to produce a new generation of Australians who are brought up from childhood to value their health and to realise that in this day of sedentary living a considerable effort on their part is required. I feel that we shall have more success through the education system, with the present generation of young children just starting school, than we will in changing the life style of older generations who, for the most part, gave up regular physical exercise once they left school. 
It would be interesting to survey members of Parliament, who would probably be representative of the community at large, to find out which of us regularly has hard physical exercise. I would suggest that we would provide a pretty horrible example to the rest of Australia. I will not embarrass honourable members by asking how many of them engage in hard physical exercise. By that I do not mean playing the odd game of golf or billiards. Perhaps there is more guilt on this side of the chamber. I think that some of the younger members on the Government side are probably more active. Of course, there are fewer of us on this side at the moment but we will change that after the next election. Certainly, not enough members of Parliament get out and engage in hard physical exercise. 
I play squash three times a week. I thought the honourable member for Wilmot would never ask. The sorts of things that Australia can do are not unique. Plenty of examples are given by countries that are not dissimilar to our own. Western Germany and Canada would be two from which we could take a lead. I suppose that if I mention East Germany there will be those who, for ideological reasons, will suck in their breath and tell us selfrighteously that we do not want to copy a communist country but, with respect, I would suggest that the program that the East Germans have adopted has little or nothing to do with their political philosophy. It could easily be adopted by Australia, as an article in the December 1978 issue of the  Australian Journal for Health, Physical Education and Recreation  points out. 
The article, by  Mr Brian  Chapman, a South Australian graduate student from the University of Oregon, points out that good health through physical culture is enshrined in the German Democratic Republic's Constitution and is backed up by legislation through the Youth Act 1974. That act makes mandatory: the setting up and equipping of new sports facilities as well as the modernisation and maintenance of existing ones the provision of sport equipment and sports wear for athletes the initial training and further training of sports teachers and doctors the guarantee of all-out medical care for children and youth engaging in activities by the sport-medical service of the GDR the gathering and application of scientific findings to the teaching programs, training programs and compilation of efficiency criteria and norms for children's and youth sport. 
The article states further: 
Physical training of school students . . . forms an integral part of the educational process in the GDR. As a result, physical education enjoys equal status with the other school subjects. In fact, students can make up for academic grades by achieving excellent physical education grades. 
The article states that there is, apart from basic exercises, a concentration on the Olympic sports, for the obvious reason that they 'provide the best medium for teaching desirable physical skills and character attributes'. As Chapman comments sardonically: 'Come to think of it, it does seem logical that a good way to develop speed in individuals is to teach them to sprint'. The young people of East Germany are therefore swimming, running, leaping, throwing and doing Olympic-style gymnastics from Form 1. Chapman adds: 
Technical skills are taught at an early age while simultaneously a general physical fitness base is built up. So when you accuse them of systematically developing specialised skills in Olympic sports among youngsters, you are right. The only problem is that GDR physical educators don't perceive this as a crime. In fact the evidence indicates that the youngsters don't see it as a crime either. 
He also points out that, contrary to popular belief, the facilities are not lavish but functional: 530 school gyms were built from 1971 to 1975 and 800 more are scheduled for construction by 1980, bringing the total to 4,000 gymnasiums for a total of 10,000 schools. The reason East Germany, with a population of 17 million, is now the top sporting nation in the world per capita is clearly understood from the Spartakiad program, which involves some four million young people between the ages of 6 and 18. This mass participation junior development program is aimed at involving everyone in sport- hardly an elitist concept with four million out of 17 million involved. It is a pyramid-type contest, with the finalists competing at Leipzig in 1977 before audiences of 105,000. 
I have spoken to a number of people who have been there. In fact, just today I have received an invitation to go to the Spartakiad finals in Moscow in August. There is every evidence that there is plenty of happiness there. It is an interesting comment, but I think we have to get rid of the ideological hang-ups that some of us have. If the honourable member for Lilley wishes, at another time I can give him the same sorts of details about programs being conducted in West Germany and in Canada. I am sorry that the honourable member came into the debate in that way. Although I have no brief at all for the East German system, not one bit, I happen to think that the type of thing that they are doing can be adapted to the Australian system. Let us not become hysterical about the fact that it is being done by the communist countries. 
-Let me finish. I will deal with that later on. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! The honourable member will address the Chair. 
From what I understand, their people are no less happy than ours. Certainly, if physical fitness and well-being count for happiness, I am sure that they are a great deal happier. In his article, Chapman points out: 
Ten thousand students had got through to these national finals, not only by winning their regional contest, but also by displaying satisfactory school results, (a pre-requisite for participation). 
In other words, they have to get their school grades to be able to participate in these contests. He concedes that undoubtedly a great deal of what the East Germans do is politically motivated, but states that people would have to be blindly anti-communist to miss the good aspects that deserve imitation. He makes these final points: 
In the GDR there is no shame in having a predominantly physical objective. Physical education starts on its own as a subject and is accepted as such. 
Competition is not a dirty word. 
There is no shame in encouraging pushing youngsters to maximise their physical potential. 
Youngsters are entitled to the chance to find out if they 're good at sport just as they're entitled to find out if they have talent at, say mathematics. 
Sport is unhesitatingly accepted as the ideal medium for physical education. 
Yes, I do not think we would disagree with that. He states further: 
Co-operation between schools, community and government agencies is well established. 
There is high quality professional preparation. 
Funding by government is enviable. Australia by comparison is shamefully neglectful. 
In his final comments he says: 
Surely we can attempt to incorporate some of these aspects without necessarily changing Australia's political or social system . . . GDR Olympic successes are not derived from steroids and assembly lines. They are too good at gymnastics, the marathon, diving, soccer, handball and other activities which have little place for steroids, to be so simplistically explained away. Their children are not 'forced'. Encouraged certainly, but not forced. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  The honourable member for Lilley is not occupying his appointed seat. 
I am very disappointed in the honourable member. I happened to watch the hurling final on television. It is the most insane sport that I have ever seen in my life. It is like playing Australian Rules with an axe. What is happening in East Germany is happening to a lesser degree in many of the developed countries similar to ours. Australia is at the bottom level of encouragement of people to participate in sport. I think it may have a lot to do with Australia's British ancestry. This was put succinctly by Andrew Dettre when he said that sport is something which no gentleman should take seriously. He said that Australian sports had:  . . . developed closely along the English pattern which itself was founded on the jolly atmosphere of the village green with the accent of playfulness, camaraderie and afternoon tea; something quite desirable, among certain classes, provided the unpleasant, if not ugly, drive to win was not present. 
Australia has been bemoaning the fact that over the last few years our place as the top sporting nation has declined. Australia once dominated tennis, squash, women's athletics and swimming and produced world champion athletes in men's athletics, cycling and rowing and creditable performances in other sports but we now cannot claim to be the top nation in any sport. There are one or two outstanding champions, such as Geoff Hunt, the squash champion, and Tracey Wickham, but it is a far cry from the halcyon days of the 1950s and 1960s. 
There are those who would say: 'So what?' But I believe that the majority of people take a considerable interest in sport. I count myself amongst them. I am sure that the honourable member for Philip  (Mr Burney)  and the majority of the members of this House count themselves amongst that group. They are disappointed with our decline as a sporting nation. In most of the sports where one can measure the performance of athletes by time or distance it is clear that Australia's athletes have not deteriorated in their performances. It is simply that the standards of all other countries have risen dramatically. They have risen because their governments have recognised the need to provide their youth with widespread participation programs coupled with the coaching and facilities to achieve a high standard of excellence. They have backed their athletes with adequate funding. Canada, for example, has spent $21m, $25m and $32m on sport in each of the last three financial years. This Government has spent just over $lm this year, which is a pitiful performance compared with that of the Canadian Government. Taking population into account, we should be spending at least $ 1 6m per annum to equal Canada 's effort. 
When Frank Stewart became Minister for Tourism and Recreation in 1972, sport received the first serious recognition ever accorded to it by a federal government. Within a year funds were provided for every sport for a program of coaching, training and international competition. Through the States a start was made on upgrading sporting facilities. Within a couple of years the annual budget had risen from virtually nothing to $1 lm. On the advent of the Fraser Government no area suffered more than sport. The total amounts shown in the Budget Papers in 1976-77 for expenditure on sport and recreation were allocated to pay for commitments entered into by the previous Labor Government. The following year the Government, having received a blast from sports organisations for its pitiful contribution to sport, re-implemented the program of funding sporting organisations, at a cost of about $lm. With the exception of one-off contributions to Brisbane for the Commonwealth Games in 1982, the recently announced donations to the Olympic Games training fund and the provision of an international hockey field for Western Australia as a gift to celebrate its 150th anniversary, virtually nothing has been done. The whole impetus of Frank Stewart's program has been lost. 
He is a very good tennis player. He was a very good rugby league player. 
-We all have our best years behind us. I can think of a lot of things that the honourable member for Lilley cannot do now but could do a few years ago- not on the sporting field either. What I have said has been adequately documented in a White Paper released by the Confederation of Australian Sport in May 1977. I recommend it to everyone for reading. Time does not permit me to quote in detail from this excellent document but I pay tribute to that body and the work done by its  president,  Wayne Reid, its Secretary, Garry Daly and its committee, particularly  Mr Les  Martyn, the  President  of the Australian Amateur Weightlifting Federation. Australia is fortunate in having such men prepared to give up so much of their time and energy to fight for a healthy and physically fit Australia. 
It is unfortunate that this speech probably will not be reported in the Press and that very little notice will be taken of it in the Parliament. This is a serious matter. It is a tragedy that the nation and the Parliament take physical fitness as such a joke. I repeat that our national health bill is about $9,000m. The Federal Government contributes $2,500m. If we really want to cut our health costs and make a better, healthier, happier, fitter nation we should spend on sport and recreation 2 per cent or 3 per cent of what we are spending on getting people better after they have had heart attacks. We would then go a long way towards making this a better country and a happier place in which to live. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker - 
Yes, this is the first time in 12 months that I have spoken in the adjournment debate. 
-Has the attention of the Prime Minister been drawn to the revised December retail figures which show that the increase was 2.7 per cent and not 4.4 per cent? Is it also true, as many people have suggested, that the small increase was due to major retailers panicking after a disasterous November and also having preChristmas sales? 
-I will give the Minister the figures later on if he likes. 
-Australia possesses at least - 
That the Business of the Day be called on. 
This is disgraceful. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! 
We have been listening to drivel for the last three weeks, and this is the first opportunity - 
Question put. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker - 
Motion (by  Mr Fife)  proposed: 
That the Business of the Day be called on. 

 - Mr Deputy Speaker, I must protest at the continual gagging of the debate on this very important matter. This is the second time in a row that that has happened and it is a disgrace. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
Leave granted. 

 -Mr Speaker, I wish to protest at the fact that this is the second occasion on which the matter of public importance I intended to raise today will be gagged. We have raised this matter on three occasions. Last week you chose, as is your right, another matter to be brought on as a matter of public importance. We raised this matter of the Great Barrier Reef yesterday. We are trying to raise it again today but we are told that it is to be gagged. I am critical of the fact that last night the Government could have continued debating the Lusher motion and dispensed with the adjournment debate. It did not do that. We intend to protest very strongly about the gagging of this matter of public importance. 
-The matter I wish to raise has not had a great deal of publicity in this Parliament, possibly because it is happening a long way away. For those of us who are concerned with human rights around the world it is a matter of grave concern. In February of this year forces of  President  Nyerere of Tanzania, plus Ugandan exiles linked with  Dr Milton  Obote, have been involved in a war to dethrone the most vicious monster since Adolf Hitler. Idi Amin came to power in January 1971 when he dethroned  Dr Obote  while he was attending a Commonwealth conference in Singapore. Much of the world Press- I suppose we have all been guilty of it- has treated Idi Amin as somewhat of a buffon, a benign old despot. However, I have had the good fortune to have recently visited Kenya. I talked to people about Idi Amin. I have read what has appeared in the newspapers. I had read of people being killed, but it did not really drive home to me just what sort of a vicious thug and gangster this man is. Estimates of those murdered range from 150,000 to 250,000 out of a population, I believe, of about 1 1 million. In 1973- nearly six years agothe International Commission of Jurists estimated that some 100,000 people had been murdered. 
In October last year Amin's troops occupied and ravaged some 450 square kilometres of Tanzanian territory, an area known as the Kagera Salient. In that foray into another country some 12,000 cattle were rustled, a sugar factory was gutted, peasant homes were wrecked, children were speared to death on poles and women were raped. Quite naturally and quite justifiably  President  Nyerere was enraged and ceased his previous role of neutrality. He gathered together those Ugandan exiles under  Dr Milton  Obote and encouraged them, with his own troops, to attack Uganda. He was, as I said, justifiably enraged. The Organisation of African Unity, which is so quick to condemn outrages in other parts of the world, particularly in South Africa and Rhodesia- I have been a quite strident critic of South Africa and Rhodesia- is strangely silent on what is going on in Uganda. I think that this Parliament and other parliamentary forums around the world can be quite justifiably accused of hypocrisy for the way in which we condemn one form of denial of human rights and then ignore what is happening in countries like Uganda. 
The damage that Idi Amin has done to his own country is bad enough; however, the damage that he has done to black Africa is immeasurable. We do not have today to go over the racist claims that were made about what would happen if many of the African countries received their independence. In some cases the predictions have been true. In many countries at least reasonable regimes- I will not say democratic regimes- have existed. Amin has succeeded in having the rest of the world point to him as an example of all Africa. The racists have a field day at the expense of all Africa because of Idi Amin. I was in South Africa this year. No doubt the fear of an Idi Amin in Rhodesia or South Africa is one of the reasons why South Africans and Rhodesians are so stubborn in refusing to allow black majority rule. 
I would like to list from a book written by Henry Kyemba, a former Minister in the Amin Government from 1972 to 1977- he was Minister for Health- some of the people who have been murdered by Amin. He estimated at the time that 150,000 people had been murdered. He lists first of all his brother and then these names: 
Benedicto Kiwanuka, The Chief Justice and former Prime Minister. 

 -Mr Speaker - 
Motion (by  Mr Fife)  proposed: 
That the business of the day be called on. 
This is a disgrace. This is the third time that this matter of public importance has been gagged. It is the fourth time it has been knocked off in two or three weeks. 
Question put: 
That the business of the day be called on. 
-I ask the Prime Minister: Will the Government consider suspending existing contracts to supply uranium to countries which use the light water, pressure water reactor similar to the one which failed in Harrisburg until it has been proven that there will be no recurrences of this episode? 
-The Harrisburg nuclear reactor accident has shocked and horrified the people in this country, as it has in the United States and throughout the rest of the world. The shock follows 30 years of reassurances that something like this just could not happen, that the chance of a major reactor accident was so low that death from a falling meteorite was more likely. The horror follows the realisation of what would happen if the ultimate nuclear disaster, a reactor core melt-down, eventuated. The residents of Pennsylvania have, for the past week, been no more than a hair's breadth away from the consequences: Widespread radioactive contamination of their environment, the threat of death from cancer and genetic damage on a large scale. Good luck is no security. It is not a dependable safeguard for the health and well-being of the community. 
It is clear now, as it has been all along, that the technical, commercial and regulatory authorities responsible for nuclear safety did not know what was happening inside the reactor at Three Mile Island. The situation was out of their control, and its solution is still obviously an open scientific question. Athough we will have to wait for days to know for certain what will finally happen to the people living near the crippled reactor, and perhaps months to find out what went wrong and whether the reactor will ever operate again, there are immediate lessons to be drawn from the incident. 
Let me begin by listing some of these. Firstly, it is now clear, if there could have been any remaining doubt, that the day of the scientific expert has ended. Secondly, the nuclear industry's record of irresponsibility, negligence and dishonesty continues. Thirdly, nuclear power is just too dangerous to support at present. Fourthly, Australia's nuclear policy and administration are fundamentally inadequate to take account of the seriousness of these problems, and to deserve public confidence. 
The Harrisburg incident and the response of the Australian Atomic Energy Commission and of the Government to this incident demonstrate these conclusions. What happened at the Three Mile Island reactor? This is one question- the first one- which is still unanswered. What is more, it is also one of the basic questions about which there have been conflicting reports. Was the accident caused initially by a valve failure in a secondary cooling system as was initially suggested? Was there a hydrogen explosion early in the trouble? Reports have changed from day to day about what went wrong at the reactor; what was the result and especially, how extensive was the fall-out problem; how serious was the fallout problem for power plant workers and for the public in local communities; who was responsible for the failure of the reactor; how will the problem be overcome. 
The 'facts' in these reports depended on who was making them; State officials, the United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission, President Carter's office, the power plant operator, or the nuclear reactor builders. Look, for example, at what was said about radioactivity released into the atmosphere. On Wednesday, hours after the accident, the Pennsylvania State Police reported: 'There is no radiation leak'. Less than an hour later, power company officials reported that a small amount of radiation had been released into the atmosphere, but no significant radiation was expected outside the plant area itself. By the end of the day, above normal radiation levels were reported as far as 26 kilometres from the site. 
How serious was the radioactive contamination problem? On Friday, President Carter's press secretary said that it appeared that 'none of the workers, exposed at the time of the accident received more than a portion of permissible levels of radiation'. Yet, the day before Metropolitan Edison had said that as many as eight workers received up to one-fifth the maximum permissible annual dose on that one day; and by Sunday it was reported that four employees had received overdoses of radiation. 
Again, how serious was the threat to the surrounding population? On Thursday, officials were quoted as saying that there was 'no indication of any immediate danger to the public and ... no plans to evacuate the 15,000 people living within 2 kilometres of the plant.' Two days later , there were reports that 100,000 people might have to be evacuated, and the State Government had issued a 'voluntary evacuation' of children and pregnant women. Yesterday we read that Pennsylvanian authorities had drawn up plans to move 636,000 people who live within 20 miles of the plant, but Nuclear Regulatory Commission officials hoped that this number could be reduced to 200,000. Who would believe any assurances of safety given by these officials with this record? The fact is that as more and more of the truth became known, it became clear that more and more of the truth had been concealed. The more people learned, the more they learned they had to fear. What did the residents of Pennsylvania have to fear? The worst possible accident in a nuclear reactor- a melt-down of its core followed by the dispersal of its toxic radioactive components into the environment- has been threatening these people for a week. 
Just for the record, there have been three official United States studies of the consequences of such an accident. The first, the 1957 Brookhaven report, found that the maximum credible accident could cause 3,400 deaths and $7 billion in property damage if it took place in a small nuclear reactor sited 30 miles from a city. A 1965 United States Atomic Energy Commission report, released in 1973, stated that 45,000 people could be killed and 100,000 injured in the worst possible accident. There would be $17 billion in property damage. 
Coming from someone like you who has spent so much time talking about children being killed due to unwanted pregnancies, you are nothing but a damned hypocrite to come in here and start supporting nuclear energy. 
-I thank the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs  (Mr Fife)  and I thank the House. I have waited a long time for an answer on this question. I regard it as the most important environmental issue in Australia today. I have therefore decided to write to the 

 President of the United States of America, to the United States Congress and to the respective committees of the Senate and the House of Representatives, asking them to take action and to ensure that American companies do not participate in oil exploration activities on the Great Barrier Reef. I point out that the four oil leases now held are all held by American companies. If that move is not successful, I shall ask my old friend Ralph Nader, with whom I travelled around Australia in 1972 when the honourable member for Lalor  (Mr Barry Jones)  and I brought him here on road safety issues, to take up the cudgels on our behalf. This is not a battle that we want; but, unless we see some positive action and some unequivocal statement by the Fraser Government which declares the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park and which assures the Australian people that the reef will never be at risk, I am afraid the battle will begin. 
-The Opposition welcomes the statement of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  and supports him in the action that he has taken. It is excellent to see now that Australia is to prohibit all whaling within the impending 200-mile Australian fishing zone, including any extension of the zone to include a fishing zone off the Australian Antartic Territory. We will continue support for the International Whaling Commission and hopefully an end will come to all whaling. As the Prime Minister said, satisfactory substitutes are available for all whale products. It is good to see that from 1 January 1981 Australia will prohibit the importation of whale products and that funding for research into whales will continue. 
I must say that this is a welcome change of attitude. I think it is true to say that it is due to community concern. I take this opportunity to congratulate those conservation groups that have fought such a good fight to win approval for what now appears to be a bipartisan attitude on whaling. Operation Jonah is to be congratulated, as are Friends of the Earth and other conservation groups. These are much maligned organisations. It is amazing how often - 
That interjection is quite typical of the honourable member. But as he has now seen, the view of such organisations was right and the Government's view was wrong. It has taken some years for the Government to come round to the view that these groups were putting all along the Une. I am not saying they are right all the time. The honourable gentleman who interjected was one who accused these groups of being communists and fellow travellers. He vented all sorts of vicious spleen on them in the House. The Government is now agreeing with them on this issue, about which they were right. Finally, it has turned out that their view is the community view. They are to be congratulated. 
From 1948 to 1974 the IWC presided over a continuing decline in the larger whale species such as blue whales, fins, seis and humpbacks. The humpback whales of Australian waters were virtually wiped out during the 1950s and 1960s. A similar fate had met the Australian right whales more than a century earlier. By 1972 the whale resource situation was so critical that the United Nations Conference on the Human Environment called for a 10-year total moratorium on commercial whaling. Under this weight of international opinion, the annual IWC meeting shortly afterwards agreed to set quotas for individual whale species for the first time, to differentiate between male and female sperm whales for biological reasons, and to implement an international observer scheme. But United States sponsored resolutions in favour of an absolute moratorium on whaling were narrowly rejected by the IWC in 1972, 1973 and 1974. Finally, in 1974 a new management procedure put forward by Australia as a compromise between pro-whaling and anti-whaling members was accepted by the IWC, plus immediate bans on commercial hunting of blue whales, humpbacks, right whales and bowheads. Briefly, the new approach to whale harvesting adhered much more closely to the idea of maximum sustainable yield for each species, that is, the aim of maximum harvesting without decline of whale stocks. The Australian amendment of 1974 not only provided a compromise acceptable at that time to the much polarised idea of the IWC but also it placed Australia at the forefront of IWC policy-making on whale stocks management. It was the official policy of the Whitlam Government to work towards a 10-year moratorium on whaling. Till now the Fraser Government has supported limited whaling under scientific management. We congratulate the Government on its change of view. 
I would like to conclude my remarks by referring to the fate of the Cheynes Beach whaling station at Albany. I think Australia was surprised when on 31 July 1978 a decision was made to close down the whaling station towards the end of that year. The end of 1978 was set as the cut-off point for whaling. Previously the company had made a reasonable profit in most years and in spite of company publicity that sperm oil is an essential substance the end came when the traditional British buyers of sperm oil failed to place advance orders. Normally, 80 per cent of Australia's sperm oil had been sent to the United Kingdom. Whilst the British Department of the Environment did not believe that whale species were endangered, a junior Defence Minister announced in June 1978 that the British armed forces would no longer use sperm oil. This and other possible bans apparently meant that buyers could not take the risk of building up stocks of Australian sperm oil. It is now widely accepted that jojoba oil can replace sperm oil in expensive applications such as cosmetics while synthetic oils suffice for the industrial applications. 
I want to make a special case here today- I hope I am not getting in before the honourable member for Forrest  (Mr Drummond)-  for the people of Albany. I think this House has a responsibility, when a decision is made on behalf of the Australian community to phase out an industry to provide the funds that are needed to establish new industries. I made this point before when I referred to Fraser Island. I think that a decision to phase out mining on Fraser Island should carry with it an undertaking to establish another industry. There are possibilities for commercial fishing in this area. 
I would like to see the Prime Minister look seriously at the question of funding a whaling museum at Albany on the site of the old whaling station. I do not believe that such an undertaking would cost a great deal of money. Albany is one of the most attractive parts of Australia. It has the potential to become one of the great tourist spots of Western Australia. This year Western 
Australia celebrates its 150th anniversary I suggest that this House on behalf of the Australian people could make a great gesture by providing funds for a whaling museum. We could also look at the possibility of establishing other industries at Albany. The Government has made a decision on behalf of the Australian community that we will not be involved in whaling anymore. So let us give the people of Albany something to take its place. 
I think I have created some sort of record. This speech will not be quite the same as Lincoln's Gettysburg Address but I hope that a number of honourable members will stay in the House to hear it. Australia possesses at least two of the great natural wonders of the world. They are Ayers Rock and the Great Barrier Reef. Whilst these are masterpieces on Australian property, it must never be forgotten that we are only the guardians for the whole world. We have the responsibility, nay the duty, to ensure that future generations both in Australia and in other parts of the world will be able to enjoy these unique creations for all time. This is why today I want to raise the question of the failure of the Fraser Government to use the power it has to fully protect the Great Barrier Reef from the predators who seek to exploit the Reef for their own selfish gains. 
The debate about the reef began in earnest about a little over a decade ago when it was announced by the Queensland Government that it intended to give permission to a company to mine for limestone on the Ellison Reef. The Wild Life Preservation Society of Queensland, the Australian Conservation Foundation and the Queensland Littoral Society fought a considerable battle to prevent mining on that reef and as a result the Mining Warden at Innisfail, in his summing up of the hearing for the application to mine in December 1967, said: 
On careful consideration of all the evidence adduced I recommend to the Honourable the Minister that in the public interest, and in the interest of probable preservation of the Great Barrier Reef, that the application should be refused. 
Five months later, the Queensland Minister for Mines agreed with this recommendation. The arguments put forward by the miners at the time are in many ways similar to those being used now by the Queensland Government and the 
Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  to prepare the ground for oil drilling on or near the Great Barrier Reef. 
Then it was claimed that there would be no damage to the Great Barrier Reef because all that was being mined was 'dead' coral. These statements were made by those who either did not know or were deliberately trying to confuse the Australian people as to the effect of limestone mining on the reef. I want to quote from Judith Wright's book  The Coral Battleground.  She wrote: 
Such 'dead' coral is an integral part of the reef life and forms breeding areas not only for algae and small marine organisms, but for fish themselves. Like the dead leaves under trees in the forest, it has an important pan in replenishing life; it is not an expendable 'dead' product, but teems with life of many kinds. 
Later on she had this to say: 
The Great Barrier Reef is the largest marine coral ecosystem of a very special kind. It is what is known as clinic ecosystem, in which hundreds of thousands of species interact in ways that are not only not yet understood, but probably beyond present scientific capacity to understand. 
It is essential to understand these points, made over and over again by marine biologists of world status, to comprehend the not very subtle campaign now being waged to soften Australia up for the oil companies to drill for oil on the Great Barrier Reef. 
The Queensland Minister for Mines,  Mr Camm,  is quite open about his Government's position- he wants to mine the reef. After having said unequivocally in January 1976 that the Queensland Government would not allow mining on the Great Barrier Reef or between the mainland and the reef, he now is an ardent advocate of oil exploration on the reef. In an interview on the ABC's  Nationwide  program on 21 February 1 979 he had this to say: 
My endeavour as the Minister for Mines is to encourage oil exploration in Queensland on shore and off shore and there are plenty of areas off shore in Queensland which have never been explored for oil up till now. 
We know from experience the attitude of the Queensland Government towards mining. Its members would mine the gold from their grandmothers ' teeth if they could make a quid out of it. What is so depressing is the attitude of the Fraser Government toward mining on the Great Barrier Reef. 
There have been over recent years repeated assertions by the Prime Minister and his Cabinet members that there will be no mining of the reef. Yet no sooner do we hear one of these statements than another statement is made that is either misleading, evasive or equivocal regarding the Government's intentions. On 16 January, the 

 Deputy Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  was quoted in the  Australian Financial Review  as saying at a National Party luncheon on the Gold Coast: 
The attitude ofthe Government is that there won't be any mining on the Great Barrier Reef. That's been our attitude all along. 
On the very same day, the Minister for Science and the Environment  (Senator Webster),  also a National Country Party member, put out a Press release which said: 
There is insufficient information presently available to predict what effect oil exploration and production would have on the region around the Great Barrier Reef. 
He went on to add: 
There is clearly a need for research to determine what the possible effects would be of oil drilling in waters off the reef. 
It is in our long term national interest to ensure we know what dangers may be presented to the complex ecosystems near the reef, and how these dangers could best be dealt with. 
The Press release went on to say that  'Senator Webster  said that the Commonwealth had been examining what research would be necessary to determine the effects of oil drilling in the area'. 
Is there any wonder that the community is totally confused about what the Fraser Government's policy is? As the Melbourne  Age  put it so succinctly on 1 9 January 1 979 in its editorial: 
There are two separate but related issues here. One is drilling on the Reef itself: The other drilling in the waters surrounding it. The 1970 Royal Commission was emphatic that there should be no drilling for oil on any reef, cay or island within what it called the Great Barrier Reef province. Any change in this position is unthinkable. The Great Barrier Reef belongs not only to Australia but to the world. It is part of what has been called 'the world heritage ', and we are duty bound as such to do everything we can to preserve it. Any move in the reverse direction would stamp Australia as a mercenary and thoroughly irresponsible society. 
As a result of this confusion, I asked the Prime Minister to give the Parliament an assurance that the Government had no intention of allowing exploration, drilling, testing or mining on or near the Great Barrier Reef. The Prime Minister's reply makes it clear that the Government is considering giving oil companies permission to carry out exploration 'near' the reef. How near we don't know. I make it clear to the Prime Minister that, if he believes that he can get away with this confidence trick by telling the Australian people that he will not permit drilling on the reef but only near it, then 1 fear that he is sadly mistaken. The word 'near' is defined in the Oxford Dictionary as 'closely related . . . intimate  . . close at hand . . .'. It is a vague term and is open to a wide variety of interpretations. We do not know what the Prime Minister means by 'near'. Therefore we will provide him  with our definition of 'near' so that he will have no doubts in his mind as to what we would find unacceptable. Any exploration drilling, testing, mining or whatever, within the Great Barrier Reef ecosystem is unacceptable to the Australian Labor Party. 
The reef is 1,200 miles in length and 104,000 square miles in area- one-sixth of the size of Queensland. Throughout the area there are 2,500 reefs which total 4,300 to 5,000 square miles in area. Anyone with the remotest knowledge of the environment will know that one cannot interfere with one section of a complex system such as the Great Barrier Reef without affecting the rest of it. Judith Wright states: 
To talk of the reef, then, is to talk of many hundreds of thousands of reefs; yet it is also to speak of what is now being increasingly recognised as an ecological unity. The marine flora and fauna change in composition of species from north to south and also from east to west, and no one knows how their colonisation really takes place, or its sources, because of the complexity of the currents that carry the replenishing plankton from place to place. 
She pointed out that the reef cannot be isolated from other physical and environmental influences in its region. The mangrove forests along the mainland coast, tidal movements, water temperatures, estuaries and the weather all play a part in determining the growth and development of the Great Barrier Reef. There have been enough environmentally disastrous oil spills in different parts of the world to indicate to us here in Australia the potential danger to the Great Barrier Reef. I refer to such incidents as the  Torrey Canyon  disaster off the southern coast of England in 1967 and the  Amoco Cadiz  disaster off the coast of Brittany, France, last year. In 1970 Australia had its own disaster when the  Oceanic Grandeur  ran aground on Wednesday Island in the Torres Straits. 
To suggest, as  Mr Camm  does, that oil is not damaging to the reef and may even encourage growth is simply nonsense. He has attempted to back up bis argument by using as an example an experiment done by an officer of his fisheries department in which oil was spilt over the reef and is claimed not to have damaged the reef.  Mr Camm  himself admits that the reef experiment was not very scientific. I would say that that is the understatement of the century. He says that he does not intend to use that as an argument to support his case but then proceeds to do exactly that. I ask for leave to have incorporated in Hansard that section of the oil spills report of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation which deals with effects of oil in the marine environmentparagraphs 1 8 to 2 7. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

EFFECTS 

 Major oil spills have a clear and obvious deleterious effect on the marine environment and on the communities of plants and animals living there. Oil is a conspicous pollutant, and in particular, it has a dramatic effect on sea birds. Although long-term effects of sub-lethal concentrations of oil are not as dramatic as massive mortalities, the results may affect the survival of an important species, or alter the balance in the food chain. At present little is known of the longterm effects of oil spills and an accurate assessment of possible damage is  difficult.  Damage to the environment is not easy to measure objectively. The basis of environmental concern is so ill-defined, that it is not surprising that research scientists have reached widely differing conclusions about the dangers of oil pollution. 
Damage to Marine Life 
9. There are five main ways in which oil can damage marine ecosystems. These are: direct coating leading to suffocation; lethal toxicity of oil components; habitat alteration; hydrocarbon accumulation; alteration of behavioural responses. 
The most obvious environmental effect of oil is usually the coating of large numbers of seabirds, nearly all of which die. Treatment of the birds is expensive and usually unsuccessful. If oil arrives at breeding time, the effects can be devastating. Birds are particularly vulnerable because of their activity at the air/water interface. Surface-feeding fish together with surface-living plankton are similarly effected by oilblanketing. If a slick arrives on shore, it traps innumerable littoral organisms. 
The second harmful effect of oil is related to its inherent toxicity. Oil is extremely poisonous to shore plants. The aromatic components of oil are especially toxic. The overall effect is largely controlled by the manner of presentation to the organism. Thus, any suspension of fine oil droplets in seawatercan be expected to harm underwater animals which otherwise might only be slightly affected by floating oil. Long-term toxicity can result from weathered oil which has sunk and then been lightly covered by sand or other sediment. 
Oil spills cause more severe damage if they occur in near-shore areas, particularly in enclosed bays or estuaries. The extent of damage caused by spills of crude or heavy refined oils will depend upon the time taken for the slick to reach shore. After several hours toxic components evaporate and the major effect is smothering of littoral organisms. Ecosystems appear to recover quite well from such spills although certain species may be threatened. If the slick is near a rookery, particularly during breeding season, the effects of these spills on the bird population can be catastrophic. 
The major danger to fish lies in the damaging effect oil spills may have on near-shore nursery grounds. Larvae are considerably more sensitive to oil than adult fish. Larvael stages drift near the sea surface and are unable to avoid the toxic components of the oil. Tainting of fish following oil spills can severely affect commercial fisheries. Corio Bay in Victoria is currently closed to commercial fishing as a result of fish tainting.' Noticeably undesirable tastes in fish flesh can be caused by low concentrations.7 Oil spills in Botany 
Bay have caused contamination of oysters with economic loss to growers.6 The N.S.W. Oyster Farmers' Association told the Committee that the oyster industry in the Georges River could be wiped out if a major spill occurred.9 6.Transcript, 1978. p. 56 
Transcript, 1978, p. 18 
Transcript, 1 978. p. 223 
Transcript, 1978, p. 350 
Although episodic events, such as the break-up of a large tanker, have a dramatic effect on the physical and biological environment, experience in overseas countries has shown that when the pollution passes, the ecosystems are able to recover and regenerate. The damage is more serious if one or more species is completely destroyed in an area and is unable to recolonise because of a change in the balance of the ecosystem. 
Chronic pollution, the long-term slow release of oil from repeated spills or industrial discharge is more serious.10 Marine organisms do not have sufficient time between spills to allow them to recover fully. Ecosystems subject to chronic spills are continually under stress and inevitably lose many of the more sensitive marine species, which are not able to return unless the pollution is stopped. 10.Transcript, 1978, p.11 
Damage to the Physical Environment 
The presence of oil or tar globules on a beach can have a serious impact on local communities through the loss of, or temporary damage to, recreation resources. This can lead to severe financial losses particularly in holiday areas. 
The effects of oil spills arriving on coasts vary considerably, depending on the terrain. An unprotected ocean beach with rolling surf is highly suitable for breaking an oil slick into droplets which will eventually be removed by successive tides. High wave action may remove oil and tar within 24 hours. An open rocky shore creates sufficient wave turbulence to break up a slick, but will contain more susceptible marine creatures than the open beach. Other types of coastline are much more sensitive to oil. They include estuaries, estuarine lakes, sheltered bays, mangrove swamps, and other coastal swamps. All are remote from the weathering action of winds and waves, and all contain important breeding grounds for marine life. Their shallow waters offer much less protection from floating oil than is afforded by the open ocean. 
The N.S.W. Maritime Services Board said there have been instances of acute oil pollution involving temporary inconvenience, beach contamination and loss of amenity, soiling of vessels and structures, and fouling of foreshores. While these effects are unsatisfactory, they do not appear to cause permanent or irreversible damage to the environment." 11.Transcript, 1978, p. 222. 
-I thank the House. On 20 June 1 975 the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Act came into operation. It was designed to protect the Great Barrier Reef for all time from just the sort of exploitation from which it is under threat by the Queensland and Australian governments. Even this Government had expressed some months ago its intention of declaring the Capricorn Bunker group as part of the Park. This modest contribution to our heritage has yet to be proclaimed. The Australian Conservation Foundation has recommended that five areas in Australia should be declared world heritages under an international convention. First on this list is the Great Barrier Reef. 
During our first 200 years of settlement, Australians have not had a particularly impressive record of conserving their heritage. However, during the past decade there has been a new awareness of the desecration of the past, and a determination has arisen amongst new generations of Australians that what is left will not be destroyed even if it means paying a high price for fuel. The Great Barrier Reef will not be destroyed; nor will it be placed at risk. I said in speeches in this House last year that if oil drilling on or near the Barrier Reef were permitted by this Government the Government would be in for the greatest environmental battle in history. For over 18 months we have waited for the Government to assure the nation that exploration, testing and drilling will not be countenanced on or near the reef. This it has refused to do. 
On 10 January this year the  President  of the United States ordered environmental reviews of United States projects abroad.  President  Carter made it clear in his statement that he was concerned that actions by United States agencies could have detrimental effects on the global environment. I seek leave to have the statement by  President  Carter incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 


 -Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 
-Tourism is now receiving the attention that it deserves. The media, and I would say the Parliament, are at  long last giving this industry the close scrutiny that it should have had for many years in this country. I point out to honourable members that when I first entered this place the standard of debate on the tourist industry was appalling. I take some credit for the fact that the Labor Party's platform during the 1972 election campaign contained a very strong tourist policy. That policy was implemented by the Labor Government's Minister for Tourism and Recreation, the honourable member for Grayndler  (Mr Stewart).  I think that was a major breakthrough on the part of the Minister. However, I believe that even he had problems in getting the industry the recognition it deserved by the Cabinet of the day. I think this Government made a very bad mistake when it first came to office by slashing severely expenditure on the tourist industry. Now we are seeing what might be called a comeback. There are some signs that the Government is now taking tourism a little more seriously than it has in the past. 
My complaint about the present approach of the Government is that it is an ad hoc approach. There is no national strategy. I make the point that I know it is traditional for the Opposition to criticise and that therefore the general attitude is that 'he is just getting up here and saying these things because he has to attack the Liberal Government'. Let me assure honourable members that that is not my purpose. I would be just as critical if the Opposition in government adopted the same approach. It is my view, and I think it is the view of many members of this House, that we are in a critical situation, not only in Australia but all over the world, in regard to exactly who and what should be encouraged. 
At the moment we know that the agricultural sector in Australia is booming. That is good. The mining industry is fluctuating this way and that way. Manufacturing industry is in trouble. But we also know that if there was a massive boom in the agricultural and mining industries there would not be a commensurate pickup in employment in those areas. As we all know, the manufacturing industry is becoming more highly mechanised with the greater use of computer technology. It is unlikely that the manufacturing sector will have large scope for employment in the foreseeable future. 
Therefore, we turn to the service sector. It is unquestionable that the travel industry is growing and will continue to grow. Leisure travel around the world will be one of the major expansion industries in our society. At the time when my mother and father, who are not alive today, twice travelled around the world, it was considered that they were doing very well to have had two world trips in their lifetimes. Today I talk to young working people- to clerks, to typists and to stenographers- who now annually go overseas for their holidays. This is all a phenomenon of the last five to 10 years. With the increase in wages, jet travel is one area in the travel industry in which costs have come down. This is a phenomenon and we ought, if you like, to jump on the bandwagon of tourism. In my view what we require is a total national strategy. The Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Mr Lynch)  in his speech made some points about the report of the Bureau of Industry Economics. He said: 
According to calculations made by the Bureau of Industry Economics in the Bureau 's preliminary working paper on the economic significance of tourism, the industry's contribution to gross domestic product amounted to 2.7 per cent in 1 973-74, the latest year for which data are available. 
The industry's contribution to total employment was estimated at 2.S per cent and usage of Australia's capital stock at 2.9 percent. 
As the Minister pointed out in answer to a question which was raised in the House, I think yesterday or the day before, this puts the tourist industry in much the same category as the motor vehicle industry. It puts it not far behind the mining industry. I say to honourable members that I doubt whether this industry has ever received the sort of assistance that the vehicle industry has received or that the mining industry has received. We think nothing of spending hundreds of millions of dollars to provide railway lines, wharves or ports; one could go on and on. The mining industry is not that far ahead of the tourist industry in the contribution that it makes towards employment and the gross domestic product. 
I believe that we need a strategy which would assess the market and Australia's potential to capture a share of that market if we are to determine what infrastructure changes are required in regard to airlines, airports, roads and so on. We need to provide the incentives to ensure that Australia can accommodate the increased population that will be coming to this country. We need to provide incentives or funds for the attractions that will be required if we are to hold people in this country. I believe that one fundamental mistake is made in the tourist industry, namely, assuming that because we have lovely beaches, beautiful harbours and nice forests people will flock here in their hundreds of thousands. I ask honourable members to examine their hearts and souls as to what prompts them to choose a place for a holiday. Is it the beauty of a country? Is it the beauty of an area? That is a great advantage but I would suggest, with due respect, that, whilst Paris is a beautiful city, I doubt that that is why most people flock to Paris. New York is a concrete jungle but it attracts people. 
-The Minister said that it would be the birds. I am sure he meant the ladies. But what is it that attracts people to New York? It is certainly not the beauty of that city. I would never accuse the Gold Coast in our own country of being beautiful scenically. But it does have an elegance, a sophistication, a throbbing night life and an excitement that attracts people to it and makes it probably the premier tourist attraction in Australia. I do not think anyone would suggest that it was one of the most beautiful areas of Australia. I say that in all honesty. It certainly would not compare with the beauty of, say, Tasmania or even places like north Queensland or my own area. It is these other attractions that I have mentioned that take people on their holidays. One could go on and on. Jerusalem is a magnificent, exciting and pulsating city. Anyone who has been there would agree that it is one of the great tourist attractions of the world. It is not a beautiful country scenically. I suggest that we need to examine the attractions that we have in this country- this does not necessarily have to be done by the national Government alone but by the whole nation- to make sure that when people come to Australia we can provide them with plenty of things to do. 
I wish to discuss the statement in detail. I commend the Government and the Minister for what it is doing with regard to the Export Market Development Grants scheme- that is good- and for the setting up of the Travel and Tourist Advisory Council. The Minister has appointed me to that Council. I have been able to attend only one meeting so far but I find that an interesting body. I am sure it can do some good work. The Minister has also mentioned in his statement that it is important that the economic climate be appropriate to set the right atmosphere for the industry. I would not disagree with that. But with regard to the Commonwealth's role, I see it playing a greater one than that which he spells out. 
I think the Bureau of Industry Economics study has a lot to offer. I think that even the first interim report has provided us with some very important basic facts and figures which will enable us to nail Treasury, which has been such an enemy of the tourist industry. 
I think the honourable member for Bowman is right. Interestingly enough, I notice in the Bureau's report a statement to the effect that it would appear, from the figures already put together, that speculation that the tourist industry is labour intensive and not capital intensive is not correct. However, we need to look at that much more closely before we make that assessment. It would be quite accurate to say that the aircraft industry and the accommodation sector are probably fairly labour intensive. I do not have the report with me, but I think the Bureau has made the point that so far it is examining only that section of the tourist industry which can be described as being directly applicable to tourism. It has been said over and over until it has become a cliche that the tourist industry is fragmented and that it is difficult to pin down exactly what is tourism and what is not tourism. I suspect that once the level of tourism reaches a certain point and we start to get a large number of tourists, the service sector that is set up to support the tourist industry will show it to be far more labour intensive than we imagined. I will look forward to further studies by the Bureau to see whether the assessment that the tourist industry is capital intensive rather than labour intensive is correct. 
I support the 'Make Friends with Australia' campaign which the Minister launched a few months ago. We do not know whether it will work, but it is not an expensive program and it is worth giving a try. There would be no disagreement from us on the marketing of Australia overseas. We applaud those measures. Of course, we are delighted that finally the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  has been dragged reluctantly into the era of cheap fares. He finally saw the light, and I suppose it is better to make peace with the Lord on these matters ultimately than to stay and fight on forever. One question that I would like to ask the Minister for Transport, who is in the House at the moment, is: When are we going to be able to win the fight with the Japanese Government? I do not blame the Minister for this situation because the Japanese Government has been quite obstructionist with regard to cheap air fares. We have an enormous market in Japan where there are 130 million people. They have a lot of money. Their wages are very high. Three and a half million Japanese are travelling around the world- to South East Asia, to Europe and to the United States- but we are receiving only 3 1 ,000 of them. I do not know what can be done, but I hope that we can put greater pressure on the Japanese Government to lower the air fares. The figures that I got today show that the cost of a first class fare to Tokyo is $1,988 and that the cost of an economy seat is $ 1 ,400. That is absolutely absurd. It is only about a 10-hour flight, which makes it about the same distance as the distance from here to the United States. Yet the air fares are double the air fares for that journey and, of course, almost treble the cheaper air fare. 
One matter on which I want to pick up the Minister is his statement that the biggest increase had been in the contribution to the Australian Tourist Commission. That is correct, but what he did not say, of course, was that there were quite substantial cutbacks when this Government came to office. I have taken out some figures which show that in 1973 $3.0 14m was provided for the ATC. If we use that as a base figure and use the implicit price deflator which the Government and the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  are so fond of using, for 1978-79 the figure would be $2. 335m. So in fact in real terms there has been a drop in the amount of funds available to the ATC. 
Unfortunately when talking of all these issues one runs out of time. One could go on for hours about them. I must say that I am concerned at this campaign about penalty rates. When this matter was raised before the Select Committee on Tourism I approached it- I tell the House honestly- with an open mind. Many witnesses provided evidence about this matter and I- as did, I believe, most members of the Committeefound them quite unable to provide any evidence to prove the case against penalty rates. I draw the attention of the House to a statement by Roger Kirby, the General Manager of the Travelodge company, the largest chain of motels in Australia. He said that the abolition of penalty rates in Australia would reduce the bed cost by 50c a night. Recently I took the trouble to go to a major motel and ask the manager whether I could look at his wages book. It was a normal sort of motel with 50 rooms. I do not intend to name it. I studied the figures. I know what to look for.  His  total wages bill was about $1,400. The total amount of money attributable to penalty rates was $120. The gross takings were, I think, about $40,000 a month. To suggest that that sort of ratio of costs is going to make the difference between a prosperous tourist attraction and one which is not prosperous is absolutely absurd. 
As the Minister knows, I get around the industry a lot and talk to many people. In the last few weeks I have heard from two separate sources, which are highly reliable, something that has caused me a great deal of concern. I have been told that hundreds of thousands of dollars are going to be poured into a campaign against penalty rates and that the campaign is to start in the latter part of next year. It is to be done for political purposes by companies and people who intend to wage a campaign against the trade unions on the question of penalty rates. It is going to be done by way of television, film and radio programs to carry the message to the people in the last six months before the election injune 1980. 
The campaign has two purposes. One purpose is to help the Liberal Party to be returned to office, but the primary purpose is to abolish penalty rates. I would suggest, with due respect to those people who are planning to spend this sort of money to take on the trade union movement on this issue- I believe that they have not been able to prove their case- that they are absolutely insane because they will not achieve their aim. Penalty rates are a hard won condition which the trade unions have achieved and which they are not going to give up lightly. The only result that I could see would be industrial chaos, without any clear result. I would like to conclude my remarks on the penalty rate issue by asking leave to - 
I hope I am wrong, but my information came from two very reliable sources. I will not mention their names in the House, but I will tell the Minister their names later, because he knows them as well as I do. I ask for leave to incorporate in  Hansard  a table from the  Australian Financial Review  of Monday, 5 February showing a comparison of the top cities in the world and their structures with regard to tourist costs. 
Leave granted. 

 The table read as follows- 

<para pgwide="yes">The index is based on the sterling cost of three night's bed and breakfast and two a la carte dinners in a first class/international category hotel, one dinner in an average restaurant, three bottles of house wine, one hotel lunch, two snack meals, one 5 km taxi journey, half a litre of beer and five whiskies. (There are anomalies relating to the availability of alcohol: soft drinks have been substituted for wine and spirits in Saudi Arabia and Kuwait, and for wine in Pakistan- the indices in these cases will be unavoidably low.) 
<para pgwide="yes">In spite of changes in the sample size (66 this year, 6 1 last), and method, the consistency of the information is shown by comparing the rankings at the head and tail ofthe league: ten of the top IS last year are to be found there this time and the bottom IS are similarly compatible. This year Tokyo has emerged as the most expensive business centre, sightly ahead of Paris. European and Middle Eastern dues are otherwise the chief drain on the company business travel bill. 
<para pgwide="yes">London's ranking has risen once again. There are only ten cities where the businessman can expect to pay more for a similar stay. 
Exchange rates are as published in the Financial Times on 14 November 1978. 
Honourable members will notice that, out of a total of 70 or 80 cities, Tokyo is at the top of the list and that Sydney ranks thirtieth on the list. It has been said by a number of people that we are pricing ourselves out of the tourist market. I have travelled to a number of countries in the last couple of years and I know that suggestion is absolute nonsense. I am not suggesting that Sydney is cheap, but this table proves that we are by no means expensive. We are about the middle. Let us look at the countries that are above us because it is claimed that they are there because of wages. Some of these citiesincluding Tokyo, Paris and Brussels- have high wage levels, but No. 11 on the list is London. English wages are nowhere near as high as ours, but costs in London are much higher. Lagos is No. 18 on the list- well above Sydney. Taipei also is well above Sydney, and we know the sorts of wage levels that exist in Taipei. Number 26 on the list is Khartoum. It is much more expensive there than in Sydney. It is more expensive in Amman. Just below is Hong Kong, Athens and New Delhi. What are these people in the tourist industry asking for? Do they want people working in the tourist industry in Australia to have wage levels the same as in the countries I have just mentioned, so that operators in the industry can make a profit? I think there are some good points in this statement by the Minister, but I am disappointed that we have not yet reached the stage where we have a national strategy for tourism in Australia. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Jull  ) adjourned. 
-On Saturday night, 14 April, Barry Jones, the honourable member for Lalor, who was visiting the central coast as my guest, myself and my family went out to dinner at The Entrance. To our pleasant surprise we found at the same restaurant our colleague, the honourable member for Grayndler, and former Minister for Tourism and Recreation, Frank Stewart and his wife, Maureen. We spent a delightful evening with them and left them at about 1 1 o'clock. It was, therefore, a terrible shock to learn a few hours later of Frank's death at his weekender at Bateau Bay after playing squash. I mention this today because Frank Stewart, apart from having a holiday house in my electorate, was a great friend of the Central Coast. Shortly after the Australian Labor Party Government was elected to office and Frank had been appointed as Minister for Tourism and Recreation, I picked him up at his Bateau Bay home and took him up to Somersby to meet Frank Fox, the entrepreneur who had plans to build Old Sydney Town. Frank Stewart was quick to see the enormous potential of the Old Sydney Town concept which was not easy then as all we were looking at were hundreds of acres of barren land, a big dam and some plans. As he left he said to me: 'We've got to find a way to see this goes ahead and I hope that the Federal Government will be involved in it'. 
It is history now that the Whitlam Government, through the efforts of Frank Stewart, became deeply committed to Old Sydney Town and invested the vast bulk of funds required to get it off the ground. Old Sydney Town has had its problems, but is firing well at the moment. One day I believe it will be Australia's greatest tourist attraction and when that day occurs it will be largely as a result of the efforts of Frank Stewart. There was deep shock and sympathy among the staff and management of Old Sydney 
Town. Frank Stewart was often described as he has been described in the House today- as an old style Labor man. It is true that as a staunch Catholic he held strong views on moral questions but it would be wrong to suggest that he was in any way a reactionary. As honourable members can see from his involvement in Old Sydney Town, he was in many ways a visionary and a forward thinking man. It is also true that under his stewardship, tourism and sport made the first real progress they had ever made in the federal sphere. It was only after he ceased to be the responsible Minister that people in those fields realised just how much he had done in breaking new ground. 
I was very pleased to hear the Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  mention today what a marvellous job Frank Stewart did in Cabinet. I can recall many Cabinet Ministers saying to me privately how impressed they had been with Frank Stewart as a Cabinet Minister. He was one of the unheralded heroes of the Labor Government. I was very distressed that I could not attend his funeral because of a previous commitment to welcome Len Reid, a former member of this House, in his 'Walk for the Child' around Australia. I am sure that Frank Stewart would have understood my inability to be there. I had a close association with Frank, firstly, as a member of the House of Representatives Select Committee on Tourism and, secondly, because of my long interest in tourism, sport and recreation. I now have the honour to be spokesman in those areas for the Australian Labor Party. I hope that the job I do is half as good as that done by Frank Stewart. I would also like to take this opportunity of reading into the record two messages which I think are important and which came from people who were involved in areas of Frank's portfolio. The Confederation of Australian Sport sent this letter to me: 
The Confederation of Australian Sport deeply regrets the passing of the Honourable Frank Stewart. 
He was a man of great empathy with the Australian sporting community. He was the Federal Minister responsible for the first general allocation of Federal Government funds to sport but moreover, he was at all times a gentleman and accessible to sports people. 
In true Australian style, he was 'a great sport'. 
That letter was from  Mr Gary  Daly, the Secretary of the Confederation of Australian Sport. The second letter, from the  President  of the Australian Council for Health, Physical Education and Recreation.was addressed to  Mr Bill  Hayden but was forwarded on to me. It reads: 
I am writing on behalf of the Council to express sincere regret at the passing of  Mr Frank  Stewart. In the years when he was Minister for Sport and Recreation,  Mr Stewart  had a most significant influence on these aspects of Australian life, and I know from my recent reading of  Hansard  how proud he was of the progress made during those years.  His  initiative and impact will long be remembered by those who knew him well, and those people involved in physical education, recreation and sport who benefitted from his programs. 
I join with other members of the House in expressing my sympathy to his wife Maureen and the children. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker - 
The honourable member for Fadden interjects: 'What do you know about wool?' As a matter of fact, about five or six years ago I made a speech in this House and after I had finished six Ministers from the Government side of the chamber came over to me and said that it was the finest speech on wool they had heard in this House. I will name them if honourable members wish. The honourable member for Maranoa  (Mr Corbett)  ranged fairly widely in the debate. I want to raise a serious matter now we have had a bit of fun. We would all agree that wool is Australia's best known product. It may not be our major export today but certainly for 100 years it has been one of the major exports, if not the major export. It is probably the product for which Australia is best known. Australia is also known for the production of the finest quality wools in the world. 
I raised a matter with a number of Ministers in this House. In fairness to them I say that they were responsive to the suggestion that at our international airports, where Australia receives some 550,000 visitors from overseas each year, there is not one shop that specifically sells woollen products. I think it is absolutely staggering that the product for which Australia is best known is not promoted in any way at the major international airports of Sydney and Melbourne. Other countries have their best productswhether they be batik clothing in Indonesia or silver or leather work- displayed so prominently that they are the first things to be seen after stepping off the plane. I have talked about this matter with the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Sinclair),  the Minister for Health  (Mr Hunt)  and the Minister for Trade and Resources  (Mr Anthony).  They have all agreed with the suggestion that we should have an Australian wool shop at the airports. 
I am in the retail trade. I approached the Ministers and said that I would be prepared to do it myself. I am not prepared to do it now because I would place myself in an invidious position as a member of Parliament. Someone would say that I was getting special privileges. But I would like to see it done by somebody. We approached the authorities three years ago. Unfortunately, at the time the leases had just been let. The new leases now contain a provision that a wool shop could be one of the four or five shops at the international airport at Sydney. I wish to point out the conditions which were so prohibitive that no person in his right mind could possibly go into it. The shop that could be used was tiny- about 10 feet by 12 feet in size. Secondly, the person who leased that shop also had io take another shop inside it and sell newspapers. We are talking about a high fashion shop selling high fashion quality woollen goods. No one will sell newspapers as well. That is like Richard Hunt flogging newspapers and clothing at the same time. Then, the lease is for only three years. Can honourable members imagine anybody going into business in a high fashion quality store seriously contemplating spending thousands of dollars on beautiful decor when the lease is for only three years? 
Then it is necessary to run the shop for about 18 hours a day using three shifts. It is necessary to give a tender price for the rent which is quite prohibitive. The fact of the matter is that it is just not on for anybody to do it, but it needs to be done. If it cannot be done by a private entrepreneur it ought to be done by the Australian Wool Corporation. There should be a shop at the Sydney airport and the Melbourne airport. A shop would show that we not only have the finest wool in the world but also that we make woollen products amongst the finest in the world. Some of Australia's woollen manufacturers and textile manufacturers make blankets, rugs and suits which are among the best in the world. These products ought to be displayed at Sydney airport. 
Approximately 90,000 people a month pass through those airports. They are the people who can afford woollen products. The half a million people who come from overseas are the people who have the money and therefore can afford to buy woollen products. When they leave Australia they want to take with them something that is representative of Australia. What better than a Australian woollen sweater, a woollen scarf, a woollen cap or a nice sports coat? I could go on and on. It is logical that Australia should have a shop selling these products at the Sydney airport. There are one or two shops there which sell a few kangaroo skins, mulga wood ashtrays and Opera Houses made out of fur. They are doing a job that needs to be done and I am not criticising them as they are quite good at it. But clearly they do not do the wool promotion job that I have been suggesting tonight. 
I am sure that the response I have received from members in the House tonight is exactly the same response that I received from the Minister for Health, the Minister for Primary Industry and the Minister for Trade and Resources. But three years later nothing has been done. Personally, I am not interested in this shop any more but I would like to see it established for Australia's sake. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Science and the Environment, upon notice, on 1 March 1979: 
1 ) Which of the international agreements specified in the Schedule to the National Parks and Wildlife Conservation Act 1975 have entered into force and when did they do so. 
In relation to which of the agreements have regulations been made and when were they made. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 2 1 March 1979: 
Which vehicle models, tested by manufacturers and complying with the standards of the second stage of Australian Design Rule 27a, produce levels of exhaust emission which would enable them to be certified as meeting the proposed standards of the third stage of ADR 27a. 

 - Mr Speaker, have you given consideration to the antiquated administrative system that still governs the functioning of this House? I refer in particular to the hours of sitting that could be compacted into more sensible times for the benefit of members, the public and the staff, the outmoded methods of voting and the ad hoc process of dealing with legislation? Will you seek the formation of an allparty committee of the Parliament to discuss these questions with the object of initiating reforms that so many members agree are necessary but never occur? 

 -Mr Speaker, I wish to make a personal explanation. 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, in the House on Tuesday the honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Simon)  asked the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  the following question: 
Will the Prime Minister give a clear and unequivocal statement of the Government 's position in respect of oil drilling on or near the Great Barrier Reef? 
The honourable member for McMillan was particularly precise in the question that he asked. He emphasised the phrase 'on or near the Great Barrier Reef, because of the confusion that has surrounded the Prime Minister's replies to questions concerning exploration, drilling or mining on the Great Barrier Reef. The first part of his reply was replay of an answer which he gave to a question that I asked on 2 1 February of this year. The Prime Minister stated that he would not permit drilling on the Great Barrier Reef. But, when it comes to the question of near the Great Barrier Reef, he prefers to answer that part of the question by giving us a bland assurance that he will not permit any drilling that will damage the Great Barrier Reef. Like so many of the Prime Minister's assurances, it is valueless. It is simply not possible for him to permit drilling near the Great Barrier Reef and for him to give assurances that there will be no possibility of damage. Who does he think he is- an Antipodean King Canute? There was a title that once fell on a previous member of this House who was known as  His  Oiliness'. It appears that that title has passed on to the Prime Minister. The  Sydney Morning Herald  editorial of 9 April - 
-Thank you,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  The  Sydney Morning Herald  editorial of 9 April 1979 points out the Prime Minister's reticence to give a straight answer. It is an excellent piece of journalism and states the case succinctly. 
I want to quote part of that editorial as the Minister for Housing and Construction  (Mr Groom)  indicated that he does not want to let me incorporate it in  Hansard. 
I ask leave to have that editorial incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The editorial read as follows- 


 Mr FRASER is being too vague about the Government's policy regarding oil drilling near the Great Barrier Reef. He has ruled out any drilling on the reef itself However, he will not give the same assurance about the waters near the reef. Indeed the Government gives the impression that it wishes to keep this possibility alive. Already this year,  Mr Fraser  has had four opportunities in the House of Representatives- in response to urgency motions from the Opposition on the matter- to say exactly where the Government stands on the issue. Each time the Government's attitude has been expressed in ambiguous fashion; the Government is against drilling on the reef, non-committal about off-reef drilling, and gives 'complete and unequivocal guarantees' that it will not allow any drilling that would damage the reef. 
The trouble with this formula is that it could allow drilling in the waters near the reef. The 2,500 reefs stretch along 1 ,900 km of coastline and cover an area of 272,000 sq km. This area cannot be realistically separated, as  Mr Fraser  seems to suggest, into reefs and water. The two are intimately connected in a complex ecological  system.  Drilling near the reefs is just as dangerous to this system as drilling on them. For this reason  Mr Fraser  's guarantees look less copper-bottomed than they might at first glance. Moreover, the concern over their ambiguity is reinforced by the Government's failure to proceed with the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Act, agreed to by all the parties, which will forbid the recovery of minerals from the reef and its waters. 
The context of the Government's procrastination is ominous. It is no secret that the Queensland Government wants to regain control of what were once State territorial waters. While pressing for this, the Queensland Minister for Mines,  Mr Camm,  has argued strongly about the need to drill for oil in the waters between the reef and the mainland. 'The search for oil in Australia,' he said, 'must soon extend to the offshore areas of Queensland.'  Mr Fraser  's vagueness leaves open the possibility of a deal between his Administration and the Queensland Government to allow drilling. The irony is that all the preliminary tests indicate that it is unlikely that large quantities of oil will be found. Exploration carried out before the Royal Commission was established in 1970 produced two dry wells and only thin sections of tertiary sediments. 
However, the question of what quantities of oil- if anymight be extracted from, the waters near the reefs is a superfluous one. There should be no compromise on the issue. Even the remotest possibility of destruction of part of the largest and most complex system of coral reefs on this ' planet should be rejected. The reefs belong to the nation and to future generations. The interests of mining groups in Queensland should be ignored. What is needed now is an immediate announcement that the Great Barrier Reef will be declared a national marine park. 
Marine scientists who have worked on the Great Barrier Reef for years tell us that there is no way of knowing what would happen if a massive oil spill or blow-out occurred on the Great Barrier Reef. The only possible way of finding out would be to spill millions of barrels of oil on the Great Barrier Reef. Is the Prime Minister suggesting that sort of scientific research? I do not think I need to repeat just what a fantastic masterpiece of nature the Great Barrier Reef is. The very fact that the Prime Minister is so slick- if that is the appropriate word- in his answer to the question illustrates that he - 
If you regard that as offensive,, I shall withdraw it,  Mr Deputy Speaker.  It seems to me that it illustrates that the Prime Minister is aware how much value Australians place on the Great Barrier Reef. We do not, as a nation; have . a particularly impressive record in protecting our environment. Australians will fight as they have never fought before to save the Great Barrier Reef from the destruction now posed by these ecological piranhas, of the Queensland Govern-, merit and the Australian Oil Exploration Association which, in fact, is more American than it is Australian. Let me make it clear that our oppo- .sition has nothing to do with the fact that those involved are American. I happen to have a greatrespect for many American companies. If the. , lessees were Australian, British, Japanese or. Calathumpian, we would oppose them. 
For the record, I will detail the four companies which have leases on the Great Barrier Reef. ' Lease Nos. Q4P, Q5P, Q7P and Q8P, are held . by the Australian Gulf Oil Company. Lease No:' Q10P is held by Texaco Overseas Oil Company and California Associated Oil Company. Lease; No. Q11P is held by Gulf Interstate Overseas-; Ltd. That has been recently taken over by Offshore Oil NL. Only the last mentioned company is Australian owned. A recent public" opinion poll published in the  Sydney Morning Herald  indicated the depth of opposition to any form of drilling on the reef. The  Sydney Morning Herald  poll showed that 66 per cent of people were opposed to drilling on or near the reef and that 31 per cent were in favour. A gallup poll asking the slightly different question whether people favoured exploration on the reef elicited a 54 per cent opposition with 39 per cent in favour. Interestingly, the strongest opposition has come from Queensland where opposition ranged from 74 per cent in the  Herald  poll to 69 per cent in the gallup poll. 
The deceit, deviousness and dishonesty of the Government on this fundamental issue now covers a span of over four years. It is just not acceptable to the House or to the nation for the Prime Minister to keep on reiterating that he will not permit drilling 'on' the Great Barrier Reef and to follow up with his assurances that he will not allow damage to the reef. I repeat what I have said over and over again- the only way to ensure that there will not be any damage to the Great Barrier Reef, or even any possibility of damage, is to declare the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park. The Act prohibits drilling or mining in a marine park. The Act defines the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park as the Great Barrier Reef region and is set out in the Schedule attached to the Act. I seek leave to have that Schedule incorporated in  Hansard. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 

SCHEDULE 1 Section 10 
Schedule to the Principal Act 
Schedule Section 3 
The area the boundary of which- 
commences at the point that, at low water, is the northernmost extremity of Cape York Peninsula Queensland; 
runs thence easterly along the geodesic to the intersection of parallel of Latitude 10°4 1 ' South with meridian of Longitude 145° 00' East; 
runs thence southerly along that meridian to its intersection by the parallel of Latitude 1 3° 00' South; 
runs thence south-easterly along the geodesic to a point of Latitude 15° 00' South Longitude 146° 00' East; 
runs thence south-easterly along the geodesic to a point of Latitude 17° 30' South Longitude 147° 00' East; 
runs thence south-easterly along the geodesic to a point of Latitude 21° 00' South Longitude 152° 55' East; 
runs thence south-easterly along the geodesic to a point of Latitude 24° 30' South Longitude 154° 00' East; 
runs thence westerly along the parallel of Latitude 24° 30' South to its intersection by the coastline of Queensland at low water; and 
) runs thence generally northerly along that coastline at low water to the point of commencement. 

<graphic href="114131197905244_29_5.jpg"></graphic>

The following provisions of the Principal Act are amended by omitting 'Australia' (wherever occurring) and substituting 'the Commonwealth': 
Sections 3(1) (definitions of 'Australian coastal sea' and 'Great Barrier Reef Region'), 4 ( 1 ), 5 ( I ) (e) and (h), 8(1) (b), 22 (6), 34 (2), 36 (2), 37 (8), 38 ( 1 ), 42 (2), 47 ( 1 ) and (9), 59, 63 ( 1 ) and 66 (6), (7) and (8). 
-The only weakness in the Schedule relates to the northern boundaries where a line was drawn arbitrarily across the tip of Cape York and excludes that section of the Great Barrier Reef extending into the Torres Strait region between Australia and New Guinea. This was due to the confusion that existed at the time over the drawing of boundaries between Australia and New Guinea. That has now been finalised, and in my view the Act should be amended to extend the boundaries of the region to include the area of the Torres Strait now excluded. 
It ought to be obvious to even the most unscientific amongst us that one part of the Great Barrier Reef region or ecosystem cannot be explored, drilled or mined without this having an effect on other parts. The complex system of marine flora and fauna and micro-organisms that make up the ecosystem are interrelated and interdependent. We simply do not know what would happen if oil drilling were permitted on the Great Barrier Reef. These are not my words; these are the words of the most eminent marine scientists in Australia. The Director of the Australian Institute of Marine Science,  Dr Bunt,  in evidence to the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation when asked what would happen if an accident like the Amoco Cadiz ever occurred on the Queensland coastline, had this to say: 
Under the worst circumstances, if you take the most intense spill statistics, that we have in our experience and transfer that to a reef situation, then we could very calmly say that one would not be just deeply concerned but horrified at the likely consequences. 
On 12 May 1979  Dr Bunt  was quoted in the  Townsville Daily Bulletin  as having said when asked to gauge the effect of drilling on the reef that there was insufficient knowledge about the reef for its proper management. He continued: 
The view of a large number of scientists is that we lack knowledge. We don't know how the living organisms on the reef and the individual reefs themselves respond to the environment in which they live '. 

 Sir Maurice Yonge, a fellow of Edinburgh University, a former professor of Zoology at Bristol and Glasgow universities, and a man who is reputed to know the reef better than anyone else, had this to say: 
The Great Barrier Reef is the most important and biggest reef structure in the world. It is a very elaborate and complicated ecological system. No-one can predict what would be the results on the Reef of a major oil spillage. The possibilities are that the whole reef could be killed or that sections of it could be seriously damaged for many years. The damage to one reef near an oil spillage would affect the whole reef system because of the biological inter-connection. ° 

 Sir Maurice who led the first major biological study of the reef by the Royal Society in 1 92 8 said that the Great Barrier Reef was irreplaceable as a source of study for marine biologists. He pointed out that past development on the. Queensland coast had already done extensive damage to the reef and that oil spills in waters around Britain and France had shown how 'serious the effects could be. In refuting some of the absurdities put forward by the Oil Drillers Association,  Dr Frank  Talbot, the Director of Environmental Studies at Macquarie University, a former director of the Australian Museum and a man who has studied the reef for over 15 years was quoted in the  Sydney Morning Herald  on Tuesday 15 May as follows- 
The Great Barrier Reef is the most complex ecological system in the world. Larvae float for scores, perhaps even hundreds of miles between the islands. An oil spillage on one reef could affect the whole system. 
One could go on all afternoon quoting scientists, who are specialists in reef studies, on the dangers of drilling for oil in the Great Barrier Reef. 
There is only one way in which the Prime Minister will satisfy the nation regarding the preservation of the Great Barrier Reef from the oil drilling vultures. He should declare the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park. That and that alone will ensure that there is no drilling for oil on the reef. The Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Act was passed in 1975 by the Whitlam Government. Soon after the Fraser Government came to power and in the nearly four years that it has been in office not one inch of the park has been declared. The Government has been delaying the proclamation of the first section of the reef- the Capricornia and Bunker Reefs- until enough doubt and uncertainty can be created so as to allow it to renew the oil drilling leases which have been suspended for eight years. 
The Minister for Trade and Resources  (Mr Anthony)  and the Minister for National Development  (Mr Newman)  made a submission to Cabinet in October 1977 that there should be oil drilling in the Capricornia channel. The details of their submission were made public and the resulting outcry caused it to be shelved. The Minister for National Development decided to promote renewal of oil drilling leases again. In his letter to the Minister for Science and the Environment  (Senator Webster)  on 5 January 1979- he wanted the application for partial renewal of two permits- Q4P and Q5P- to be processed before the Capricornia section of the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park was proclaimed. These two permits overlap the proposed boundaries of the Capricornia section. 

 His second letter to the Minister for Science and the Environment dated 22 January 1 979 was a bit less forthright. He stated that the Queensland Government and the oil companies had no objection to the proposed proclamation provided that the permittee is agreeable and only areas which the permittee proposes to relinquish are included in the park. The Minister implied that the park may be declared but of course the oil companies with their wide knowledge of the region will decide on its boundaries. If the Fraser Government had prepared the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Act it would have appointed Gulf Oil to administer and declare the marine park. As well as secretly crusading for the rights of the oil companies to drill the reef, the Federal Government has been concocting another scheme by which it will give the reef to the Queensland Government which will allow drilling. 
The Queensland Government's record of pro&gt;tecting the environment is a national disgrace. The most outrageous statement I have ever heard came from the Queensland Minister for Mines,  Mr Camm,  who, when asked how desperate Australia was for oil replied: 
We're not desperate for oil, but we are desperate for our reputation as far as mining in Queensland is concerned. We want to keep faith with companies which the Commonwealth has encouraged to come to Australia to assist in the development of our major resources. 
In other words,  Mr Camm  is more concerned with keeping faith with American oil companies than he is with keeping faith with the Australian people. In 1 975 the High Court ruled in favour of the Commonwealth Government having jurisdiction over the territorial waters. Yet in June 1979 at the Premiers Conference the Prime Minister offered to give the States the jurisdiction over the three-mile territorial sea. 
Since then the Minister for Science and the Environment has been declaring that the park could not be proclaimed until borders and other relevant aspects of the Sea and Submerged Lands Act had been resolved. The Federal Government intends to hand over all or part of the reef to Queensland. This was the subject of the meeting of 17 May betwen Queensland and Federal government Ministers in which they discussed joint control of the reef. The Queensland Ministers are more concerned with their reputations with overseas mining companies rather than with the damage they can cause to one of the greatest natural wonders of the world. This action is even more incredible when one realises that three quarters of Queensland are opposed to the drilling. Not the least of this concern undoubtedly relates to the vast number of small and medium size tourist businesses that depend for their prosperity on the Great Barrier Reef. I have repeated many times my view that the day  is  not far distant when North Queensland will be the tourist gateway to Australia. If there is one part of Australia that the rest of the world knows about it is the reef. Ultimately we will have an international airport in Townsville. When we can fly people directly into North Queensland from overseas the Great Barrier Reef will be our prominent attraction for international tourists. Can anybody imagine what would happen to the tourist industry in that area if a massive oil blowout occurred along the Queensland coast? 
The Federal Government is trying to play the role of the upholder of the environment yet it is instigating moves to allow drilling on the Great Barrier Reef, be it Queensland or Commonwealth territory. Last year and again this year I warned the Government that if it persisted in allowing exploration, drilling or mining off the Great Barrier Reef region, it would have the greatest environmental battle in Australia's history on their hands. It has ignored that warning. It is proceeding through obfuscation, deceit, dishonesty, trickery and every other means at its disposal to place Australia's greatest natural asset at risk. The battle has now begun. When it is over and finally won by those seeking to save the reef, it will be the Government's body that lies bloodied on the battlefield. 
Sitting suspended from 1.1 to 2.15 p.m. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 9 May 1 979: 
1 ) Is it a fact that an ore carrier, after lying adjacent to foreign ore carriers for more than a month at Port Hedfand, WA, picked up a heavy growth of fouling organisms not found in Australian waters which reduced its speed by 30 per cent. 
What is the cost of fouling Australian National Line ships' hulls plying Australian waters in terms of (a) increased fuel consumption and (b) cleaning and maintenance of hulls. 
I direct my question to the Minister for National Development. On the evening of Monday, 28 May, did he give an off the record interview to Canberra journalists? During this interview did he say: 
And the point I was trying to make was that the Great Barrier Reef Park simply had not been declared because those two areas infringed on it and that matter had to be settled with the permittee. 
As that statement is consistent with the question asked of the Minister on this issue last Thursday, why did he deny its accuracy in the Parliament? 
I second the motion. At Question Time today we witnessed the most extraordinary performance that I have seen in this House by any Minister. The Minister for National Development  (Mr Newman)  was given the opportunity by the Opposition to come clean and to set the record straight. Instead, he chose to give one and two word answers and to evade completely the questions that he had caused to be asked by his obfuscation last week. The Leader of the House  (Mr Sinclair)  has boasted that this Government has allowed more questions to be asked during Question Time. It is no wonder that we can get through 20 and 30 questions a day when we receive one word answers like the Minister for National Development gave today. The Minister has totally refused to answer a whole series of questions. Unfortunately, this last episode is just one of a series of evasive and deceitful replies to questions about the fate of the Great Barrier Reef and oil drilling on the Reef. 
The credibility of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  is in tatters. The economy is in a mess. Quite clearly, the Government cannot afford to have another sacking. Therefore, a series of evasive replies- I would argue that they are dishonest replies- have been dreamed up by the Minister. Last Thursday the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Humphreys)  asked the Minister for National Development: 
I ask the Minister for National Development: Is it a fact that the Capricornia section of the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park has not been declared because the area of permits Q/4P and Q/SP infringes on the proposed section of the Marine Park? Is it also a fact that the Capricornia section of the Marine Park cannot be declared until the Government knows where it is going with the report of the Royal Commission into Exploratory and Production Drilling for Petroleum in the Area of the Great Barrier Reef? 
We are going through it again because this is a matter of national importance. It is about time that some honourable members on the Government side of the House started to remember that this is the place where people are supposed to tell the truth. So let us go through this matter once again so that honourable members on the Government side of the House, who were so quick to throw accusations around between 1972 and 1975, might keep the same standards when in office as they talked about when in Opposition. It is quite clear that the Government does not.  Mr Newman  replied: 
The answers to the two questions posed by the honourable member are, yes and yes. I would like to add to that and say that the Government has not made any decision on this question. I now have prepared a submission which has gone to the Government for decision. I can only repeat what has been said by the Prime Minister and other of my colleagues, that this Government will not allow drilling on the reef, nor will it allow any activity that will in any way damage the reef. 
At the very same moment, the same question was asked in another place of the Minister for Science and the Environment,  Senator Webster.  I will not go through the question because it was exactly the same.  Senator Webster  replied: 

 Mr President, I thought that you would take exception to a question being repeated here on so many occasions. That question has been asked of me on at least five occasions in this place. Seeing that the intelligence of the questioner is so dull that he is not able to read  Hansard,  I will give him the answer again. The Capricornia section of the Marine Park has not been declared because of consultations on constitutional matters that are to take place between the Commonwealth and Queensland. 

 Senator Button went on to ask whether the Minister was aware that the same question had been answered quite differently in another place. Even for a Government with the unique record for lying that this Government has, this was an extraordinary - 
-Thank you,  Mr Acting Speaker.  I have no intention of withdrawing the remark. It was not as though this was some obscure matter of which the Parliament and the nation were not aware. On the contrary, apart from the debate about the mess in which the Government has placed this economy, no issue has had more exposure than oil drilling on the Great Barrier Reef. It has been the subject of numerous questions in both Houses. It has been the subject of two discussions of public importance in the House of Representatives and of two urgency motions, two censure motions and a motion for the suspension of Standing Orders in the Senate. It has also been the subject almost daily of headlines in the nation's Press. It has had widespread coverage on radio and television. One would have thought that even in a government that is as incredibly incompetent as this one the Minister's primary concern would have been to understand the basic issues in the debate. 
Immediately after Question Time it was obvious that the Government was in a lot of trouble. Both Ministers could not be correct. One of them was not telling the truth, and it was not as if the question was particularly complicated. In fact, the question asked of both Ministers was incredibly simple and easy to understand. The honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Humphreys)  speaks very eloquently, very clearly and very concisely. Let me repeat the question: 
Is it a fact that the Capricornia section of the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park has not been declared because of the area of permits Q/4P and Q/5P infringes on the proposed section of the marine park? 
I would have thought that even the thickest Minister, or Ministers, would have been able to understand that question. Later on that day the Opposition learned that the Minister for National Development was to make a statement at 3. 1 5 p.m. Quite clearly the Government was in a panic. One wonders how a government notorious for its total inability to tell the truth about anything was going to reconcile different answers given by two Ministers. A book was being run on who was going to tell the truth, who was lying and how long it would take for the guilty person to get the sack. However, if events up until then had been bizarre, it was nothing to what we were treated to when the Minister for National Development came into the House to make a personal explanation. He said this: 
On reading the draft answer to a question that was asked of me by the honourable member for Griffith  (Mr Humphreys),  1 find that I have misheard the question and my answer is . . . 
After a series of points of order the Minister continued, I might add, without explaining what he thought he heard the honourable member for Griffith say. I think that is a very important matter. If he had misheard it, what did he think he had been asked? He did not say what he heard. He gave the following personal explanation: 
The reason why the Capricornia Park has not been declared is that the Government wishes to finalise the question of agreement on extending the powers of the States into the territorial sea with the Queensland Government. This question is now moving towards resolution. 
He then went on to talk about the reef, and so on. He did not at any time try to explain to this House what it was he thought he heard the honourable member for Griffith say. If he had misunderstood the question, if he had misheard the question, then at least he had the responsibility to tell this House what he thought the question was that the honourable member for Griffith had asked. He has not bothered to do that. Quite clearly there was a very fast attempt to cover up. As I said before, this was an incredible performance by the Minister. At no stage did he explain why the initial answer was exactly the opposite of the explanation he gave in the afternoon. He simply asks the House to believe that despite this matter being an issue for national debate, despite the particular matters referred to by the honourable member for Griffith being a matter of daily speculation in the media, he misheard the question. It simply is not good enough. No one in this House believes the Minister. Let us not forget that the Minister was until a few years ago a serving officer in the Army; he is not a doddering old man of 85 or 90 years of age. It would be nice if he had been given an order to fire and he had not heard it properly. 
It is clear that what has happened is that the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  who, as I said, nobody in Australia believes any longer, decided at a meeting with the Minister that the only way out of the Government's dilemma was to carry on the process that has marked this Government's three and a half years in office: Tell them lies'. That is what we have heard for the last few days. Unfortunately, if a person is going to tell lies he has to be good at it. He has to be consistent. The next day we found that members of the Government are not even good liars. It was revealed in an article in the  Financial Review  that the first answer that the Minister had given in the House was exactly the same as he had given earlier in the week in a briefing of three journalists. In that briefing he had stated:   . . and the point I was trying to make . . . was that the Great Barrier Reef park simply had not been declared because these two areas infringed on it and that matter had to be settled with the  permitees. 
So there we have the situation. The answer given by the Minister in the morning was exactly the same reply that he had given when questioned by three journalists earlier that week. Only after it had been discovered that the Minister for Science and the Environment  (Senator Webster)  in another place had given a totally different answer was there hurried consultation with the Prime Minister to work out, after the debacle of the last few weeks with the horror Budget and all that had been going on there, how he was going to save himself from another bad week by being forced to sack another Minister. The  Financial 

 Review stated that  Mr Newman  explained his statement to the Press by saying that he had been expressing a personal opinion and that he may have been speaking 'loosely '. Is that not fascinating? Here we have a Minister of the Cabinet who has now given us personal opinions when speaking on matters concerning his own portfolio. Does each Minister now have two hats so that he can express a personal opinion and then provide the Cabinet opinion? Of course, we know that the honourable the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  speaks with two voices, two tongues and with two of everything, but it is normal procedure for a Minister to speak once and with authority as a Minister of a Federal Government. He said that he was speaking loosely. I would have thought that a Cabinet Minister who cannot speak properly, who cannot speak authoritatively and who speaks loosely ought not to be in a Federal Cabinet. I think this House has had enough of this charade, this fiasco of deceit and obfuscation. I call upon the Minister for National Development once and for all to resign from Cabinet and let the position be taken by somebody who can tell the truth. 
-This is a very important statement made by the Government because it comes at a time when there is considerable debate in the Parliament about the impact of oil on the Barrier Reef. This matter was dealt with by the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation, in passing, because it was primarily concerned with oil spills from ships. It was pointed out in the report that ship-generated spills were estimated at about 35 per cent of the total input of spills into the ocean. Of course, there are various types of spills. Minor accidental spills frequently occur during loading and unloading operations. Then there are major accidental spills such as occurred with the  Amoco 

 Cadiz and deliberate spills which usually occur as a result of tank cleaning at sea. 
The important thing that needs to be noted by the Australian people, I believe, is that oil spills are very damaging to the marine environment. That is one of the reasons that I think this report is significant. Many statements have been made recently by people who have hopes of drilling on the Barrier Reef. We have had statements from the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  assuring us that he would make sure that no damage would occur to the reef. 
I turn now to the report itself which is entitled Oil Spills: Prevention and Control of Oil Pollution in the Marine Environment'. I ask honourable members to note the findings on page 7 of the report which states in regard to the effect of oil spills on the reef: 

 Major oil spills have a clear and obvious deleterious effect on the marine environment and on the communities of plants and animals living there. Oil is a conspicuous pollutant, and in particular, it has a dramatic effect on sea birds. Although long-term effects of sub-lethal concentrations of oil are not as dramatic as massive mortalities, the results may affect the survival of an important species, or alter the balance in the food chain. At present little is known of the longterm effects of oil spills and an accurate assessment of possible damage is difficult. Damage to the environment is not easy to measure objectively. The basis of environmental concern is so ill-defined, that it is not surprising that research scientists have reached widely differing conclusions about the dangers of oil pollution. 
I think that first statement is significant because in recent days the Prime Minister has been saying that he would never allow anything to happen on the Barrier Reef. We are talking about oil drilling and oil spills, but the result is oil in the marine environment. The Prime Minister has been saying that he would never permit any damage to the reef. I put it to the House that it is simply not possible for anyone, even the Prime Minister, with all the magic powers that he may have, to guarantee to anybody that if there is a blow-out on the reef through an oil drilling operation, there will not be damage to the reef. I do not care how much research is done in the short term or the long term; it is not possible for those guarantees to be given. 
Let me continue with what is said in this report. On page 8, under the heading 'Damage to Marine Life ', it is stated: 
There are five main ways in which oil can damage marine ecosystems. These are: direct coating leading to suffocation; lethal toxicity of oil components; habitat alteration: hydrocarbon accumulation; alteration of behavioural responses. 
The most obvious environmental effect of oil is usually the coating of large numbers of sea birds, nearly all of which die. Treatment of the birds is expensive and usually unsuccessful. If oil arrives at breeding time, the effects can be devastating. Birds are particularly vulnerable because of their activity at the air/water interface. Surface-feeding fish together with surface-living plankton are similarly effected by oilblanketing. If a slick arrives on shore, it traps innumerable littoral organisms. 
The second harmful effect of oil is related to its inherent toxicity. Oil is extremely poisonous to shore plants. The aromatic components of oil are especially toxic. The overall effect is largely controlled by the manner of presentation to the organism. Thus, any suspension of fine oil droplets in seawater can be expected to harm underwater animals which otherwise might only be slightly affected by floating oil. Long-term toxicity can result from weathered oil which has sunk and then been lightly covered by sand or other sediment. 
Surely everybody in Australia is aware of this magnificent marine ecosystem called the Great Barrier Reef. There is an enormous variety of marine life. There are literally hundreds of thousands of different forms of life in the sea. There are different forms of plant, fish, and coral and there is an inter-relationship between the land and the sea. 
That is right; microscopic organisms in their thousands are throughout that whole region. All this is inter-related. If by any chance, and God forbid, the situation should arise where there is a major oil blow-out on the reef through oil drilling, we simply do not know what will happen. But from the findings of the report of the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation and from the evidence presented to that Committee it is very clear that very serious damage, probably devastating damage, will result to the reef. 

 Mr Deputy Speaker, I would like to go on but the Leader of the House  (Mr Sinclair)  has been kind enough to permit both the honourable member for Shortland  (Mr Morris)  and me to speak on this matter. I think the point has been made and I thank the House. 
Question resolved in the affirmative. 
asked the Minister for Employment and Youth Affairs, upon notice, on 3 1 May 1 979: 
What percentage of the Western Australian workforce is presently employed in the bauxite and alumina industry in Western Australia. 
asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs, upon notice, on 22 March 1979: 
1 ) Did Australia and Japan sign an Agreement for the Protection of Migratory Birds and Birds in Danger of Extinction and their Environment at Tokyo on 6 February 1 975? 
Did Japan ratify the Agreement on 18 April 1974? 
Has Australia yet ratified the Agreement? If not, why not? 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 3 1 May 1979: 
Are clams of the genus Tridacna protected in Australian waters: if so, what measures are being taken to halt the poaching of approximately 1 million clams annually by overseas fishermen. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 9 May 1979: 
What portions of the oil drilling leases Q/4P and Q/5P lie within the proposed Capricornia Section of the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park. 
asked the Minister for Business and Consumer Affairs, upon notice, on 23 May 1979: 
1 ) Is there any inspection of the contents of imported crab meat to ascertain that the product labelled crab does indeed contain purely crab meat and does not contain any substitute products. 
If there is an inspection, has any minced or processed giant clam meat been identified as a substitute for crab meat. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Science and the Environment, upon notice, on 31 May 1979: 
1 ) Is it a fact that in certain coral reefs in the Great Barrier Reef, 97 per cent to 98 per cent of giant clams are dead, principally as a result of poaching by Taiwanese fishermen. 
If so, (a) what are the chances of these reefs being repopulated by living adult clams and how long will this take and (b) what is the ecological significance of the destruction of these clams in terms of the fish, plankton and coral communities. 
Do the zooxanthellae, found in the giant clams' mantles, contribute to the nutrient flux in waters bathing the reef. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Science and the Environment, upon notice, on 3 1 May 1979: 
1 ) Is it a fact that (a) of the 63 public submissions and 1 5 government submissions to the Western Australian Environmental Protection Authority concerning the proposed expansion of the alumina industry of Western Australia, only 2 government submissions were unequivocally in favour of the projects and (b) the Western Australian Government in April 1978 passed legislation to allow for building of alumina refineries at Wagerup and Worsley, before environment review and management programs were submitted by the companies involved. 
If so, will the Minister establish a Federal public inquiry into the bauxite and alumina industry in Western Australia using the powers under the Environmental Protection ( Impact of Proposals) Act. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry the following question, upon notice, on 5 June 1979: 
1 ) What sum did the Commonwenalth provide for research into beche-de-mer in Queensland in (a) 1977 and (b) 1978. 
What specific projects are involved and what sum did each receive. 
What is the proposed funding for these projects in (a) 1 979 and (b) 1980. 
What 4 regions of the Great Barrier Reef are to be fished for beche-de-mer by pilot fishing ventures. 
Is Australian beche-der-mer commercially marketed in Australia at the present time. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 10 May 1979: 
1 ) Is it a fact that the Australian Atomic Energy Commission recently advertised in newspapers for a marine zoologist to conduct research into the movement and fate of contaminants released near shore (with respect to siting of nuclear facilities) and in deep ocean waters (with respect to dumping). 
If so, is the Commission (a) carrying out, or intending to carry out, a program of dumping nuclear wastes in deep ocean waters and (b) intending to build a nuclear facility adjacent to one of Australia 's estuaries or along its coastline. 
Is this research being carried out to determine the fate of nuclear wastes produced by a nuclear power plant of the type proposed by  Sir Charles  Court in Western Australia and is it proposed that this waste would be disposed of by dumping into the ocean. 
It is traditional in a democratic system for members of the 
Opposition to tear into the Government. But on this occasion I must congratulate the Minister for Industry and Commerce  (Mr Lynch)  on his statement which contains many worthwhile initiatives which we of the Opposition have been seeking for a long time. I am sure that the industry will be very gratified that many of the things that it has sought have at long last been introduced. I have had a ten-year interest in tourism and it is very gratifying to see that as a result of the work that I and many other honourable members on both sides of the House have done the tourist industry finally is getting the recognition that I believe it deserves. I would have thought that the Minister might pay tribute to some of the work that has been done on this side of the House. I would like also to pay tribute to the late Frank Stewart for the superb job that he did. If he were alive today I am sure that he would feel gratified that some of the initiatives that have been introduced by the Minister will- I hope- be the beginning of a very significant growth in what I believe one day will be probably one of Australia 's major industries. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Science and the Environment, upon notice, on 10 May 1979: 
1 ) ls it a fact that the declaration of the Capricornia Section of the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park has been delayed to (a) redraw the Park's boundaries so as to allow for renewal of oil drilling leases within the original boundaries of the Park and (b) allow for the preparation of 2 Bills which would hand over control of the Park to the Queensland Government. 
Has the Government agreed to establish and administer the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park jointly with the Queensland Government. 
Has approval been given for appointment of a fulltime Chairman of the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Authority; if so, is this to be a permanent position. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 28 May 1979: 
What is the level of fuel consumption of the (a) Holden Commodore (3.3. litre), (b) Ford Blackwood XD (4. 1 litre), (c) 1979 Chrysler Valiant (4.3 litre), (d) 1979 Toyota Corolla, (e) 1979 Datsun Skyline, (f) Mazda 323, (g) 1979 Honda Civic, (h) 1979 Mercedes Benz 450 SL, (j) 1979 Volkswagen Golf, (k) 1979 Toyota Crown and (I) 1979 Ford Cortina (2 litre) when (i) fitted and (ii) not fitted with (A) power steering, (B) automatic transmission, (C) air conditioning, (D) radial tyres, (E) power windows, (F) power seats, (G) limited slip differential and (H) AM-FM radio/ stereo cassette player. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 3 1 May 1 979: 
1 ) How frequent are surveillance flights over the Great Barrier Reef. 
How many patrol craft operate in the Great Barrier Reef region. 
Is the whole Great Barrier Reef region regularly patrolled. 
I want to take up the point made by the honourable member for Mackellar  (Mr Carlton).  I know he was being sincere, but I make the point that Lyenko Urbanchich would not be able to be tried in Australia for crimes that may have been committed during the war. He would not be able to be tried in his own country because of the statute of limitations. At the moment there seems to be quite overwhelming evidence of  Mr Urbanchich  's involvement with the Nazis during the war - 
-And admitted by him. We have one of the most reputable men in the world today, a great man,  Mr Simon  Wiesenthal who has devoted his whole life to tracking down and tracing people of this kind. Frankly, I do not see any way in which  Mr Urbanchich  's past record can be raised other than in a public forum such as this House. The only other way he can be tried is by the Liberal Party. I put it to the honourable member for Mackellar that that would probably be less of a trial than one in this House. I think it is unfortunate that over the years this country has received quite a number of people of a similar character. It is regrettable that the present Liberal Party - 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Science and the Environment, upon notice, on 21 March 1979: 
) Is there any treatment of ships' ballast water before it is discharged into Australian harbours. 
) How many species of exotic marine fouling organisms, marine algae, invertebrates and fish have been introduced into Australian harbours and estuaries as the result of the dumping of ballast water by ships coming from foreign ports. 
Is it a fact that bulk ore carriers discharge up to 30,000 tonnes of ballast water directly into Sydney harbour even though the water may be contaminated with heavy metals or toxic chemicals, as long as there is no trace of oil present. 
Is the Minister able to to state what are the regulations concerning disposal of ship's ballast water into harbours and coastal waters of (a) Japan, (b) Germany, (c) Canada, (d) the United States of America and (e)the United Kingdom. 
5 ) Are chemical or biological analyses carried out on ballast water of ships arriving in Australian waters from foreign ports. 
Has the prawn population of northern Spencer Gulf increased since bulk ore carriers have been loading ore at Whyalla, SA, and dumping ballast water from the Hunter River, NSW. 
What precautions arc taken to prevent introduction of exotic marine life into Australian waters via ballast water discharge. 
Is there Commonwealth or State legislation in force or under consideration that would prevent contamination of harbours and estuaries by ships' ballast water. 
-I ask the Minister for Transport whether it is a fact that the original tender documents for car rental concessions at Commonwealth airports provided that the third or local car rental concessionaire could not sell or assign his right to operate to another party. Were the terms and conditions of contracts changed after tenders had been accepted to enable the third operator to sell or assign with the approval of the Secretary of the Minister's Department? Has this enabled Avis, which missed out as one of the national operators, to purchase from Elite and Thrifty rent-a-car firms their concessions at Hobart, Devonport, Wynyard, Canberra, Adelaide, Perth and Coolangatta, thus enabling Avis to link up with its own concessions as third operator and giving it rent-a-car concessions at 90 per cent of prime airport locations for a fraction of the price paid by Hertz and Budget? Who gave the authority for this action? 
-At Question Time today, I asked the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  a question regarding the letting of tenders to rent-a-car firms for airport concessions. I pointed out to the Minister that a most incredible and, I would suggest, scandalous situation had arisen whereby the original tender documents which were given to each of those who tendered were changed when the final contracts were provided to those who won the tenders. In this regard, I quote from Section 6 (Assignment of Rights), of the original tender document C3/79/10, contained in Appendix B (Terms and Conditions to be observed by Concessionaires) which states: 
The concessionaire shall not assign or sell any privileges or rights arising under this authority or sub-let any part or parts of the business, except that he may appoint persons as his agents on franchise for the purpose of conducting the business at any of the airports. The concessionaire shall not permit any persons so approved to conduct the business otherwise than in the name of the concessionaire. 
That is the full text. On that basis Avis, Budget and Hertz all tendered for the two national operator concessions and the one for the local operator. 
Honourable members will be familiar with the fact that Hertz tendered the highest bid of $8.2m; Budget was second with $3.2m; and Avis offered $3.1m. They did it on the basis of what was in those tender documents. As honourable members know, Hertz won; Budget was second; and Avis missed out. Avis, however, received concessions at a number of airports, some 1 1 I think, as the third operator, that is, the local operator. In the original tender- I do not have the figures but I understand the amount was very low; some few thousands of dollars, but not much- Avis was able to obtain Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane, Cairns, Mackay, Rockhampton, Townsville, Launceston, Port Hedland, Alice Springs and Mount Isa. But of course quite clearly Avis was thrust out of its traditional role as the No. 1 operator and it was said that it was going to suffer severely. 
When the contracts were delivered to the major winners- Hertz and Budget- the following change had been made in that section of the original tender document which I have just read out to honourable members: 
The concessionaire shall not assign or sell any privileges or rights arising under this authority - 
Then come the newly added words:  without the approval of the Secretary. 
That would be the Secretary to the Department of Transport. On that basis the Secretary then gave permission for the approval which was specifically denied in the original tender documents, to the companies known as Elite RentaCar and Thrifty Rent-a-Car to sell their third operator concession to Avis. Seven concessions were involved: Hobart, Devonport and Wynyard from Elite, and Canberra, Adelaide, Perth and Coolangatta from Thrifty. What it meant, in effect, was that Avis now had 18 concessions and had managed to tie up all the major airports in Australia containing 90 per cent of the prime business, the prime operating airports. Avis got that for well under $2m. Better than that, Avis has been able to get 90 per cent of the business for which Hertz had paid $8m and Budget had paid $3.2m. And better than that, Avis did not have to operate all the little, nonprofitable airports like Thargomindah and Cunnamulla and all those places where a man and a dog appear. 
-Well, there is not an airport at Gosford. That is how profitable most of the concessions would be. So it is even worth more than that because the firms do not have to run all those at a loss. 
I have been in this House for 10 years and this is one of the most scandalous things that I have ever seen. I have called for a public inquiry. I do not know whether the Cabinet has met on this question but it is one of the most serious charges that has ever been made. A tender document has been changed after the tenders have been proved. The Minister ought to resign or at least a public inquiry ought to be held immediately. 
asked the Minister for Health, upon notice, on 5 June 1979: 
1 ) What is the maximum level of lead in a human considered be a safe level by the Commonwealth Health Authority. 
What is the recommended maximum lead level for children in Australia. 
Has his attention been drawn to the study 'Lead Burden of Sydney School Children' which recommends that legislation be introduced to encourage the progressive elimination of lead from petrol in the near future. 
If so, is there any substance in this statement and will he recommend that lead in petrol be reduced and finally eliminated. 
I ask a question of the Minister for Transport, now that he is taking all the credit and responsibility for the increase in the number of tourists coming to Australia - 
-Anybody who wanted to understand why this Government will go down to its greatest defeat in history would have had only to listen to the pathetic drivel delivered by the  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  and the chorus of barnyard cackles that came from the idiots who sit behind him. 
-The speech given by the Treasurer  (Mr Howard)  last Tuesday night was the tenth I have heard since I became a member of this House. It was, to say the least, a most incredible speech, not because of what it said, but because of what it did not say. It is the fourth Budget brought down by the Fraser Government not counting the mini-Budget of last May. It really was a final confession by this Government that it has failed totally to fulfil the commitments it made to the Australian people when it was first elected in 1975. The admission of failure is contained in the words of the Treasurer in the last few paragraphs of his Budget Speech. He said: 
We do not expect unemployment to improve in the year ahead. 
As to the inflation outlook, factors already in the system are likely to lead to higher rates of increase in price indices in the months immediately ahead, before a renewed downward trend can be established. 
This Government came to office in 1 975 on three basic promises: To control inflation, to cut unemployment and to reduce taxation. Inflation, at the end of the September quarter in 1975- the last quarter for which the Labor Government was responsible- stood at 12.1 percent and not at 14 per cent as the Treasurer would have it. We have had four years of slashing of public expenditure and of cuts in education, welfare, health care, urban development and almost every area of human endeavour. After four years of the Australian people being told to tighten their belts and that life was not meant to be easy and all that sort of nonsense, they are now being informed that all the sacrifices they have made have been to no avail. The 'real progress' we have made, if I may emphasise the words of the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser),  is to have lowered the inflation rate by, at best, one per cent. In his own words, inflation will increase to a figure above 10 per cent during this year. We may in fact have made no progress at all. We do not yet know what the inflation rate will be other than that we have his assurance, for what that is worth, that it will be above 10 per cent. It may in fact be a rate of inflation higher than that which prevailed when the Labor Government was expelled from office. So much for his promise to reduce inflation. Now let me quote the most infamous statement of them all in that monstrous document of lies and deception, the Fraser election speech of 1 975. It reads: 
There will be jobs for all those who want to work. 
At the end of July 1975 unemployment stood at 250,000, and exactly four years later it is 410,000. The best that the Treasurer can promise us is that during the next 12 months it will not improve. In each of the last three Budgets the Government has told us that the level of unemployment will drop. In each case it has worsened considerably. Let me refer to the figures: In July 1975 there were 250,000 unemployed; in July 1976 there were 270,000 unemployed; in July 1977 there were 337,000 unemployed; in July 1978 there were 393,000 unemployed and in July 1979 there were 410,000 unemployed. That in itself is bad enough, but what is worse is the snide, evil way in which this Government has convinced the majority of the population- those who are fortunate enough to have work- to believe that the unemployed are in their present plight because of their own unwillingness to work. That is the big lie. It is the most grotesque piece of propaganda that has been regrettably accepted by a large section of the Australian people. It has been assiduously promoted by this Government. 
The Government, as well as the Labor Party, knows that there is an appalling ignorance by the Australian people about unemployment. Each of us has experienced occasions when we have been regaled by self-righteous citizens about the unemployed. They will explain in indignation how they know someone who knew somebody else who advertised a job for which only two people applied, one of whom who turned up had long hair and wore thongs obviously hoping that he would not get the job. They will say: 'There are plenty of jobs. The problem is that these young people do not want to work'. I cannot count the number of times I have been told of a person who had knocked back every job he had been offered because he preferred to live on the unemployment benefit. When I have pointed out to the person telling the story that anyone knocking back a job without an extremely good reason would immediately lose his unemployment benefit and that people cannot just choose to live on the dole, they have looked stunned. Most 
Australian people do not know of the very stringent work tests applying to the unemployment benefit and how quickly this Government will take at the slightest excuse a person's unemployment benefit away from him. 
I want to recount an experience that I had. Earlier this year I advertised for a research assistant. I received more than 100 applications. Some of them pleaded for the position. I received applications from people holding Ph.Ds, masters degrees and bachelors degrees. I finally employed a fine man with a bachelors degree and masters degree. I had over 100 people pleading for work. Honourable members know that I happen to be in. the retail business. On Wednesday we advertised a job for a young shop assistant. We advertised for a man between 20 and 30 years of age. We got between 50 and 60 applications. Three of the applicants were prepared to travel from the Blue Mountains to the North Shore of Sydney. Do not let anyone tell me that there is not genuine unemployment! My partner,  Mr Ray  Jacomb, informed me of these details today. He is a person who supported the Government. That is the sort of situation that prevails in Australia today. 
I said before, and I make the point again, that most Australian people do not know the very stringent work tests that are applied to the unemployment benefit. Even when I point out to the constituents in my electorate that at the end of June there were 5,047 people registered as unemployed and that only 64 job vacancies were registered last month, they stare at me in disbelief. When I challenge these people to show me all these marvellous jobs that are available I receive some abusive letters but no job offers. When people cannot back up their assertions they usually fall back on saying how well off the young people on the dole really are. They will say: 'Why, I know of five or six young people all living together, pooling their benefits and renting a house. They are having a great time at my expense.' What they do not say, because they do not know, is that 64 per cent of those who are out of work are not young people; they are in fact mature adults. 
When I hear these familiar anecdotes about unemployment I think back rather ruefully to the stories we heard whenever we tried to get governments to do something about the plight of the Aboriginal people of Australia. The same people who tell stories about the unemployed, used to recite how they knew someone who knew someone else who knew someone else who had lived amongst Aborigines and how, when a government or council authority had built them houses, they would chop up the doors for firewood. I must have heard such stories a thousand times. I used always to be amazed when I visited the home of an Aboriginal to find that it had doors on it. Quite obviously most of the people who make those sorts of assertions have little or no understanding of the present unemployment situation in Australia. They do not know or do not want to know about the unemployed. If they did they would be forced to feel that the unemployed deserve better treatment and that they deserve jobs, which is what the vast majority of them want. Many of the people who feel this way voted for the present Government. An admission that there is even higher unemployment- much higher unemploymentis an admission that the Liberal Government has failed them. It is far easier to blame the unemployed. 
Everybody knows, or ought to- know, that there is always a small percentage of peopleabout 2 per cent or 3 per cent- who do not. want to work and who will exploit the system, just as we know that there is a small percentage of people who do not want to pay tax. The facts about unemployment in Australia were summarised concisely in an article which was written by Ann Harding and Bob Mills and which appeared in this week's issue of the  National Times.  The article is entitled: 'The attack on the Unemployed '. It had this to say: 
The major losers of the Howard Budget are the unemployed. They are to be the scapegoats for an economic strategy which will increase unemployment in 1979-80 by more than 70,000. 
The Fraser Government clearly hopes that at least 50,000 of these people will join the growing ranks of the 'hidden employed'- people who are not recorded in official unemployment statistics- for it has budgeted for an increase of only 19,000 in the number of unemployment-benefit recipients. 
The article pointed out the severe contracting effect of the Budget and the result this would have on consumer demand and on employment prospects. It stated that this would lead to the creation of two distinct classes of unemployed people; the first being the official Treasury estimate of those who will receive unemployment benefits- some 325,000, an increase of 19,000 on the previous year- and the second class being those who will drop out of the work force altogether. I quote further from the article: 
The second class of unemployed are those who have become discouraged, stopped looking for work, and dropped out of the labour market and official unemployment statistics. 
It also includes children who go back to' school because they can't find a job, married women who give up looking for work, and men who are retired early but who would like to continue working. 
These people are not counted in the official statistics, but their rapidly growing numbers are reflected in a decline in the workforce participation rate from 62.3 per cent in 1975-76 to 60.8 percent last year. 
During this period the number of working-age people in Australia has increased by over half a million, while the number employed has risen by only 68,000. 
There are now more than 350,000 'hidden unemployed' according to  Dr Peter  Sheehan, senior research fellow with the Melbourne institute. 
This means that about 12.5 per cent of the potential workforce, or 670,000 Australians, are out of work. 
It also means that official statistics are becoming increasingly misleading as a guide to the real dimensions of unemployment and (he state of the economy. 
Hidden unemployment of this magnitude renders government rhetoric about recent slight increases in the official employment rate completely meaningless. 
The whole unemployment scandal created by this Government is summed up in that final sentence. The Prime Minister knows the present situation, the Treasurer knows it and so do the rest of the members of this Parliament. But what does the Government do? It appoints a hatchet man to do a job on the unemployed- Viner the Vampire. The Government knows that its policies have trebled unemployment in this country and it will make it even worse in the year ahead. Instead of being frank and honest with the Australian people the Government, since coming to office, has deliberately set out to falsify the figures by making it harder and harder for those who are unemployed to get benefits in the hope that they will drop out of the lists of registered Unemployed. The Government has introduced a new set of figures collected by the Australian Bureau of Statistics, and then dropped altogether the official figures collected by the Department of Employment and Youth Affairs- the figures that have served as the recognised measure of unemployment since figures were first collected. How typical of this Government. If it cannot reduce unemployment, cook the books. 
This Government has shown, since it took office, that it could not care less about the unemployed. For a while it made the pretence that it did by introducing a number of useless schemes, but as the word came back to it that there was no sympathy for the unemployed and therefore no votes it decided to drop even that pretence. The Special Youth Employment Training Program has had its funds slashed by $55m and the National Employment and Training scheme funds have been slashed by $50m. We have just heard word from Melbourne that the Community Youth Support Scheme funds have been slashed and some 50 or 60 projects are to be scrapped. The unemployment benefit for youths under 18 years of age has remained at $36, and for single unemployed at $51.45. One would have expected that a Government claiming to be concerned about the plight of the unemployed would be doing exactly the opposite. One would have expected that the Government would have been providing work for them similar to that provided by the Labor Government. 
It is interesting to listen to the number of people who demand that the unemployed be made to work for their benefits. When one questions people as to what they would like to see the unemployed do, they say: 'Well, they could do a couple of days work for the council, such as cutting lawns, painting fences, and clearing parks and fire trails.' One has to point out to them that if 5,000 people- the number of people unemployed in my area of Gosford-Wyong- turned up for work at Gosford and Wyong shire councils, thousands of lawn mowers and paint brushes would be needed, trucks would be needed to take them to and from work, and administrative staff and money would be needed to organise them. It is true that in one week the whole area would be spotless. People start to realise the absurdity of their proposal when they are asked what the unemployed will do in the second week when it is all clean. I also point out that this sort of work has been done in past years and it is almost useless and at the same time demeans those who are forced to do it. They know as well as those who are demanding that they do something to earn their benefits that the work is of little value to the community, that they are doing it to make the more self-righteous in the community feel that they are not paying out their taxes for nothing. It should also be remembered that this Government will not even produce the extra funds for 'make work' projects of this nature. 
Sitting suspended from 6 to 8 p.m. 
Before the suspension of the sitting for dinner I was referring to the fact that many people who want to see work provided for those who are unemployed do not seem to be aware that most of the jobs that are recommended are of little value to the community. I refer in particular to make-work projects such as cutting lawns, picking up papers and that sort of thing. I point out that this Government will not provide funds even for that sort of high labour, low material cost project. The unemployed want to work but on work that leaves something of value to the community. The problem is that work of that nature such as drainage, kerbing and guttering, roads, schools, aged persons' accommodation, youth centres and child care centres requires much more than just labour. Experience over many years has shown that labour and material costs amount to 75 per cent more than the amount now paid out in benefits. This Government and the taxpayers at the last election have shown that they do not wish to pay the money out of their pockets- because that is where it must come from- to provide this sort of work. 
Let us look at the sorts of things that the Government is patting itself on the back about. It is rather absurd that they include the abolition of the tax surcharge of 2.57 per cent and the reintroduction of twice yearly indexation of pensions. It is a bit like boasting about having stopped beating one's wife. It should never have been done in the first place. The question of the record of the Fraser Government as a high tax government has been widely canvassed in the media and in this debate. No one seriously disputes the fact that with projected increases of 9 per cent in wages and 15 per cent in pay-as-you-earn tax collections the low and middle income earners will be paying larger shares of their incomes in taxation. The reintroduction of twice yearly indexation of pensions is welcomed but, as I said, it should never have been taken off in the first place. 
Let us never forget that the introduction of indexation of pensions was a major welfare breakthrough by the Whitlam Government. We can all recall the years prior to 1972 when pensioners were at the whim of the political fortunes of the Liberal-Country Party governments that had held office for 23 years. The year after an election pensioners would receive an increase of $1; the second year nothing or 50c; and then before an election, $2. The introduction of twice yearly indexation by the Whitlam Government provided pensioners with at least the assurance that they would receive an increase twice a year so that the value of their pensions did not diminish and was kept in line with either average weekly earnings under the Whitlam Government or the consumer price index when the present Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  gained office. 
You will have your say later. We will see how much nonsense it is. Having pointed out the gross deficiencies and injustices contained in this Budget let me be gracious enough to commend the Government on the initiatives for the tourist industry. For 10 years as a member of Parliament I have been an ardent advocate of tourism as an industry with enormous potential for Australia both as an employer of labour and as a dollar earner. I drafted the policy used by Gough Whitlam at the 1 972 election and was delighted that the late Frank Stewart was able to make the first real advances in gaining recognition for the tourist industry by the quite significant increase in funds injected into tourism. Frank Stewart increased the funds available to the Australian Tourist Commission, injected some millions of dollars into man-made tourist attractions such as Old Sydney Town, Sovereign Hill, Lachlan Village and so on, and introduced domestic promotion of Australia to Australians. 
Just as it was all starting to happen the Whitlam Government was dismissed and the Fraser Government came to office with its then spokesman of tourism,  Senator Rae,  promising the world to the industry. After the following election exactly the reverse happened, with funds being slashed to their lowest level in years. In late 1976 1 managed, through a series of questions, to convince the Prime Minister to set up the House of Representatives Select Committee on Tourism. I believe that that Committee, under the chairmanship of the honourable member for Bowman,  Mr David  Jull, has been one of the most successful parliamentary committees in the history of the Parliament. 
Firstly, it managed to focus the attention of the nation on the potential of the industry and its problems. It came at the right time in that the economic problems this nation was facing meant that government and industry were starting to look seriously at industries that had growth potential to replace those industries that were obviously in decline. However, its most important contribution was to recommend a proper study of the economics of tourism by the Bureau of Industry Economics which in its interim report finally pointed out that tourism's value to the national economy is conservatively as much as that of the automobile manufacturing industry and not far behind that of mining. I want to pay special tribute to the  Chairman  of the Committee, the honourable member for Bowman, who did a first class job. The Committee produced a first class report. 
Although we have a long way to go, the new initiatives provide for a doubling of the Australian Tourist Commission budget for overseas promotion- in real terms it is probably a trebling in the light of the fact that basic expenses remain the same- and for the introduction of tax deductibility at the rate of 2  Vi  per cent depreciation for income-producing accommodation buildings commenced after 2 1 August 1 979. When legislation for this purpose is introduced I shall be pointing out that there are some potential dangers that will have to be watched carefully for those entrepreneurs who own and operate existing hotels and motels, particularly resort hotels in wilderness areas. The industry is naturally concerned that existing operators may be seriously disadvantaged by new competitors who may be made more competitive and who may be able to undercut them. Nevertheless, the introduction of this tax deductibility is an important step, particularly from a psychological point of view. The tourist industry at last believes that it is being taken seriously by government. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 2 1 August 1 979: 
Are herbicides applied to roadbeds during construction of roads in Australia; if so, what chemicals are used and by which States. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Science and the Environment, upon notice, on 23 May 1979: 
1 ) What long term ecological studies are being carried out at the present time on the terrestrial and marine ecosystems in Austalian Antarctic Territory. 
What Federal funds have been given to research projects studying the effects of oil pollution on coral reefs and their associated ecosystem and could a breakdown of the sums for each project be provided. 
3 ) In light of the need for research to be carried out on the Great Barrier Reef, when will the Government lift staff ceilings at the Australian Institute of Marine Science so that the staff numbers can be raised to 1 30 as originally planned. 
What is the present number of permanent staff at the institute. 
-The special relationship between the coalition parties and  Sir Reginald  Ansett is well known to the Parliament and to the people of Australia. The special privileges and arrangements that this man and his companies in transport, tourism and television licensing have been able to gain over the years from various Liberal Party Prime Ministers and Premiers are part of Australia's more sordid commercial and political history. There was, for instance, the unprecedented intervention by the then Premier of Victoria,  Sir Henry  Bolte, to save Ansett Transport Industries Ltd from takeover in 1 972. Today  Sir Henry  sits on the Ansett board. 
In 1972, during the last months of a panicstricken McMahon Government, we saw legislation rushed through this Parliament to ensure that Ansett 's privileged position in the twoairline policy of this country was secured. The McMahon Government could not save itself, but it could manipulate this Parliament to look after the business interests of its major contributor to Liberal Party finances and election campaign funds. Those are just two examples,  Mr Acting Speaker,  of the special treatment  Sir Reginald 
Ansett gets from coalition governments and Liberal Party leaders in this country. 
Now we have this Government caught out in what has every appearance of another blatant exercise in political patronage to the advantage of the Ansett empire. The recent allocation of rent-a-car concessions at Commonwealth airports is, at best, an incredible example of ministerial incompetence and departmental bungling. At its worst, it is a conspiracy involving the Minister for Transport  (Mr Nixon)  to advantage the Ansett transport interests and deliberately to disadvantage Ansett 's competitors. I hope that the Minister for Transport has a grin on his face at the end of this debate. In either case,  Mr Acting Speaker,  it is a matter deserving of the fullest public inquiry and report to this Parliament. I intend setting out in detail the full chain of events in this matter over the past nine months. 
In summary, however, what has happened is that two companies- Budget Rent-a-Car System Pty Ltd, owned by  Sir Reginald  Ansett 's estranged son,  Mr Bob  Ansett, and Hertz Rent-a-Car, owned by Trans-Australia Airlines and Mayne Nickless Ltd- bid a combined total of $ 1 1 .3m, through competitive tender, for the right to operate their airport rent-a-car services on a national basis.  Sir Reginald  Ansett 's Avis rent-a-car company, which previously had sole rights as national operator, missed out when outbid by its two competitors. What Avis Rent-a-Car System Pty Ltd and two other smaller rent-a-car companies did gain were limited franchises covering far fewer airports. 
However, Budget and Hertz paid their high prices on the clear understanding that the terms and conditions of the tenders protected their exclusive national rights. But then, after their bids had been accepted and the new system had come into operation, Avis has offered to buy out the two other smaller companies in what can only be described as the most extraordinary, if not outrageous, circumstances. 
Suddenly, Avis appears likely to gain a national operation at a much lower cost, without having to service less profitable, or marginal, airports as its competitors, Budget and Hertz, are forced to do by the very terms and conditions they thought protected their exclusive national rights. Yet the Minister for Transport, in response to a question I asked two weeks ago, can offer nothing more than the lame excuse that the business interests of the coalition's life-long friend and benefactor have been massively advantaged by a simple clerical error. Nobody is going to believe that; certainly not Budget and 
Hertz, which have been, quite frankly, blatantly cheated, and certainly not anyone familiar with the operating style of  Sir Reginald  Ansett and his coalition allies over the years. On Wednesday 29 August, I asked the Minister for Transport the following question: 
I ask the Minister for Transport whether it is a fact that the original tender documents for car rental concessions at Commonwealth airports provided that the third or local car rental concessionaire could not sell or assign his right to operate to another party. Were the terms and conditions of contracts changed after tenders had been accepted to enable the third operator to sell or assign with the approval of the Secretary of the Minister's Department? Has this enabled Avis, which missed out as one of the national operators, to purchase from Elite and Thrifty rent-a-car firms their concessions at Hobart, Devonport, Wynyard, Canberra, Adelaide, Perth and Coolangatta, thus enabling Avis to link up with its own concessions as third operator giving it rent-a-car concessions at 90 per cent of prime airport locations for a fraction of the price paid by Hertz and Budget? Who gave the authority for this action? 
The Leader of the Opposition  (Mr Hayden)  commented at the conclusion of my question: It's a scandal'. The opening remarks of the Minister for Transport will live for ever in the history of this Parliament: 'It's not a scandal- yet'. At the time that the Minister made his prophetic comment it may not have been a scandal but only because all the facts were not generally known. 
Just contain yourself. The rentacar business is now a $60m a year business and with the increasing mobility of people, it is growing at a phenomenal rate. With the projected growth of international visitors likely to exceed one million by 1983 and the preference of many domestic travellers to hire cars, it is not only a big business, but also a keenly contested one. 
For 10 years the concessions at all Commonwealth airports were the exclusive preserve of Avis Rent-a-Car, the company founded by the late Eric McIlree and taken over by Ansett. Because the airport is the arrival point for the major section of the community who wish to rent cars, the exclusive concession enabled Avis to gain a major share of the car rental business in Australia. Other operators were only permitted to meet customers at the airport with prearranged bookings. They were expressly forbidden from canvassing for customers and of course were not permitted to have any official desk at any of the Commonwealth's 58 airports. 
This exclusive right of Avis to be sole operator was the cause of enormous controversy and public debate.  Mr Bob  Ansett of Budget conducted an intensive campaign in the media and by lobbying during the past couple of years to break the Avis monopoly on airport concessions when the contract expired on 30 June of this year. 
Initially the Government announced that it would permit two national operators but after further outcry agreed to two national operators plus a third local operator. The latter was intended to allow the small local businessman to gain a share of the market. On 29 March of this year, tenders closed for the two national operator concessions and the third local operator concession at the 58 Commonwealth airports. The original tender document C3/79/10 contained in appendix B 'Terms and Conditions to be observed by Concessionaires', section 6 'Assignment of Rights' stated as follows: 
The concessionaire shall not assign or sell any privileges or rights arising under this authority or sub-let any part or parts of the business, except that he may appoint persons as his agents on airports. The concessionaire shall not permit any persons so approved to conduct the business otherwise than in the name of the concessionaire. 
Nothing could be more explicit, more clear-cut, more concise. If a company won the concession with a successful tender, it was theirs and theirs alone. They could not sell or assign. One would expect that in view of the enormous controversy that had raged around car rental rights at airports, the details of the tender documents would have been meticulously examined and mulled over to ensure that there was no confusion in anybody's mind as to what were the conditions of tender. I would have expected that the Minister himself would have studied them closely himself. 
On the basis of these original tender documents Hertz, Budget and Avis tendered for the two national operator spots. Budget, Avis and a number of smaller 'rent-a-car' firms tendered for various third or local operator concessions. The fact that the concessions could not be sold or assigned was a major factor in the car rental firms calculating their tender prices. It is vital to remember at this stage that quite a number of the Commonwealth airports are small areas at which only a few, often very small, aircraft operate. There is so little traffic that the holding of a car rental concession at some of these airports would be a financial disadvantage. The national operators would prefer to tender for only the busy airports where they would be assured of making profits and forget about those where they are certain to make a loss or only a marginal profit. However, that is the price they had to be prepared to pay to win one of the two spots as national operators. 
On 1 May, the Minister announced that Hertz and Budget had won the No. 1 and No. 2 national operator spots. Later it was revealed that their bids had been $8.1m and $3.2m respectively. Avis, with a bid of $3.1m, had missed out as a national operator but had obtained the third operator spot at Brisbane, Cairns, Mackay, Mount Isa, Rockhampton, Townsville, Sydney, Melbourne, Launceston, Port Hedland and Alice Springs. I seek leave to have incorporated in  Hansard  the full list of successful third operator tenderers. 
Leave granted. 

 The document read as follows- 


<graphic href="115131197909136_34_0.jpg"></graphic>


<graphic href="115131197909136_35_0.jpg"></graphic>

-I thank the House. The lack of profitability of some of the airports for car rental was illustrated by the fact that no tenders were received for third operator authorities at some 26 airports. Avis has since negotiated directly with the Government for the third operator spot at eight of these airports. 
Not long after, the Minister's announcement was made that Avis would purchase the concessions won by Thrifty Rent-a-Car Pty Ltd and Elite Rental Cars. Hobart, Devonport and Wynyard were to be purchased from Elite and Canberra, Adelaide, Perth and Coolangatta from Thrifty. Not surprisingly, this news hit the business world and the car rental section like a bombshell. How was it possible for Avis to purchase the concession at seven airports when the original tender documents expressly forbade such transactions. How it was to be done was soon made clear to Hertz and Budget after they received their contract documents on 14 August. In the documents appendix B, to which I referred before, now read: 
The Operator shall not without the approval of the Secretary assign or sell any privileges or rights arising under this authority or sub-let any pan or parts of the business, except that he may appoint persons as his agent or franchise for the purpose of conducting the business at any of the airports. 
The bombshell was contained in the newly added words 'without the approval of the Secretary'. The whole meaning and intent of the tender documents had been totally changedchanged sufficiently to permit Avis, the car rental company owned by Ansett, the Liberal Party's life long friend and benefactor, to purchase a further seven airports, thus giving it 18 airports, but more importantly, the 18 prime operating airports at which 90 per cent of the business in rent-a-cars would be done. As I pointed out earlier, it was to pick up a further eight airports for which there were no tenders. 
You are the one who is struggling. I know when you are in trouble. It is when you have that silly grin on your face. 
-The figure that Avis had appeared Thrifty and Elite is not known, but it is variously estimated at under half a million dollars. If this is correct- and there is no reason to assume that to is not- Avis Rent-a-Car System Pty Ltd has managed to obtain the third operator spot at the 19 major Commonwealth airports for around $2m. Without having to function at the unprofitable and marginal airports, Avis- the lowest tenderer for national operator positionshas become, in effect, a third national operator at a fraction of Hertz's cost of $8.1 m and a lot less than Budget's $3.2m. And how has it been able to achieve this magnificent coup? By the Government 's changing the wording of the final contract agreement so that it differed significantly from the original tender documents. 
We are asked now to believe the unbelievable, namely, that in the original tender documents the words 'without the approval of the Secretary '-that is, the Secretary to the Department of Transport- were inadvertently omitted. The Minister now asks us to believe that a clerical accident has enabled Avis-Ansett to recapture the position it lost in open tender as a national operator at airports. How very, very convenient! Any doubts I may have had about what was going on were dispelled after  Mr Bob  of recounted to me a conversation he had with Department of Transport official when he complained about the change in the wording of the tender documents. He was told that if he wanted to make an issue of the matter there were other ways that Thrifty and Elite franchises could be assigned to Avis. All that Thrifty and 
Elite had to do was to pay their fees and the franchise could be taken away from them. The Department of Transport would then reassign it to Avis or anybody else. 
There is a lot more, though. I mentioned earlier that those car rental firms that were not successful tenderers were still permitted to meet pre-booked clients at the airport. However, they are not permitted, or not supposed to be permitted, to canvass in any way, shape or form for clients.  Mr Laurie  Alban, who has the Hertz RentaCar franchise at Coffs Harbour, tells me that Avis is blatantly canvassing for clients throughout the Coffs Harbour airport terminal, right in front of Department of Transport officers' eyes. When he complained  to  a Coffs Harbour airport officer, a  Mr Wiggins,  he was told that there was nothing  Mr Wiggins  could do about it and that he could only pass his complaint on to his superiors. Why he could not do anything about it  Mr Alban  was not told. Later, the supervisor of the district, a  Mr Lanigan,  also said that there was nothing he could do about it. I am informed that the same thing is happening at Tamworth, Wagga and Coolangatta. There are only two views that can be taken of this present fiasco. The first is that the Minister has got the situation into such an unbelievabls mess that either tenders will have to be called again, in which case we can bet London to a brick that Hertz at least will not bid anything like its initial $8m, and thus the Government- that is the taxpayers- will lose millions of dollars - 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 1 1 September 1 979: 
Is he able to state what are the regulations presently in force concerning disposal of ships ' ballast water into the harbours and coastal waters of (a) Japan, (b) Germany, (c) Canada, (d) the United States of America and (e) the United Kingdom. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 3 1 May 1 979: 
1 ) How many foreign fishing vessels have been apprehended and charged with poaching giant clams since 1 970. 
What were the names of these vessels and when were they charged. 
How many of these incidents resulted in conviction and what were the sentences. 
-A few weeks ago I was in Melbourne to watch the world fencing championships. At the time a major game of rugby league was being played in Sydney so I rushed back to my Melbourne Hotel to hear the result. I tuned into the sports news on the Australian Broadcasting Commission channel. I waited for 15 minutes. Being a Queenslander, and a follower of the great sport of rugby league  Mr Deputy Speaker,  you will be surprised to know that no result was given for any of the rugby games, either rugby union or rugby league. I was climbing back on the plane in Melbourne when I happened to bump into the Minister for Post and Telecommunications  (Mr Staley).  I gently informed him of this oversight by the ABC and said that I thought that the 
Government ought to resign on this matter. He kindly wrote me a very nice letter which I shall read into the record. It stated: 
I refer to your recent inquiry to me regarding the coverage of Sydney Rugby League results on ABC television in Melbourne. 
The ABC have advised me that the lack of results coverage of Sydney Rugby League games by Melbourne stations is due principally to the fact that such games do not evoke any great interest in Victoria. By contrast, however, it is considered that there is reasonable interest in Sydney in the results of VFL games and for that reason such results are always included in sporting reports. 
The point I made was that in Sydney a very good coverage of Victorian football league games is given. Those of us from Sydney do not show the prejudice of Victorians in these matters. The letter continued: 
The greater interest in VFL in Sydney is also exemplified by the fact that replays of Melbourne matches are presented on Sydney television whereas no replays of Sydney matches are screened in Melbourne. 
Anyhow, he graciously stated later on in the letter that the ABC had indicated that it is anticipated that the results of the approaching semifinal series in Sydney rugby league will be covered by Melbourne ABC television.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  you will be surprised at the number of letters I got from rugby league followers in Victoria congratulating me on the strong stand that I had taken. I point out that many thousands of visitors go to Melbourne and they are very badly treated. It takes five seconds to give the result of the major game in Sydney. This is a matter of serious discrimination. 
-At last I find myself in agreement with something said by the honourable member for St George. I have also received a letter from  Mr Hamilton,  the General Manager of the Victorian Football League in Melbourne. It stated: 
We note your comments concerning the lack of Rugby League scores on the ABC in Melbourne in comparison to what you have considered to be a fair go for Australian Rules scores on the ABC in Sydney. 
I think it is important to point out that the status - 

 Honourable members interjecting- 


 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! I ask honourable members to be silent. The honourable member for Robertson should not have to play against the wind. 
-The letter continued: 
Of the two sports in each of the two States and I draw your attention to a research survey initially conducted in 1 976 and repeated again this year.  in New South Wales Australian Rules football attracts a following of approximately S per cent of the entire population whilst in Victoria Rugby League does not register as a major sport. I think these figures hold the answer as to why the ABC in Melbourne and Sydney have taken the stance that they have, Le. a stance that is relative to the demonstrated degree of public interest. 
I am surprised that the General Manager of the VFL should feel so strongly about this matter that he tries to keep the results off the ABC. I was surprised at the spleen and the viciousness of the attack on me for defending rugby league. I suggested that with the Olympic Games coming up and the need for funds for them, we should settle this matter once and for all with a game between the champion football team, St George in Sydney and Carlton or Collingwood. It is quite simple; it used to happen before. We can play one half Australian rules and one half rugby league. We can have a points score system put through the computer to work out a satisfactory score. We can settle the matter once and for all and have a fair go for rugby league. 
It is interesting that some of the better honourable members on the other side support me and the worst ones attack me. Some of the honourable members on my side are just as bad as the ones on the other side.  Mr Deputy Speaker,  I thank you very much for your rapt attention. 
-I ask the new Minister for Primary Industry: On what scientific information concerning the population of black martin in the waters off the Great Barrier Reef did the Government decide to allow Japanese long-line fishermen access to fish for tuna and black marlin in the proposed 200-mile Australian fishing zone? 
-The Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Act was passed by the Whitlam Government on 20 June 1975. The present Government has been in office since November 1975, so it has taken almost four years to reach the point where the first sectionthe Capricornia section- of the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park can be declared. I understand that that section covers approximately 6 per cent of the total proposed area of the park. If this tortoise-like pace continues it will take 65 years for the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park to be finally declared. Few Australians who are alive now will live to see Australia's greatest natural asset and possibly the world's greatest natural asset free from the forces that now ravage and threaten its very survival. I do not have to remind this House of the very real depth of feeling that the vast majority of Australians have for the Great Barrier Reef. Australians do not have a very good record as conservationists and, regrettably, past generations were guilty of monumental desecration of Australia's wilderness areas and sections of Australian environment which are of great ecological significance. 
Whatever the attitude of Australians may be on some conservation issues, it is clear from public opinion surveys that they will not tolerate any action by government or business that places the Great Barrier Reef at risk. Earlier this year when the question of oil drilling on the reef was headline news almost daily a public opinion poll was published in the  Sydney Morning Herald  showing that 66 per cent of Australian people opposed drilling on the Barrier Reef. The Government managed to defuse the issue by stating that there would be a moratorium on drilling on the reef until the results of both short and long term research were known. The impression in the public mind was that the reef had been saved. This is patently not true. All that has happened is that there has been a stay of execution, not a full pardon. There can be no guarantee that the reef is safe from predators such as the oil companies until such time as the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park has been fully declared. The Opposition is certain that the moratorium has been introduced so that no firm decision on oil drilling will occur for some years. I am sure that the Government is confident that in the meantime substantially increased fuel charges and shortages will change Australian public opinion to the point where the majority of Australians, desperately short of fuel, will permit desecration of the reef so that they can get fuel for their cars. We believe that that is the motive behind the present moratorium. 
The Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  has constantly assured the House that no drilling will be permitted on the reef, but has refused to provide assurance that drilling will not be permitted near the reef. The difference between 'on' and near' is immaterial, and it is absurd for the Prime Minister to give an assurance that he will not permit drilling that would damage the reef. Whatever powers our Prime Minister may have, they do not include supernatural powers, such as King Canute thought he had, that would enable him to stop oil fouling the Great Barrier Reef and the whole of the Queensland coast in the event of a major oil blowout. There is ample evidence of massive damage caused by oil spills from tankers such as the spillages from the  Amoco Cadiz  off the coast of Brittany in 1978, the  Torrey Canyon  off the south coast of England in 1967 and the  Oceanic Grandeur  in the Torres Strait in 1970. 
However, on 3 June this year a massive blowout occured at the Ixtoc- 1 well head in the Bay of Campeche in the Gulf of Mexico. It is the largest and longest blowout in the world. Some 20,000 to 30,000 barrels of oil are flowing into the sea every day. It was stated on tonight's Australian Broadcasting Commission news that 390 million litres of oil have flowed into the Gulf of Mexico from the Ixtoc- 1 blowout. It reached Texas, some 800 kilometres to the north, by late July. It has fouled the Texas coast. It threatens a $140 million fish and shrimp industry and it has wrecked the tourist industry in Texas. The famed oil expert, Red Adair, failed to cap the well at Ixtoc- 1. Two other wells have now been drilled to relieve pressure but the original well is still flowing at about one-third of its previous pressure and after four months there appears no immediate possibility of stopping the oil from spilling out of the Gulf. 
So how in the name of all that is sacred can the Prime Minister possibly give an assurance to this nation that no damage to the reef will occur as a result of drilling for oil on the reef? How can he give us an assurance? It is not possible. So, I point to the absurdity of this debate and highlight one of the great risks that Australia faces unless action is taken to declare the Great Barier Reef in full so that no drilling can ever be done in that area. 
 I would like now to turn to another matter that is of concern to the people of Queensland and has been in the newspapers and headlines of this nation for the last few days. It concerns black martin fishing. Again through the incompetence of this Government, Australia now has a situation where an agreement with the Japanese Government will permit Japanese long-line fishermen to continue to fish for black martin and threaten the tourist industry and the black martin fishing industry of north Queensland. I do not have to remind this House that the Great Barrier Reef is our greatest asset. I am talking now not only from an environmental point of view but also from a tourism point of view. Part of the tourist attraction is the fishing available on the Great Barrier Reef. The reef is famous as the greatest black martin fishing area in the world. Of course, the area off Cairns is a breeding ground for black martin. I wish to cite figures from an eight-year United States tagging survey of martin off Cairns. Between 1971 and 1974 there were 1.2 fish caught per angler per day and in 1 975 to 1 976 it was down to 0.6 fish caught per angler per day. It appears prima facie that there has been a 50 per cent reduction in the catch of black martin in that area. The Food and Agriculture Organisation of the United Nations, in its 1976 report, stated that in 1971 the catch by Japanese long-line martin fishermen in the Pacific had been 2,200 tonnes but had dropped to 772 tonnes in 1976. It is true that the Japanese have been fishing for martin off Cairns. 
asked the Minister representing the Minister for Science and the Environment, upon notice, on 22 August 1979: 
Why is it taking so long to promulgate the regulations under the National Parks and Wildlife Conservation Act 1975 which will bring into operation the: 
Convention concerning the Protection of the World Cultural and Natural Heritage, 
Convention on Wetlands of International Importance especially as Waterfowl Habitat, and 
Convention for the Conservation of Antarctic Seals, which came into force on 12 December 1975, 21 December 1975 and 1 1 March 1978 respectively, when the regulations were promulgated to bring the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora into operation on the same day as that Convention came into force, 27 October 1976.  (Hansard,  8 May 1979, page 1973). 
asked the Treasurer, upon notice, on 30 August 1979: 
1 ) How many tourists (a) in transit, (b) visiting relatives, (c) engaged in employment, (d) attending conventions or engaged in business and (e) in other categories entered Australia during 1977-78 and 1978-79. 
What was the country of origin of each group of tourists. 
If up-to-date information is not presently available, will he take action to ensure that it is available in the future. 
-I am interested in the comments made by the honourable member for Lilley  (Mr Kevin Cairns).  I am not quite sure what it is he is asking us to do. 
I acknowledge the facts and I am encouraged to some degree. The history of Africa is interesting. I refer not just to South Africa but to Zimbabwe-Rhodesia, Angola and Mozambique. A significant change in Southern Africa occurred when both Mozambique and Angola ceased to be Portuguese territories. Quite clearly there was a change of heart in both Zimbabwe and South Africa. The point that I find depressing, having been to South Africa this year and having talked to so many people, and looking at the history of Rhodesia, is that it is now apparent that the Rhodesian Front of Ian Smith is prepared to accept conditions which it would have thought intolerable at the time of the Unilateral Declaration of Independence. Yet it was apparent to us- the honourable member for Lilley was a member in the 1970s when we debated the whole apartheid question night after night- and to any other reasonable person that  Mr Smith's  Front could not possibly hold out. It was a matter of time, whether the time span was 5 years, 10 years, 15 years or 25 years; it was going to happen. It is quite clear that Ian Smith and the Rhodesian Front will have to accept a lot less than they would have got 15 years ago, and ultimately there will be black majority rule. 
The thing that is frightening in South Africa- I commend  Mr Botha  on his initiative- and is so depressing is that South Africans, those who would support the present Government, which would be about 75 per cent to 80 per cent of 
South Africans, ultimately cannot hold out against what must occur; that is, rule by the majority of the people; one man, one vote; a democratic society as much as we have. What is depressing is they are not working towards this society. In the past we have heard how this is going to change and that is going to change, and then nothing very much happens. So far  Mr Botha  has not introduced legislation; he says they may do these things. 
-I want to deal with South Africa at the moment because I do not think Namibia is a very serious problem. 
Yes, it is, but the ultimate problem is South Africa. That is where the final battle about white supremacy will be fought. Ultimately the South Africans must aim at an objective which will be satisfactory. I have some sympathy for their problems. I know their problems and their fears. The South Africans must aim at an objective of a democratic society. The concept of Bantustans and the myriad of legislation that props up the concept of separate development of Bantustans are both totally unworkable and totally unacceptable. What we saw happen in Soweto and previously in Sharpeville will occur at different stages; it may be two years, three years or four years. There is a different sort of black at the moment to what there was 20 years ago. He is young, educated, concerned, aware and conscious of what has happened in other parts of Africa. He is conscious of what has happened in the United States. He is conscious of world opinion. These blacks are not prepared to accept what their fathers did at the time of Sharpeville. I wish that in some way or other we could communicate with the South African people; those in the Progressive Party; those in the left of the present Nationalist Party to try to work towards that long term objective. However, I fear they will follow the same stupid role that Ian Smith and his supporters did. Those people are the most guilty people in the world for what they have done in Rhodesia. Because of sheer stupidity they simply will not see what the inevitable will be. I would hope that in some way the South Africans would work step by step- even if it took 20 years- at least to bring about a just democratic society. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr Millar)Order! The honourable member's time has expired. 
-I ask the Minister for Primary Industry a question on the same subject. As the United States makes foreign long-line fishermen release all billfish caught in the American fishing zone along the Atlantic and Gulf of Mexico coastlines and as the foreign fishermen cover the cost of an American observer on board each Japanese vessel to ensure that fishing regulations are complied with, will the Government take a step towards the conservation of the black marlin in Australian waters by imposing similar conditions on Japanese long-line fishermen operating in the Australian fishing zone? I remind the Minister that the Japanese say that they do not want to catch black marlin, only tuna. 
-In the last two weeks an issue has erupted that has angered Australian people, and Queenslanders in particular, in a manner that most members have not experienced in their lives in Parliament. This Government has announced that it is about to sign an agreement with the Japanese Government that will permit Japanese long-line fishermen to fish for black marlin within the Australian fishing zone. The size and scope of people's anger has quite clearly shocked and surprised both the Australian and Queensland governments but it appears to be insufficient to make them do anything about the matter. A number of members of parliament, including one Minister, have informed me that they have received more phone calls, letters, telegrams and petitions on this issue than on any other issue in their parliamentary careers. The arrogance and insensitivity of the Government and the Minister for Primary Industry  (Mr Nixon)  is breathtaking. Despite the overwhelming opposition of the Australian people, and incidentally of many Government members, the Government insists that it will proceed to sign the agreement this afternoon. 
It has been suggested by some quarters that the reason for people's anger is the fact that the fishermen are Japanese. In a few instances this may be true. Having flown to Cairns last Sunday to talk to people of north Queensland and to the fishermen in particular, I can assure the House, the Japanese people and the Japanese Government that the overwhelming majority of Australians are not interested in who takes the black martin, but only about the fact that they are being taken. If the long-line fishermen were French, American or British the objection to this act of negligence and gross vandalism would have been just the same. The reasons for Australians' anger over the Government's action or inaction is very simple. They know very well how important the resources of the Great Barrier Reef are to Australia. They know that the area off north Queensland is the greatest black martin fishing area in the world. The people of Australia have been made aware of the fact that, due to the past exploitation of the waters, the region is being denuded of one of its greatest assets. 
Let me make it clear that while the game fishermen may be leading the fight to save the black martin they are far from being the only people who are furious at the Government's action. North Queensland's prosperity depends to a great degree on tourism. I have said so many times before that the Great Barrier Reef is Australia's greatest tourist attraction. The thousands of people involved in tourism are equally concerned. The world knows that the Great Barrier Reef is one of the greatest ecological masterpieces in the world. In recent years the world has become aware of the threat to the Great Barrier Reef's survival from, firstly, the crown of thorns starfish, secondly, the Taiwanese clam fishermen, more recently the threat to drill for oil in its waters and now the long-line fishermen. Conservationists are equally concerned. The black martin is the symbol of north Queensland's tourist industry. If the black martin goes, so will a large part of the north Queensland and Australian tourism. 
This matter first surfaced, if that is the appropriate phrase, when the former Minister for Primary Industry, the right honourable member for New England  (Mr Sinclair),  announced the proclamation of the 200-mile nautical fishing zone. He stated in his speech to the House of Representatives on 25 September that negotiations were proceeding with the Japanese Government to provide access for Japanese fishing vessels to the Australian fishing zone. Within a matter of days it was announced that the Queensland Government would refuse to cooperate in the declaration of the Capricornia section of the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park unless the Australian Government renegotiated the agreement to exclude Japanese long-line fishermen because of the threat to black martin. From that moment the conflicting and confusing statements emanating from the new Minister for Primary Industry and the Queensland Government have been so conflicting and confusing that they would be laughable if the matter were not so serious. 
Without getting into this comedy of errors, let me point out that while originally professing great indignation at the agreement the Queensland Premier,  Mr Bjelke-Petersen,  now is an enthusiasic supporter of it. What became apparent when this matter was raised in the House was the incredible lack of knowledge of the Minister for Primary Industry and, even more, his lack of concern for the future of the black martin. When I asked him on 9 October on what scientific information concerning the population of black martin off the Great Barrier Reef did the Government decide to allow Japanese long-line fishermen access to fish for tuna and black martin, he provided the following priceless reply: 
In all the discussions that have taken place in respect of martin fishing in these waters, whatever scientific evidence has been available has been used. One of the problems is that there is a complete lack of scientific evidence. 
When the House finally stopped laughing he went on to say: 
The only evidence of any use at all is the experience the Japanese have gained from fishing these waters over the past 20 years. On that basis and on the knowledge of the history of fishing in these waters an agreement has been reached with the Japanese. 
The Minister is wrong on two counts. Firstly, scientific studies have been done and papers have been published on the black martin fishing area off north Queensland. Two papers, one published in 1965 by John Howard and Shoji Neyanagi and the other in 1972 by Isumi Nakamura, provided scientific evidence that the waters around Cairns are a major breeding ground for black marlin. Secondly, there is considerable evidence from responsible bodies that the black marlin catch is declining at an alarming rate. The United States Department of Commerce National Marine Fisheries Services 1978 report states that the catch rate from sport fisheries off Cairns had declined by 50 per cent from 1971 to 1976. The United Nations Food and Agriculture Organisation statistics show a decline in the tonnage of black marlin landed in Japan from 2,200 tonnes in 1 97 1 to 772 tonnes in 1976. 
In 1975 the Japanese took 394 tonnes of black marlin from the Cairns region but in 1976, one year later, their catch dropped to 169 tonnes. This may not be scientific evidence but when these figures are considered alongside the fact that charter fishing operators from the Cairns region have reported a marked decline in the sightings of black marlin during the past two years one would have thought that the Minister for Primary Industry and his Department would have taken an educated guess and come to the view that something serious was happening to black marlin in the area off Cairns. A sensitive Minister would have said to himself: 'These figures indicate that something is wrong. Let us have a scientific study before we proceed with the agreement'. But no, the Minister prefers to take the risk and for a miserable $1.4m is prepared to allow the Japanese long-line fishermen to deplete black marlin stocks further to the point where black marlin may become an endangered species. 
I am sorry to have to say this but the Japanese record on conservation of the world's fishing resources is quite deplorable. We are all well aware of Japan's appalling record, along with that of the Russians, with regard to the whale. One could have some sympathy for Japanese fisher men if Japan were a poor developing country. But clearly it is not. It is one of the wealthiest countries in the world and it can well afford to buy other food to replace whale and marlin. The total value of the black marlin catch from Australian waters landed in Japan is an insignificant $750,000. To look at this in strictly monetary terms, Australia stands to lose a great deal more financially than the $1.4m that it will receive in licensing fees from the Japanese- the major portion, incidentally, being for tuna. At least 28 boats are engaged in charter for black martin sport fishing plus 10 mother ships for accommodation. Some 300 tourist fishermen pay more than $3m each year in charter fees alone, not to mention air fares, food, transport and a whole range of other goods and services that they pay for when they come to Australia, including of course the multiplier effect of - 
As the honourable member for Parramatta reminds me, I imagine that those fishermen occasionally have a drink. There is also the multiplier effect on the tourist industry and the effect that has on the north Queensland economy. The publicity alone that people such as Lee Marvin and Jack Nicklaus bring to north Queensland is a major factor in building the aura of the region as an exciting tourist destination for hundreds of thousands of other visitors, both domestic and international, who come to the area even though they personally may never fish for marlin. In my view this answers the sort of charge made by my dear friend Mungo MacCullum, who wrote in this morning's  Australian Financial Review  that the campaign was to:  . . save the black marlin from marauding Japanese fishermen so that macho American actors like Lee Marvin can spend huge amounts of money coming to Queensland to catch one and be photographed with it. 
I point out to those who make this point that the sports fishermen catch only 100 black martin a year. The rest are tagged and released. The New South Wales State Fisheries Game Fishing Tagging Program, under which the catching and tagging in the region is supervised, reports that 1,200 martin have been caught and tagged during the past two years alone. So there is a very small ratio of one martin killed for every six which are caught and released. 
One would have thought and hoped that at least the Government would have insisted upon a provision in the agreement similar to that required by the United States Government. Since 1977 the United States has prohibited foreign long-line vessels operating in the Atlantic and Gulf of Mexico waters from keeping any billfish such as martin or sailfish if they are caught in the United States 200-mile fishing zone. United States observers are on board each fishing vessel at the fishermen's expense to see that all billfish caught are released. The Minister, who professes to be concerned about the problem, had not even heard about the United States regulation when I asked him a question about it yesterday. I understand that the United States is drafting similar regulations to apply to its Pacific waters next year. The Minister has made great play of the fact that Japanese long-line fishermen have been operating in this region for the past 20 to 30 years. That is totally irrelevant because, as the Minister well knows, under the previously existing law of the sea there was no way that we could have stopped them. The declaration of the Australian fishing zone under the new law of the sea enabled Australia to prohibit those fishing practices which we considered deleterious to Australia's resources. What the Minister has now done is to formalise and legalise these practices for a small fee. 
The agreement reached between the Commonwealth and Queensland supposedly restricts the Japanese fishermen from 80,000 square miles. The Australian fishing zone does absolutely nothing further to restrict Japanese fishermen other than to ban them from the Gulf of Carpenteria. Long-line fishermen would not fish in most of those 80,000 square miles anyhow. The agreement that prohibits them from 12 miles seaward of the 200-metre depth mark is absurd. In the Cairns area the 200-metre line is only 100 or so metres from much of the reef. Earlier the Queensland Government was publicly calling on the Federal Government not to allow long-lines any closer than 100 miles from the reef in an area 13 degrees south to 18 degrees south. This is still the call from fishing organisations and conservation groups. One of the most disgraceful episodes of this whole mess is the fact that the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Authority has not been consulted. This was made clear when on 1 1 October  Senator Webster,  the Minister for Science and the Environment, was asked a question about black marlin fishing. We have also been informed from reliable sources that the Department of Primary Industry is setting up a State-Commonwealth committee to investigate game fishing. It does not include representatives of the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Authority. When the Authority asked why it was not to be brought into the discussion it was told: 'You stick to tourism. Fishing is none of your business'. When one realises that the next section of the reef to be declared is likely to be the area between Lizard Island and Innisfail one wonders just what is going on. 
This is just another example of the total incompetence of this Government when it comes to protecting Australia's environment from predators. The Government still has not given an assurance that the Great Barrier Reef will not be drilled for oil. Taiwanese fishermen are still operating quite openly and taking hundreds of thousands of clams. And now we have an Australian government selling out the black marlin for a miserable few dollars. It is ironic that next week Australia Post will release four stamps dealing with fish that have a special significance to Australia. One of those stamps will be a 50c stamp showing a black marlin. If the Government does not move soon to end this outrage the only people who will see black marlin in future will be philatelists. As Lee Marvin has been mentioned in relation to this matter I finish by quoting what he said. He is one of our best known black marlin fishermen. He has made a public appeal to the Prime Minister  (Mr Malcolm Fraser)  not to sign the fishing agreement with the Japanese because, he said: 
If you do,  Mr Prime  Minister, it will be like the purchase of Manhattan for 27 bucks. 

 Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER (Mr MillarOrder!  The honourable member's time has expired. 
asked the Minister for National Development, upon notice, on 3 1 May 1979: 
1 ) Is it a fact that Alcoa alumina refineries at Pinjarra and Kwinana in Western Australia use 60 per cent of all natural gas produced in Western Australia; if not, what was the consumption of natural gas by these refineries during (a) 1977 and (b) 1978. 
It is also a fact that in 1977 Alcoa in its bauxite mining and alumina refining operations used 20 per cent of all energy consumed in Western Australia; if not, what was the percentage of energy consumed by Alcoa. 
What was the fuel oil consumption of Alcoa's Kwinana and Pinjarra alumina refineries during (a) 1977 and (b) 1978 and what was the average sulphur content of the fuel oil used by the refineries in each year. 
What levies or royalties does the Commonwealth collea from exports of alumina and bauxite from Australia. 
What royalties or levies does the Western Australian Government collect from export of alumina and bauxite from Western Australia. 
Is the proposed alumina refinery at Wagerup in Western Australia projected to use natural gas from the northwest shelf fields when a pipeline is constructed. 
What is the projected percentage consumption of natural gas by alumina refineries out of the total volume of gas supplied by pipeline to southern Western Australia. 
-by leave-I commend the  Chairman  of the Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation for his report and say that I was proud to have worked with this Committee. There were members from both sides of the House on the Committee, including the honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Simon),  the honourable member for La Trobe  (Mr Baillieu),  the honourable member for Kalgoorlie  (Mr Cotter),  the honourable member for Mallee  (Mr Fisher),  the honourable member for Batman  (Mr Howe),  the honourable member for Scullin  (Dr Jenkins)  and me. As so often happens in the committee system, once the facts are placed before members of parliament there is a considerable degree of unanimity. In fact we were able to come up with a unanimous report. There were one or two minor altercations and differences of opinion and philosophy but the report just tabled shows that the committee system can work extremely effectively. Unfortunately, I was not able to give as much time to the Committee as I would have liked because of other responsibilities. I think the Committee can be very proud of the fact that it has come up with this report. 
I will be brief in my remarks because I know that a number of honourable members wish to speak. The legislation that has been confirmedthe Environment Protection (Impact of Proposals) Act 1974 and the Australian Heritage Commission Act 1975- has been given a great deal of publicity, particularly in economic journals, because it has been anticipated that pressures particularly from mining companies would lead to a watering down, if not the complete abolition, of legislation of this type. When we received evidence from some of the mining companies- they put the view forward that all environmental matters ought to be the responsibility of the States- I think we were all suspicious of the fact that their enthusiasm for ending Commonwealth involvement in environmental matters was because one or two of the States in particular seemed to give the Australian mining companies almost a totally free go. So I think that it is to the credit of the Committee that it has come up with a report which says that this legislation is fundamentally sound and ought to be maintained with some minor alterations. 
I think that I speak for the Australian Labor Party when I say that we do not wish to be a party or a government that wants to interfere in everything that is going on in all the States. The last thing that we would want to do as a Commonwealth government is to fiddle around with every drainage scheme and every minor building application going on in every State. Of course we would not want to be involved in those matters. But everybody would recognise that there are matters which arise that are of national importance. It is difficult to put into legislation what is of national significance and what is not. In recent years it has been the community's consensus that issues such as the Great Barrier Reef, Fraser 
Island, possibly even Lake Pedder, the question of bauxite mining in Perth, Kakadu National Park and Ayers Rock- one can go on and on- are matters of national significance. For reasons that are probably self-evident there is a consensus that they are national issues. We believe that if those national assets were threatened the Commonwealth ought not to say: 'Well, look, we are sorry but this is a matter for Western Australia, Tasmania and the Northern Territory'. If Ayers Rock were threatened then that would be a national question. If the Great Barrier Reef were threatened- it has been threatened- then that would be a matter for the national government. 
I wind up my remarks by saying that I commend this report to the House. I hope that the Government realises that it was considered by eight members from different parties who came up with very sensible solutions to some of the problems, and that there will not be any diminution- other than what is recommended in this report- of the Environment Protection (Impact of Proposals) Act 1974 and the Australian Heritage Commission Act 1975. 
Sitting suspended  from 1 to 2.15  p.m. 
asked the Minister for Transport, upon notice, on 1 1 September 1979: 
What countries have ratified the international Convention for Prevention of Pollution from Ships, 1973. 
It has become clear during recent days that fears stressed earlier this year about the future of Commonwealth environment legislation are correct. The Minister for Trade and Resources  (Mr Anthony)  is leading a Cabinet vendetta against environmental protection legislation. Together with his hatchetman, the Treasurer  (Mr Howard),  he has been proposing to amend Commonwealth legislation in order to exempt such major items as foreign investment from scrutiny under the Environment Protection (Impact of Proposals) Act and to hand over all responsibility for environment protection to the States, except that relating to Commonwealth projects. The campaign has been carried out behind a veil of Cabinet and departmental secrecy at the same time as the House of Representatives Standing Committee on the Environment and Conservation was publicly investigating the same subject. 
On Monday, 22 October, documents came to light in newspaper reports which exposed the secret review to the public eye. Those who have read the documents could have come to the conclusion only that the Commonwealth was preparing to water down environmental controls and hand over virtually all its responsibilities in this field to the States. The  Deputy  Prime Minister  (Mr Anthony)  responded to these reports by denying that the Federal Government was going to water down the legislation. In a statement that was typical of the deception, deceit and doubletalk that has highlighted the term of office of the Fraser Government, he said in the next breath that all that was going to happen was that the Government would hand over to the States the responsibility for environmental matters- that is, all those projects for which the Federal Government has no direct responsibility. In other words, unless a Federal Government department is directly involved in building a project, the Environment Protection (Impact of Proposals) Act will not be invoked. The Fraser Island sand mining, the Iwasaki development at Yeppoon and Alcoa's bauxite proposals in Western Australia all would have escaped Commonwealth scrutiny. 
Both the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation in its report and the Minister for Science and the Environment  (Senator Webster)  in his memorandum of 11 June, have stated that only one State, Victoria, has comprehensive environmental protection legislation. Obviously, Commonwealth legislation will be severely weakened if responsibilities are handed over to the States. Also, most States are without comprehensive legislation to deal properly with these matters. The environment would be the loser. The  Deputy  Prime Minister has stated that he would like to have environmental laws more simply administered than they are at the moment. I fear that his method of achieving this aim is simply to remove the applicability of the laws. The Treasurer seems to have a similar callous record in respect of the environment. He has said it is absurd that the Act covers foreign investment. 
Yesterday morning's Melbourne  Age  observed that even if there is foreign investment in the Rundle oil shale deposit, the project is likely to escape an environmental study. If the Treasurer and the Deputy Prime Minister have their way, projects of national importance such as the Rundle project will be exempt from Commonwealth scrutiny. As a result, amendments foreshadowed by the Deputy Prime Minister would give responsibility for safeguarding the environment to that great environmentalist, the Queensland Minister for Mines and Energy. 
-I note the laughter of the honourable member for La Trobe. Queensland virtually obliterated what environmental protection it had last March by leaving individual departments free to make their own requirements. 
-I note also the laughter of the Minister for Finance  (Mr Eric Robinson)  who is at the table. 
-Yes. I am laughing at the Minister's big grin. He knows what I am talking about. The new procedures do not include public participation and environmental impact statements. If they are ever asked for, they need not be made public. The Standing Committee on Environment and Conservation made specific recommendations in relation to State and Federal participation in environment assessment. I quote the recommendations: 
The Environment Protection (Impact of Proposals) Act 1974 be amended to give the Minister for Science and the Environment discretion in the application of the Act if proposals have been subject to State procedures and that the State assessments of the proposals satisfy the provisions of the Commonwealth Act. 
The Australian Environment Council consider the need to introduce in each State, legislation similar to the Environment Protection (Impact of Proposals) Act 1 974. 
The Environment Protection (Impact of Proposals) Act 1974, its procedures and the administrative arrangements with the States should not be amended in a manner which would preclude an independent assessment of proposals being undertaken by the Commonwealth. 
The importance of the recommendation on the need for uniform State legislation was illustrated by the paragraph which preceded those recommendations. It stated: 
Victoria is the only State which has comprehensive environmental legislation although legislation is currently before the New South Wales Parliament and is in the process of being drafted in South Australia. There are no proposals for the introduction of legislation in other States. The Committee believes that the Environment Protection (Impact of Proposals) Act 1974 is the most effective means yet developed to ensure the broad examination of proposals and alternatives and to enable full community involvement. The Commonwealth should encourage those States without environmental legislation to adopt legislation similar to the Impact of Proposals Act. 
The report goes on to state: 
Until comprehensive legislation is introduced in each State the Committee considers that the Act should continue to be invoked for a wide range of proposals. Should the States adopt legislation similar to that of the Commonwealth, the Committee believes that there will still be instances - 
I repeat that there will still be instances- when issues of national importance arise which warrant Commonwealth involvement 
Clearly, the Committee looked at ways of improving the legislation, not destroying it. The Committee was able to produce a report to which all members agreed. The bipartisan nature of the Committee, with four Liberal Party members, three Australian Labor Party members and one National Country Party member, was complemented by the wide range of backgrounds of the members. There was a farmer, a pharmacist, an engineer, a businessman, a medical practitioner, a lawyer, a university lecturer, and a sociologist. That a consensus was reached by the Committee gives the recommendations in the report a credibility which could not possibly be matched by the Cabinet review with its backroom stealth and built-in bias. 
A particularly disturbing point was disclosed in newspaper articles on 22 October, that is, the fact that some departments are actively seeking to emasculate the Act so that they can be exempt from its power. These are the Department of the Treasury, the Department of Trade and Resources, the Department of Finance, and the Department of National Development. These same departments were also reluctant to provide the Committee on Environment and Conservation with detailed evidence concerning the Act. In fact, the Treasury flatly refused to supply information to the Committee. Yet it is these departments which are involved in foreign investment ventures, such as mining, which obviously can have marked effects on the environment. The Treasurer, in a letter to the then Minister for 
Environment, Housing and Community Development on 23 November 1978, said: 
There seems to me to be no compelling reason for aspects of foreign investment to be subject to the EPA. 
It would appear that that would allow any large foreign-funded development project to be subject to State scrutiny alone. Examples of this could be drilling on the Great Barrier Reef, de- 'velopment of the Rundle oil shale deposits, or extensions to the Iwasaki development at Yeppoon and the alumina refineries in the Darling Ranges of Western Australia. 
They probably are, knowing the honourable member's failure to worry about the environment of his State. But it does concern all honourable members in this Parliament if something happens to Perth's water supply. The honourable member for McMillan  (Mr Simon),  who is one of the best members of this House, described the Treasury's refusal to supply information as 'getting very close to being contempt of this Parliament'. The Treasury seems to have a will of its own and it cannot accept any other department having a say in its actions. It therefore must carry out a crusade to gain exemption from the Environmental Protection (Impact of Proposals) Act. Just as its Minister has a blinkered approach to government, so too is the Treasury blinded to the long term social and environmental consequences of its policies. The question that the Parliament should ask itself is whether the Treasury is under the control of its Minister, or whether the Minister is under the control of the Treasury. If we continue to allow the Treasury to act as it has towards parliamentary committees we may no longer be needed since the Treasury would run the government. 
The Committee was concerned about the blanket exemptions called for by the Treasury and the Department of Trade and Resources, so it included the following statement in its report: 
While recognising that for the Act to operate effectively, some matters should be excluded from its coverage the Committee is concerned that the schedule could be used to severely limit its application. The Committee emphasises that the schedule should only include matters that are unsuitable for the impact statement technique and those matters for which it would be administratively impossible to apply the Act. The Committee further emphasises that the schedule should contain only specific proposals and not broad areas of government responsibility. 
A memorandum, prepared by the Minister for Science and the Environment on 1 1 June this year for the Cabinet review, shows not only that other departments are attacking the Act but also that the Minister for Science and the Environment, who administers the Act, is finding ways to subvert the spirit if not the letter of the Act. He proposed to take environmental assessment out of the public domain. He stated: 
The change would facilitate the ability of the Environment Minister to take action to conclude his environmental consideration of many proposals without having to resort to directing an impact statement and subjecting the matter concerned to public review. 
The Minister knew that reducing the ambit of the Act was contrary to Liberal-National Country Party policy, which states:  . . we will ensure in development projects, which are likely to have a significant and/or damaging effect on the environment and involving the Commonwealth, that Environmental Impact Statements are prepared prior to decisions having been made . . . 
It seems ridiculous that the Minister should seek to change the Environment Protection (Impact of Proposals) Act so that no impact statement need be prepared, since in the past financial year only two environmental impact statements have been ordered. In 1976-77 and in 1977-78, 34 environmental impact statements were ordered by the Department. Since 1975, 3,230 proposals regarded as environmentally significant have been put forward, but only 50 of those proposals have needed environmental impact statements to be prepared. 
-That is right. The Standing Committee recommended:  the Environmental Protection (Impact of Proposals) Act be amended to require the Minister for Science and the Environment to provide, on request, details of the reasons for not directing an Environmental Impact Statement on particular proposals considered to be of environmental significance. 
Obviously the Committee feels that a reversal of the trend away from environmental impact statement assessment is in order. The Committee stated: 
The Commonwealth must retain power to deal with issues of national significance. 
I have noticed that there have been lots of interjections from honourable members opposite who were members of the Committee. I find this rather surprising. I am supporting the Committee's recommendations and honourable members opposite are attacking me for doing so. 
Honourable members opposite have been interjecting a lot during my supporting of those recommendations. Examples of such national assets are Fraser Island, the Great Barrier Reef, Ayers Rock, south-west Tasmania, Kakadu National Park, the bauxite mines and alumina refineries in the Darling Ranges of Western Australia, which, as I have said before, have a major effect on water supply, forestry and energy usage in Western Australia, and the proposed Rundle oil shale development, which will need massive amounts of water and energy and massive capital investment. Does anyone suggest that the whole nation should not be concerned at the possible environmental effects of uranium mining at Roxby Downs? Most of the States can accept this concept and understand that the Commonwealth is not interested in interfering in every local issue. We do not want to see the Commonwealth investigating the erection of a toilet somewhere. We only want this legislation so that the Commonwealth can come in and play a role in a matter of national significance. 
Unfortunately, Queensland, Tasmania and Western Australia are not showing signs of introducing any legislation. I mentioned previously that Victoria had good legislation. New South Wales and South Australia are in the process of drafting such legislation. In April, Queensland took a step backwards, as I mentioned earlier in my speech. All States, except Queensland, made submissions to the Committee, and all of those States, except Western Australia, stated that the arrangements between the States and the Commonwealth were working well and they suggested no amendment to the Act. 
The present Government has not shouldered its responsibility over many issues; rather it prefers to talk about co-operative federalism and consultation with the States ad nauseam. However, the Environment Protection (Impact of Proposals) Act is a model for the States to follow in environmental legislation. If the Government were serious about State-Federal co-operation it would be pressing for uniformity throughout the States, of legislation which is complementary to the Commonwealth Act. The Commonwealth has a responsibility to provide a lead to the States and the Cabinet must not abrogate this responsibility by destroying the Act and reverting back to the dark days of the 1960s when the environment was up for rape and pillage by every form of development that was going on. 
I want to say a few words tonight about the tourist industry. At the moment the world is undergoing an enormous boom in tourism. Very recently the Secretary-General of the United Nations, Kurt Waldheim, said in a report to the United Nations that tourism is now the biggest industry in the world, bigger than oil, steel, coal and armaments. At the moment Australia is participating in that tourist boom and the latest figures, released recently, show that there has been a 28 per cent increase in the number of international tourists into Australia. While it is also true that there is an increase in the number of people going out of Australia, it would appear that at the moment we are starting to bridge the gulf between in-going and out-going tourists. I am often extremely surprised when I talk to officials and other people in the country, of all ranges and on both sides of politics, and they say to me: 'Why would anybody want to come to Australia?' The cultural cringe seems to be very infectious in this country and it is not the least apparent amongst some of our top bureaucrats. I am staggered that people would actually say such a thing, but it is said. It is one of the reasons, I believe, for the rather negative approach of governments and bureaucrats over the years. 
I will not go over all of the areas of interest in this country but I will mention just a few. We have one of the greatest tourist attractions in the world- the Great Barrier Reef. The Red Centre is second to none and Sydney is one of the greatest cities in the world. I am not just being parochial. If I lived in Gulargambone I would still say that Sydney is one of the most beautiful and exquisite cities in the world, and it is getting better. Canberra is an exciting place. It is one of the few well-planned, properly planned cities in the world. Australia has some of the finest beaches, some of the most interesting flora and fauna and some of the few remaining wilderness areas in the world. We have idyllic places like Tasmania, beautiful cities like Adelaide and Perth and so on. 
-I could not agree more with the honourable member but let me say that I am glad he raised the question of Bondi Beach because I think there is a job to be done by the New South Wales State Government and by the local council to resurrect Bondi Beach. It is one of the greatest beaches in the world but it has been wrecked by some of the poorest, shoddiest developments that have been allowed to occur. I think it is one of Sydney's tragedies. We need major redevelopment to make Bondi Beach one of the great attractions in the world, and not what it is at the moment. 
It is 10 years tonight since I came into Parliament along with 10 or 1 1 other colleagues who have survived the rigours of the last few elections and I do not think there is anybody in this Parliament who really believes in totally free enterprise. 
-The honourable member for Moore interjects but if we did we would not have tariffs; we would not have taxation incentives; we would not have subsidies; we would not have quotas, we would not have orderly marketing schemes, bounties, government expenditure in favour of various industries, grants, loans incentives and so on. Of course we do not. We have a mixed economy and it is a question of how much we tinker with it. It is about time we got away from the rhetoric of free enterprise versus socialism. Nobody believes in it. We have a mixture of both and that is what we are stuck with. The Government has indicated by some of the things it has done in the Budget that it believes that we need to tinker with industries. 
We need to provide incentives to select industries which have potential for growth. That is what the Government has done. I commend it for doing that. The  2Vi  per cent depreciation allowance introduced in the Budget is a very significant breakthrough. We are waiting for the introduction of the legislation. I will not take a long time to talk about it now. There are a few problems but we accept the proposition. We are glad that it is happening. We will go into the details of the problems that may arise in the future. I also commend the Government on the increase in the budget of the Australian Tourist Commission. Excellent stuff! It is an effective trebling of the amount of money to promote Australia overseas. 
I was one of the members of the House of Representatives Select Committee on Tourism. I was very proud of the report brought down by the honourable member for Bowman  (Mr Jull).  I think that the Committee did a very good job. We made many very sound recommendations. To the Government's credit many of those recommendations have been implemented. However, on reflection- members of the Committee would probably agree with me- I think that we made one mistake. The mistake was that we- I am putting it as collective criticism of the Committee- tended to look at individual problems within the industry rather than stepping back a yard or two and taking the broad national view. We have helped to solve many of the problems but we have not yet developed a national strategy. We are still solving problems in an ad hoc way, one at a time. It would take me a long time to spell out a national strategy but I will mention some of the things that need to be looked at. 
I have said many times before that if we are to develop the industry properly we have to develop a tourist track round Australia. We have to stop the situation that compels people to fly into the south-east corner of Australia, that is, Sydney and Melbourne. Eighty-two per cent of the visitors do that. We should structure the Australian domestic airlines so that people can fly into north Queensland, either Townsville or Cairns but probably Townsville. People could save themselves the backtrack fares which they are now forced to pay by flying from Sydney to Townsville and back to Sydney. They could fly into the north from Fiji, Noumea, Port Moresby, Singapore, Vila and so on, and then fly down the coast of Australia to the Gold Coast, Sydney, Canberra, Melbourne and then down to Hobart and Launceston. They could fly out through Adelaide and Penh or go through the centre to Darwin or they could fly out to New Zealand and Christchurch. 
We should look closely at the problems of low cost accommodation. It is estimated that 50 per cent of Australians cannot afford to travel. To be able to travel people need a surplus income. Many people do not have a surplus income. We need to look at some pilot projects to provide accommodation for those people who presently cannot afford to go on holiday. We face a very significant problem in what I might refer to as wilderness resorts in the bush, the forests, the national parks and on our islands. To establish a hotel-motel resort on an island, for example, a person is faced with enormous capital costs. He has to provide wharves, an airport, electric generators, staff, accommodation and a whole range of accessories that he does not have to provide if he builds in a major capital city or town. If we are to get people to build resorts in those areas which can compete in quality and price, we have to do what many other countries, such as Ireland and New Zealand, have done. They have provided special incentives for resorts built in wilderness areas. I am pleased to see the Northern Territory is proceeding with the development of Uluru Village at Ayers Rock. This has been a national disgrace for a long time. It is marvellous to see that finally the project will be completed. I hope that we will further that concept of tourist villages by considering a similar type of thing at a place such as Fraser Island, where there has been great difficulties because of the winding down of the mule mining. Australia's tourist industry is at a very exciting point. We are probably in the same situation as Britain was in the mid-1960s. We are ready to take off and become a major tourist destination for the rest of the world. We may even consider resurrecting the House of Representatives Select Committee on Tourism. Perhaps in six months it could be resurrected for a year to enable it to take a look at what we have done. We all realise now that more could be done. That Committee has been one of the great successes of the Parliament in that it has probably had more of its recommendations implemented than any committee in parliamentary history. The Government has acted upon its report. I would give consideration to its being reconstituted in the future. 
I direct my question to the Minister for Health. Is it a fact that the National Health and Medical Research Council has recommended that the level of 0.12 parts per million of ozone in air should not be exceeded on more than one day a year in Australian cities, whilst lead should not exceed 1.5 micrograms per cubic metre of the air in Australian cities or 30 milligrams per 100 millilitres of blood in Australians? Since the Federal Government is against proceeding with the third stage of Australian Design Rule 27a exhaust emission controls - 
Government members- Hear, hear! 
Listen to the smoggers over there! 
-I ask the Treasurer: Has the Foreign Investment Review Board approved the purchase of a grazing property in New South Wales by the National Coal Board of Great Britain? Is it a fact that the profits on this investment are free of tax because section 23F of the Income Tax Assessment Act provides tax-free status for approved superannuation funds? If this is correct, will the Treasurer kindly explain to the House the benefit of this sort of investment to Australia? 

 -Mr Deputy Speaker, I congratulate the Minister for Foreign Affairs  (Mr Peacock)  on the statement but I do not wish to make a statement at this stage. I just want to say that in a way it is a pity that this statement is being brought down on the last day of the sitting because I am sure that many members of Parliament would have loved to have spoken on this matter. Many of them have had a long interest in Rhodesia- southern Africa. It is to be regretted that we will not be able to debate it. 

 Mr PEACOCK (Kooyong-Minister for Foreign Affairs)- With your indulgence,  Mr Deputy  Speaker: I share the regret of the honourable member for Robertson  (Mr Cohen)  but events are moving in London. We had been holding back until we saw how they were going. I did not want the House to rise without some statement of indication should an agreement be reached while the Parliament is in recess. One would have expected some principles to have been laid down at some stage. I share the honourable member's regret. I would look for a debate possibly early next year. 
That is what I was going to ask for. I hope that early in the new year we can have a debate on the subject of southern Africa. 
Debate (on motion by  Mr Barry  Jones) adjourned. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 24 October 1979: 
What is the estimated cost of managing the Australian fishing zone in 1979-80 and how much of this will be recovered in the form of fishing fees from other countries. 
asked the Minister for Primary Industry, upon notice, on 8 November 1979: 
1 ) How many inspectors does his Department have who will be able to board Japanese long-line fishing vessels in the Australian Fishing Zone to monitor their catch and fishing methods. 
Where are these inspectors stationed throughout Australia. 
3 ) How long will they stay on board the fishing vessels. 
Does his Department cover the costs of these inspections. 
Are records of catches by long-line fishermen supplied to his Department every 6 days. 
How are these figures broken down, i.e. according to species, weight, size class, area of catch, catch per effort, fish kept and fish discarded. 
Have samples of black marlin caught by Japanese fishermen in the Australian Fishing Zone been tested for levels of mercury present in the marlin flesh; if not, will this be done. 
